06-12-2021||First Edit||The winter (session) of press freedom?||The restrictions recently imposed on the coverage of Parliament proceedings by journalists amount to a violation of media freedom and the citizens’ right to know. The restrictions prevent journalists from accessing the Press Gallery, the Central Hall of Parliament and the executive wing in the Parliament building, and from interacting freely with MPs. The aim seems to be to restrict media coverage of Parliament, and regional media will be particularly affected by the curbs. Only some members of English and Hindi media are allowed to report on the proceedings of the winter session. Others can enter the Press Gallery only two days of the week and the days will be decided by a draw of lots. Even journalists who have passes for the whole year will have limited entry now. Senior journalists who were once allowed entry have also been barred. The result is that only a limited number of journalists have access to Parliament to do their professional duty.   The restrictions were first introduced last year as part of Covid protocols but they have continued even after the general relaxation of the measures. That has given rise to the suspicion that the restrictions have become permanent. Decisions and actions taken by the present government with respect to media freedom have strengthened the suspicion. It has used various methods to control the media and to punish critics. Raids have been resorted to and individual journalists have faced action. India’s ranking in the global index of media freedom has been steadily falling over the last few years. The actions and policies of the government have largely contributed to this. Journalism is even considered a dangerous profession in the country. The restrictions in Parliament have been seen by many as a prelude to a complete ban on the spot reporting from Parliament.  Media organisations, including the Editors’ Guild, have protested against the restrictions. They have held a protest march and a meeting and appealed to Speaker Om Birla and the Rajya Sabha Chairman Venkaiah Naidu to lift the restrictions and restore the entry of journalists into Parliament. Free and unhindered functioning of the media is an essential feature of democracy and it is a part of the right to speech and expression guaranteed by the Constitution. Parliament is the most important institution of democracy and to deny the right to report from Parliament is very anti-democratic. People have the right to know how Parliament functions and what their elected representatives do in Parliament. The government should not deny them that right, which finds expression through the functions of free and independent media, and should not try to control reporting from Parliament. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/the-winter-session-of-press-freedom-1058335.html
06-12-2021||In Perspective||Sycophancy weakens our democracy||Democracy is deceptively simple in both form and appearance, but it is intricate and complex in its real-life manifestation. The fact of the matter is that democracy when wrongly practised becomes worse than dictatorship or totalitarianism. Its essence will be lost if not handled with sensitivity. As a nation, we take pride in proclaiming that ours is the largest democracy in the world. Though this is a plausible affirmation, the real danger lies in our perpetuating certain wrong practices and corrupting the very soul of democracy. Sycophancy is one such practice, defiling the sanctity of democracy. Sycophancy is defined as ‘obsequious behaviour towards someone important in order to gain advantage’. The tendency to flatter someone in power, and do things normally considered demeaning to human dignity with the ulterior motive of pleasing someone in authority is one of the most obnoxious sights to see. That this is done by the ones believed to be educated and cultured makes it utterly repulsive. In doing so, the dignity of the sycophant is compromised, which is the very negation of a democratic way of life. Recently, a video surfaced showing a District Collector touching the feet of the Chief Minister of the state. Some eyebrows were raised, but the matter was forgotten soon. Bureaucrats touching the feet of ministers, helping the master with his shoes, opening the door of the car when the boss wants to get in or out, etc., are regular sights.  Some might argue that it is part of our culture. Sorry, it’s not. Showing reverence to elders and gurus by touching their feet may be justified, if it is voluntary and done with no ulterior motive. It is a hallowed Indian tradition to show respect to elders and receive their blessings. It is not a hypocritical act to curry favour with someone powerful. Public functions often show the way sycophancy operates both openly and subtly. The amusing part of it is the way the boss seems to enjoy all the attention. Gradually, s/he not only enjoys it but begins to also expect it. If someone does not care to show such servility, there is every chance that that person will face his/her wrath sooner or later. Sycophancy can also come in the shape of orderlies. Both civil servants and police officers occupying high positions have a retinue of servants to do their bidding. This is a colonial vestige and smacks of slavery and involuntary sycophancy. Police-escort for certain functionaries is yet another farcical exercise that we witness with a mixture of amusement and derision. Red beacons and sirens were stopped mercifully some years ago. Blaring sirens and stopping the traffic for VIP movement is another display of their importance. What a sham! Such things do not happen in mature democracies. There, ministers even travel incognito. The title or prefix ‘Hon’ble’, for instance, is absolutely out of tune with a democracy. Terms like ‘Your Lordship’, ‘His Excellency’, ‘His Grace’, etc., used in both judicial and religious contexts are all reminiscent of a slavish mindset. Modern democracy cannot countenance such primitive practices. We were hoping that all these practices would end when we become a mature democracy. Our experience, however, is that sycophancy has assumed a national character and is well-entrenched as truly ethnic and acceptable. It has become a part and parcel of our culture. Is sycophancy harmless?  It’s not entirely so. For instance, there are some people who perfect the art of sycophancy to enviable heights. Egoistic bosses will be bowled over easily.  The shallower the master, the easier it is to flatter him. Ask anyone practising these things. They do it because that’s how it is usually done. They do it to please the master, with the ulterior aim of getting some favour. They take comfort in the belief that it would do them some good. At least, it will not endanger their prospects. That would obviously mean that people do these things not because they are happy or willing to do it.  Perhaps they will be cursing the recipient of their sycophantic genuflections even as they seem to be paying obeisance to him/her. Look at the hollowness of it all! The flip-side of a culture of sycophancy is that honest people who do not want to enact this charade will soon be in the bad books of the master. Such innocent mortals suffer in this murky situation. Their merit or efficiency would not count, thereby demoralising the really capable hands. That certainly ill-behoves a modern nation. The centrality of citizens and their dignity should not be negotiable in a true democracy. Sycophancy is nothing but hypocrisy glorified to feed the grandiose delusions of those in power. Obviously, it flies in the face of an authentic democracy. (The writer is Director, Little Rock Indian School, Brahmavar, Udupi) Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/sycophancy-weakens-our-democracy-1058338.html
06-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||CID probe starts in custodial death in Chitradurga||The Criminal Investigation Department (CID) on Monday initiated a probe into the alleged custodial death of a man from Chitradurga, for which two police personnel had been suspended.  Kumar (35), a native of Bahaddur Ghatta at Bharamasagar in Chitradurga district, had reportedly died in Sri Lodge in the city when he was in police custody. Relatives of the deceased staged a protest on Sunday in the premises of district Chigaetri General hospital alleging that police were responsible for his death. They demanded that a case must be registered against them and Rs 50 lakh compensation must be given to members of the bereaved family.  Superintendent of Police C B Rishyanth told DH that family members of Kumar had not lodged a complaint in this regard yet. KTJ Nagar Police have registered a suo motu case and it has been handed over to CID for a probe. The probe team led by Venkatesh arrived in Davangere for the investigation.  Meanwhile, police inspector Girish and sub-inspector Megharaj attached to Cybercrime, Economic Offences & Narcotics Wing police station had been suspended on charges of dereliction of duty.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/cid-probe-starts-in-custodial-death-in-chitradurga-1058299.html
06-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||JD(S), BJP fear Congress: Dhruvanarayan||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) working president R Dhruvanarayan said with many from JD(S) joining Congress and a few leaders extending support, the BJP and JD(S) are fearing defeat in the MLC elections, scheduled for December 10. Dhruvanarayan was speaking to reporters after offering a floral tributes to the statue of Dr B R Ambedkar on the occasion of Mahaparinirvan Divas, in Mysuru, on Monday. JD(S) MLA G T Devegowda and Sandesh Nagaraj have assured of extending support to Congress, as the party has people’s support. While Sandesh Nagaraj said that he will support the party candidate, G T Devegowda informed that he will join Congress party at the right time, he said. Dhruvanarayan charged JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy for his statements against RSS during Sindagi and Hanagal bypolls. Kumaraswamy tried to mislead Muslim voters by commenting against RSS but, the voters taught him a lesson.  Dhruvanarayan said Congress has ensured social justice by fielding candidates from backward classes and minorities. The party leaders Siddaramaiah, D K Shivakumar are making sincere efforts to ensure victory of Congress candidates, he said. Dhruvanarayan also charged BJP and alleged that the party is against decentralisation of power. Criticising MP Pratap Simha’s statement that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been strengthening gram panchayats, Dhruvanarayan said, Congress party introduced panchayat system to decentralise power and the MP must understand that Congress leaders Rajiv Gandhi, P V Narasimha Rao are responsible for strengthening panchayat system.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/jds-bjp-fear-congress-dhruvanarayan-1058347.html
06-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||One MLA per family; let Constitution be amended: HDK||JD(S) Legislature Party leader H D Kumaraswamy, on Monday, said, “The Indian Constitution does not specify on how many members from the same family should be legislators. If an amendment is brought in the Constitution over this, it should be followed”. Addressing media persons in Mandya, on Monday, Kumaraswamy said, “Family politics is not found only in Deve Gowda’s family. Leader of Opposition in Assembly Siddaramaiah’s son too is an MLA. After his elder son’s demise, he brought his other son, who was in the medical profession into politics. There are no limitations specified in the Constitution on the number of lawmakers from the same family. Let them bring an amendment to the Constitution”, he said. Kumaraswamy said, “We are not entering into a pact with any party for the MLC polls. Both BJP and Congress are equal rivals for us. But, former chief minister B S Yediyurappa has personally asked me to support their party, where JD(S) has not fielded its candidates. I will announce support for BJP in a few constituencies in a press meet on Tuesday”. Rain havoc Around 10 lakh hectares crop loss has been reported in the State due to heavy rains. The government has not disbursed compensation to the farmers as per NDRF, SDRF guidelines. If the government fails to release compensation to the farmers accounts, the party will stage a protest during the Belagavi session, he warned. Chakravyuha “The parties planned a ‘Chakravyuha’ to defeat my son and party candidate Nikhil Kumaraswamy during the last Lok Sabha elections. But, the people will bless N Appajigowda in the local body constituency elections”, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/one-mla-per-family-let-constitution-be-amended-hdk-1058348.html
06-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||In a rare sight, BRT Tiger Reserve covered in blue flowers||Biligiri Ranganathaswamy Temple (BRT) Tiger Reserve, in Hanur taluk of Chamarajanagar district, is witnessing a rare phenomenon — the blooming of rare blue and purplish neelakurinji flowers, also known as Strobilanthes Kunthiana. These flowers bloom once every seven or 12 years, and were witnessed at Mandalpatti and Betta Kote in Kodagu district and also on the mountains of Chikkamagaluru a couple of months ago. The flowers have blossomed on the mountains at Byluru in BRT forest and Punajanuru wildlife range. The whole mountain looks like it is covered with a blue flower carpet. However, as the mountains are on the limits of Tiger Reserve, there is no opportunity for the public to enjoy the view. Santosh Kumar, Deputy Conservator of Forest, BRT range, said, "I've witnessed the neelakurinji for the first time after taking charge here. This would be recorded as per the norms. Besides, it would be verified whether the department has recorded about Neelakurinji flowers in the region earlier". Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/in-a-rare-sight-brt-tiger-reserve-covered-in-blue-flowers-1058350.html
06-12-2021||Karnataka Politics||I was sent to Tihar jail for not joining BJP: Shivakumar||Karnataka Congress President DK Shivakumar said on Monday that he was sent to Tihar jail for not joining the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Reacting to BJP minister KS Eshwarappa's statement as to why he went to Tihar jail, Shivakumar said, "I was lodged in prison for not supporting you (BJP). I was jailed because people were upset that I didn't join the BJP." The Congress leader further said that there are records of what he is saying. Shivakumar was arrested on charges of money laundering by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and was lodged in Tihar jail for 50 days in 2019. Shivakumar questioned the ruling BJP as to why it is hesitant on implementing the Mahadayi project. "The BJP is in power in the state as well as at the Centre, then why is the delay," he asked. "Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai knows everything. He has handled the water resources portfolio. But his Cabinet minister Eshawarappa is talking about change of Chief Minister in the state. He also said that Karnataka is on top of the list in terms of corruption," Shivakumar said. He also ridiculed former Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa for stating that he would finish the Congress in the state. "Yediyurappa's close aides have been raided, and he is tortured in the party everyday. That is why he is venting all his frustration on the Congress. He can't do that against anyone in the BJP," Shivakumar said. He added that BJP leaders in Karnataka are themselves creating instability in the state government. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/i-was-sent-to-tihar-jail-for-not-joining-bjp-shivakumar-1058269.html
06-12-2021||Karnataka Politics||Siddu faces opposition from his party leader in Badami||Former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah's plan to contest the next Assembly election from Badami has met with stiff opposition from former MLA B B Chimmanakatti, who vacated the seat in the last elections in favour of Siddaramaiah.  "Why are you pestering me here if you lack the ability to win in your home constituency?" Chimmanakatti sought to know from Siddaramaiah, during a campaign meeting for MLC polls in Badami on Monday. Earlier in the day, Siddaramaiah had declared that he would contest from Badami for the second time. However, Chimmanakatti expressed his resentment to the decision in the public meeting. Even as his supporters cheered him "Huliya" (tiger), Chimmanakatti said, "I was a tiger once upon a time and now I have been made a rat. If you (supporters) make up mind I will be a tiger again. I will a minister and chief minister also." He said that Siddaramaiah will contest from Varuna constituency in the next election. He would have won from Varuna if he had contested from there. But, he vacated the seat for his son. "Siddaramaiah should contest and win from his home constituency, Chamundeshwari. What should I do if he chooses to enter the fray from here?" Chimmanakatti said. The outburst embarrassed Siddaramaiah who was very much present in the campaign meeting. Party leader M G Kittali attempted to pacify Chimmanakatti but to no avail.  Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/siddu-faces-opposition-from-his-party-leader-in-badami-1058343.html
06-12-2021||Karnataka Politics||Siddaramaiah cheated Chimmanakatti: Eshwarappa||Slamming Leader of Opposition in Legislative Assembly Siddaramaiah, Rural Development & Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa stated that Congress leader is the biggest cheater in politics. Speaking to media persons after campaigning for BJP candidate D S Arun at Kunduru village in the taluk on Monday, he alleged that former MLA B B Chimmanakatti had sacrificed Badami seat for Siddaramaiah after the latter promised MLC post to him. But the former chief minister snatched Badami seat from Chimmanakatti and failed to stick to his promise. In this way, Siddaramaiah has cheated Chimmanakatti, he alleged. He said Siddaramaiah had brought H M Revanna and H Vishwanath to Congress in the past. People of the state are very much aware of their current position in politics. So, nobody will trust Siddaramaiah now, he taunted. Coming down heavily on Congress leader, he said, Siddaramaiah also cheated JD(S) Supremo H D Deve Gowda. He became leader of the opposition after threatening that he would quit the party. Siddaramaiah has embraced Congress by quitting JD(S) not to build the party but to cheat the party by using backward classes. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/siddaramaiah-cheated-chimmanakatti-eshwarappa-1058359.html
06-12-2021||Main Article||Make banking data portable||In many ways, the banking experience for the middle class in India is probably better than what it may be elsewhere in the world. At least, my experience with the American and European banking systems is that Indian banking in many ways is more efficient and faster. However, the enjoyment of our superior banking experience may largely be limited to the educated classes which are comfortable carrying on net-banking transactions, without ever having to step into a bank branch. The less fortunate of our population, the illiterate and the poor – comprising about half our population – who cannot afford a smartphone, may have a different tale to tell, just as those without a smartphone, Wi-Fi, or the smarts required to get past the technological goal-posts, had their fair share of challenges getting the Covid-19 vaccinations. Our banking sector has been stagnant when it comes to the potential that it has to make the banking experience better for all. For long, the RBI has been so preoccupied in recent years with non-performing assets (NPAs) that it has largely ignored much larger and beneficial reforms needed in the banking sector for bringing in greater ease of transactions to the customers, especially in certain specific areas. We all know the hassles with the KYC (know your customer) requirements. Firstly, on paper, any one of the documents, namely Passport, Voter’s Identity Card, Driving Licence, Aadhaar Letter/Card, NREGA Card, or PAN Card is acceptable to meet the KYC requirement. But in reality, that’s hardly true. No bank ever goes through the process without asking for at least three of the above documents, plus an additional address proof like one’s electricity bill, etc. Often, the copies are required to be attested/self-attested. What is more, even though KYC norms are required to be updated only once in 10 years for low-risk customers, once in eight years for medium-risk customers and once in two years only for high-risk customers, the banks cover their backsides by asking every customer to update their KYC documents every two years! And this, despite the fact that the government had introduced the Central KYC Registry as early as 2017, precisely to address this inconvenience to the customers. But even this problem is a relatively small challenge compared to the humongous friction and inertia the customers of a bank face when they wish to move their services from their current bank to a different one for reasons of deficient product or services, or inordinately high fees and charges, low returns on savings and deposits, or ease of conducting transactions, or even high riskiness. Products, services, their quality and costs vary hugely across banks. Would it not be in the best interest of the customers if they could avail different services with different banks, optimising their ease of transactions and costs? But this is impossible today, given that they would not only have to go through the rigmarole of the KYC all over again with every other bank, they also have to fill up innumerable forms all over again to avail the various services or products with different limits on different services, and standing payment instructions, on their various accounts and credit and debit cards, etc. As a result, customers often continue suffering the shoddy services and high costs of a bank, unable to move to a different bank with ease. Banks, of course, are not beyond exploiting this inertia on the part of their customers. Another category of challenges involves international transactions. Every time consumers engage in international payments (or receipts), they are baffled by currency rate movements which comprise a maze of hidden exchange rate mark-ups, exorbitant commissions, sundry delays, and terms and conditions in font size 6, indicating an obvious lack of transparency in such transactions. For too long have the consumers been hapless victims of such unnecessary and heavy costs surrounding an opaque environment. A third category of challenge that banking customers face is the lack of uniform formats for comparing different products, services and the associated costs in different banks, to be able to take an informed call. It is in these contexts that data portability should come in handy. While mobile number portability has become common, there seems to be little discussion afoot on seamless banking data portability, though we have the software muscle to remedy the situation. The UK, for instance, has now made it mandatory for banks to share customer data (when requested) and data on customers’ own products and services, with third parties upon request. This is a part of a wider push toward making corporates free up access to the data they hold. Developing a comprehensive concept of “Smart Data”, that is, data that is “easily and instantly accessible” and capable of being “safely and securely transferred to third-party services” will have many advantages. Such data portability would empower consumers at different levels. For one, they could ask their banks to share all the data pertaining to their own products, services and limits, with another bank. This would save them a considerable headache. Such portability with third parties will also help track a consumer’s usage of a particular service and charges, say commissions charged by a bank on the particular service, draw in market data from competing banks, and then let the consumer know when a lower rate becomes available in another bank. If any thoughts along these lines as a part of digital strategy in banking are in the offing, I am unaware. Perhaps the RBI needs to set up a committee to take the banking sector to the next level, such that with a single exercise of option online or a single application offline, the entire banking data could be forwarded to another bank, or for that matter any RBI-regulated financial institution. Now, that would be ease of banking! Such a regime would call for a generalised data protection regulation, and that is precisely why it is time for the RBI to initiate the thinking along these lines. (The writer is an academic and author of several books) Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/make-banking-data-portable-1058329.html
06-12-2021||Mysuru||Tusker causes panic in Nagapura haadi||A tusker created panic among the residents of Nagapura haadi, adjoining Nagarahole tiger reserve in Hunsur taluk, on Sunday. The elephant entered the 'haadi' and damaged properties. The tusker also damaged crops and chased a few villagers, who made an attempt to drive away the animal. According to the villagers, the elephants raid the village often. Earlier, the animals used to raid crops during the night but, now, it is common during the day too. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/tusker-causes-panic-in-nagapura-haadi-1058146.html
06-12-2021||Mysuru||Elephant creates panic at tribal hamlet||A lone tusker created panic among the residents of Nagapura tribal hamlet, adjoining  Nagarahole tiger reserve, in Hunsur taluk, on Sunday. The elephant entered the haadi and damaged properties. The tusker also damaged crops and also chased a few villagers, who made attempt to drive the jumbo away.   According to the residents, the elephants frequently raid the villages. Earlier, the animals used to raid crops during the night but, now, it has become common during day time also. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/elephant-creates-panic-at-tribal-hamlet-1058337.html
06-12-2021||Mysuru||Bus conductor plays good samaritan||A KSRTC bus conductor turned a good samaritan by returning valuables worth lakhs of rupees to the passenger. Eraiah is the conductor who found the bag containing gold ornaments worth Rs 8 lakh. The bag belonged to Uma Maheshwari, who travelled from Davangere to Nanjangud to attend a house warming ceremony. She missed the luggage and left it in the bus while alighting. She lodged a complaint with the police. When the police alerted the bus crew, Eraiah found the valuables and returned it to Uma Maheshwari. DySP Gavindaraju felicitated Eraiah. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/bus-conductor-plays-good-samaritan-1058339.html
06-12-2021||Mysuru||Omicron scare: Vaccination drive stepped up in Mysuru district||The district administration and the Health Department have stepped up vaccination drive as the state detected cases of Omicron variant of Covid-19. The authorities are leaving no stone unturned to achieve a 100 per cent target in administering vaccination for people above 18 years. After the door-to-door campaign, now, the authorities are conducting vaccination drives at public places, where the movement of people is more. District Health Officer (DHO) Dr K H Prasad said that a new initiative has been launched to achieve the 100 per cent target. Nearly one lakh people in Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) limits have not obtained the second dose even after 84 days. The Health Department has launched the campaign at markets, shopping malls, film theatres, commercial streets, business establishments and places where the movement of people is high. Five mobile vehicles with 10 medical professionals in each unit have been deployed in the city. In addition, a few vehicles are functioning at taluk levels, the DHO said. Each team includes nurses to administer vaccination, data entry operators, personnel to mobilise the people and others. An officer said a mobile van will be stationed near Chikka Gadiyara (Dufferin Clock Tower), where the movement of people is high, till the district achieves 100 per cent target. The DHO said, there was a good response with 150 persons getting vaccinated within an hour of launching the programme. Chandrappa, who works in a market said, he had taken the first dose three months ago and could not get the second dose due to certain reasons. “I had visited a hospital to get the second dose. But I returned as there was a long queue. I am a daily wager and cannot afford to wait in the queue. Even a day’s payment is important to me. This initiative is a boon for people like us,” he said. P Subash, who benefited from the drive said, though it is a good initiative, the authorities must make arrangements for the people to rest for a few minutes for observation and also drinking water. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/omicron-scare-vaccination-drive-stepped-up-in-mysuru-district-1058361.html
06-12-2021||National||Transfer requests: Centre warns staff of action||The Centre has warned assistant section officers under the Central Secretariat Service cadre of disciplinary action in case transfer requests are forwarded from ministers and Members of Parliament. In an order, the Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) said it has been receiving numerous inter-cadre transfer requests on personal/medical grounds to attached or outstation officers of various ministries in the grade of Assistant Section Officer (ASO) in the CSS cadre. “Many times, these requests of ASOs are being forwarded from honourable minister/Member of Parliament (Lok Sabha or Rajya Sabha)/other designated authority for their favourable consideration,” it said. The competent authority has taken a serious view in the matter, the order said. “It is informed that all such acts will invite appropriate action, including disciplinary action, as per extant rules in all such cases,” the DoPT said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/transfer-requests-centre-warns-staff-of-action-1058063.html
06-12-2021||National||Create robust digital platform for easy credit: IT Minister to bankers||IT Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw on Sunday exhorted the banking industry to create an innovative digital platform -- as powerful, seamless and robust as UPI -- for providing quick and easy credit to MSME, small businessmen, and those at the bottom of pyramid. The building blocks required to create such a platform are already available, given the strong ecosystem of Aadhaar, mobile phones, UPI (Unified Payments Interface) platform and digilocker, he said asking the banking industry to come up with innovative idea and solutions in three months. Vaishnaw was speaking at ‘Digital payment Utsav’ which was part of a weeklong showcase of India’s achievements in digital space titled ‘Azadi ka Digital Mahotsav’ in the capital. Throwing a “challenge” at the bankers present in the audience, the Minister said: “Can we create a platform as powerful, seamless, good, as digital as UPI platform for providing very quick and easy credit to the MSME, small businessmen?” Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/create-robust-digital-platform-for-easy-credit-it-minister-to-bankers-1058064.html
06-12-2021||National||India reports 8,306 new Covid-19 cases, 211 deaths||With 8,306 people testing positive for coronavirus infection in a day, India's total tally of Covid-19 cases rose to 3,46,41,561, while the active cases declined to 98,416, the lowest in 552 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The death toll climbed to 4,73,537 with 211 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been recorded below 10,000 for ten straight days and less than 50,000 for 162 consecutive days now. The active cases comrpise 0.28 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.35 per cent, the ministry said. A decrease of 739 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 0.94 per cent. It has been less than two per cent for last 63 days. The weekly positivity rate was also recorded at 0.78  per cent. It has been below one per cent for the last 22 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,40,69,608, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.37 per cent.  The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive has exceeded  127.93 crore.  India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.  India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 211 new fatalities include 161 from Kerala and 10 each from Tamil Nadu and West Bengal and seven from Maharashtra. Of the 161 deaths in Kerala, 23 were reported over the last few days and 138 were designated as Covid-19 deaths after receiving appeals based on the new guidelines of the Centre and the directions of the Supreme Court, a Kerala government release said on Sunday. A total of 4,73,537 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,41,170 from Maharashtra, 41,600 from Kerala, 38,230 from Karnataka, 36,529 from Tamil Nadu, 25,098 from Delhi, 22,911 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,544 from  West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-8306-new-covid-19-cases-211-deaths-1058085.html
06-12-2021||National||Look forward to continue working with Bangladesh PM to further deepen ties: Modi||As India and Bangladesh commemorate the 'Maitri Diwas', Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday said he looks forward to continue working with his Bangladeshi counterpart Sheikh Hasina to further expand and deepen bilateral ties.  'Maitri Diwas' is being observed on Monday to mark India recognising the newly-formed country Bangladesh in 1971. "Today India and Bangladesh commemorate Maitri Diwas. We jointly recall and celebrate the foundations of our 50 years of friendship," Modi tweeted. "I look forward to continue working with PM Sheikh Hasina to further expand and deepen our ties," he said. During PM Modi's visit to Bangladesh in March to attend the country's national day, it was decided to commemorate the day as Maitri Diwas (Friendship Day). Ten days before the liberation of Bangladesh, India had recognised Bangladesh on December 6, 1971. India was one of the first countries to establish bilateral diplomatic ties with Bangladesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/look-forward-to-continue-working-with-bangladesh-pm-to-further-deepen-ties-modi-1058106.html
06-12-2021||National||PM Modi pays tributes to Ambedkar on death anniversary||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday paid tributes to B R Ambedkar, the architect of India's constitution, on his death anniversary.  Modi joined President Ram Nath Kovind and Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu besides a host of other leaders to offer floral tributes to Ambedkar's statue on the Parliament house complex.  भारत रत्न बाबासाहेब डॉ. भीमराव अम्बेडकर को उनके महापरिनिर्वाण दिवस पर सादर श्रद्धांजलि। India's first law minister, Ambedkar worked tirelessly for social reforms and emancipation of the most downtrodden sections of society. He passed away in 1956.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-pays-tributes-to-ambedkar-on-death-anniversary-1058107.html
06-12-2021||National||Half of India's adult population fully vaccinated: PM says important to keep up momentum||With over 50 per cent of the country's eligible adult population now fully vaccinated against Covid-19, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday said the inoculation drive has crossed another important milestone and it is important to keep this momentum going to strengthen the fight against the pandemic. Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said on Sunday that over 50 per cent of India's eligible adult population is now fully vaccinated against Covid-19. The cumulative vaccine doses administered in the country has exceeded 127.61 crore. "India’s vaccination drive crosses another important milestone. Important to keep this momentum to strengthen the fight against Covid-19," Modi tweeted, tagging Mandaviya's tweet on the milestone. India’s vaccination drive crosses another important milestone. Important to keep this momentum to strengthen the fight against COVID-19. "And yes, keep following all other Covid-19 related protocols including masking up and social distancing," the prime minister said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/half-of-indias-adult-population-fully-vaccinated-pm-says-important-to-keep-up-momentum-1058109.html
06-12-2021||National||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh holds 'fruitful' talks with Russian counterpart||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Monday held talks with his Russian counterpart Gen Sergey Shoigu and discussed ways to further boost strategic cooperation including expansion of joint production of military equipment. Shoigu and Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov arrived here on Sunday night to hold the inaugural '2+2' dialogue with their Indian counterparts. After the '2+2' talks, the two Russian ministers will join President Vladimir Putin later in the day in his summit talks with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. "Russian Defence Minister, General Sergey Shoigu meeting Raksha Mantri Shri @rajnathsingh at Sushma Swaraj Bhawan in New Delhi," Singh's office tweeted along with a photo of the meeting. India and Russia are set to ink a number of pacts to expand cooperation in key areas of defence, trade and investment, energy and technology at the summit.   In the summit as well as in the inaugural '2+2' defence and foreign ministerial talks, the two sides are also expected to focus on the situation in Afghanistan. Officials said a number of a issues including ways to expand joint production of defence equipment figured in the Singh-Shoigu talks. Ahead of the summit, India cleared the long-pending AK 203 Kalashnikov rifles deal worth nearly Rs 5,000 crore for production of over five lakh such rifles at Korwa in Amethi by an Indo-Russian joint venture. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/defence-minister-rajnath-singh-holds-fruitful-talks-with-russian-counterpart-1058110.html
06-12-2021||National||Wife, brother-in-law of Gujarat Omicron patient test positive, samples sent for genome sequencing||The wife and brother-in-law of an NRI man, who had been found infected with the Omicron variant of Covid-19 in Gujarat, have tested positive for coronavirus and their samples have been sent for genome sequencing, officials said on Monday. Both of them were shifted to an isolation ward, said a release issued by the Jamnagar Municipal corporation. On December 4, the genome sequencing established that the 72-year-old NRI man, who arrived from Zimbabwe, one of the "at-risk" countries, had contracted the Omicron variant of Covid-19. The man, who had taken both doses of a Chinese vaccine in Zimbabwe, is currently at an isolation ward of a hospital in Jamnagar. His wife, who came with him from Zimbabwe, and his brother-in-law, who lives in Jamnagar, tested positive for the coronavirus on Sunday, while the other family members tested negative, the Jamnagar civic body said. The samples of the duo were sent to Gandhinagar for genome sequencing, to find out whether they are infected with the Omicron variant or not, it said. As a precautionary measure, the municipal corporation has declared the residential society, where the NRI's family resides, a micro-containment zone and restricted the movement of people there by putting barricades. On Sunday, Municipal Commissioner Vijaykumar Kharadi visited the society along with the corporation's health officials and asked them to conduct door-to-door surveys and testing in the area to find out positive cases. As directed, officials also started the exercise of administering Covid-19 vaccine to people in the area who have not taken the first or second dose till date, the release said, adding that the entire area was also sanitised. Till Sunday, India reported 21 cases of the Omicron variant of Covid-19 - including from places in Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Karnataka and Delhi. Gujarat Chief Minister Bhupendra Patel on Sunday urged people to take necessary precautions and expressed confidence that the new strain of coronavirus would be defeated. He also said that the number of Covid-19 cases being reported in the state are now the lowest in the country. Gujarat on Sunday recorded 48 new coronavirus positive cases and one death, which raised its infection tally to 8,27,707 and fatality figure to 10,095, the health department said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/wife-brother-in-law-of-gujarat-omicron-patient-test-positive-samples-sent-for-genome-sequencing-1058141.html
06-12-2021||National||Air pollution: SC refuses urgent hearing on plea to revisit order for ban on construction||The Supreme Court on Monday refused urgent hearing on a plea by Developers and Builders Forum to revisit its November 24 order reimposing ban on construction activities here due to worsening air pollution in the national capital. The court, however, said the application would be taken up on Friday along with the main PIL filed by minor Aditya Dubey. Senior advocate Vikas Singh, appearing for the forum, sought urgent hearing on Monday itself, saying the blanket ban imposed by the court should be lifted as Air Quality Index has improved and thousand of crores of the industry was lost due to such a measure. The court initially asked the applicant-body to approach the government. However, Singh asserted that the ban was imposed by the court. The bench then said the matter would be taken up on Friday. In its plea, the forum claimed construction activities by it contributed to meagre 6.7-7.9 per cent of the entire pollution in the region. It also said blanket ban has directly affected the livelihoods of large number of construction workers, supervisory personnel and other managerial staff. It said if the Central Vista construction, and other projects can continue, the forum can comply with the same norms. The forum further said even within the construction activities, admittedly the major contributors to pollution are the big commercial projects like multi-storey buildings, Central Vista project, Metro construction, construction of fly-overs and underpasses, etc. The share of residential construction is a miniscule percentage, it added. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/air-pollution-sc-refuses-urgent-hearing-on-plea-to-revisit-order-for-ban-on-construction-1058145.html
06-12-2021||National||Despite US frowns, India moves ahead to expand defence ties with Russia, citing aggression by China||Risking strains in its relations with the United States, India on Monday inked an agreement with Russia to extend bilateral military technical cooperation and moved to expand defence cooperation between the two nations, citing challenges posed to its security by “unprovoked aggression” by China. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh referred to China’s “unprovoked aggression” along its disputed boundary with India as he and External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar hosted their Russian counterparts for the first bilateral 2+2 dialogue in New Delhi on Monday – just hours before Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s summit with President Vladimir Putin. Singh also noted India’s “enhanced requirement” of military and military-technical cooperation with Russia to meet the emerging challenges it was confronted with. In addition to a pact for extending bilateral military-technical cooperation for another decade from 2021 to 2031, the two sides also inked a contract for manufacturing of 6,01,427 AK-203 rifles in India. The rifles, manufactured by the Indo-Russian Rifles Private Limited at Amethi in Uttar Pradesh at a cost of over Rs 5,000 crore, will replace the Indian Army’s standard issue INSAS rifles. New Delhi agreed with Moscow to expand bilateral defence cooperation, even as its October 2018 deal to procure five S-400 air defence systems from Russia for an estimated cost of Rs 39,000 crore put India at the risk of being placed under United States curbs under the Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (CAATSA). Though India of late started taking delivery of the S-400s from Russia, President Joe Biden’s administration remained non-committal on granting it a waiver from the US CAATSA sanctions. Jaishankar and Singh had the inaugural 2+2 dialogue with Russian Defence Minister Sergey Shoigu and Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s summit with President Vladimir Putin. Singh said that the Covid-19 pandemic, extraordinary militarisation in the neighbourhood and unprovoked aggression on its northern border since early summer of 2020 had thrown up several challenges for India. He added that India was confident of overcoming challenges facing it with strong political will and inherent capability of its people. “India seeks partners that are sensitive and responsive towards its expectations and requirements,” said the Defence Minister. “Our ties have been close and time-tested. In a world that has changed so much, they have been exceptionally steady,” said the External Affairs Minister. The soldiers of the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) are currently engaged in a military stand-off along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) – the de facto boundary between the two nations – in eastern Ladakh. The stand-off started when the PLA deployed a large number of troops in an apparent bid to change the status quo along the disputed boundary, push the LAC westward and encroach upon the territory of India. The Indian Army responded with counter deployment, resulting in a stand-off, which reached a flashpoint on June 15, 2020, when a violent clash took place in Galwan Valley. The Indian Army lost 20 of its soldiers, while the Chinese PLA acknowledged several months later that four of its personnel had also been killed in the incident. Singh visited Moscow in June and September 2020 and had meetings with Shoigu as China’s aggression on the LAC prompted India to seek emergency purchase of some military hardware. Russia also quietly played a mediating role between India and China. Moscow was the venue for back-to-back meetings Singh and Jaishankar had with their respective counterparts in the Chinese government, Wei Fenghe and Wang Yi, on the sideline of a meeting of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO) in September 2020. The protracted negotiations between diplomats and senior military commanders of India and China resulted in mutual withdrawal of front-line troops by the PLA and the Indian Army from the northern and southern banks of Pangong Tso in February and from the Gogra Post in August this year. The two sides, however, could not agree on disengagement in other remaining face-off points along the LAC. What caused a bit of unease in New Delhi’s relations with Moscow was the deepening strategic convergence between India and the US in the Indo-Pacific region in the wake of the stand-off between the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA in eastern Ladakh. India and the US also joined with Australia and Japan to launch the Quad and to respond to growing belligerence of China. Singh and Jaishankar earlier on the day hosted Shoigu and Lavrov for separate one-to-one meetings. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/despite-us-frowns-india-moves-ahead-to-expand-defence-ties-with-russia-citing-aggression-by-china-1058148.html
06-12-2021||National||Lok Sabha members express anguish over Nagaland firing incident, demand probe||Lok Sabha members on Monday condemned the killing of civilians during an anti-insurgency operation by security forces in Nagaland and demanded an impartial probe into the incident. Members also called for repeal of the Armed Forces Special Powers Act (AFSPA) enforced in Nagaland that allows security personnel to use force and even open fire after due warning in case of breach of law and order. Stressing that emotional integration of people living in border areas is extremely important for the unity and integrity of the country, senior Congress leader Manish Tewari demanded that there should be an impartial judicial inquiry by a sitting high court judge into the unfortunate incident. He also urged the government not to invoke the immunity under the AFSPA against those who are found guilty. Tokheho Yepthomi, Nationalist Democratic Progressive Party (NDPP) member in the Lok Sabha, said, “There should be an inquiry into the incident. The state government has announced an ex-gratia of Rs five lakh for those slain. But, since the civilians were killed by central security forces, the compensation should be paid by the Centre". "The AFSPA has not given powers to security forces to indiscriminately kill people,” Yepthomi said referring to the killing of 14 civilians during an anti-insurgency operation in Nagaland on December 4. Congress member Gaurav Gogoi said the death of Indians at the hands of security forces was highly condemnable. “How can a group of unarmed civilians be mistaken as militants,” Gogoi said and demanded convening of an all party meeting to discuss the situation in the north-east. Sudeep Bandyopadhyay (Trinamool) said the situation in Nagaland should not be allowed to deteriorate further and demanded maximum compensation be given to the next of kin of those killed in the incident. Members noted that Nagaland should not be “thrown into uncertainty” at a time when the Centre was holding peace talks with different groups in the state. Vinayak Raut of the Shiv Sena wondered how intelligence agencies could give such misleading inputs to the security forces. He also demanded an inquiry into the functioning of intelligence agencies. P V Midhun Reddy (YSCRP) demanded action against the perpetrators but said that care should be taken to ensure that the morale of the armed forces does not go down. T R Baalu (DMK), Rajiv Singh Ranjan (JDU) and Supriya Sule (NCP) expressed deep anguish at the killings and demanded a statement of Home Minister Amit Shah in Parliament. Ritesh Pandey (BSP) said "mistakes" by the armed forces or failure to follow protocol has raised questions on the credibility of the government and called for an impartial probe into the incident. Asaduddin Owaisi (AIMIM) wanted the government to tell Lok Sabha when it would repeal the AFSPA in the state. Owaisi also wanted the government to tell the House whether the tip off about the presence of militants in the region was received from an informer with links to China. Pradyut Bordoloi (Congress) demanded an oversight mechanism on the implementation of the AFSPA in Nagaland and demanded that the perpetrators of the crime be brought to book. On Sunday, the Army expressed deep regret over the incident in Mon district of Nagaland and ordered a Court of Inquiry. Police in Nagaland's capital Kohima had said it was investigating whether the incident was a case of mistaken identity. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lok-sabha-members-express-anguish-over-nagaland-firing-incident-demand-probe-1058149.html
06-12-2021||National||Kamal Haasan urges MNM party cadres to work for victory in ULB polls||Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) chief Kamal Haasan on Monday made a fervent plea to his cadre to “work hard” to emerge victorious in the ensuing elections to urban local bodies by “overcoming differences” within. He also asked his cadre to strictly follow the Covid-19 appropriate behaviour during the campaign and not to be complacent about the virus which infected him as well. In a short video posted on his verified social media pages, Kamal Haasan said that he has recovered from Covid-19 illness and attributed his speedy recovery to the “love and affection” of the people and his cadre which was “equally important” to the medical treatment.  Kamal Haasan spent nearly a fortnight at the Sri Ramachandra Medical Centre (SRMC) after being infected with Covid-19 following his return from the US. He was discharged on December 4, following which the actor resumed his shooting for a reality show Bigg Boss. “Makkal Needhi Maiam has been pushing for autonomy in local bodies and was a force in taking gram sabhas to the people. We will have to work with the same vigour to taste success in the elections to town panchayats, municipalities, and corporations. Cadre should overcome differences within and fight the elections,” the MNM chief said in the video.  MNM, which projects itself as a change agent, could not post a strong performance in the 2021 assembly elections with Kamal Haasan himself losing from Coimbatore (South) constituency. The party also fared very poorly in the elections to rural local bodies in nine districts held in October.  The defeat in the assembly elections prompted several top leaders of the MNM, including Dr R Mahendran, retired bureaucrat Santhosh Babu, and entrepreneur C K Kumaravel, to resign from the party, accusing Kamal Haasan of being “too self-centred.” Contending that cadres are the “strength of MNM”, Kamal Haasan asked them to put in efforts to register a victory in the elections, likely to be held early next year. Asking cadre not to take Covid-19 threat “lightly”, he told them to be “vigilant” while campaigning and stressed the need to carry out the campaign by following the Covid-19 protocol.  Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kamal-haasan-urges-mnm-party-cadres-to-work-for-victory-in-ulb-polls-1058150.html
06-12-2021||National||Check Covid-19 test prices at major airports in India||With India reporting 21 cases of the Omicron Covid-19 variant till December 5, many states have revised their travel guidelines, some mandating RT-PCR tests. Here are the prices of Covid tests at some major airports across the country: Delhi airport Rapid PCR Rs 3,500; RT-PCR Rs 500  Mumbai airport Rapid PCR Rs 3,900; RT-PCR Rs 600  Kolkata airport Rapid PCR Rs 3,750; RT-PCR Rs 700  Surat airport Rapid PCR Rs 3,700; RT-PCR Rs 400 Bengaluru airport Rapid PCR Rs 3,000, RT-PCR Rs 500 Kochi airport Rapid PCR Rs 2490, RT-PCR Rs 500 (Data from agencies) Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/check-covid-19-test-prices-at-major-airports-in-india-1058153.html
06-12-2021||National||If agri laws can be revoked, then so can others to pave way for Mathura temple, says BJP's Kushwaha||When the Narendra Modi government can repeal the farm laws keeping in mind protests by farmers, it can also withdraw the Places of Worship (Special Provisions) Act, 1991, to pave way for the construction of a grand temple at Sri Krishna Janmabhoomi in Mathura, BJP MP Ravindra Kushwaha said. The act prohibits conversion of any place of worship and provides for the maintenance of the religious character of any place of worship as it existed on August 15, 1947. The law, however, exempted litigation on the ownership over Ram Janmabhoomi-Babri Masjid dispute. "The BJP has a clear view regarding Ayodhya, Kashi (Varanasi) and Mathura since the beginning. These three are a matter of faith for us. Our religion is associated with these religious places,” Kushwaha said. "Our origin is from this (Mathura) place. This is a matter of country's pride," the MP from Ballia told reporters Sunday. "Ayodhya has been decided, work is on in Kashi Vishwanath temple and now it’s the turn of Mathura," he said. When asked whether one can go against the Places of Worship (Special Provisions) Act, 1991, Khushwaha said, "While taking note of farmers’ protests, agri laws were withdrawn. Similarly, the Modi government can withdraw this act also." "Four-five hundred years ago, why did they have to construct their religious place in front of our temple, did they not have any other place?" he said, adding now Mathura will be “freed”. He was apparently referring to Muslims for constructing a mosque. "Which of their 'Paigambar' was born there so that a mosque needed to exist there," Kushwaha said. Referring to Muslims, he said their "Paigambar" (God or Prophet) is "adrishya" (invisible) and it is not necessary that a mosque exists in front of a popular Sri Krishna temple. When asked why this issue is being raked up ahead of the Assembly polls, the BJP leader said, "When there can be the talk of caste, there can be alliance on basis of caste, then one can also talk about Sri Krishna." “Like Ayodhya, a start has been made on Mathura and someday, it will also be taken care of,” he said. Kushwaha’s remarks come days after Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya stirred a controversy by saying that the ruling BJP is preparing to build a temple in Mathura. Watch the latest DH Videos here: The supposed temple site in Mathura, which is a subject of multiple lawsuits, is located inside an Aurangzeb-era mosque and shares its premises with a prominent temple. Earlier, rightwing groups had given a call that they would place a Krishna idol inside the Shahi Idgah Masjid, which shares its boundary with the temple, on December 6||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/if-agri-laws-can-be-revoked-then-so-can-others-to-pave-way-for-mathura-temple-says-bjps-kushwaha-1058161.html
06-12-2021||National||Nagaland firing issue raised in Rajya Sabha||The Nagaland firing incident in which 14 civilians were killed during an anti-insurgency operation by security forces was raised in Rajya Sabha Monday morning as Leader of Opposition and Congress MP Mallikarjun Kharge demanded the home minister make a statement on the matter. There has been a very serious and most tragic development in which six innocent civilians were killed on December 4 by security forces in Mon district of Nagaland mistaking them for militants, Kharge said in the morning session, expressing concerns over the incident. This horrific oversight led to clashes resulting in reported death of eight more civilians and one security person, the senior Congress leader said. "Sir, the matter is very serious and horrendous. We demand a statement by the Minister of Home Affairs on it in the House today only. It is a serious matter, I request you to direct the minister to make a statement," Kharge said, addressing the Chair. Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu said he had a talk with Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and also with Home Minister Amit Shah. "The home minister has written to me saying that he will definitely make a statement today afternoon," the chairman said, disallowing any other member to speak on the issue saying it has already been raised by the Leader of Opposition. He assured the members that they will be permitted to seek clarification after the minister's statement. "This is a very serious issue, very unfortunate. It is also sensitive. Let us keep the sensitivity in mind and at the same time the seriousness of the issue," he added. Leader of the House Piyush Goyal also said the matter is serious. "The government is seized of the matter. The government will make a detailed statement on this issue," he said. Naidu later called for the first Zero Hour mention. During Zero Hour, matters are raised with the permission of the Chair. However, several members wanted to raise their points. As multiple MPs spoke simultaneously, Naidu referred to TMC member Derek O'Brien, and said "you can't speak as you like". A visibly upset Naidu, tried to move ahead with the Zero Hour, but the protest continued. "The House is adjourned sacrificing Zero Hour, public issues because of some people for not cooperating," he said, and adjourned the proceedings till 12 noon. Earlier, Naidu informed that Telangana Rashtra Samithi MP Banda Prakash had called on him and informed about his resignation from the Rajya Sabha with effect from December 4. He said the TRS MP resigned "voluntarily" and his resignation has been accepted. The chairman also informed the House that Leader of JD (U) Ram Nath Thakur has informed that member Mahendra Prasad is undergoing treatment at Apollo Hospital and has sought leave of absence from the entire proceedings of the Winter Session. The House granted him the leave of absence. Naidu also said some members had given notice under Rule 267 (Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in the Council of States - Rajya Sabha) for suspension of the listed business of the day to take up the issues raised by them. The notices were not permitted. The Chairman further said a notice has also been received under Rule 267 (discussion on a matter of public interest), which he has to examine. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nagaland-firing-issue-raised-in-rajya-sabha-1058173.html
06-12-2021||National||Rajya Sabha adjourned for the day amid Opposition protests over suspension of MPs||Rajya Sabha proceedings were adjourned for the day on Monday amid protests by Opposition parties over their demand to revoke the suspension of 12 members of the House. As soon the House reassembled at 4 pm following four adjournments of varying durations, Deputy Chairman Harivansh called Home Minister Amit Shah to give a statement on the Nagaland firing incident in which 14 civilians were killed. Even as the minister was making a statement, Opposition members kept raising slogans against the government. Shah had made the same statement earlier in the Lok Sabha. As soon as Shah finished his statement, the Deputy Chairman adjourned the House for the day as Opposition members refused to relent and continued their uproar over the suspension of 12 MPs. Earlier, Rajya Sabha proceedings were adjourned till 4 pm as the House was unable to function amid protests by Opposition MPs who had trooped inside the well over the suspension issue. This was the fourth adjournment of the day. After the House assembled at 3 pm following the third adjournment, Sasmit Patra, who was in the Chair, called for a short-term discussion on the situation in the country due to inflation, including the rise in the prices of petroleum products. Patra called the Leader of Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge to speak on the matter. The septuagenarian leader, however, asked the chair to first revoke the suspension of the 12 MP and allow them to participate in the discussion. Kharge said, "in a democracy, it is a crime to run the House and start a discussion after suspending 12 members." Patra said that the proposal for the short-term discussion was brought by them only and now they don't want to discuss it. "This topic is decided by them. The Opposition wanted to discuss this and the government has agreed for this discussion," said Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman. "They are talking about democracy and we have agreed for it. Is it not democracy and spirit of the house?" "We are not running away from debate. We want to debate and discuss price hikes but you are seeing this. This is the hypocrisy of the Opposition," Sitharaman said pointing towards the MPs who trooped in the well of the House with placards and were raising slogans. After this, Patra asked Congress leader Anand Sharma to speak on the inflation issue as Kharge was not speaking on it. However, there was no answer. "You had given a proposal for short-duration discussion," Patra said. Patra also called NCP MP Fouzia Khan to participate in the debate, who too asked the Chair to first revoke the suspension of the Opposition MPs. Patra again called for Kharge, who asked him to first bring the House in order, then only he would speak. "You first bring the House in order. I am ready to speak but you revoke the suspension," the Leader of Opposition said. Patra requested the protesting MPs to return to their seats saying Kharge was ready to speak, The protest, however, continued. Amid the din, Leader of House Piyush Goyal said, "Now the leader of Opposition claims that he is ready to speak and wants to start the discussion and asks you to bring the House in order. This is like playing a game. Their own members are here (in the Well)... The Congress members are in the House." The Leader of the Opposition "on one hand claims to bring the House in order and on other hand encourages its own MPs to be in the well," Goyal said while holding the Opposition responsible for the price rise, particularly of petroleum. The Union government has not only reduced excise duty on petroleum products the BJP-ruled states have also reduced VAT on petrol and diesel, he said. "They (non-NDA parties) are responsible for this situation, particularly on petroleum prices and to cover up they are in action," Goyal said, adding the whole nation is watching. Following this, Patra adjourned the House session. Earlier in the day, following a round of adjournment, when the House gathered in the afternoon, Deputy Chairman Harivansh called for laying on the table the statement of Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman. The deputy chairman then sought initiation of the short-duration discussion on the 'situation arising out of price rise in the country including the rise in the prices of petroleum products'. Kharge stated that he was ready for the discussion but requested that the suspended MPs be first called in the House. "I request you to please call them inside (the House) for once," he said, noting the 12 MPs have been out of the House for five days. To this, the Chair said the Leader of Opposition and Leader of the House should sit together to find a solution to this. Kharge said the suspended MPs also want to discuss the price rise issue. However, the deputy chairman called out his name to initiate the discussion. When Kharge continued with his plea to call the suspended MPs to the House, Harivansh called the name of Anand Sharma then Fauzia Khan and subsequently Manoj Jha to participate in the debate. However, no member spoke a word on the issue of price rise. Opposition members started shouting and many members trooped into the well following which the deputy chairman asked them to go back to their seats. As the protest continued, he adjourned the House for an hour till 3 PM. Twelve Opposition MPs were suspended from Rajya Sabha last Monday for the entire Winter Session of Parliament for their "unruly" conduct in the previous session in August. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajya-sabha-adjourned-for-the-day-amid-opposition-protests-over-suspension-of-mps-1058176.html
06-12-2021||National||Ex-UP Shia Waqf Board chairman Waseem Rizvi converts to Hinduism||Controversial ex-Uttar Pradesh Shia Waqf Board chairman Waseem Rizvi, who was recently excommunicated from Islam by the Shia clerics, converted to Hinduism on Monday. Rizvi, who was often in the news for criticising the Sharia and Muslim clerics and was considered close to the BJP, converted at a temple at Dasna in UP's Ghaziabad district. Rizvi later said that he had changed his name to Jitendra Narayan Singh Tyagi. Rizvi converted amid chanting of Vedic mantras and rituals performed by the head of the Narsimhananda Sarswati temple. Speaking to reporters after converting, Rizvi alias Jitendra said that the 'Sanatan Dharma' was the 'best' religion in the world. "I have been excommunicated from Islam...the Muslim clerics had issued fatwa to behead me. I am free to convert to any religion I wish, and no one should have any objection to it," he added. Rizvi had recently released his will stating that he wished to be cremated and not buried after his death. "I would like to be cremated in accordance with the Hindu traditions," he had said in his Will. Rizvi had earned the wrath of the Muslim clerics after he had sought removal some couplets of the Quran and filed a petition in the court contending that they were against the humanity as they supported terrorism. Although his petition was rejected by the court, he authored a book on Islam in which he did not include 26 verses of the Quran. A police complaint was also filed against Rizvi by AIMIM chief Asauddin Owaisi in Hyderabad in this regard. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ex-up-shia-waqf-board-chairman-waseem-rizvi-converts-to-hinduism-1058181.html
06-12-2021||National||Omicron spreads in India, full vaccination in focus||Cases of the Omicron coronavirus variant have risen to 21 in India over the weekend and people must step up for vaccination, officials said on Monday. Rajasthan reported the most number of Omicron cases with nine, followed by eight in Maharashtra, two in Karnataka and one each in Gujarat and the capital New Delhi. "The people of Delhi must get fully vaccinated, wear a mask and maintain social distancing," health minister Satyendar Jain said on Twitter. The first case of the Omicron variant has been found in Delhi. The patient is being treated at LNJP hospital. The people of Delhi must get fully vaccinated, wear a mask and maintain social distancing. He said the city's first Omicron patient was being treated at a state-run hospital. Some 94% of its adults had received at lease one dose, he added. The country has fully vaccinated 51% of its 94.4 crore adults and given at least one dose to 85%. Crores of people, however, are overdue for their second dose despite ample vaccine supplies, government data shows. India reported its first two Omicron cases in Karnataka on Thursday, in one person with no recent travel history. Most other cases have been in people who have recently come from abroad, but doctors said the mutated virus was already spreading in the local population as well. "Omicron is here, community spread is underway," surgeon Arvinder Singh Soin, who has been treating Covid-19 patients, said on Twitter. "Mask up. Get FULLY vaccinated." India reported 8,895 new Covid-19 cases for the past 24 hours, taking the total to 3.463 crores. Deaths rose by 211 to 473,537. Since a record surge in infections and deaths in April and May due to the Delta variant, new cases have hovered around 10,000 in the past few weeks. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/omicron-spreads-in-india-full-vaccination-in-focus-1058186.html
06-12-2021||National||CJI Ramana terms Justice Shantanagoudar a common man’s judge, says his death caused loss to SC||Chief Justice of India (CJI) N V Ramana Monday paid homage to Supreme Court judge Justice Mohan M Shantanagoudar, who died in April at a hospital here nearly three years before superannuation, calling him a “common man’s judge” whose sudden demise caused a “great loss of the apex judiciary”. Justice Shantanagoudar, who was elevated as a judge of the apex court on February 17, 2017 and would have remained in office till May 5, 2023, had 62, died at a private hospital in Gurgugram late night on April 24. “I never thought that I would have to condole the death of one of my most valued colleagues. His sudden death is a great loss to the Supreme Court. In losing him, the country has lost a common man’s judge. I have personally lost a most cherished friend and a valuable colleague,” said the CJI in the full court reference held in a hybrid mode in the apex court in the memory of the late judge. The CJI recalled some major judgements, to which Justice Shantanagoudar was part of, and said, “his contribution to the jurisprudence of the nation is indisputable. All of you are already aware of his judgments, and I do not want to elaborately discuss them.” His judgments provide a deep insight into his thought process, his years of experience, knowledge and unending wisdom, Justice Ramana said. “His judgments showed simplicity, abundant common sense, and a practical approach. He was always concerned about social equality, and the rights and liberties of the people,” he said, adding that he shared the bench with Justice Shantanagoudar for around a year and a half. “Brother and Sister Judges and I share the feelings of all those who have gathered here in expressing our heartfelt condolences to the members of the bereaved family. May the Almighty give them strength to bear the great loss and overcome the grief. May the departed soul rest in eternal peace,” the CJI said. Attorney General K K Venugopal, who joined the meeting virtually, said that the late judge was “simplicity personified” and one of the brightest legal minds in criminal law. The top law officer recalled one of the last verdicts of Justice Shantanagoudar and said he had tried to increase public earnings by pointing to accountability of banks with regard to the lockers and had directed the RBI to implement steps regarding granting the locker facility to customers. Supreme Court bar Association President and senior advocate Vikas Singh also paid homage to the late judge saying that he never shied from taking fearless decisions. Justice Shantanagoudar was elevated as a judge of the Supreme Court on February, 17, 2017. He was born on May, 5, 1958 in Karnataka and got himself enrolled as an advocate on September 5, 1980. He was appointed as an additional judge of the Karnataka High Court on May 12, 2003 and became a permanent judge in the court in September, 2004. Later, he was transferred to the Kerala High Court, where he assumed charge as the Acting Chief Justice on August 1, 2016. He became the Chief Justice of the Kerala High Court on September 22, 2016, before being elevated as an apex court judge.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cji-ramana-terms-justice-shantanagoudar-a-common-man-s-judge-says-his-death-caused-loss-to-sc-1058188.html
06-12-2021||National||No shortage of coal in India: Pralhad Joshi||Union Coal Minister Pralhad Joshi on Monday said there is no shortage of coal in the country and the government is constantly reviewing the situation. Coal stocks at generating plants had depleted due to interruptions in the supply of dry fuel due to heavy rains, increased power demand, and less electricity generation by imported coal-based power plants, Joshi said in Rajya Sabha while replying to a question. Coal stock at power plants depleted to 7.2 million tonnes (MT) (sufficient for four days) as of October 8, 2021. Subsequently, with increased coal supplies, the coal stock has started increasing and has now reached 17.29 MT (sufficient for nine days) as of November 29, the minister said. Separately, the Indian Captive Power Producers Association (ICPPA) has requested the Centre to normalise coal supplies to captive power plant-based industries. The association also warned that if the supply of fossil fuel is not restored immediately, it would lead to irrevocable collateral damage to these national assets. In a recent representation to the government, ICPPA highlighted the issue of insufficient coal rake supplies to CPP-based industries at levels of 40 to 50 per cent. In the last few months, the supplies meant for CPPs and industries have been either stopped or significantly curtailed for diversion of these to the power sector, which has led to a perilous situation for other coal-based power generators, adversely impacting their industrial operations, it said in a statement. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-shortage-of-coal-in-india-pralhad-joshi-1058195.html
06-12-2021||National||Bill to correct drafting error in NDPS Act introduced in Lok Sabha||A Bill was introduced in Lok Sabha to correct a drafting error in the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act that rendered a key provision dealing with the punishment of those financing illicit trafficking inoperable. Minister of State for Finance Bhagwat Karad introduced the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (Amendment) Bill, 2021 that seeks to replace an ordinance that was promulgated on September 30 this year. Opposing the introduction of the Bill, RSP member N K Premachandran demanded proper scrutiny of the draft legislation, the absence of which could lead to a “bad law”. Premachandran said the drafting error was highlighted when an accused moved to a special court in Tripura contending that he could not be charged for the offence as Section 27 A is referred to a blank list. The Tripura High Court subsequently asked the Centre to amend the law. Premachandran and BJD member Bhratruhari Mahtab cautioned the government against making the amendments to a criminal law applicable with retrospective effect from 2014. The anomaly crept in when the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act was amended in 2014 to allow better medical access to narcotic drugs, removing state barriers in transporting and licensing of “essential narcotic drugs”. Prior to the 2014 amendment, clause (viiia) of Section 2 of the Act, contained sub-clauses (i) to (v), wherein the term 'illicit traffic' had been defined. “This clause was re-lettered as clause (viiib) by the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (Amendment) Act, 2014, as a new clause (viiia) in section 2 defining 'essential narcotic drugs' was inserted. However, inadvertently consequential change was not carried out in section 27A of the NDPS Act,” Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman was quoted as saying in the Statement of Objects and Reasons of the bill. She said the amendment does not create any new offence but contains a legislative declaration that reference of clause (viiia) always meant the corresponding renumbered provision in clause (viiib). The amendment also seeks to rectify this anomaly by making changes in section 27A of the said Act in order to carry out the legislative intent of the statute, which has always been to read clause (viiib) in section 27A, and already stood therein, Sitharaman said. Karad introduced the Bill in Lok Sabha after assuring members that the concerns raised by them would be addressed during the debate. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bill-to-correct-drafting-error-in-ndps-act-introduced-in-lok-sabha-1058201.html
06-12-2021||National||2+2 Dialogue: India, Russia sign agreements for arms production, cooperation||India and Russia on Monday inked an agreement for joint production of over six lakh AK-203 assault rifles at a manufacturing facility in Uttar Pradesh's Amethi besides firming up another pact on military cooperation for 10 years. The rifles will be manufactured for the Indian armed forces at a cost of around Rs 5,000 crore. The agreements were signed at the 20th meeting of the India-Russia Inter-Governmental Commission on Military and Military-Technical Cooperation (IRIGC-M&MTC). The meeting, co-chaired by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and his Russian counterpart Gen Sergey Shoigu, also discussed ways to further boost strategic cooperation, including ramping up of joint production of military equipment. The two sides also inked a pact on amending the agreement on cooperation in the field of manufacturing of the Kalashnikov series of small arms that was originally sealed in February 2019. Another agreement was signed on the protocol of the 20th IRIGC-M&MTC, officials said. The most important of the four agreements was the pact on manufacturing of  6,01,427 AK-203 assault rifles (7.63X39mm) through Indo-Russia Rifles Private Limited (IRPL). The 10-year pact on military cooperation is a renewal of an existing framework. In his opening remarks at the meeting, Singh termed Russia as India's longstanding special and privileged strategic partner, and said that the relations were "time-tested" and based on common interests in multilateralism, global peace and prosperity, mutual understanding and trust. He appreciated Russia's strong support for India and stressed that the close cooperation is not targeted against another country.   Singh expressed hope that the cooperation will bring peace, prosperity and stability, adding the defence cooperation was one of the most important pillars of the India-Russia partnership. "India-Russia Inter-Governmental Commission on Military and Military-Technical Cooperation is a well-established mechanism since last two decades," he said. Singh said the summit meeting between Russian President Vladimir Putin and Prime Minister Narendra Modi later in the day reconfirms the depth and critical importance of special and privileged strategic partnership between India and Russia in the emerging geopolitical circumstances. He described the first-ever India-Russia 2+2 Ministerial Dialogue as a special initiative taken by the leaders of the two countries, signalling the higher relevance of the ties. Shoigu and Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov arrived here on Sunday night to hold the inaugural 2+2 Dialogue with their Indian counterparts. The two Russian ministers will join President Putin later in the day in his summit talks with Prime Minister Modi. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/22-dialogue-india-russia-sign-agreements-for-arms-production-cooperation-1058202.html
06-12-2021||National||Russia has sent documents to India for Sputnik M registration, says RDIF||Russia has sent documents to Indian regulators for the registration of its Sputnik M vaccine for use in children aged 12-17, the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) said on Monday. Russia's health ministry registered Sputnik M in late November and has said shots are expected to be available at the end of December. Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/russia-has-sent-documents-to-india-for-sputnik-m-registration-says-rdif-1058217.html
06-12-2021||National||NEP does not envisage one year engineering programme in Indian languages: Govt||The National Education Policy does not envisage a one-year engineering programme in Indian languages, Union Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan said on Monday. Pradhan made the statement in response to a written question in Lok Sabha. "NEP does not envisage a one-year engineering programme in Indian Languages. However, NEP has made recommendations for use of mother tongue and local language as a medium of instruction and offer programmes bilingually in the higher education system," he said. "All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) has given approval to nineteen engineering colleges to impart engineering courses in six Indian languages for engineering programmes across 10 states from the Academic year 2021-22," he added. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nep-does-not-envisage-one-year-engineering-programme-in-indian-languages-govt-1058222.html
06-12-2021||National||18.16 lakh OBCs among 45.78 lakh beneficiaries registered under PM-SYM: Govt||As many as 18.16 lakh crore among the total 45.78 lakh beneficiaries registered under the Pradhan Mantri Shram Yogi Maandhan (PM-SYM) pension scheme belong to Other Backward Classes (OBC), Parliament was informed on Monday. "As on December 1, 2021, total 45,78,524 beneficiaries have been registered under Pradhan Mantri Shram Yogi Maan-Dhan (PM-SYM) pension scheme. Out of which, 18,16,592 beneficiaries belong to Other Backward Classes (OBC)," Minister of State for Labour Rameshwar Teli said in a written reply to a query in the Lok Sabha. The PM-SYM pension scheme is implemented by the director general (labour welfare), Ministry of Labour & Employment through state/UT governments. The state/UT governments have constituted State Level Monitoring Committee (SLMC) and District Level Implementation Committee (DLIC) which have been entrusted with the work of review and monitoring of the progress of the scheme. The PM-SYM pension scheme is to provide old-age protection to eligible unorganised workers, in terms of monthly pension. The workers of unorganised sector in the age group of 18-40 years having monthly income not more than Rs 15,000 are eligible for enrolment under this scheme. Under the scheme, minimum assured monthly pension of Rs 3,000 will be provided to the unorganised workers after attaining the age of 60 years. In another reply to the House, the minister stated that Employees' Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) provides Social Security benefits in the form of Pension and Insurance to dependents of workers who were members of the schemes under the Employees' Provident Fund & Miscellaneous (EPF & MP) Act, 1952. During the period April 2020 to October 2021, relief in the form of pension and insurance benefits to dependents (widow/ children/ orphan/ nominee/ parents) were paid, he stated. Total number of beneficiaries granted pension due to death of member of the scheme are 1,55,886 who got paid Rs 564.72 crore. The total number of insurance beneficiaries are 72,181 who got total insurance money Rs 2,003.87 crore. In another reply to the House, the minister stated that under the Atmanirbhar Bharat Rojgar Yojana (ABRY) as on November 27, 2021, benefit has been provided to 39.59 lakh beneficiaries through 1.16 lakh establishments. The ABRY was launched with effect from 1st October, 2020 as part of Atmanirbhar Bharat package 3.0 to incentivise employers for creation of new employment along with social security benefits and restoration of loss of employment during the Covid-19 pandemic. This scheme being implemented through Employees' Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO), seeks to reduce the financial burden of the employers and encourages them to hire more workers. The terminal date for registration of beneficiaries has been extended from June 30, 2021, to March 31, 2022. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/1816-lakh-obcs-among-4578-lakh-beneficiaries-registered-under-pm-sym-govt-1058224.html
06-12-2021||National||38,408 schools, 2.86 lakh anganwadi centres don't have functional toilets, Centre tells Rajya Sabha||As many as 38,408 schools and 2,86,310 anganwadi centres across the country do not have functional toilets, the Union government informed the Rajya Sabha on Monday. Replying to a question of NCP MP Vandana Chavan in the Upper House, Minister of State for Jal Shakti Prahlad Singh Patel also said that 2,85,103 schools do not have handwashing facilities. The minister said 6,50,481 schools sourced drinking water from handpumps, while 61,627 schools got it from unprotected wells. He added that 82,708 schools received drinking water from protected wells, while 4,15,102 schools had tap water supplies. As many as 68,374 schools supplied packaged or bottled drinking water, while 1,74,632 schools accessed drinking water from "other sources". Of the 2,86,310 anganwadi centres without functional toilets, the maximum of 53,496 were in Maharashtra followed by 40,444 in Odisha. In Rajasthan, 29,098 anganwadi centres did not have toilet facilities, while in Assam 22,819 centres lacked such facilities, Patel said. In West Bengal, 20,884 anganwadi centres did not have toilet facilities, followed by Telangana (18,072), Andhra Pradesh (14,731), Karnataka (13,518), Uttar Pradesh (12,891), Jharkhand (12,883). According to data from the states/Union Territories 47,022 tests for quality of water have been conducted in schools and anganwadi centres, using Field Test Kits during 2021-22, Patel said. He said under the Jal Jeevan Mission, a special campaign was launched on October 2, 2020, to provide potable piped water to all schools, anganwadi centres, tribal residential schools, across rural India for ensuring safe water, sanitation and hygiene facilities for the wellbeing of children. In reply to a separate question, Patel said 5.37 crore households have been provided tap water connections since August 2019, when the Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM) was launched. Before the launch of the mission, 3.23 crore or 17 per cent of the total 18.93 crore households had tap water connections, he said, adding that under JJM, tap water connection is provided to a household for potable water in adequate quantity of prescribed quality on a regular and long-term basis. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/38408-schools-286-lakh-anganwadi-centres-dont-have-functional-toilets-centre-tells-rajya-sabha-1058225.html
06-12-2021||National||Over 55% of Jan Dhan bank account holders are women, says Finance Ministry in Lok Sabha||Of the nearly 44-crore Jan Dhan bank account holders in the country, more than 55 per cent are women, the Finance Ministry informed Parliament on Monday. There are as many as 43.9 crore beneficiaries of the PMJDY [Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana] account holders in the country as of November 17, 2021, Minister of State for Finance Bhagwat Karad said in a written reply in the Lok Sabha. Of these, as many as 24.42 crore are female beneficiaries as informed by the banks, which comprises 55.6 per cent of the total PMJDY accounts, he said. When asked about the number of people benefitting from this scheme in Gujarat, he said there are a total of 1.65 crore beneficiaries in Gujarat, of whom 0.84 crore (51 per cent) are women. The government had announced the PMJDY on August 15, 2014, under the National Mission on Financial Inclusion with a view to increasing banking penetration, promoting financial inclusion and providing at least one bank account per household across the country. The scheme was extended beyond 14 August 2018 with the focus on opening accounts shifting from "every household" to "every unbanked adult" with certain modifications. There is no requirement for a minimum balance in PMJDY accounts. In a separate question on Sukanya Samriddhi Account (SSA), Minister of State for Finance Pankaj Chaudhary said, "The number of new accounts opened under Sukanya Samriddhi Account from April 1, 2018, to October 31, 2021, is 1,42,73,910." Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh are the top five states, respectively, with the highest number of SSA accounts, while Lakshadweep, Andaman & Nicobar Islands, Ladakh, Mizoram and Sikkim ranked at the bottom. "The reasons for varying number of accounts in different states could be the size of the population, ability and willingness of parents to save etc," Chaudhary said. Whereas the public sector banks accounted for the bulk of such account openings, at 96.24 per cent, private sector banks had a share of 3.76 per cent in opening such accounts since the launch of the scheme till October 31, 2021. However, the minister said that accounts opened under SSA in various post offices have not been considered while calculating the distribution proportion of banks. Parents can open an SSA with a minimum deposit of Rs 250 and a maximum of Rs 1.5 lakh in a year in the name of a girl child till she attains the age of 10 years. Only one account can be opened in the name of each girl child and the amount matures on completion of a period of 21 years from the date of opening of the account. Since the inception of the scheme in December 2014, the interest rate on SSA had dropped from 9.1 per cent to 7.6 per cent (stipulated for April 1, 2020- December 30, 2021 period), as per data from National Savings Institute. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-55-of-jan-dhan-bank-account-holders-are-women-says-finance-ministry-in-lok-sabha-1058226.html
06-12-2021||National||Ten trade unions announce general strike on Feb 23, 24 to protest 'anti-people' policies||Ten central trade unions on Monday announced a two-day countrywide general strike on February 23 and 24 of 2022 against the "anti-people, anti-worker and anti-national destructive policies" of the Narendra Modi government with a slogan "Save the People and Save the Nation". It also decided to hold joint preparatory public meetings in coordination with the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) leadership, especially in the states that are scheduled for polls in the beginning of 2022, to strengthen the call of "Mission UP" and "Mission Uttarakhand" given by the protesting farmers. The decisions were taken at a meeting of the Joint Platform of Central Trade Unions and independent sectoral All India Federations and Associations in the national capital on Sunday. A national workers' convention on November 11 had said that the trade unions would go in for a two-day strike during the next Budget Session, with the dates to be decided later. Referring to the repeal of the farm laws, it said the farmers' movement has "snatched a historic victory by forcing the arrogant government" to repeal the contentious laws.  Over its current plans, it said that "cross-sections of the working people must heighten their united intervention further" demanding a "halt to the process of assault on lives and livelihood, employment, alarming intensity of impoverishment and hunger, assault on democracy and also unity of the people and thereby, save our dear nation from disaster". The trade unions said the repeal of farm laws and marginal reduction in central taxes on petrol and diesel in the face of "determined long-drawn united struggles"  by the farmers along with countrywide solidarity actions by people demonstrating rising popular anger and unrest is also a "reflection-cum-reaction under compulsion of the debacle" faced by the BJP in the recent by-elections. Alleging that the government has brought the lives and livelihood of the people and also the country's economy to the "brink of disaster", the unions said the intensification of the "united struggle in continuity determined to combat and defeat the anti-people policies and the regime is the way before us" and "let that determination be demonstrated" during the general strike. The demands of the ten central trade unions, INTUC, AITUC, HMS, CITU, AIUTUC, TUCC, SEWA, AICCTU, LPF and UTUC, include scrapping the Labour Codes, scrapping of Essential Defence Services Act, acceptance of the six-point charter of demands of the SKM, doing away with privatisation in any form and scrapping of National Monetisation Pipeline, food and income support of Rs 7,500 per month to non-income taxpaying households and increased allocation for MNREGA and extension of Employment Guarantee Scheme to urban areas, among others. It is also demanding universal social security for all informal sector workers, statutory minimum wage and social security for anganwadi, ASHA, mid-day meal and other scheme workers, proper protection and insurance facilities for frontline workers serving the people in the midst of a pandemic and an increase in public investment in agriculture, education, health and other crucial public utilities by taxing the rich through wealth tax in order to revive and revamp the national economy. Substantial reduction in central excise duty on petroleum products and concrete remedial measure to arrest price rise, regularisation of contract workers,  scheme workers and equal pay for equal work for all, cancellation of National Pension Scheme and restoration of old pension and substantial increase in minimum pension under Employees' Pension Scheme are also among the demands. In the run-up to the general strike, the unions and associations will organise state conventions, human chains, torchlight processions, signature campaigns, sectoral and area-based joint campaigns and agitations to expose the consequences of the "anti-worker, anti-farmer, anti–people, pro-corporate and anti-national destructive policies" by Modi government. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ten-trade-unions-announce-general-strike-on-feb-23-24-to-protest-anti-people-policies-1058232.html
06-12-2021||National||Considerable improvement in living condition of Scheduled Tribes: Centre||There has been a considerable improvement in living conditions of the Scheduled Tribes in India over the years, the government informed Lok Sabha on Monday citing data from the decennial census, management information system and sample surveys. However, there are still gaps in human development indicators between Scheduled Tribes and all Indian population, it said. "Data pertaining to the decennial census, management information system and sample surveys by different ministries and departments reveal that there have been considerable improvements in living conditions of Scheduled Tribes over the years," Minister of State For Tribal Affairs Renuka Singh Saruta said in response to a question. For example, the literacy rate of Scheduled Tribes has improved from 47.1 per cent in 2001 to 59 per cent in 2011. The Periodic Labour Force Survey report (July 2019-June 2020) reveals that the literacy rate for STs has increased to 70.1 per cent, she said. Citing a report by the Union Education Ministry, Saruta said the gross enrolment ratio for Scheduled Tribes students at the secondary (classes nine to 10) level has increased from 62.4 per cent in 2012-13 to 76.7 per cent in 2019-20. According to the National Family Health Surveys, in Scheduled Tribes infant mortality rate has declined from 62.1 in 2005-06 to 44.4 in 2015-16; under-five mortality rate has declined from 95.7 in 2005-06 to 57.2 in 2015-16, and institutional delivery has increased from 17.7 per cent in 2005-06 to 68.0 per cent in 2015-16, the minister said.  "Further, the percentage of underweight (weight-for-age) ST children aged less than five has declined from 54.5 in 2005-06 to 45.3 in 2015-16," she added.  The erstwhile Planning Commission estimated that the percentage of Scheduled Tribes people living below the poverty line in rural areas has declined from 62.3 per cent in 2004-05 to 45.3 per cent in 2011-12. Also, the percentage of Scheduled Tribes people living below the poverty line in urban areas has declined from 35.5 per cent in 2004-05 to 24.1 per cent in 2011-12. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/considerable-improvement-in-living-condition-of-scheduled-tribes-centre-1058235.html
06-12-2021||National||Russia considers India to be a great power, says Putin||Russian President Vladimir Putin lauded India as "a great power" on Monday as he arrived in New Delhi to bolster military and energy ties with a traditional ally. It is only the Russian leader's second trip abroad since the coronavirus pandemic began -- he skipped both the G20 and COP26 summits this year -- after a June summit with US President Joe Biden in Geneva. "We perceive India as a great power, a friendly nation and a time-tested friend," Putin said in the Indian capital alongside Prime Minister Narendra Modi. In its efforts to address a rising China, Washington has set up the QUAD security dialogue with India, Japan, and Australia, raising concerns in both Beijing and Moscow. India was close to the Soviet Union during the Cold War, a relationship that has endured, with both calling it a "special privileged strategic partnership". Putin's visit was "hugely symbolic", said Nandan Unnikrishnan from the New Delhi-based Observer Research Foundation think tank. "There has been a lot of speculation about the nature of the India-Russia relationship and whether it is fraying because of Russia's closeness with China and India's with the US, but this visit puts all that to rest." Nonetheless Putin has to contend with complex regional dynamics, with tensions mounting between New Delhi and Beijing, traditionally an ally of Moscow, following deadly clashes in a disputed Himalayan region. "Russia's influence in the region is very limited," said Tatiana Belousova of OP Jindal Global University in Haryana, "mostly because of its close ties with China and unwillingness to act in dissonance with the Chinese regional interests." The Kremlin said last week the talks will be dominated by defence and energy issues, with the boss of Russian energy giant Rosneft, Igor Sechin, also attending as a "number of important energy agreements" were on the table. Russia has long been a key arms supplier to India, which is looking to modernise its armed forces, and one of their most high-profile current contracts is for the long-range S-400 ground-to-air missile defence system. The deal, worth over $5 billion, was signed in 2018 and deliveries have reportedly begun, but it threatens to upend the burgeoning relationship between New Delhi and Washington. The United States has threatened sanctions under the Countering America's Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (CAATSA), which is aimed at reining in Russia, and the state department said last week that no decisions had been made on any waivers for India. "Our Indian friends clearly explained that they are a sovereign country and that they will decide whose weapons to buy and who will be India's partner," Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov told reporters on Monday. New Delhi has long sought to diversify its military imports but analysts believe it could take some time before it moves away from Russia. Military equipment was "paramount" to India given "unabated" tensions with Pakistan, according to Unnikrishnan. "You're going to try and nurture whatever is required to ensure that." India is also keen to increase domestic production and has launched a joint venture with Russia to manufacture AK-203 assault rifles. India and Russia normally hold annual summits, but the leaders' last in-person meeting was on the sidelines of the 2019 BRICS Summit in Brazil. "The leaders will review the state and prospects of bilateral relations and discuss ways to further strengthen the strategic partnership between the two countries," India's ministry of external affairs said in a statement last month. The two countries' foreign and defence ministers held talks Monday ahead of Putin's arrival. A number of agreements and contracts were signed on small arms and military co-operation, India's defence minister Rajnath Singh tweeted. Moscow and New Delhi hold "identical or near-identical positions on the most important global and security issues", said Russian foreign minister Sergei Lavrov. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/russia-considers-india-to-be-a-great-power-says-putin-1058242.html
06-12-2021||National||Babri demolition was blatant attempt to destroy India’s secular fabric: Justice Chandru||The demolition of the Babri Masjid in 1992 was a blatant attempt to destroy India’s secular fabric, former Madras High Court judge, Justice K Chandru has said. Justice Chandru added that the idea propagated in 1992 by senior BJP leaders that every problem cannot be solved by the Constitution and faith must have relevance, has become true in 2020. Justice Chandru, on Monday, was in Kolkata to attend a programme organised by the Students’ Federation of India (SFI), a Leftist students’ body. Talking exclusively to Deccan Herald, when asked about why 6 December is still being observed as a day to remember, by a section of people (including SFI), despite the fact that a court verdict has been pronounced, Justice Chandru said that destruction doesn’t solve any problem.  “In 1992, what was done was a blatant attempt by a group to destroy the secular fabric of the Republic... and when this was destroyed the whole world laughed,” he told Deccan Herald. “This was the first time secularism was put under test.” Justice Chandru said that the Ramjanmabhoomi-Babri Masjid dispute, essentially, was a civil suit between the two groups. “In any civil suit the title deeds, the documents of the property will be analysed. This is the only case in India where title deeds are given a go-by (over faith),” he said. Justice Chandru also believes that the propagation of the idea that certain problems can only be solved if faith is considered relevant has now taken ground. “Even when the demolition took place in 1992, (LK) Advani and (AB) Vajpayee were heard saying that every problem cannot be solved by the Constitution, and faith must have relevance. So what they said in 1992, became true in 2020,” he said. Talking in the context of the subject of his talk at the programme, ‘On Independence 75: On Social Justice and the Idea of India,’ Justice Chandru explained the formation of India’s Constitution and the subsequent addition of the words ‘socialist’ and ‘secular’ to the Preamble.  “Now, if this is the Constitution, it is the India we want to have, there is a calculated attempt by the central government and the ruling party to destroy, on the one hand, socialism, on the other hand, secularism. Therefore, this meeting is to re-establish and to re-emphasise what is the value of the Constitution, what is the India that we want,” he added. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/babri-demolition-was-blatant-attempt-to-destroy-india-s-secular-fabric-justice-chandru-1058247.html
06-12-2021||National||Supreme Court asks Law Commission to consider legislative reforms on dowry||The Supreme Court on Monday said continuance of the social evil like dowry required legislative reforms and asked the Law Commission to consider the matter. Appearing for petitioners Sabu Steephen and others, advocate V K Biju contended before a bench headed by Justice D Y Chandrachud that there should be a dowry prohibition officer at district level and 'no dowry certificate' should be required for marriage certificate. He said a similar issue is pending before another bench of the top court, on which notice was issued on November 8. He said that the court may consider issuing notice at least on one of the prayers in the petition. The counsel sought certain concrete directions in order to curb the social evil of dowry. The bench, also comprising A S Bopanna told Biju, however, said, the reliefs sought pertained to the realm of legislative policy and there are restraints on the jurisdiction of this court under Article 32 of the Constitution to craft remedies which essentially require legislative reforms. "At the same time, a dialogue on considering what measures would support the existing legislation on the subject can be initiated," the bench said. "We are of the view that it may be appropriate if the Law Commission of India considers the issue in all its perspectives. The petitioners are at liberty to submit a note of research and on all relevant aspects for the benefit of the Law Commission," the bench added in its order. During the hearing, Biju pointed out that educated people give so much jewellery and gold to the children, and the children of daily wagers are suffering. The bench said it agreed that the issue raised in the plea was important and required sensitisation of everybody. The bench said these are matters imminently for the legislature to decide. He cited the SC/ST Act, which was amended repeatedly to give it more teeth. The petitioners highlighted that on one hand, Parliament has stepped in by enacting legislation in terms of penal provisions such as Wection 304B and 498A of IPC and Dowry Prohibition Act, 1961 and by the formation of the National Commission for Women, yet the persistence of the social evil requires a fresh look by the concerned authorities to bring more teeth to the legislation. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-asks-law-commission-to-consider-legislative-reforms-on-dowry-1058248.html
06-12-2021||National||Bangladesh, India partnership has matured; need to focus on trade, connectivity: Sheikh Hasina||Asserting that the Indo-Bangla ties are not confined to treaties and agreements, Bangladeshi Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina on Monday said the partnership between the two countries has matured, taking a dynamic, comprehensive and strategic shape. In her online message at an event here to commemorate Maitri Diwas marking the 50th anniversary of India-Bangladesh diplomatic relations, she also said the core of the bilateral relationship needs to focus on people-to-people contact, trade and connectivity which have become increasingly important for both sides. "Our partnership is not confined to treaties, MoUs, bilateral agreements that provide the formal structure of our working relations. Today our grand partnership has matured, taking a dynamic, comprehensive and strategic shape, and is based on sovereignty, equality, trust and mutual respect," Hasina said. She said the relationship between Bangladesh in India is anchored in history, culture, language and shared values of secularism, democracy and countless other harmonies. "Our bonds of friendship have been further strengthened, diversified and expanded in the recent years due to regular high-level political interactions and exchanges," she said. Despite restrictions due to Covid, the Bangladesh-India relationship at all levels has remained stable and strong, Hasina said, adding this was evident in the "excellent" bilateral cooperation and collaboration in dealing with the pandemic. "We continue to believe in the importance of our relationship at the same time this anniversary is an opportunity to reflect on the foundation of our bilateral relations and the path ahead," Hasina said. "It is an occasion also to recommit ourselves to work towards further strengthening the long-standing dynamic partnership between Bangladesh and India. I am confident that together, our two countries and two peoples, will continue to turn our vision and ideas into realities for decades to come," the Bangladeshi premier said. Hasina said Bangladesh and India celebrating the golden jubilee of the establishment of diplomatic relations is a "milestone in the journey of our bilateral ties". She recalled that during the state visit of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to Bangladesh on March 26-27, 2021, the two sides had agreed on joint celebrations in 18 selected cities, along with Dhaka and New Delhi, to recognise December 6 as 'Maitri Diwas'. While paying homage to the martyrs of Bangladesh's Liberation War, she also remembered with "great gratitude" the sacrifices of the members of the Indian armed forces and the Indian people. In her message, she also recalled the "generosity" of former prime minister Indira Gandhi and her government, leaders of other political parties and people of the whole of India. India was one of the first countries to establish bilateral diplomatic ties with Bangladesh. Ten days before the liberation of Bangladesh, India had recognised it on December 6, 1971. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bangladesh-india-partnership-has-matured-need-to-focus-on-trade-connectivity-sheikh-hasina-1058255.html
06-12-2021||National||Government departments, autonomous bodies owe Air India over Rs 244 crore, says Bhagwat Karad in Lok Sabha||Government departments and autonomous bodies owe more than Rs 244 crore to Air India, of which a little over Rs 30 crore has been recovered, the government said in Parliament on Monday. "Government departments/autonomous bodies owe Air India Rs 244.78 crore as on September 30, 2021. Out of this, Rs 30.38 crore has been recovered as on November 30, 2021," Minister of State for Finance Bhagwat Karad said in a written reply in the Lok Sabha. He was responding to a set of questions raised by MPs regarding the sale of Air India to Tata Group. Karad said there was a huge accumulated debt on Air India, following which the government took an enterprise value (EV) bidding approach for strategic divestment of Air India and its identified subsidiaries and joint ventures. "The strategic disinvestment transaction has been carried out for the entire company as a going concern. Assets other than non-core assets and liabilities other than those excluded from the transaction will remain with the acquirer. Non-core assets of Air India and its subsidiaries (book value of Rs 14,718 crore as on August 31, 2021) are not a part of the disinvestment transaction and will not be taken over by the successful bidder but transferred to Air India Asset Holding Company (AIAHL), 100 per cent owned by GoI," he said. A share purchase agreement (SPA) was signed on October 25, 2021, setting up precedent conditions to be fulfilled by the bidder (Tata Group), Air India and the government before closing the transaction. Karad said the employees of Air India cannot be retrenched for a period of one year from the closing date. They will be eligible for a voluntary retirement scheme with maximum benefits in case of retrenchment in the second year from closing, he said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-departments-autonomous-bodies-owe-air-india-over-rs-244-crore-says-bhagwat-karad-in-lok-sabha-1058261.html
06-12-2021||National||Trade unions to observe two-day nationwide strike on Feb 23-24||A joint platform of central trade unions has given a call for a nationwide general strike on February 23 and 24 during the Budget Session of Parliament. "The Joint Platform of Central Trade Unions and Independent sectoral All India Federations and Associations met in Delhi on 3rd December 2021, and finalised the dates for the countrywide 2-days’ general strike on 23-24 February 2021 during the budget session of Parliament as announced by the National Convention of Workers held on 11th November 2021 at New Delhi, against the anti-people, anti-worker and anti-national destructive policies of the BJP Government at the centre," a joint statement said. The main slogan of the strike will be 'Save the people and save the Nation', it added. The central trade unions -- INTUC, AITUC, HMS, CITU, AIUTUC, TUCC, SEWA, AICCTU, LPF and UTUC -- are part of this joint forum. It was decided to hold joint preparatory public meetings in coordination with the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) leadership, especially in the states that are to going to polls at the beginning of 2022, to strengthen the call of ‘Mission UP', 'Mission Uttarakhand' given by the SKM, the statement said. The joint platform of trade unions and federations reiterated its continued proactive support to the programmes and struggles by the SKM, following the repeal of the Farm Laws. The state units of the joint platform of central trade unions and independent sectoral federations will carry out intensive campaigns jointly through various forms -- such as state conventions, human chains, torchlight processions, signature campaigns, sectoral and area-based joint campaign, among others, the statement said. The joint platform also welcomes and supports the decision of two days countrywide strike in banks on December 16-17, 2021, by the United Forum of Bank Unions and the strike decision by Electricity Employees’ joint forum on February 1, 2021, against privatisation move and retrograde legislative move in that direction, it added. "Our United Struggle is not only to save the rights and lives/livelihood of people but also save the country’s economy and the entire democratic system and the society as a whole from disaster and destruction being engineered by the authoritarian forces in governance with the active support of private corporate, both domestic and foreign and decisively defeat the disastrous policy regime and their political operators in governance," it stated. The farmers' movement has snatched a historic victory by forcing the government to repeal the three farm laws, the forum added. "We have to demand from all political parties of the nation to incorporate 'protection of the right to work, a living wage, free quality health-care and education-facility to all citizens and all legitimate constitutional rights' as a firm commitment in their political manifestos for the coming assembly elections in 2022 and the elections scheduled for 2024…," it stated. The trade unions’ demands include scrapping the Labour Codes; Accept a 6-point charter of demands of the SKM post repeal of farm laws, no to privatisation in any form and scrapping the NMP (National Monetisation Pipeline). The other demands are regularisation of contract workers, scheme workers and equal pay for equal work for all cancellation of NPS and restoration of old pension; a substantial increase in minimum pension under Employees’ Pension Scheme.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/trade-unions-to-observe-two-day-nationwide-strike-on-feb-23-24-1058262.html
06-12-2021||National||'For God's sake' prepare street vending plan: Delhi HC||Anybody encroaching upon public space must be removed and it cannot be permitted that the whole pavements in markets are encroached leaving no space for people to walk, the Delhi High Court Monday said, asking the municipal corporation to prepare a street vending plan “for god’s sake”. The high court also directed Delhi Police to positively take steps on the installation of CCTV cameras at Chandni Chowk area before February 28, failing which the Commissioner of Delhi Police shall remain present before it. “We have issued repeated directions it is falling on deaf ears. You are not even taking steps equal to a little finger to do anything. We are compelled to pass such orders since nothing is happening. After this order, now even these officers will wake up,” a bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh said. The court was hearing a plea by Chandni Chowk Sarv Vyapar Mandal seeking direction to the authorities to remove illegal hawkers and vendors from the no-hawking and no-squatting area in Chandni Chowk, which has recently undergone redevelopment. Regarding encroachment by hawkers and vendors in the area, the bench said photographs show these people are not leaving any space for people to walk and the whole pavements are covered and asked who will the people walk? “Anybody and everybody who is encroaching upon must be removed, our directions are very clear. We are not asking you to carve out an exception for the members of the petitioner association. You (North MCD) are not understanding the problem. If you take up a (street vending) plan, this situation can be defused. So first set the ball rolling and formulate a plan,” the bench said. The bench said it was trying to fill up a void which is there in the law, Street Vendors Act, and added that it does not want all these poor people to be driven away but things have to be done in a proper manner with a plan. “This can’t be permitted that the whole pavement is covered with encroachers making it impossible for people to walk. Please, please for God’s sake do the planning and do not make communications at the last moment,” the bench said, adding that North MCD does not seem in any urgency to formulate a plan so that hawking activity could be organised. “All of you are making a complete mess on this law, I don’t know what is happening,” Justice Sanghi said while listing the issue of removal of illegal hawkers on January 20. The court directed that experts be nominated from Shahjanabad Redevelopment Corporation, Delhi School of Planning and IIT Delhi immediately without any delay in the matter relating to the preparation of the street vending plan. It also asked Delhi Police to take steps for the removal of encroachers and illegal vendors from the area and directed the police and North MCD to continue with their anti-encroachment drive. During the hearing, the counsel for North MCD informed the court that an order has been passed constituting committees in each of the zones and communications have been sent to all expert panels in relation to the preparation of the street vending plan. Senior advocate Sanjeev Ralli, representing the petitioner, submitted that despite repeated directions of the court, Delhi Police has not yet installed 330 CCTV cameras in the area to check encroachment in the area and pathways and this has been the casual approach of the authorities. The court had earlier observed that there was no executive or political will to remove illegal hawkers and vendors from streets and barring Lutyens’ Delhi, there was no place in the city that was clear from unauthorised squatters. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/for-gods-sake-prepare-street-vending-plan-delhi-hc-1058283.html
06-12-2021||National||SC pulls up Maharashtra, WB on low number of Covid-19 ex-gratia applications||The Supreme Court on Monday pulled up the state governments, including Maharashtra and West Bengal governments, for an abysmally low number of applications for compensation of Rs 50,000 ex-gratia to next of kin of Covid victims. A bench of Justices M R Shah and B V Nagarathna told Maharashtra government counsel that over one lakh deaths occurred in the state, and asked why there is a low number of applications from families for compensation. The Maharashtra government, for its part, said it has received nearly 35,000 applications for Covid compensation and nearly one lakh people have made their user-id on the designated website. “This is ridiculous. We may have to pass strictures against you," the bench told the state counsel during the hearing. The bench also asked the West Bengal government counsel on the disbursement of compensation to Covid victim families. It noted over 19,000 deaths due to Covid occurred in West Bengal and the state government has given compensation to nearly 110. “Only, if we compel you to work, will you work," the bench asked West Bengal counsel. The bench asked both the states to file their compliance affidavit by December 15 in terms of previous judgement delivered by the top court. The bench questioned why few persons have applied for compensation, and emphasised on giving wider publicity to the compensation scheme through newspapers, TV, radio etc. The Supreme Court in its October 4 judgment, had approved Rs 50,000, ex-gratia for the kin of Covid victims, which was recommended by the National Disaster Management Authority. The order was passed on the pleas of advocate Gaurav Kumar Bansal and another. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-pulls-up-maharashtra-wb-on-low-number-of-covid-19-ex-gratia-applications-1058284.html
06-12-2021||National||Show-cause notice to Etihad Airways for 'not following' Covid guidelines||The New Delhi district authorities on Monday issued a show-cause notice to Etihad Airways for allegedly violating the Centre's guidelines for international passenger arrivals at the IGI airport here, amid concerns over the Omicron variant of coronavirus. A reply to the notice has been sought from the station manager of the airlines within 24 hours. The notice by Vasant Vihar sub-divisional magistrate stated the norm of random testing of two per cent passengers was "not followed" in two flights of Etihad Airways from Abu Dhabi that landed at the Indira Gandhi International (IGI) airport in Delhi on Sunday and Monday. "A sub-section (2 per cent of the total flight passengers) will undergo post-arrival testing at random at the airport on arrival. The 2 per cent of such travellers in each flight will be identified by the concerned airlines (preferably from different countries)," the notice stated. "It has come to notice that the above directions were not followed by you," it said citing the two flights from Abu Dhabi. The station manager of the airlines has been asked to reply to the show-cause notice within 24 hours. "Non-compliance shall be viewed seriously, and it would be presumed that the station manager has nothing to say in the matter and action as deemed fit shall be initiated as per relevant provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005; Section 188 of IPC and other applicable laws," it said. Recently, three other airliners were issued notices by the district authorities for different violations of guidelines for international arrivals. The Union Health Ministry in its 'Guidelines for International Arrivals' has stipulated that two per cent of passengers coming from countries that are not in the 'at-risk' category will be tested for Covid-19 on a random basis at the airports. Passengers originating or transiting from "at-risk" countries will have to undergo an RT-PCR test after arrival and will be required to wait for the results at the airport before leaving or taking a connecting flight, according to the guidelines that came into effect from December 1. If tested negative, they will have to be in home quarantine for seven days and will undergo a re-test on the eighth day of arrival in India. If again negative, self-monitor of health would continue for seven more days, it said. However, if such travellers test positive for Covid-19, their samples should be sent for genomic testing at the INSACOG laboratory network. They shall be managed at a separate isolation facility. Contacts of such cases should be kept in institutional quarantine or at home quarantine monitored strictly by the state government concerned, the guidelines said. Countries in Europe, including the UK, and South Africa, Brazil, Botswana, China, Zimbabwe, Mauritius, New Zealand, Hong Kong, Singapore and Israel have been placed in the 'at-risk' category by the Union Health Ministry. Delhi reported its first case of the Omicron variant on Sunday. A 37-year-old man who arrived in Delhi from Tanzania tested positive for Omicron. According to officials, he has been admitted to the Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Hospital and has mild symptoms. So far, 21 cases of the Omicron variant, which has been designated as a 'variant of concern' by the World Health Organisation, has been detected in India. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/show-cause-notice-to-etihad-airways-for-not-following-covid-guidelines-1058288.html
06-12-2021||National||Chhattisgarh: Dog burnt alive in Raipur, unidentified persons booked||Unidentified persons have been booked for burning alive a stray dog in Chhattisgarh capital Raipur, police said on Monday. The charred carcass of the canine was found in Shakti Nagar area on December 2, said Khamardih police station SHO Manjulata Rathore. A case under IPC sections 429 (mischief by killing or maiming cattle, animals) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) was registered on the complaint of animal rescuer Vanchana Laban, the official said. Animal rights organisation PETA India said it had announced a reward of Rs 50,000 to anyone who provides information that could lead to the arrest of the culprits in the case. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chhattisgarh-dog-burnt-alive-in-raipur-unidentified-persons-booked-1058293.html
06-12-2021||National||Moscow, Delhi sign deal to make AK-203 assault rifles in India||Moscow and New Delhi signed a deal on Monday that will see India produce more than 600,000 AK-203 assault rifles, Russian weapons maker Kalashnikov said. The deal was struck during President Vladimir Putin's visit to India for talks with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/moscow-delhi-sign-deal-to-make-ak-203-assault-rifles-in-india-1058295.html
06-12-2021||National||Freedoms can't become weapon for private businesses against public interest: SC||The Supreme Court on Monday said rights and freedoms guaranteed under the Constitution to carry on trade should not be allowed to become a weapon in the arsenal of private businesses to disable regulation enacted in public interest. “The right to equality and the freedom to carry on one’s trade cannot inhere a right to evade or avoid regulation," a bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud, Vikram Nath and B V Nagarathna said. The bench said in liberalised economies, regulatory mechanisms represent democratic interests of setting the terms of operation for private economic actors. “This court does not espouse shunning of judicial review when actions of regulatory bodies are questioned," it noted. Justice Chandrachud, who authored the judgment on behalf of the bench, said, “A regulated economy is a critical facet of ensuring a balance between private business interests and the State’s role in ensuring a just polity for its citizens”. However, a casual invalidation of regulatory action in the garb of upholding fundamental rights and freedoms, without a careful evaluation of its objective of social and economic control, would harm the general interests of the public, the court added. The top court dismissed an appeal by one Akshay N Patel against the Madhya Pradesh High Court order, which upheld Clause 2(iii) of the Revised Guidelines on Merchanting Trade Transactions (MTT) of January 23, 2020 issued by the Reserve Bank of India, in the exercise of its power under Section 10(4) and 11(1) of the Foreign Exchange Management Act 1999. The appellant obtained an international contract to serve as an intermediary between the sale of PPE products by a supplier in China to a buyer in the United States. In May 2020, the RBI denied for him permission for contract on the basis of MTT Guidelines. The government had then banned the export of PPE products in the backdrop of the Covid-19 pandemic. The bench noted scholars across the world have warned against the judiciary constitutionalising an unregulated marketplace. The bench said while MTTs in PPE products may not directly reduce the stock of these products in India, it still does contribute to their trade between two foreign nations. “In doing so, it directly reduces the available quantity of PPE products in the international market, which may have been bought by India, if so required. As such, MTTs contribute to reducing the available stock of PPE products in the international market that India could have acquired," the bench noted. It further added that Centre’s policy to ban the export of PPE products reflects their stance on the product’s non-tradability during the Covid pandemic. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/freedoms-cant-become-weapon-for-private-businesses-against-public-interest-sc-1058296.html
06-12-2021||National||NHRC sends notice to Centre, Nagaland on killing of civilians in 'botched up' operation||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on Monday issued notices to the Centre and the Nagaland government over reports of killing of civilians during an alleged "botched up operation" by the Army Para Commandos to target militants, officials said.  It triggered several incidents of arson, rioting and attack on soldiers and Assam Rifles camp, resulting in more injuries and deaths, including that of one soldier, the rights panel said in a statement. The NHRC has "taken suo motu cognisance of media reports on the killing of civilians when their vehicle was fired upon in an alleged botched-up operation by the Army Para Commandos, lying in wait for militants in Mon district of Nagaland late Saturday", it said. The commission has issued notices to the defence secretary, Union home secretary, chief secretary and the Nagaland director general of police, seeking a detailed report in the matter within six weeks, the statement said. The commission has also observed that it is "incumbent upon the security forces ensuring proper precaution with a humane approach even if it involved the militants". The report is expected to include the status of the inquiry being conducted by a Special Investigation Team (SIT), the relief granted to the next of kin of the deceased, the status of the medical treatment being provided to the injured and the cases registered against the persons, officers responsible for the incident, the statement said. "According to the media reports carried on Monday, the state government has reportedly constituted a Special Investigation Team (SIT) to conduct a probe into the matter. The Army has also instituted a court of inquiry to probe the circumstances that led to the tragic outcome of what was to be an operation targeting the alleged militants," it added. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nhrc-sends-notice-to-centre-nagaland-on-killing-of-civilians-in-botched-up-operation-1058298.html
06-12-2021||National||Russia conveys 'serious concern' over US activities in Asia-Pacific to India||Russia on Monday conveyed its unease over India’s growing strategic convergence with the United States in the Indo-Pacific region. “We expressed our serious concern to our Indian friends over the US activity there (Asia-Pacific region) under the slogan of so-called Indo-Pacific strategies and the creation of closed bloc-type structures,” Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said in New Delhi. He, however, did not directly refer to India’s growing cooperation with the US in the Indo-Pacific region, where the two nations joined Australia and Japan to launch the Quad to counter China’s bid to expand its geostrategic influence. Lavrov and Russian Defence Minister Sergey Shoygu were in New Delhi for the inaugural 2+2 dialogue with their counterparts in the Government of India – External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh. “There was a useful and meaningful discussion on a variety of subjects, with the focus of attention on the situation in the Asia-Pacific Region, where elements of instability have been piling up for years and posing a threat to the universal, inclusive architecture of cooperation, which had taken shape there around the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN),” Lavrov told journalists just hours before the summit between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Russian President Vladimir Putin. He did not refer to the Quad, but criticized the AUKUS – a trilateral coalition launched by the US, Australia and the United Kingdom for development of joint military capabilities, sharing of defence technologies among its three partners, particularly to create a framework for the US and UK to support Australia in acquiring a fleet of nuclear-powered submarines, in order to build a deterrent against an increasingly aggressive China in the Indo-Pacific region. Lavrov said that the launch of the AUKUS by the US, the UK and Australia had triggered some questions, like how much the cooperation among the three nations within the coalition would conform to the rules of the International Atomic Energy Agency and the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty. Moscow has also been opposed to India’s cooperation with the US and its other partners in the Quad in the Indo-Pacific. Lavrov, himself, had in December 2020 called the Quad a ‘divisive’ and ‘exclusivist’ tool, which was being used by the US Government to implement its “devious policy” of engaging New Delhi in games against China as well as to undermine Russia’s close partnership with India. India, Australia, Japan and the US elevated the Quad to the level of the leaders with a virtual summit of the leaders on March 12. Modi joined President Joe Biden of the US as well as the leaders of Japan and Australia in the White House on September 24 for the first in-person summit of the Quad. New Delhi, however, has been insisting that the Quad has a benign agenda and will focus primarily on development cooperation to counter China – unlike the AUKUS, which is intended to give a fillip to defence cooperation among the three nations in the Indo-Pacific region. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/russia-conveys-serious-concern-over-us-activities-in-asia-pacific-to-india-1058306.html
06-12-2021||National||Union Minister urges people to drop caste-based surnames||Union Minister of State for Housing and Urban Affairs Kaushal Kishore on Monday said that the surnames with caste tag should be removed from one's name, saying though it's hard for many, at least those who believe in the ideology of Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar should start the practice. The Minister, while addressing the Mahaparinirvan Divas programme at Dr Ambedkar International Centre said, he has already put a proposal in this regard before the Parliament. "People who honour Baba Saheb don't judge others on the basis of caste and colour," he said. Babasaheb was regarded as a Buddhist guru because of his great influence in India to eradicate the social scourge of untouchability. Ambedkar's admirers and followers believe he was as influential as Lord Buddha, which is why his death anniversary is celebrated as Mahaparinirvana Divas, he said. Union Minister for Social Justice and Empowerment Dr Virendra Kumar, the Chief Guest at the programme, launched a special book, published by Dr Ambedkar Foundation, named "Social Justice and Empowerment: Reflections from Dr Ambedkar Chairs". "Prime Minister Narendra Modi has declared five important places related to Babasaheb's life as Panchteerth, highlighting the importance of these five places, a documentary film has been produced by Dr Ambedkar Foundation which will be displayed on the occasion of Mahaparinirvan Divas at Dr Ambedkar International Centre as well as other places," Dr Kumar said. He also released a brochure on Dr Ambedkar's Panchteerthas and schemes and scholarships for Scheduled Caste students by the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment. In the next 5 years, the Ministry has decided to extend support to 24,800 meritorious Scheduled Caste students, incurring a cost of around Rs 300 crore for providing them quality residential education from class 9 to 12 in reputed private residential schools in aspirational districts identified by the NITI Aayog, in educationally backward districts, and districts having a population of SC community at the national average. Dr Virendra Kumar also launched Fellowship Management and Grievance redressal Portal software with a view to enabling an area-based development approach. The initiative aims at integrated development of Scheduled Castes majority villages. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/union-minister-urges-people-to-drop-caste-based-surnames-1058309.html
06-12-2021||National||India's plastic waste generation has more than doubled in 5 years: Govt||India's plastic waste generation has more than doubled in the last five years with an average annual increase of 21.8 per cent, the Centre said on Monday. Responding to a query raised in the Lower House of Parliament, Minister of State for Environment Ashwini Choubey said that more than 34 lakh tons of plastic waste was generated in 2019-20 and 30.59 lakh tons in 2018-19. According to data shared by the minister, in the last five years, the quantity of plastic waste in the country has more than doubled, as the country produced 15.89 lakh tons of plastic waste in 2015-16. The ministry said that annual data on the generation of solid waste, plastic waste, e-waste, construction and demolition (C&D) waste, bio-medical waste (BMW) and hazardous waste (HW) in the country is compiled by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). “Based on the studies undertaken by CPCB on hazardous waste and data compiled in respect of other wastes, the average annual increase observed in the generation of hazardous waste is two per cent, in bio-medical waste (BMW) is 5.8 per cent, solid waste 0.1 per cent and plastic waste 21.8 per cent,” the minister said in his written reply. He said the data is collected from the respective State Pollution Control Board/Pollution Control Committees (SPCBs/ PCCs) in line with the provisions contained in various rules notified under the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986. Responding to another query on biomedical waste, the minister said India produced 677 tons of biomedical waste per day in 2020 while in 2019 it produced 619 tons of BMW per day. In 2015, the BMW produced in India was 502 tons per day, the data showed. In response to another question on the number of complaints received on unscientific or illegal disposal of biomedical waste across the country, the minister said that the CPCB had received a total of 23 public complaints between 2016 and 2021. Of these, five complaints were from Rajasthan, four from Delhi, three from Tamil Nadu, two from Jharkhand and one complaint each from Bihar, Punjab, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Puducherry, West Bengal and Chhattisgarh.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-plastic-waste-generation-has-more-than-doubled-in-5-years-govt-1058310.html
06-12-2021||National||NTAGI discusses administering 'additional' Covid-19 vaccine dose, inoculation of kids||A technical advisory panel of the government on Monday did not recommend any booster dose to the Covid-19 patients in the absence of adequate scientific studies even as Indian Medical Association demanded a third shot of the Covid-19 vaccine for the healthcare providers who were among the first to be inoculated eleven months ago. Sources said the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI) did not make any recommendation to the government in the absence of consensus as well as scientific studies justifying the need to have a booster shot. While several top scientists spoke on the need to have a booster shot for the health workers, the government has not taken any decision so far in the absence of systematic scientific data. Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya told the Lok Sabha last week that a decision on booster doses and vaccines for kids would be taken on the basis of scientific advice and that the focus of the vaccination drive would be to expand the coverage of the second dose. The Union government’s Covid-19 genome research body, which had initially asked the government to consider booster shots for anyone above 40 years, backtracked by observing that "many more scientific experiments are needed to assess the impacts of booster dose.” While a booster dose is given to an individual after a predefined period when the immune response due to primary vaccination is on the wane, additional shot is given to immunocompromised and immunosuppressed individuals like cancer or transplant patients when the primary schedule of inoculation does not provide adequate protection from the disease. "The issue of administering additional doses of Covid-19 shots to immunocompromised and immunosuppressed individuals and vaccination of children against Covid-19 were deliberated upon in the meeting of NTAGI,” sources said. Meanwhile, Indian Medical Association urged the government to announce "additional" doses of Covid vaccine for healthcare, frontline workers and immunocompromised individuals. "IMA appeals to the government to officially announce an additional dose (of the Covid-19 vaccine) be given to healthcare, front-line workers and immuno-compromised individuals to augment the immunity," it said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ntagi-discusses-administering-additional-covid-19-vaccine-dose-inoculation-of-kids-1058311.html
06-12-2021||National||India says delivery of Russian S-400 missile system has begun||Russia has begun deliveries of its long-range S-400 ground-to-air missile defence system -- which has prompted threats of US sanction -- to India, New Delhi's foreign secretary said Monday. "Supplies have begun this month and will continue to happen," Indian foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said after a visit to New Delhi by Russian President Vladimir Putin. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-says-delivery-of-russian-s-400-missile-system-has-begun-1058312.html
06-12-2021||National||India, Russia ink 28 pacts, decide to expand cooperation in dealing with terrorism||India and Russia signed 28 investment pacts on Monday, including deals on steel, shipbuilding, coal and energy, India's Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said. India has also begun to receive S-400 missiles from Russia this month, Shringla said, adding that supplies would continue. The two countries vowed to expand cooperation and coordination in dealing with major challenges like the threat of terrorism and the unfolding situation in Afghanistan. Shringla described the summit talks between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Russian President Vladimir Putin as "highly productive". He said 28 agreements that included government-to-government pacts were concluded between the two sides in a number of areas. Asked whether India raised the issue of the eastern Ladakh standoff, the foreign secretary only said all concerns relating to India's security were discussed. At a media briefing, Shringla said Modi and Putin decided to continue close consultation and coordination on Afghanistan. "Both sides were clear that Afghan territory should not be used for sheltering, training or planning any acts of terrorism," he said. In the meeting, the Russian President said, “We perceive India as a great power, a friendly nation, and a time-tested friend. The relations between our nations are growing and I am looking into the future. Currently, mutual investments stand at about 38 billion with a bit more investment coming from the Russian side. We cooperate greatly in the military and technical sphere like no other country. We develop high technologies together as well as produce in India. He said that there was a lot of emphasis on counter-terrorism and both sides were clear that this is an area of common interests. Shringla said the two sides also stressed the need to fight cross-border terrorism.The foreign secretary said there was a discussion in detail about cooperation in the strategic area of energy. In his initial remarks during talks with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Putin described India as a "great power" and a "time-tested" friend. He also expressed concern over the developments in Afghanistan and said India and Russia will continue to coordinate on major challenges facing the region. "We perceive India as a great power, a friendly nation and a time-tested friend. The relations between our countries are developing and we are looking into the future," Putin said. Modi said Putin's second visit abroad during the Covid-19 pandemic reflected his personal commitment to the India-Russia ties and that the special and privileged strategic partnership between the two sides was getting stronger. In the past few decades, the world witnessed many fundamental changes and different kinds of geopolitical equations and variables, but the friendship of India and Russia remained constant, Modi said.    Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-russia-ink-28-pacts-decide-to-expand-cooperation-in-dealing-with-terrorism-1058320.html
06-12-2021||National||Chhatrapati Shivaji's thinking was futuristic; he built first modern navy of India: President Kovind||Describing Chhatrapati Shivaji's thinking futuristic, President Ram Nath Kovind on Monday said the 17th Century king had taken many decisions of far-reaching effect with the help of his council of ministers and also complimented the founder of the Maratha empire for building the country's first modern Navy. The President began his four-day tour of Maharashtra by visiting the historic Raigad fort by ropeway. After paying tribute to Chhatrapati Shivaji, President Kovind said his visit to this hill fort was like a sacred pilgrimage for him and all countrymen. The Raigad fort, located 166 km away from Mumbai, was made the capital of the Maratha kingdom when Shivaji was coronated as king in 1674. The President said that under the able leadership of Chhatrapati Shivaji, the glory of the entire region increased and patriotic feelings re-emerged. He noted that the character of Shivaji has been described very effectively in the 19th century Sanskrit work 'Shivraj-Vijayah'. This book, he said, could be translated into various Indian languages so that people, especially the younger generation, can get acquainted with the great personality and unique work of Shivaji Maharaj. “Chhatrapati Shivaji's thinking was futuristic. He took many decisions of far-reaching effect with the help of his council of ministers known as 'Ashta-Pradhan',” the President said. "Chhatrapati Shivaji built the first modern navy of India," a statement quoting the President said. The President reached the hill-fort by ropeway in view of opposition by some groups to the landing of his helicopter on the historic fort. He also visited the Jagdishwar temple and the samadhi of Chhatrapati Shivaji. "For me and all Indians, this fort of Raigad is a sacred pilgrimage site,” he said. Kovind became only the second president to visit the Raigad fort. In 1985, the then President Giani Zail Singh had visited Raigad. Earlier in the day, President Kovind arrived at Pune Airport where he was welcomed by Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari, Home Minister Dilip Walse Patil, Minister of State for Protocol Aditi Tatkare and Mayor Murlidhar Mohol. During his visit to Maharashtra from December 6 to 9, the President will visit the Air Force Station in Lohegaon in Pune on Tuesday, witness a flying display and interact with air warriors. He will present the President's Standard to the 22nd Missile Vessel Squadron in Mumbai on Wednesday, the Rashtrapati Bhavan had said on Sunday. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chhatrapati-shivajis-thinking-was-futuristic-he-built-first-modern-navy-of-india-president-kovind-1058321.html
06-12-2021||National||Tribals still picked up by investigating officers to cover up shoddy probe: Justice Chandrachud||Tribals are subject to oppression and cruelty even after independence and still picked up by the investigating officers to cover up shoddy investigations, Supreme Court judge Justice D Y Chandrachud said on Monday. Justice Chandrachud was speaking at the 13th B R Ambedkar Memorial Lecture on the topic 'Conceptualising Marginalisation: Agency, Assertion & Personhood' by the Indian Institute of Dalit Studies, Delhi and Rosa Luxemburg Stiftung, South Asia. The top court judge said even if a discriminatory law is held unconstitutional by the Courts, or is repealed by parliament, the discriminatory behavioural pattern is not immediately overturned. Constitutional and legal mandates are not sufficient to protect the rights of the marginalised group including Dalit and tribals, he said. "The British Raj enacted the Criminal Tribes Act 1871 through which a tribe, gang, or class of persons addicted to the systemic commission of offences were notified. The Criminal Tribes Act was later repealed in 1949 once our Constitution was enacted, and the tribes were 'denotified. "However, even after nearly seventy-three years since the tribes were de-notified, the members of the tribes are still subject to oppression and cruelty. Members of the denotified Tribes are still picked up by the investigating officers to cover up shoddy investigations," Justice Chandrachud said. Referring to a top court judgement, he said," This Court in Ankush Maruti v. the State of Maharashtra allowed a review petition filed against the conviction of six accused persons on rape and murder charges. "The decision judicially recognised that the members of the nomadic tribes belonging to the lower strata of the society are regularly harassed by investigating agencies by using the forces of criminal law," Justice Chandrachud said. The apex court judge said that the Constitution mandates redistribution of material resources to further the Constitutional ideal of substantive equality. "However, we need to ask ourselves a very important question - would redistribution of material resources, automatically and by itself, extend respect to the members of the marginalized community? Formal equality requires recognising all persons as equals, and substantive equality aims at equitable outcomes. "However, without the fulfilment of the principle of recognition, the ideals of both formal and substantive equality would not be sufficient to address concerns of freedom. It is only through recognition that our existence as social beings is generated," he said. Justice Chandrachud said humiliation is perpetuated by the institutions and the society. "The members of the marginalized communities can also be institutionally humiliated not merely by using the tool of law but also by establishments that further a conducive environment for discrimination and humiliation to be perpetuated. Even if a discriminatory law is held unconstitutional by the Courts, or is repealed by the parliament, the discriminatory behavioural pattern is not immediately overturned," he said. Justice Chandrachud said that treating every person as an individual, irrespective of their differences and membership of multiple groups would not be sufficient to gain personhood (status of being a person). "Hence, members of the marginalized communities would be able to gain complete personhood only by assertion and recognition of their group identities. The international framework and the Indian Constitution facilitate this approach, of identifying an individual as a member of the group to remedy marginalization. "What I mean is that the only way for the members of the marginalised communities to achieve personhood is through social mobilisation as a collective against discrimination. Such mobilisation should not be considered as 'politics of identity but as a necessary means for redressing historical discrimination," he said. Justice Chandrachud said he often wonders if 'the people' referred to in the preamble of the Constitution includes the Tribes which were still recognised as 'notified tribes' when the Constitution came into force.  "Does it include the homosexuals? Does it include women? The Dalit community, and the disabled? he said. Justice Chandrachud said combating something as prevalent and deep-rooted as marginalisation is no easy task, and does not have solutions. "The only recourse available to us is to faithfully abide by and give life to the Constitutional ideals which Dr. Ambedkar helped formulate, and use those to bring transformative change in the minds and perceptions of the society," he said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tribals-still-picked-up-by-investigating-officers-to-cover-up-shoddy-probe-justice-chandrachud-1058340.html
06-12-2021||National||18 times hike in installed capacity of solar energy in India between 2014 and 2021, says govt||The installed capacity of solar energy in India has witnessed an 18 times increase between 2014 and 2021, the Union government informed the Lok Sabha on Monday. Responding to a query in the lower house, Minister of State for Environment Ashwini Choubey said that India's current share of non-fossil sources based on the installed capacity of electricity generation is more than 40 per cent. "Through the National Action Plan on Climate Change and its various national missions, India is addressing climate change mitigation and adaptation across a range of sectors. "Installed capacity of solar energy in India has increased by more than 18 times from 2.63 gigawatts in March 2014 to 47.66 gigawatt in October 2021. As a result, India's current share of non-fossil sources based installed capacity of electricity generation is more than 40 per cent," Choubey said. He said that under Unnat Jyoti by Affordable LEDs for All (UJALA) scheme, 36.78 crores LED bulbs have been distributed to enhance energy efficiency. "Perform Achieve and Trade (PAT) scheme for energy efficiency in industries and other energy-intensive sectors resulted in total savings of approximately 13.28 million tonnes of oil equivalent, translating into 61.34 million tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent of avoided emissions in the PAT Cycle II,” the minister said. On another query on greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, Choubey said according to India's third Biennial Update Report submitted to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) in February 2021, total GHG emissions, excluding Land Use Land-Use Change and Forestry (LULUCF) in 2016 were 2,839 million tonnes carbon dioxide-equivalent and 2,531.07 million tonne carbon dioxide-equivalent with the inclusion of LULUCF. UNFCCC defines LULUCF as a greenhouse gas inventory sector that covers emissions and removals of greenhouse gases resulting from direct human-induced land use, land-use change and forestry activities. As a party to the UNFCCC, India periodically submits its National Communications and Biennial Update Reports (BURs) to the UNFCCC which includes national GHG inventory, the minister told the Lok Sabha. India's total GHG emission also includes CO2 emissions from the oil and gas sector and industrial processes and product use sector. The data showed that according to the three BURs, the GHG emissions in India have increased since 2010. According to the Environment Ministry, India's total GHG emission without LULUCF has increased from 2137 million tons of CO2 equivalent in 2010 to 2839 million tons of CO2 equivalent in 2016. Carbon dioxide emissions in India have increased from 1,574 million tons in 2010 to 2,231 million tons in 2016. "India is making every effort to decouple its growth from emissions, by steadily lowering the emissions intensity of its GDP over the years. This keeps India's GHG emissions below what would otherwise have been emitted. "It is important to emphasise that there is no sector of India's economy and no aspect of its economic life that is untouched by the concern to keep to a low-carbon development pathway," Choubey told the Lok Sabha. The Environment Ministry said that based on field surveys and satellite data, the National Centre for Sustainable Coastal Management has estimated the total extent of the seagrass ecosystem in India to be 516.59 square km. "The carbon dioxide sequestration rate of the seagrass ecosystem is estimated to be up to 434.9 tonnes per square km per year with an annual net CO2 sink of 0.75 million tonnes for an area of 517 square km," it said. Further, the government has also initiated a project across Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra and Odisha on enhancing the climate resilience of India's coastal communities at a total cost of USD 130.26 million, the ministry said. It includes a grant of USD 43.41 million by Global Climate Fund, covering 24 ecosystems in these selected states which aims to strengthen the climate resilience of coastal communities by protecting and restoring India's natural ecosystems such as mangroves and seagrass, it said.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/18-times-hike-in-installed-capacity-of-solar-energy-in-india-between-2014-and-2021-says-govt-1058357.html
06-12-2021||National||Judicial officer, advocate appointed as judges of Andhra Pradesh High Court||A judicial officer and an advocate were appointed as judges of the Andhra Pradesh High Court on Monday, taking the total number of judges appointed to various high courts this year to 120. In 2016, a total of 126 high court judges were appointed, which is a record. The Department of Justice in the Law Ministry announced the two fresh appointments through a tweet.     A government functionary said that with the latest appointments, the total number of high court judges appointed this calendar year has gone up to 120. Law Minister Kiren Rijiju had told Rajya Sabha last Thursday that a total of 164 high court proposals to appoint judges are at various stages of consideration by the government and the Supreme Court collegium. In a written reply to a question, he also said that 55 proposals have been either remitted or returned by the government to various high courts on the advice of the Supreme Court collegium during the current year. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/judicial-officer-advocate-appointed-as-judges-of-andhra-pradesh-high-court-1058358.html
06-12-2021||National Politics||DH Toon | Congress-mukt Opposition alliance?||Days after Mamata Banerjee's "no UPA" jibe, Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel on Sunday attacked the TMC chief, saying she must clarify whether she wants to make TMC the main Opposition party by fighting those in power or by taking on fellow Opposition parties.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dh-toon-congress-mukt-opposition-alliance-1058067.html
06-12-2021||National Politics||BJP poll rallies peppered with ‘Ghazni’, ‘Jinnah’||As the campaign builds up for the upcoming Assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh, new terms, mainly concerning Muslims, have made entry into the speeches of BJP leaders. Political analysts say this is the BJP's attempt to polarise the elections along religious lines and project itself as the 'messiah of Hindus'. BJP leaders have also been raking up the issues of ‘conversion, cow slaughter, migration of Hindu families’ in their rallies and seeking to remind Hindus about their alleged ‘humiliation’ and attack on their culture during the regimes of the Samajwadi Party (SP) and others. Senior BJP leader and UP Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya, who stoked a huge controversy by appearing to give a call to the party supporters to prepare for Shri Krishna Janmabhoomi in Mathura, said ‘lungichhaap’ (a derogatory reference to Muslims) goondas carrying arms used to terrorise the people and grabbed their lands during the previous SP regime. “People wearing lungis and skull caps grabbed your land and threatened you during the previous regime... You should remember all these things,’’ Maurya said at a public meeting in Prayagraj on Saturday. Maurya also said he would henceforth address the SP president as ‘Akhilesh Ali Jinnah’. Going a step further, UP BJP president Swatantra Deo Singh on Sunday likened the SP president Akhilesh Yadav’s regime to the rules of Mahmud of Ghazni, who had plundered India in the 10th century, and Muhammad Ghori, who laid the foundation of Muslim rule in India in the 12th century. “Like Ghazni and Ghori, these people (Akhilesh) have also looted the state and attacked our religious identity... The Hindus had to plead with the officials to allow them to make a pandal for Durga Puja,” Singh said. “The situation has changed since 2017 (BJP came to power after 2017 polls)... today flowers are showered on the kawad yatras... Ram Temple is under construction in Ayodhya... Kashi Vishwanath Corridor is ready,” he remarked. Analysts say that the campaigning in UP may witness more references to Muslim invaders by BJP leaders as the elections draw closer, and that the saffron party will try to project itself as the only party which can ;'protect the interests' of the Hindus. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-poll-rallies-peppered-with-ghazni-jinnah-1058082.html
06-12-2021||National Politics||Shashi Tharoor not to host Sansad TV talk show to protest suspension of RS MPs||Senior Congress MP Shashi Tharoor on Monday announced that he will not host a talk show on 'Sansad TV' to protest the suspension of Opposition Rajya Sabha MPs, demanding immediate revocation of the "arbitrary" decision, a day after Shiv Sena's Priyanka Chaturvedi said she would not be hosting her show on the channel anymore. Tharoor also found fault with the way Sansad TV is telecasting the proceedings of Parliament, accusing it of whitewashing the reality "by focussing on MPs of the ruling side while ignoring the Opposition". The Congress MP was hosting 'To the Point', conversations with non-political eminent personalities including filmmaker Adoor Gopalakrishnan, Sarod maestro Ustad Amjad Ali Khan and VSSC Director Dr S Somnath, while suspended Rajya Sabha MP Priyanka was hosting 'Meri Kahani', a show in which women MPs shared their stories. They were the only two MPs who were hosting shows in the revamped Sansad TV, which also have economist Bibey Debroy, the government's principal economic adviser Sanjeev Sanyal and Niti Ayog CEO Amitabh Kant as anchors of programmes. In a statement, Tharoor said he has decided to suspend hosting of his show "until such time as the suspensions of MPs are revoked and a semblance of bipartisanship restored to the conduct of Parliament and the functioning of Sansad TV". The Thiruvananthapuram MP said he accepted Sansad TV's invitation to host a show, as political differences do not prevent MPs from participating in various Parliamentary institutions. "However, the prolonged suspension of 12 MPs from the Rajya Sabha, expelled in an arbitrary manner for actions committed during a previous session, has called into question the very assumption of a bipartisan spirit animating the work of Parliament," he said. "As an MP who has gone to the protesters (MPs sitting at Gandhi Statue in Parliament) and express my solidarity with them, I am concerned that my continued involvement in hosting a show on Sansad TV would be seen as making me complicit in the undemocratic manner in which Parliamentary institutions are being run," he said. "Sadly, Sansad TV itself has been accused of being part of the problem, as adverse comments have been made by many on its habit of having cameras focus on the members of Treasury benches while ignoring the Opposition. A parliamentary TV must, by definition, reflect the diversity of Parliament and not merely whitewash the reality of Parliament's current functioning," he said. In a letter to Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu, Shiv Sena MP Priyanka Chaturvedi said that with "great anguish but with a sense of responsibility", she has decided to step down as an anchor of the show, as she was "unwilling to occupy space on Sansad TV for a show but being denied space on it (Parliament) for discharging parliamentary duties to arbitrary suspension of us 12 MPs." Priyanka said her suspension was "arbitrary" and has "totally disregarded established Parliamentary norms and rules to stifle my voice, my party's voice inside the Chamber". "That this suspension also chose to disregard my parliamentary track record and my contribution beyond the call of duty so as to give a platform to women parliamentarians to share their journey, I believe injustice has been done but as it is considered valid in the eyes of the chair, I must respect it," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/shashi-tharoor-pulls-out-of-sansad-tv-talk-show-to-protest-suspension-of-rs-mps-1058104.html
06-12-2021||National Politics||HM Amit Shah likely to make statement on Nagaland incident in both Houses||Home Minister Amit Shah is likely to make a statement in both Houses of Parliament on Monday on the Nagaland incident in which 14 civilians were killed in firing by security forces, parliamentary sources said. They said Shah may first make the statement in Lok Sabha and then in Rajya Sabha. Security forces opened fire on civilians killing 14 and injuring 11 more in Nagaland's Mon district in three consecutive incidents of firing the first of which was possibly a case of mistaken identity, the state police had said on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/hm-amit-shah-likely-to-make-statement-on-nagaland-incident-in-both-houses-1058108.html
06-12-2021||National Politics||Rajya Sabha proceedings adjourned till 12 noon amid opposition protest||Rajya Sabha proceedings were adjourned for about 50 minutes till 12 noon on Monday amid protest by some opposition members soon after Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu called for the first Zero Hour mention. After the listed papers were laid on the table in the House, Leader of Opposition and senior Congress MP Mallikarjun Kharge demanded a statement from the Home Minister on the Nagaland firing incident. Naidu said it is a very serious issue, and he has spoken to the defence minister and the home minister on it. The chairman said the home minister has informed that he will make a statement on the issue this afternoon. As the Chairman called for the first Zero Hour (where matters are raised with the permission of the Chair) mention, some members wanted to raise their points. Naidu tried to carry on with the Zero Hour, but the protest continued. "The House is adjourned sacrificing Zero Hour, public issues because of some people are not cooperating," he said, and adjourned the proceedings till 12 noon. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rajya-sabha-proceedings-adjourned-till-12-noon-amid-opposition-protest-1058114.html
06-12-2021||National Politics||Mehbooba Mufti stages dharna at Jantar Mantar, says Kashmir 'in pain'||Former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Mehbooba Mufti staged a dharna at Jantar Mantar here on Monday to protest the alleged repression of people of the union territory and demanded that killing of innocents be stopped immediately. The Jammu and Kashmir Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president said she decided to stage a dharna in the national capital as she was never allowed to register her protest in Kashmir. She said she was either detained at her house and whisked away by police every time she planned a protest. Scores of PDP workers joined her in the protest at Jantar Mantar. "Kashmir has become a prison where people are not allowed to express their opinion. They are being repressed since August 2019 and what surprises me is how the government is busy portraying that everything was hunky-dory in the valley with the help of some of the paid media," she told reporters. In August 2019, Jammu and Kashmir special status under Article 370 of the Constitution was abrogated and the state was bifurcated into union territories. The former chief minister denied the charge that she raised questions on every police action. "Whenever there is an encounter and a militant gets killed, nobody questions but when a civilian gets killed, only then people come out and start asking questions," she said. Carrying a placard that read "Kashmir is in pain", Mehbooba said, "You have seen what happened in Nagaland where 13 civilians were gunned down. An FIR has been lodged immediately. Why does the same not happen in Kashmir as well? Though I do not have much hope that anything is going to come out of these enquiries but still the government is seen acting." She alleged that corruption was at its peak in Jammu and Kashmir, local residents were being deprived of jobs, and blood of innocents was being spilled on roads. "I have come here to tell the people of this country that if they don't wake up even now, the day is not far when the nation of (Mahatma) Gandhi and (B R) Ambedkar will get converted into (Nathuram) Godse's country and after that we all will be helpless," she said. Several photo journalists requested Mehbooba to remove her mask for a better picture but she replied with a visible smile on her face, "if I remove the mask, I can be booked under UAPA immediately". Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mehbooba-mufti-stages-dharna-at-jantar-mantar-says-kashmir-in-pain-1058167.html
06-12-2021||National Politics||Mamata on tour to Malda, Murshidabad||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday went on a tour to West Bengal's northern districts where she is scheduled to chair a series of administrative meetings, officials said. The inclement weather forced Banerjee to take a train to Malda from the Howrah station in the afternoon, they said. She usually travels by helicopter. The chief minister would travel by road to Karandighi in Uttar Dinajpur on Tuesday to chair an administrative meeting, in which officials of Dakshin Dinajpur would also be present. She will chair the administrative meeting with officials of Malda on Wednesday. After that, Banerjee would be travelling to Murshidabad district and hold another meeting with the officials of that district on Wednesday evening. On Friday, she is scheduled to travel to Krishnanagar for another such meeting and return to Kolkata later in the day. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mamata-on-tour-to-malda-murshidabad-1058263.html
06-12-2021||National Politics||Nagaland killings: Lok Sabha members demands repeal of AFSPA||Condemning the killing of civilians during an anti-insurgency operation by security forces in Nagaland, several Lok Sabha members called for a repeal of the Armed Forces Special Powers Act (AFSPA) enforced in the state. Emphasising that emotional integration of people living in border areas is extremely important for the unity and integrity of the country, senior Congress leader Manish Tewari demanded that there should be an impartial judicial inquiry by a sitting high court judge into the unfortunate incident. Tokheho Yepthomi, Nationalist Democratic Progressive Party (NDPP) member in the Lok Sabha, said, "The AFSPA has not given powers to security forces to indiscriminately kill people,” The AFSPA allows security personnel to use force and even open fire after due warning in case of breach of law and order. Demanding the convening of an all-party meeting to discuss the situation in the Northeast, Congress member Gaurav Gogoi said the death of Indians at the hands of security forces was highly condemnable. TMC's Sudeep Bandyopadhyay said the situation in Nagaland should not be allowed to deteriorate further and demanded maximum compensation be given to the next of kin of those killed in the incident. Vinayak Raut of the Shiv Sena wondered how intelligence agencies could give such misleading inputs to the security forces. He also demanded an inquiry into the functioning of intelligence agencies. P V Midhun Reddy (YSCRP) T R Baalu (DMK), Rajiv Singh Ranjan (JDU) and Supriya Sule (NCP) expressed deep anguish at the killings. Pradyut Bordoloi (Congress) demanded an oversight mechanism on the implementation of the AFSPA in Nagaland and demanded that the perpetrators of the crime be brought to book. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/nagaland-killings-lok-sabha-members-demands-repeal-of-afspa-1058278.html
06-12-2021||National Politics||Opposition resumes House disruptions over MPs' suspension||The Opposition on Monday sent a strong signal to the government not to read "weakness" over lack of disruption of proceedings in the last two days of the previous week, as it intensified its protest on the issue of suspension of MPs and the issue taking prominence again throughout Monday. On Thursday and Friday, the Opposition registered its protest against the suspension but did not disrupt the proceedings, Monday was different as the suspended MPs and a section of leaders put pressure for a more robust and loud protest in the House. Following a meeting of floor leaders at the office of the Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha, Mallikarjun Kharge, members of opposition parties decided to raise the decibel levels and go as far as disrupting proceedings, if need be, on Monday, sources said. "Appealed to the Chairman of Rajya Sabha to revoke the suspension of 12 MPs and allow them to partake in parliamentary debates and discussions. The grounds of their suspension is untenable. Their voice must not be throttled and they must be allowed to do their parliamentary duty," Kharge tweeted. A section of the leaders, including some in the Congress, argued against disrupting the proceedings and taking part in the discussion on price rise, while others, including Shiv Sena, RJD, DMK and CPI(M), were of the view that the Opposition leaving the suspension issue would further embolden the government. The renewed vigour of the Opposition was seen in the afternoon session of Rajya Sabha wherein the MPs raised slogans against the government. Home Minister Amit Shah had to read out his statement on the Nagaland issue amid sloganeering against the government. Twelve suspended Opposition MPs are sitting on a protest at Gandhi statue, every day, since December 1 while other MPs are raising the issue inside the House. Monday's developments were in contrast to what was decided during a meeting on Thursday evening, when the leaders agreed not to disrupt the House fully but use every opportunity to raise the issue. There was broad agreement to disrupt either Zero Hour or Question Hour, depending on the situation. However, the suspended MPs and a section of leaders were not enthused at the way things unfolded in the latter part of the week after a group of BJP MPs "gatecrashed" into their protest amid comments by Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu and Leader of House Piyush Goyal. "We are not fully boycotting the discussions. We are not giving up issues in Parliament. The Lok Sabha is functioning. Every party, which has representatives in Rajya Sabha, is present in Lok Sabha also. They are raising these issues in Lok Sabha. So it is not right to say we are not discussing issues. Here the issue is of 12 suspended MPs and we have to fight," DMK floor leader Tiruchi Siva said. Trinamool Congress floor leader Derek O'Brien said that the situation was not normal and normalcy cannot return to the House when a dozen MPs are not allowed to enter Rajya Sabha. "Unless this issue is not resolved, we cannot call normalcy has returned. That is why the House is not running. The biggest issue is why are the MPs sitting at Gandhi Statue," he said. Asked about the government's demand for an apology from the suspended MPs, he said, "Let the Prime Minister first come and express regret first for robbing the MPs their right to vote and fight for farmers in Parliament. Then he should express regret for not allowing discussions on issues." Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/opposition-resumes-house-disruptions-over-mps-suspension-1058292.html
06-12-2021||National Politics||Farooq Abdullah should leave country if he feels suffocated in India, says RSS leader Indresh Kumar||Senior RSS leader Indresh Kumar on Monday hit out at National Conference President Farooq Abdullah over his remarks that people of Jammu and Kashmir may have to make "sacrifices" like agitating farmers to get back their rights, saying it shows that he loves violence, not peace. He also suggested that Abdullah should leave the country to live in any other part of the world that he likes if he feels suffocated in India. The RSS leader also slammed PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti for staging a protest in the national capital against alleged repression of people of the Union Territory, saying "it has become a fashion for her to tell lies". He also said that both leaders from Jammu and Kashmir should stop playing "politics of provocation" and stop becoming an obstruction in maintaining the unity and integrity of the country. "His statement clearly shows that he loves violence, not peace. He is saying that he will get everyone killed, keep them hungry," Kumar told reporters at a press conference, when asked for his comments on Abdullah's remarks. "Farooq Abdullah had earlier said that help of China will be taken for the restoration of Jammu and Kashmir's special status. Shall we accept it? Never. It's nonsense. If he feels suffocated here, he should go wherever he wants, Arab or America. His wife lives in England. He can also think of going there to live with his wife. He will remain happy," the RSS leader said. Abdullah on Sunday said the people of Jammu and Kashmir may have to make "sacrifices", as farmers protesting the new farm laws did, to restore its statehood and special status. Addressing a convention of the NC's youth wing on the occasion of the 116th birth anniversary of party founder Sheikh Mohammad Abdullah at his mausoleum at Naseembagh in Srinagar, Abdullah also said his party does not support violence. Mufti staged a dharna at Jantar Mantar in New Delhi on Monday to protest the alleged repression of people of the Union Territory and demanded that killing of innocents be stopped immediately. The Jammu and Kashmir Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) President said she decided to stage a dharna in the national capital as she was never allowed to register her protest in Kashmir. She said she was either detained at her house or whisked away by police every time she planned a protest. Scores of PDP workers joined her in the protest at Jantar Mantar.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/farooq-abdullah-should-leave-country-if-he-feels-suffocated-in-india-says-rss-leader-indresh-kumar-1058307.html
06-12-2021||North and Central||'How can a CM be so blatant', Kejriwal hits back at Channi over illegal mining issue||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday hit back at his Punjab counterpart Charanjit Singh Channi after he trashed AAP leader Raghav Chadha's claims of illegal mining in his assembly constituency. "Is it true that Channi sahib went to a different mining site today and not the one visited by Raghav yesterday? And Channi sahib declared it as legal, whereas the one visited by Raghav is a different site and is illegal. How can a CM be so blatant?" Kejriwal tweeted. Is it true that Channi sahib went to a different mining site today n not the one visited by Raghav yesterday? And Channi sahib declared it as legal, whereas the one visited by Raghav is a different site and is illegal. How can a CM be sooo blatant? Earlier in the day, Channi visited a mining site in Rupnagar and rejected Chadha's claims of illegal mining in his constituency. He also gave a strict warning to the AAP leaders from Delhi, saying no "outsider" would be allowed to raise an "unfounded alarm" in the state. Lashing out at Channi, Chadha alleged that the Punjab chief minister visited some other site "on purpose" and falsely claimed that illegal sand mining is not happening. "CM Channi did not go to the mining site where I had raided. He went to some remote area and said that the mining happening here is legal," he said. Chadha, who is co in-charge of the AAP's political affairs in Punjab, had on Saturday alleged that illegal sand mining was being carried out in Channi's constituency Chamkaur Sahib after paying a surprise visit to a village there. Terming it an "expose", the AAP leader also accused the ruling Congress in the state of "patronising" the sand mafia. Chadha made the accusations after he visited Jindapur village in Chamkaur Sahib. The Congress and the AAP have locked horns over various issues ahead of the Punjab assembly polls early next year. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/how-can-a-cm-be-so-blatant-kejriwal-hits-back-at-channi-over-illegal-mining-issue-1058057.html
06-12-2021||North and Central||Amit Shah to give statement on Nagaland firing incident in Parliament||Union Home Minister Amit Shah will give a statement on the Nagaland firing incident in both the Houses of the Parliament today. Sources said Shah will make the statement in Lok Sabha at 3 pm and in Rajya Sabha at 4 pm.  Leader of Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge raised the issue of killing of civilians by security personnel in Nagaland in Rajya Sabha.  Describing the incident as "most tragic", he demanded that Home Minister Amit Shah make a statement in the House.  Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu said he has already spoken to Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and Shah.  Shah has written to the Chairman to make a statement in the House. Naidu said the Home Minister will make the statement in the afternoon.  Leader of House Piyush Goyal said the government is seized of the matter. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/amit-shah-to-give-statement-on-nagaland-firing-incident-in-parliament-1058087.html
06-12-2021||North and Central||Ayodhya calm, VHP says focus on Ram temple construction||The situation in Ayodhya on Monday remained calm with no sign of any tension, though the security forces were on a high alert. The Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) has said that it will not have any major events to mark the day, but was focused on the construction of the Ram temple. VHP working president Alok Kumar in a statement said, "6th December is a big day for the whole country. That's why VHP branch Bajrang Dal celebrates 6th December as 'Shaurya Diwas'. Just like in the past there are programmes and events to mark the day. Programme will be held in the same way." However, in the statement he also said that after the completion of the Ram Temple, it will take up the issue of Mathura. "Discussion will take place after Shri Ramlala is seated in the sanctum sanctorum of Ram temple. In 2024, will consider the Mathura dispute," Kumar said in the statement. The Muslim community of Ayodhya has maintained that it will not be organising any programme except for the the prayers for those who died in the violence after the demolition. Haji Mehboob, one of the litigants in the case, said that now the judgement has come in favour of the temple... so there is no need for any programme, but will give a tough response if someone wants to rake Mathura." The security forces in Ayodhya have been put on high alert in view of the 30th anniversary of the demolition of Babri mosque. The administration has established a special control room in the district magistrate office to keep vigil on any development on December 6. The Ayodhya temple town and the district has been divided into multiple security zones and forces have been deployed at sensitive points. All the magistrates have been instructed to keep round the clock vigil on all minor and major developments in the twin towns of Ayodhya and Faizabad. Watch the latest DH vidoes:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ayodhya-calm-vhp-says-focus-on-ram-temple-construction-1058095.html
06-12-2021||North and Central||India-Russia partnership steady & strong: Jaishankar||The India-Russia partnership is unique and has remained remarkably steady and strong in a world of rapid geopolitical changes, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said on Monday during bilateral talks with his Russian counterpart Sergey Lavrov. Lavrov and Russian Defence Minister General Sergey Shoigu arrived here on Sunday night to hold the inaugural '2+2' dialogue with their Indian counterparts. Ahead of the '2+2' dialogue, Jaishankar and Lavrov held bilateral talks. "India-Russia partnership is unique. We are very conscious that in a world of rapid geopolitical changes, it has in fact been remarkably steady and strong," Jaishankar said in his opening remarks at the meeting.   "I would like to also take the opportunity to underline that we are very satisfied with our bilateral relations and the state of our cooperation," he added. After the '2+2' talks, the two Russian ministers will join President Vladimir Putin later in the day in his summit talks with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. "For us, the annual India-Russia summit is a unique event. Prime Minister Modi and President Putin share a relationship of great trust and confidence," Jaishankar said. "The annual summit is taking place after a gap of two years because of the Covid-19 pandemic. We are looking forward to some very significant outcomes from the summit," Jaishankar added. India and Russia are set to ink a number of pacts to expand cooperation in key areas of defence, trade and investment, energy and technology at the summit. In the summit as well as in the inaugural '2+2' defence and foreign ministerial talks, the two sides are also expected to focus on the situation in Afghanistan. Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/india-russia-partnership-steady-strong-jaishankar-1058113.html
06-12-2021||North and Central||Mayawati slams those showing 'false respect' for Ambedkar, says BSP will win absolute majority||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) president Mayawati Monday said her party will win "absolute majority" in the 2022 Uttar Pradesh polls, even as she slammed those who oppose the humanitarian approach of Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar while showing "false respect" for him. Speaking to reporters on the 65th death anniversary of Babasaheb Ambedkar, the architect of the country's Constitution, she also shared her party's plans for Assembly polls in two other states. "In Uttarakhand, the BSP will contest all the seats on its own and in Punjab in alliance with the Shiromani Akali Dal," she said, exuding confidence that her party will do better in Uttarakhand and form a strong coalition government in Punjab. Paying her tributes to BR Ambedkar, she said he suffered many hardships but dedicated his whole life to make the downtrodden and deprived sections stand on their feet. She alleged there are parties and organisations with narrow and casteist mindset and who have always opposed the humanitarian approach of Ambedkar while showing "false respect" for him. The former Uttar Pradesh chief minister accused the BJP and other parties of not giving Dalits the full benefit of their legal rights enshrined in the Constitution. The BSP will win "absolute majority" in Uttar Pradesh and would form a government "stronger than" it had after winning clear majority in 2007. She said the only remedy for governments not running according to the Constitution is to throw them out of power. "Only then you can work according to the Constitution." "Coming on the streets will not work, changing the power will do. When there is a change of power, the Constitution will be saved. People who are opposed to Babasaheb Ambedkar’s (ideas) are in power then what will we do by taking to the streets?” she asked, When reporters asked her about the Uniform Civil Code, she retorted, “You are preparing the Central government to bring this law soon.” She also attacked the Akhilesh Yadav-led Samjwadi Party, saying, “People know that during his reign, hooliganism and mafia were at peak.” Flaying the ruling BJP, she said that contrary to the party's claims, atrocities are reported in the state against the weaker sections everyday. She said Babasaheb Ambedkar "gave legal rights to these classes…but due to the casteist mindset of the Central and state governments, they could not get the full benefit of these rights". "Ambedkar had also said that if these sections of people want to take full advantage of the legal rights given in the Indian Constitution, they should have the master key of political power at the Center and in states. The biggest proof of this is the four-time BSP rule in Uttar Pradesh," she said. "The main goal of the BSP is to keep forward Ambedkar's thought of an egalitarian society and campaign for self-respect, and this should not be underestimated. This caravan is neither going to stop nor is it going to bow down," she said. Some organisations are engaged in weakening Ambedkar's movement for their selfishness, especially by dividing the votes of Dalits, Adivasis, backward classes and other marginalised sections, she said.  Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mayawati-slams-those-showing-false-respect-for-ambedkar-says-bsp-will-win-absolute-majority-1058118.html
06-12-2021||North and Central||Punjab polls: Amarinder Singh confirms alliance with BJP, Dhindsa's party||Former Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Monday announced that he will contest the upcoming Punjab Assembly elections in alliance with the Bhartiya Janta Party (BJP) and Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa's party, which rebelled against the Akali Dal.  "In principle, a decision has been taken,now seat adjustment is to be done. We'll also do seat adjustments with Dhindsa sahab's party. I'll tell both parties that we should pick winners, support those candidates," Singh told ANI. "Our aim is to win Punjab Assembly elections and we will," he added.  Earlier this year, Captain Amarinder Singh recently floated the Punjab Lok Congress party. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-polls-amarinder-singh-confirms-alliance-with-bjp-dhindsas-party-1058132.html
06-12-2021||North and Central||AAP to organise international level stage play on life of BR Ambedkar: Kejriwal||The Delhi government will hold an international level stage play based on the life of Babasaheb BR Ambedkar at the JLN Stadium on January 5, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Monday. Paying tributes to Ambedkar on his death anniversary, Kejriwal said the play will be staged by well-known actors with international level production. There will be 50 shows and the entry will be free for people, he said. "It will not be an exaggeration to say that Babasaheb Ambedkar was the most educated Indian. He got masters degrees in 65 subjects and completed two doctorates. He also knew nine languages and maintained a personal library of 50,000 books," Kejriwal said. The Delhi chief minister also asserted that he will fulfil Ambedkar's dream of educating every poor child in the country. India's first law minister and the architect of the country's Constitution, Ambedkar worked tirelessly for social reforms and the emancipation of the most downtrodden sections of society. He passed away in 1956.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/aap-to-organise-international-level-stage-play-on-life-of-br-ambedkar-kejriwal-1058134.html
06-12-2021||North and Central||Gulmarg coldest place in Kashmir Valley at minus 7 degrees Celsius||The minimum temperature across Kashmir, except at the famous ski-resort of Gulmarg, settled above the freezing point on Monday even as the weather office predicted possibility of a wet spell mid-week. Most places in the valley received rains and snowfall on Sunday. Gulmarg resort in north Kashmir's Baramulla district recorded a minimum temperature of minus 7 degrees Celsius, down over five degrees from minus 1.4 degrees Celsius the previous night, the officials said. They said the resort was the only place in the valley where the minimum temperature stayed below the freezing point on Sunday night and it was the coldest recorded place in the valley. Sunday night was also the coldest night of the season so far at the resort. The temperature at other places in the valley settled above the freezing point. Srinagar recorded a low of 2.6 degrees Celsius on Sunday night, two degrees up from the previous night, the officials said. They said Pahalgam, which serves as the base camp for the annual Amarnath yatra, recorded a low of 0.6 degrees Celsius. The minimum temperature in Kupwara in north Kashmir settled at a low of 1 degrees Celsius. Qazigund, the gateway town to the valley, recorded 3.2 degrees Celsius, while Kokernag recorded a low of 1.9 degrees Celsius. The MeT Office has said there is a possibility of light rain or snow on Wednesday-Thursday at some places. There would be a gradual fall in the night temperature across the union territory, the MeT Office said. Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/gulmarg-coldest-place-in-kashmir-valley-at-minus-7-degrees-celsius-1058140.html
06-12-2021||North and Central||SC to consider listing NIA’s plea against Bombay HC order granting default bail to Sudha Bharadwaj||The Supreme Court Monday said it would consider submissions seeking urgent hearing of NIA's plea challenging the Bombay High Court order granting default bail to lawyer-activist Sudha Bharadwaj who was arrested in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case in August 2018 under the provisions of stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. “We will see,” said the bench comprising Chief Justice N V Ramana and Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli when solicitor general Tushar Mehta sought urgent hearing of the plea. “The matter pertains to grant of default bail and this order will be in effect from December 8, so this case needs to be heard,” Mehta said. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) had moved the top court earlier against the high court's December 1 order which that Bharadwaj, accused of being part of a conspiracy to overthrow the Union government, was entitled to bail and its denial would be in breach of her fundamental right to life and personal liberty guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution. The high court had directed that Bharadwaj, lodged in the Byculla women's prison, be produced before the Mumbai special NIA court on December 8, and conditions of her bail and date of release be decided. Bharadwaj is the first among 16 activists and academicians arrested in the case to have been granted default bail. Poet-activist Varavara Rao is currently out on medical bail. Jesuit priest Stan Swamy died in a private hospital here on July 5 this year while waiting for medical bail. The others are in custody as undertrials. The high court had rejected the default bail plea filed by eight other co-accused in the case -- Sudhir Dhawale, Varavara Rao, Rona Wilson, Surendra Gadling, Shoma Sen, Mahesh Raut, Vernon Gonsalves and Arun Ferreira. The case relates to alleged inflammatory speeches delivered at the Elgar Parishad conclave, held at Shaniwarwada in Pune on December 31, 2017, which the police claimed triggered violence the next day near the Koregaon-Bhima war memorial located on the city's outskirts. The Pune police had claimed the conclave was backed by Maoists. The probe in the case was later transferred to the NIA.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-to-consider-listing-nia-s-plea-against-bombay-hc-order-granting-default-bail-to-sudha-bharadwaj-1058154.html
06-12-2021||North and Central||Resident doctors of 3 central hospitals boycott routine, emergency services over NEET||Resident doctors of the Centre-run RML, Safdarjung and Lady Hardinge hospitals boycotted all routine and emergency services from Monday in support of a nationwide protest called by the Federation of Resident Doctors' Association (FORDA) against the delay in NEET-PG 2021 counselling. In a letter to Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya, the FORDA on December 4 had said healthcare institutions across the country are running short of an adequate workforce of resident doctors, with no admission in the current academic year yet. "With the possibility of future Covid-19 pandemic wave looming large, the situation will be disastrous for the healthcare sector with its bearing on the country's population," it said. "There seems to be no initiative or measure taken yet for expediting the (NEET-PG) counselling. Therefore, following discussions with various RDA representatives of Delhi, we have decided to escalate our agitation further and withdraw all services (routine and emergency) in healthcare institutions from Monday," the letter read. As the resident doctors boycotted work, the Director General of Health Services (DGHS) is learnt to have visited the Safdarjung hospital where he appealed to the resident doctors for calling off the protest, but they refused. In an intimation to the hospital administration, the RDA of the Dr Ram Manohar Lohia (RML) hospital on December 4 said resident doctors across the country are on a peaceful protest for almost a week now in view of the delay in the NEET-PG counselling and the admission of first-year junior residents to various hospitals. The RDA had suspended the OPD services from November 27 and the routine services from December 3. "However, we are pained to bring to your notice that we have not received any positive response or concrete action from the Union Ministry of Health and the authorities concerned," it said. Similar letters have also been written by the RDAs of the Safdarjung and Lady Hardinge (LHMC) hospitals. In its letter to the medical superintendent, the Safdarjung hospital RDA said it continued a symbolic protest in a silent manner after a meeting with the Union health minister on November 27, "respecting the verbal assurance given by him". "However, as per the notification released on November 30, the Ministry of Social Justice has asked for a period of three weeks to submit its report in the Supreme Court, which is not consistent with the verbal assurance given to us regarding expediting this process," it said. "Due to non-responsiveness and indifference of the government and the authorities concerned, unfortunately, we are left with no other option than boycotting the emergency services from Monday. The onus of any unfortunate incident arising due to the circumstances affecting the healthcare will be on the authorities concerned," the RDA said. “As withdrawal of OPD and all routine services did not bring any concrete response from the authorities as was assured to us, so we the residents of LHMC and associated hospitals shall withdraw all services (Routine as well as emergency) from Monday, 6th December, 2021 onwards in support of nationwide protest called by FORDA, India," LHMC RDA had said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/resident-doctors-of-3-central-hospitals-boycott-routine-emergency-services-over-neet-1058168.html
06-12-2021||North and Central||Survelliance stepped up at MP borders after Omicron cases found in adjoining states||The Madhya Pradesh government has increased the watch at the state's borders and is taking various precautionary measures in the wake of cases of the Omicron variant of Covid-19 found in neighbouring states, MP Home Minister Narottam Mishra said on Monday. Talking to reporters, Mishra also said 17 new Covid-19 cases have been found in MP during the past 24 hours, including six in Indore and eight in the state capital Bhopal. Madhya Pradesh shares its border with five states, and the Omicron variant of Covid-19 has been detected in three of them - Maharashtra, Rajasthan and Gujarat. So far, there has been no case of the new Covid-19 variant in MP. “Following cases of Omicron in neighbouring states, we are increasing the watch at Madhya Pradesh borders and taking precautions with utmost concern,” said Mishra, who is the state government's spokesman. He appealed to the people to be careful, and said the MP government was making efforts to prevent the third wave of Covid-19 in the state. “All necessary steps have been taken, resources are arranged and all the requirements will be fulfilled to prevent the third wave. The state has more than required medical oxygen and an adequate number of plants of the life-saving gas have been started,” the minister said. There is adequate availability of hospital beds, Intensive Care Units (ICUs) and medicines like Remdesivir, he said. As on Sunday evening, the overall Covid-19 tally in Madhya Pradesh stood at 7,93,241, including 7,82,580 recoveries and 10,528 fatalities, according to health officials. The number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the state crossed the nine crore-mark on Sunday evening. A total of 9,01,28,038 vaccine doses have been administered in the state so far, including 1,43,734 on Sunday, officials said. The state has an eligible population of 5.59 crore for taking the Covid-19 vaccine. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/survelliance-stepped-up-at-mp-borders-after-omicron-cases-found-in-adjoining-states-1058169.html
06-12-2021||North and Central||Two school staff booked for rape attempt in Muzaffarnagar||Two staff members of a private school were booked for allegedly attempting to rape two girls and sexually harassing them, and a police officer also removed from field duty, after the girls' families alleged police inaction in the matter, officials said Monday. Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Abhishek Yadav said a case was registered, after the two families filed a complaint, following the intervention of local BJP MLA Pramod Utwal. He said Purkazi police station's station house officer (SHO) VK Singh has been transferred to the police lines for alleged negligence in the matter. He said the school's two managerial staff, Bhopa Yogesh Chauhan and Arjun, were booked for allegedly attempting to rape the two girls. The girls were allegedly harassed when they were accompanied by the duo to another school for practical exams, for which an overnight stay was required. A total of 17 students had gone for the exams. According to a complaint filed by the families, the two accused allegedly attempted to rape the minors after giving them intoxicated water. Yadav also said that the accused allegedly threatened the girls not to share the incident with anyone. According to the families, when they approached the local police, they did not take any action and then they approached the MLA. The SSP said a case against the two school managers were registered under sections 328 (causing hurt by means of poison, etc., with intent to commit an offence) and 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant section of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-school-staff-booked-for-rape-attempt-in-muzaffarnagar-1058171.html
06-12-2021||North and Central||Supreme Court to hear plea challenging suspension of 12 Maharashtra BJP MLAs||The Supreme Court, on Monday, agreed to list for hearing the plea of 12 BJP MLAs from Maharashtra challenging their one-year suspension from the state Legislative Assembly for allegedly misbehaving with the presiding officer. A bench headed by Chief Justice NV Ramana was told by lawyer Siddharth Dharmadhikari that the winter session of the state Assembly is likely to begin and the plea against the suspension of the MLAs needed an urgent hearing. “All right, we will give a date (for hearing),” said the bench which also comprised Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli. The Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government led by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray is slated to hold the winter session of the state assembly between December 22 and 28 in Mumbai. On July 22, the BJP MLAs had filed the plea challenging the resolution passed by the Assembly to suspend these lawmakers for one year. They were suspended on July 5 from the Assembly after the state government had accused them of "misbehaving" with presiding officer Bhaskar Jadhav in the Speaker's chamber. The 12 suspended members are- Sanjay Kute, Ashish Shelar, Abhimanyu Pawar, Girish Mahajan, Atul Bhatkhalkar, Parag Alavani, Harish Pimpale, Yogesh Sagar, Jay Kumar Rawat, Narayan Kuche, Ram Satpute and Bunty Bhangdia. The motion to suspend these MLAs was moved by state Parliamentary Affairs Minister Anil Parab and passed by a voice vote. Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis had termed the allegation as false and said Jadhav's account of the incident was "one-sided". "This is a false allegation and an attempt to reduce the numbers of opposition benches, because we exposed the government's falsehood on the OBC quota in local bodies," Fadnavis had said, adding that BJP members had not abused the presiding officer. However, Jadhav had sought a probe into the allegation that some Shiv Sena members and he himself made uncharitable remarks, and said he was ready to face any punishment if it was proven true. "Today is a black day for me. Abusive words were directed at me. Some people are saying I made uncharitable remarks. Let there be a probe into it after checking the CCTV footage. If I have used any inappropriate language, I am ready to face any punishment," Jadhav had said. Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/supreme-court-to-hear-plea-challenging-suspension-of-12-maharashtra-bjp-mlas-1058175.html
06-12-2021||North and Central||VHP to take up Shrikrishna Janmabhoomi issue in 2024||In a change of stand, the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP), which had spearheaded the movement for the Ram Temple at Ayodhya, has said that it would take up the Shrikrishna Janmabhoomi issue in 2024, the year in which general elections will be held in the country. VHP national president Alok Kumar told reporters in Ayodhya on Sunday that the completion of the Ram Temple was the primary focus of his organisation at present. ''We will not take up the Mathura (Shrikrishna Janmabhoomi) issue until the Ram Temple is complete.....the idol of Ramlala will be installed in the sanctum sanctorum by 2023....we will discuss the Mathura issue in 2024,'' Kumar said. Incidentally, the VHP had earlier made it clear that Shrikrishna Janmabhoomi was not on its agenda. The All India Akhara Parishad (AIAP), an apex body of the seers in the country, had, however, supported the demand for removal of the Shahi Idgah Masjid, which was adjoining the Shrikrishna Janambhoomi.  VHP president's remarks came within days after Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya appeared to give a call to his party supporters to 'prepare' for Mathura. ''Kashi, Ayodhya mein nirman jaari, Mathura ki hai tayari,'' (construction is going on at Kashi and Ayodhya and now prepare for Mathura), Maurya had said in a Tweet. UP minister and senior BJP leader Raghuraj Singh also said that 'liberating' the Shrikrishna Janmabhoomi was on the BJP 'agenda' and that the saffron party was ready to make any 'sacrifice' for the same. A petition claiming ownership of the entire land on which the Shrikrishna Janmabhoomi was situated and seeking removal of the adjoining Shahi Idgah Mosque was accepted by a district court in Mathura.  The petition has sought the removal of the Shahi Idgah mosque, which was adjacent to the existing Shrikrishna Janmabhoomi, from the complex and has challenged the agreement signed between the Shrikrishna Janmasthan Seva Sansthan and Shahi Idgah Mosque Management Committee in 1968. It claimed ownership over the entire 13.37 acres of land on which they were situated.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/vhp-to-take-up-shrikrishna-janmabhoomi-issue-in-2024-1058205.html
06-12-2021||North and Central||Gajendra Singh Shekhawat to be BJP's chief ministerial face in Rajasthan assembly polls: Dotasra||Congress leader Govind Singh Dotasra on Monday claimed that Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat will be the BJP's chief ministerial face in the 2023 Rajasthan assembly polls. Referring to Home Minister Amit Shah's recent visit to the state, Dotasra claimed Barmer MP Kailash Chaudhary, Leader of Opposition in the Assembly Gulab Chand Kataria and BJP state president Satish Poonia were not given chance to address public events. "Not keeping along the local farmer leader and Barmer MP Kailash Chaudhary and not giving space to his photograph clearly indicates that Gajendra Singh ji will be the face for chief minister in Rajasthan in times to come," Dotasra, who is chief of the Rajasthan Congress, said. He claimed that Shah did not even take the name of Poonia during his rally. Kataria, who is the Leader of Opposition in the Assembly, was not given a chance to address the rally, he added. Dotasra said all such events “clearly indicate” that Shekhawat will be the BJP's chief ministerial face in the elections. Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/gajendra-singh-shekhawat-to-be-bjps-chief-ministerial-face-in-rajasthan-assembly-polls-dotasra-1058207.html
06-12-2021||North and Central||Congress announces committees for Punjab polls||Congress on Monday announced election coordination, campaign, manifesto and screening committees for the Punjab Assembly elections, roping in senior leaders like Ambika Soni, Sunil Jakhar, Pratap Bajwa and Ajay Maken. Soni will head the election coordination committee while Jhakkar will lead the campaign committee and Bajwa will steer the manifesto committee as a chairperson. Maken will head the screening committee. The screening committee will have Chandan Yadav and Krishna Allavaru as members. The ex-officio members are party in-charge Harish Choudhary, Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu, Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, Jakhar and all AICC secretaries in charge of Punjab.  Congress president Sonia Gandhi approved the committees on Monday. Punjab, where the Congress is seeking to retain power, will go to assembly polls early next year. The panel will screen prospective candidates and make its recommendations to the party high command. The party's candidates will be finalised by its central election committee chaired by Sonia Gandhi. (with PTI inputs) Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-announces-committees-for-punjab-polls-1058250.html
06-12-2021||North and Central||Amarinder opens his party office in Chandigarh||Former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Monday opened his new party's office here and reasserted that his Punjab Lok Congress, along with the BJP and former Akali leader Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa's outfit, will form the next government in the state. Singh quit the Congress and launched his Punjab Lok Congress after his unceremonious exit as the Punjab chief minister in September. Addressing the media after opening his party office, Singh said the membership drive of his outfit had already begun. "We are very hopeful that the upcoming elections, we will win...with seat adjustment with the BJP and Dhindsa sahib, we will form the next government,” said Singh. Union Home Minister and BJP leader Amit Shah on Saturday had said that the BJP was in talks with Singh and Dhindsa for an alliance for the assembly polls early next year. To a question on when he will meet BJP president J P Nadda for seat-sharing talks, Singh said that in principle, a decision has been taken on the alliance. "Now it is only seat adjustment. For seat adjustment, we will go and I cannot tell you the numbers (of seats each party will contest)," he said. He said he would request both the BJP and Dhindsa's Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukt) to pick "winners (winnable candidates)". "If Dhindsa's party puts up a winning candidate (from a particular constituency), then I will support him and the BJP too will support, I am sure. If the BJP candidate is a winning candidate, we will support him," he said. "All have one aim, that is to win Punjab and we will win it,” he said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/amarinder-opens-his-party-office-in-chandigarh-1058264.html
06-12-2021||North and Central||Dengue death toll rises to 15 in Delhi, case count now over 8,900: Civic body||Six more deaths due to dengue have been reported in the national capital, taking the total number of fatalities due to the vector-borne disease reported in Delhi this year to 15, according to a municipal report released on Monday. The number of dengue cases jumped to over 8,900. Till November 29, the official dengue death tally, maintained by the South Delhi Municipal Corporation, was at nine. These nine victims had included a three-year-old girl and a minor boy. According to the civic body's report on vector-borne diseases released on Monday, a total of 8,975 dengue cases and 15 deaths have been recorded this season till December 4. In the previous years, the total dengue cases reported were 4,431 (2016), 4,726 (2017), 2,798 (2018), 2,036 (2019) and 1,072 (2020), according to the report. In 2015, the city had witnessed a massive outbreak of dengue with the number of cases crossing 10,600 in October itself, making it the worst outbreak of the vector-borne disease in the national capital since 1996. The number of dengue fatalities this year is the highest in the national capital since 2016, when the officially reported death count was 10. The national capital recorded two deaths due to dengue in 2019, four in 2018, and 10 each in 2017 and 2016.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dengue-death-toll-rises-to-15-in-delhi-case-count-now-over-8900-civic-body-1058266.html
06-12-2021||North and Central||Amarinder Singh, Badals 'harming Punjab's interests', claims Channi||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Monday accused his predecessor Amarinder Singh and the Shiromani Akali Dal of being secretly engaged in a seat-sharing exercise ahead of the Assembly polls early next year. He charged that Amarinder Singh, SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal and the BJP leadership had been hand-in-glove in the past and said they are “clandestinely harming” the state’s interests even at present. He claimed that Singh, who recently floated his own party after quitting the ruling Congress in the state, had been playing a “friendly match” with the Badals of the Akali Dal. Addressing a conclave organised by a private television channel, Channi said the former chief minister and the Badals helped each other to pursue their “narrow vested interests”. He described them as “foes-turned-friends” and said they are “secretly engaged in adjustment of seats for the upcoming assembly polls to extend political gains to one another". Channi also alleged that Amarinder Singh and the SAD and BJP leaders earlier worked “hand in glove” and would continue to pursue their politically motivated agenda in the future too. They are “clandestinely harming the state's interests, solely eyeing the forthcoming assembly polls”, a state government statement quoted him as saying at the event. The chief minister said there was a sea of change at present in the mood of the ranks and files of the Congress, “especially after the ousting of Captain Amarinder Singh”. Both Amarinder Singh and the BJP have said they are working on an alliance, along with former Akali leader Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa's outfit, for the assembly polls. The SAD, however, had walked out of the BJP-led NDA over the now-repealed farm laws. Channi also hit out at Aam Aadmi Party leader Arvind Kejriwal. He asked the Delhi chief minister to concentrate on his own government rather than “befooling” the people of Punjab by promising them the moon, knowing that he will never come to power in Punjab, the statement said. Channi said the opposition leaders had earlier mocked him, asking what he could do. “Now with my performance on the ground they are compelled to say what to do about him." On the possibility of Amarinder Singh damaging the poll prospects of the Congress, he said the former CM could not deliver during the four-and-a-half years of his term and “confined himself within the four walls of his farmhouse”. Singh’s “fledgling party” lacked credibility, he added. Asked about Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, Channi claimed there was “perfect coordination” between them. Reacting to the Centre’s recent move to increase the jurisdiction of the Border Force up to 15 kilometres from the boundary, he accused the BJP government of trying to create “a bogey of terrorism” to thrust the “unwarranted decision” on people of the state. He said the state police force was competent to handle law and order as demonstrated by its handling of militancy in the past. On the 2015 sacrilege case and the drug trafficking issue, he said justice would soon be delivered to the satisfaction of the people.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/amarinder-singh-badals-harming-punjabs-interests-claims-channi-1058272.html
06-12-2021||North and Central||Why has democracy dried up in Parliament? asks Derek as Oppn steps up demand for revoking 12 MPs' suspension||Why has democracy dried up in Parliament? Trinamool Congress floor leader Derek O'Brien asked in Rajya Sabha during Question Hour on Monday, as disruption and vociferous protests made a return to the House demanding the revocation of suspension of 12 Opposition MPs. Except for a statement by Home Minister Amit Shah on the killing of civilians by security forces in Nagaland and taking three questions during Question Hour, no business could be taken up in the Upper House. A short duration discussion on price rise and passage of two bills were listed in the business. The House saw multiple adjournments during the day and it was finally adjourned a little after 4 PM after Shah made his statement. The Opposition has been up in arms against the suspension of 12 MPs, which they said defied rules, and rejected the government's demand that they apologise for the "unruly" scenes in the Monsoon Session. The suspended MPs are saying that the government should first apologise for not allowing discussions and bulldozing Bills in Parliament. Soon after the House assembled and Leader of Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge sought a statement by Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Nagaland issue, Opposition MPs were on their feet demanding that suspension of 12 MPs be revoked. As he adjourned the House till 12 noon, Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu said, "The House is adjourned sacrificing Zero Hour, public issues because some people are not cooperating." Similar scenes of Opposition MPs in the Well of the House and sloganeering repeated during the Question Hour, which ran for 18 minutes. When the third question posed by Trinamool Congress MP Nadimul Haque on depletion of groundwater came, Trinamool floor leader, Derek O'Brien got a chance to ask a question. "Why has democracy dried up in Parliament?" he asked as Deputy Chairperson Harivansh said it was not a question and it was not allowed. Leader of House Piyush Goyal said the sloganeering by opposition MPs exposed their intention and they should instead apologise to the House for "lowering" the dignity of the House by climbing on the reporters' table and attacking women security personnel. As sloganeering continued, Harivansh adjourned the House till 2 pm. The short duration discussion on price rise was listed at 2 PM but the protest continued with Kharge requesting Harivansh to call the suspended MPs to the House "for once" so that they could participate in the debate. Harivansh disallowed it and called other Opposition MPs who had given notice for discussion but they also did not participate, following which he adjourned the House till 3 PM. Same scenes repeated at 3 PM and when re-assembled at 4 PM after another adjournment, Shah made the statement on the Nagaland issue. The Opposition MPs continued their protest following which Harivansh adjourned the House for the day.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/why-has-democracy-dried-up-in-parliament-asks-derek-as-oppn-steps-up-demand-for-revoking-12-mps-suspension-1058279.html
06-12-2021||North and Central||ED issues fresh summons to actor Jacqueline Fernandez to appear before it on Dec 8||A day after she was stopped from flying abroad, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) summoned actor Jacqueline Fernandez to appear before it for questioning in a money laundering investigation against alleged conman Sukesh Chandrashekhar and others, officials said on Monday. The 36-year-old actor has been asked to depose before the agency here on Wednesday (December 8), answer questions and get her statement recorded, they said. Fernandez has been questioned by the ED in this case at least twice and the agency suspects she is a "beneficiary of the proceeds of crime" allegedly generated by Chandrashekhar. Her spokesperson had earlier said she was testifying before the agency as a witness. "Jacqueline Fernandez is being called to testify as a witness by the ED. She has duly recorded her statements and in future will also be completely cooperating with the agency in the investigations. "Jacqueline also categorically denies alleged slanderous statements made about relationship with the involved couple," the spokesperson had said in a statement in October. Fernandez was stopped by the immigration authorities at the Mumbai airport on Sunday, acting on a Look Out Circular (LoC) issued by the ED against her. Agency sleuths later reached the airport and disallowed her travel, asking her to remain in the country as she may be required to join the probe. She was supposed to take a flight to Muscat, Oman The Sri Lankan-origin actor has been questioned by the ED in multiple sessions in connection with the over Rs 200 crore money laundering case being probed against Chandrashekhar and his actor wife Leena Maria Paul. The agency last week also filed a charge sheet before a special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court in this case and named Chandrashekhar, his wife and six others. It had alleged in the charge sheet that Chandrashekhar had gifted Fernandez numerous costly gifts, including some Persian cats and a horse. He is accused of cheating some people, including some high-profile individuals like former Fortis Healthcare promoter Shivinder Mohan Singh's wife Aditi Singh. Another Bollywood actor-dancer Nora Fatehi has also been grilled by the ED in this case. Investigation found that Chandrashekhar was lodged in the Rohini jail here when he allegedly ran an extortion racket using phone spoofing technology, according to officials. The ED had arrested the couple and two co-accused, Pradeep Ramnani and Deepak Ramnani, in this case. In August, the agency raided some of Chandrashekhar's premises and seized a sea-facing bungalow in Chennai, Rs 82.5 lakh in cash and over a dozen luxury cars. It had claimed in a statement that Chandrashekhar is a "known conman" and is being probed by the Delhi Police in a case of alleged criminal conspiracy, cheating and extortion to the tune of about Rs 200 crore. "Chandrasekhar is the mastermind of this fraud. He has been part of the crime world since the age of 17. He has multiple FIRs against him...," the ED had said. Despite being in the jail, it said, Chandrashekhar "did not stop conning" people. "He (using a cellphone procured illegally in prison) with the help of technology made spoofed calls to dupe people as the numbers displayed on the called party's phone number belonged to senior government officers. "While speaking (from prison) to these persons, he claimed to be a government officer offering to help people for a price," the ED had claimed. Chandrasekhar and Paul were also arrested by the Delhi Police. The police recently invoked the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA) in the case. The Delhi Police had alleged that Paul and Chandrashekhar, along with others, used Hawala routes, created shell companies to park the money earned from proceeds of crime. Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ed-issues-fresh-summons-to-actor-jacqueline-fernandez-to-appear-before-it-on-dec-8-1058281.html
06-12-2021||North and Central||Punjab CM bats for opening border trade with Pakistan||In a bid to boost the state's economy, Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Channi on Monday announced that he would soon write to the Centre besides seeking an appointment with the Union Home Minister for opening trade with Pakistan. In his address during the 15th Edition of the Punjab International Trade Expo (PITEX) here, he said that if the trade could be carried by the sea route, then why it is not permitted through the land route as it would propel enormous opportunities for economic prosperity. Acceding to the major demand of the PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Channi said the foundation stone of a convention centre for PITEX spread over 10 acres would be laid within a week to enable the organisation to carry out a diverse range of activities to promote trade and industry in the region in a big way. He also said a digital single window system would be put in place shortly to ensure all kinds of requisite permissions from a unified platform to the industrialists in a seamless manner. "This move would also enable them to apply for permissions from their homes to almost removing the user interface with the officials thus increasing transparency." Listing the achievements of his government, Channi said the state government has withdrawn 40,000 VAT-related cases registered against the traders, abolishing the institutional tax, and made the Right to Business Act of 2020 applicable. Citing the huge potential of Amritsar in religious tourism, Channi expressed satisfaction that Punjab has been ranked number one in terms of infrastructure development in tourism. He also lauded the PITEX for its service in offering a big platform to the businessmen of the state, especially the region, and ensuring the presence of five countries viz. Iran, Egypt, Afghanistan, Turkey, and Thailand in the expo. On the occasion, state Congress President Navjot Sidhu also underlined the significance of the cross-border trade. Describing Amritsar as the biggest market in Asia, he said that it would open new vistas of prosperity for Punjab as trade and business activities would be carried out with 34 countries. Underscoring the need to give a fillip to MSMEs, Sidhu said that the focus must be on enabling the youth to be job creators instead of job seekers. Co-Chair PHD Chamber Punjab Karan Gilhotra thanked the district administration for rendering all possible assistance for organizing PITEX-21 successfully. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-cm-bats-for-opening-border-trade-with-pakistan-1058285.html
06-12-2021||North and Central||Power tussle in Rajasthan BJP continues, Congress rubs it in||Congress on Monday tried to fish in the troubled waters of BJP's Rajasthan unit, seeking to widen the gap between the supporters of former Chief Minister Vasundhara Raje and those opposing a bigger role for her within the saffron party. A day after Amit Shah's back-to-back poll meetings in Jaipur to kick off Mission 2023 for the state polls indicated further sidelining of Raje, Congress leader Govind Singh Dotasra claimed that Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat will be the BJP's chief ministerial face in the 2023 Rajasthan assembly polls. The rivalry between Shekhawat and Raje rivalry is well established, as she had effectively stalled him from being named as PCC chief two years ago despite the former having Amit Shah's backing. Dotasra said that Barmer MP Kailash Chaudhary, Leader of Opposition in the Assembly Gulab Chand Kataria and BJP state president Satish Poonia were not given a chance to address the public, indicating that "Gajendra Singh ji will be the face for chief minister in Rajasthan in times to come". A day after Shah's meetings, supporters and detractors of Raje took to social media and ran hashtags in favour and opposition to her  In his meeting, Shah had addressed Shekhawat as "our Union Minister who has the responsibility to reach water to each household in the country". He also flagged how Rajasthan, which had ensured BJP won all 25 Lok Sabha seats in 2014. repeated a similar performance for the party led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi with 23 Lok Sabha seats in 2019.  Just a year ago, the party, led by CM Raje, had lost the Rajasthan Assembly polls. Shah's pitch for "collective leadership" to take on the Congress in 2023 state polls was interpreted as an indication that the BJP will not depend on former CM Vasundhra Raje in the 2023 polls. While Raje has already started poll preparations on her own, there is an intense power tussle between her and the current state unit, headed by Satish Poonia. Rajasthan, which had mostly behaved like a switch state alternating power between Congress and BJP, voted out the Raje-led BJP government in 2018 but the BJP failed to capitalise on the Ashok Gehlot-Sachin Pilot situation and lost badly in the Assembly by-polls months ago. Dotasra claimed that while Shah did not take the name of Poonia during his rally, Leader of Opposition Kataria was not given a chance to address the rally. Shah has on his sleeves the challenge of winning the state polls in 2023, with the backdrop of a poor relationship between Raje and central leadership. For more than two decades, the chief minister's chair in Rajasthan has alternated between Gehlot of Congress and Raje of BJP. Raje had first become CM in 2003, replacing Gehlot. Addressing the BJP state executive meeting, Shah's remarks that the Assembly polls in the state will be fought under Modi's leadership was considered a message to Raje. In Uttarakhand, which goes to polls in March next year, BJP is already banking heavily on Modi's persona, having changed the chief minister thrice in a year. The central leadership of BJP does not seem inclined to project a CM face for the Rajasthan polls yet, even as Raje had tried to signal her willingness during the Dev Darshan Yatra in November. The Yatra was seen in party circles as Raje's show of strength. In June, when BJP posters in Rajasthan were found not carrying Raje's face, the former CM said she wants to rule in the hearts of people rather than in posters. During the same time, when an outfit named Vasundhra Raje Samarthak Manch Rajasthan was launched, the party's state unit accused her of running a parallel system. Raje had also stopped attending party meetings in Rajasthan briefly then.  Among the leaders who seem to be in the race, Shekhawat is the frontrunner with Arjun Ram Meghwal, Satish Poonia and Gulab Chand Kataria. Even names of Union Minister Bhupendra Yadav, who is a Rajya Sabha MP from the state and Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla are doing the rounds. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/power-tussle-in-rajasthan-bjp-continues-congress-rubs-it-in-1058318.html
06-12-2021||Oasis||Rein in your anger||Anger is one of the basic emotions in an individual. It takes little for some to hit back at the person or object annoying them. The threshold limit for anger is very low for such persons. For yet a few it takes a bit more to ruffle feathers. A person who knows no anger has reached a state of spiritual oblivion or “sthitaprajna” state and can be likened to the lighthouse that remains steady despite the furious waves lashing around it, while it beautifully beams a light, acting as a beacon to seafarers, unlike an angry person who is like a rocking boat on turbulent waters. Anger is not a physiological need like hunger, thirst or sleep. It is not a necessity to be appeased by an individual. Lord Krishna has stated in the Gita that from anger arises delusion, which further leads to confusion and loss of reason whereupon one is fully ruined. Scientifically, it could be likened to an amygdala hijack wherein one’s sense of reason is overpowered by the emotional memory bank — the amygdala in the brain — and one reacts in a way that one would rather forget than recollect. Prophet Mohammed has said that a strong man is not a good wrestler, the strong man is only the one who controls himself when he is angry. The Christian book of proverbs reiterates, “He that is slow to anger is better than the mighty, and he that ruleth his spirit is better than he that taketh a city”. Anger directed at oneself, or at inhumane acts, may prove motivational, but never does any good when directed at others. Anger may cause physiological harm by increasing blood pressure which in turn has a cascading ill-effect on one’s health. Anger has proven negative metabolic, psychological and emotional repercussions. It seems prudent to give it up in phases — if not in one go — and see the difference in the quality of one’s life. Accept your anger consciously, but do not act upon it. Calm your anger by identifying the triggers and delaying your response or diverting your mind to something else. Start today through a conscious choice to remain unperturbed in a troublesome scenario on a daily basis. The situation may seem unfair or overwhelming. Stay in control, don’t allow the circumstances to overpower you. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/rein-in-your-anger-1058333.html
06-12-2021||Opinion||What next for Ghulam Nabi Azad, the loyalist-turned-rebel||After raising the banner of revolt, leading the group of 23 party leaders, Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad had been cooling his heels on the sidelines of the party. For three decades, Azad, a Gandhi family loyalist, held key positions in the party and Congress-led governments, both at the Centre and in Jammu and Kashmir (J&K). The veteran is now on a collision course with the party leadership. He has embarked on a whirlwind tour of his political turf, Jammu and Kashmir, ahead of the much speculated Assembly polls in the newly carved union territory (UT). Azad is the most prominent leader of the Congress in J&K and commands public support in both the Jammu and Kashmir regions, which are diametrically opposite in their political temperament. However, his position has become untenable in the party as he headed the G23. The party neglected Azad in the affairs of the Congress's J&K unit. But Azad is on a high after successful public and workers' meetings he has addressed in both the regions, which evoked a good response.  Azad has held his meetings under the party's banner. He has, however, neither involved the Pradesh Congress Committee in these programmes nor has he uttered a word against the party's top leadership. Azad has focussed his speeches on demanding statehood for J&K and immediate holding of the elections. At the same time, he has maintained a studied silence on the restoration of Article 370. While he has kept a window open for reconciliation within the Congress, there is speculation he could chart a new political course. Is floating a new political party an option for Azad? Azad felt hurt after Rajni Patil, the Congress in charge of J&K, criticised him in the presence of former party chief Rahul Gandhi during the latter's recent tour to Jammu. Following this, the party ignored involving Azad in its affairs at the national and the UT levels. It also overlooked or sidelined a significant section of his supporters, which led to 20 former ministers, MLAs, MLCs and office bearers resigning from their respective party posts. The anti-Azad camp saw it as a senior leader's pressure-building tactic through his supporters. Azad is gradually upping the ante to be given a fair say in the party matters or his possible quest for a new political forum that he has, until now, denied vehemently. Azad's relevance in becoming a focal point to garner anti-Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) votes has increased in Jammu and Kashmir regions. There are no political leaders in the opposition ranks in Jammu to match his stature. In Kashmir, leaders such as former chief ministers Farooq Abdullah and Mehbooba Mufti are fighting for their survival under the BJP's onslaught. Azad's acceptability in both regions puts him in an advantageous position. There is little doubt now that Azad has presented the Congress party with a fait accompli to accept his dominant position as there is none to match his stature. The Congress has no one else of Azad's profile in its ranks to lead the party in the Assembly polls. Through his public outreach, Azad has a two-pronged strategy. He is trying to redeem his position in the party as he is entering the twilight of his political career. If the Congress high command fails to read the message, he positions himself as a leader with the broadest possible acceptability to head a non-BJP coalition. The Congress is in a dilemma on how to deal with Azad. According to reports, Congress president Sonia Gandhi is keen on a rapprochement, but Azad is taking his time. The first step towards any reconciliation would be a more significant say for him in the party's organisational matters, particularly in J&K, which would include the selection of candidates for the polls.  Azad's tour across the UT is also an exercise in looking for potential candidates. It will be interesting to see how the Congress high command assuages Azad. Would the high command, especially Rahul Gandhi, overlook Azad's role in the G23 rebellion and turn to him to lead the party in the J&K Assembly polls?  After all, the region offers a good chance for the Congress's comparative revival as the recently held bypolls in Himachal Pradesh, where the Congress performed creditably, indicated. Assembly polls are due in Himachal Pradesh at the end of next year and early next year in the neighbouring Uttrakhand and Punjab. The Congress is in the reckoning in all the three states. From the Congress perspective, an organisationally disturbed J&K, although a UT with a small legislative assembly and Azad forced to chart a separate course from that of the party's, will spoil the mood in this region and could dent the party's chances in the other poll-bound states. Azad, for one, is buoyed by the public response to his public contact programmes, which have increased his bargaining power. It will make reconciliation difficult for the Congress top-brass given Azad's preeminent position in UT's politics. (The writer is a senior journalist) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/what-next-for-ghulam-nabi-azad-the-loyalist-turned-rebel-1058191.html
06-12-2021||Opinion||Yesterday once more for Banerjee and Bengal||In the 1990s, before she quit the party, Mamata Banerjee twice attempted to lead the state unit of the West Bengal Congress. She failed to win the elections on both occasions.  Sealdah strongman Somen Mitra thwarted her maiden attempt in 1992. Five years later, she entered the contest again. Allegations of rigging marred the polling held at Kolkata's Maharashtra Niwas on Hazra Road. Banerjee lost this election too, but by a slender margin to Mitra, who had the backing of the party bosses, especially Pranab Mukherjee. The second defeat turned out to be the proverbial last straw that culminated with the Trinamool Congress's formation on new year's day in 1998. In the build-up to this denouement and severance of ties for good, Banerjee and her supporters in the Bengal Congress started to draft the political argument behind their growing disaffection. The imagery of what Banerjee called the "Congress-CPM nexus" was articulated by repeated references to a fruit that is red from inside and green in its non-edible outer covering - watermelon. The Congress was then on the verge of pulling the rug under Deve Gowda's feet, and then Congress resident Sitaram Kesri thought he was whiskers away from realising his long-cherished dream to be prime minister. Kesri ostensibly wanted to keep the Left parties, a constituent of the Gowda-led United Front government, in good humour.  As for Banerjee, this non-compete clause between the CPI(M) and Congress was the most significant impediment in achieving her ultimate objective to win power in the state eventually. Having deboarded the mothership, Banerjee's TMC had limited options and drifted towards a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) desperately scouting for allies. Banerjee officially joined the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) with her induction into the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government in 1999. In the two decades since, the TMC chief has moved back and forth to occupy the pole position in the state, winning three consecutive elections, the last one in the face of a concerted and relentless onslaught by the BJP. Her political manoeuvres and her strident position in refusing to play second fiddle to the Congress in national politics after the 2021 mandate are unsurprising. The TMC's experiments outside the so-called non-secular space have limitations in a state with 30 per cent or more minority populations. From 1998 to 2004, election results from panchayats to the Lok Sabha polls bear testimony to the fact. Banerjee's political fortunes changed from 2007 onwards when she started distancing herself from the BJP and re-positioned herself as an anti-Left and anti-BJP leader. The realignment was complete with the Left-Congress estrangement over the Indo-US nuclear deal. The TMC, in alliance with the Congress, ended the 34 years of the Left Front rule in Bengal in 2011. Narendra Modi's win three years later emboldened the BJP to explore opportunities in the hitherto unchartered territories, including Bengal. Having consolidated her position, Banerjee too changed tack, edging out the Congress and Left to the margins to declutter the non-BJP space in Bengal. By 2013, Banerjee had taken to term the TMC's alliance with Congress, which had catapulted her to the chief ministership, a "wrong decision." Alone, TMC would have got "293 out of 294 seats," she claimed. For the TMC, there was and still is a strong political reason for pursuing this anti-Congress line. While the BJP seeks to harvest space outside the TMC's core domain in Bengal, the Congress/Left share a common constituency with the TMC. In Bengal, the two can grow at the TMC's cost, especially the Congress, if it can find its feet in Delhi. In other words, the BJP is an alternative to the TMC while the Congress and Left are its competitors in Bengal. The 2021 Bengal Assembly polls have shown that a strong BJP at the Centre is not an existential threat to the TMC if Mamata manages to minimise the divisions of votes in the anti-BJP space. Once the home is secured, one can always venture outside and experiment in national politics.  Conversely, as the TMC expands its base outside Bengal through aggressive poaching, confusion and disarray in the opposition ranks can only suit the BJP at the national level. This is why it is yesterday once more in national and Bengal politics. Instead of the CPI(M), the TMC is now in total control of Bengal. The BJP has replaced the Congress as the dominant political force at the national level. An enfeebled Congress, with tables turned, is now accusing the TMC of only helping "fascist" forces which it is "pretending to fight". This is precisely what Mamata Banerjee used to rue during her Congress years. In 23 years since the formation of the TMC, much has changed, or have the main characters simply swapped places. (The writer is a journalist) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/yesterday-once-more-for-banerjee-and-bengal-1058273.html
06-12-2021||Panorama||‘Centre is eroding federal character with tax manipulations. This is dangerous’||At a time when the economy was said to be on a recovery path, the new coronavirus variant ‘Omicron’ has brought uncertainty, raising worries over the impact it will have on the Indian economy and the states. Kerala Finance Minister K N Balagopal spoke to DH’s Shemin Joy on this and other issues, including the contentious issue of GST compensation and the National Monetisation Pipeline. The Omicron variant has appeared on the scene just as the economy was recovering. What impact will it have? We have only seen a small (economic) recovery, and that is also mainly due to delayed purchases and other factors. Now, Omicron has hit. We don’t know what impact it will have. If we have to impose measures like lockdown again, it will be disastrous and worse than the previous lockdown. Several decisions that impact the lives of the common man have been taken by the Centre during the pandemic. Such policies will surely have a negative impact. They are on a selling spree in the public sector. This is leading to loss of jobs. What should be the policy direction? The world might face more pandemics in the future. The government will have to ensure that there is adequate health infrastructure. At present, there is an effort to provide Covid-19 vaccines to all. The coverage of the first dose is nearing completion but issues related to the availability of vaccines for the second dose remain. Patent issues have created trouble for developing countries. There is a view that if vaccination was more intensive in Africa, Omicron might not have happened. If the US or Europe had helped Africa, this panic would not have been there. This is because of the fallout of global pharma companies owning patents on medicines. I am not an authority (on the subject), but I feel if vaccine production was in the control of governments, then vaccine prices would have been lower. Then, I think, we could have done vaccination at a higher pace. India should look at producing low-cost medicines, not just for India but for the world. What should one keep in mind while framing economic policies now? We have to keep in mind that the pandemic and its after-effects are going to stay with us for some time. The attitude that I have money, so I will get vaccinated and I don't care whether the economically deprived are jabbed or not, is not going to help. We should keep this in mind while designing the vaccine programme. We should recall that when India moved into the product patent regime from the process patent regime, the cost of medicines increased. Countries across the globe should deliberate on these issues. As a Rajya Sabha MP earlier, you were part of the GST Select Committee. On GST, the compensation for states is set to end next July. What is your view? We have demanded that it should be extended for another five years. These are difficult times. Even the Finance Ministers from BJP-ruled states like Uttar Pradesh are talking about their concerns. Shouldn't the states be given more share? At this stage, if GST compensation is stopped, it will create problems not just for Kerala but for other states, too. Before the GST regime, Kerala's annual growth rate was 14 per cent. Now, we are not reaching there, and that is why there is a need for compensation. One view at the time of implementation of GST was that it would be beneficial for Kerala. Is that still true, post-pandemic and with the return of Malayalis from the Gulf in numbers? GST is not being implemented in the way it was first envisaged. On several issues, the Centre is acting against the interests of the states. Tax rates were cut arbitrarily. For example, the GST rate on refrigerators was 28 per cent, it was cut to 18 per cent. So, for a refrigerator costing Rs 10,000, the tax burden should come down from Rs 2,800 to Rs 1,800 and its shop price should reduce by Rs 1,000. But that has not happened. I am saying this after a study in Kerala. Reducing taxes has only resulted in an enhanced profit for companies. There was a view initially that GST would be beneficial to Kerala but actually, we have suffered loss. The Centre is reducing several direct taxes. There was a reduction of Rs 1 lakh crore in income tax from corporates. This will impact the Centre's finances. When the Centre's revenue slides, states are also impacted as their share also reduces. When they reduce direct taxes, on the other hand, they increase indirect taxes. GST is eroding states' financial freedom and the country’s financial federal character. This is a dangerous situation. The excise duty on petroleum products and its reduction by the Centre has triggered a demand for states to reduce their taxes, too. How do you see this argument? States have a share in excise duty but not in special excise duty. What the Centre has done is, it has increased special excise duty. When the Centre is imposing a huge tax, what can the states do? This is intruding into the powers of the states. What is your view on the Centre’s plan to bring a bill in Parliament to privatise two public sector banks? This is what they do in all sectors. What is new in what they are doing? Why did we go ahead with the nationalisation of banks earlier? One should understand that there should be transparency in the functioning of financial institutions. Remember the 2008 economic crisis? The US and Europe suffered but India managed to survive because of our nationalised banks. We shouldn't be oblivious to the dangers of banks being privatised. We have the examples of Yes Bank, IDBI and ICICI Bank where its top officials face allegations. This is a disaster waiting to happen. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/centre-is-eroding-federal-character-with-tax-manipulations-this-is-dangerous-1058330.html
06-12-2021||Panorama||A world with better access for PwDs||December 3, 2021, was celebrated as the International Day of Persons with Disabilities with the theme ‘Leadership and Participation of Persons with Disabilities towards an Inclusive, Accessible, and Sustainable Post Covid-19 World’. Not just Covid-19, about 389 different disastrous events happened in 2020 alone as compared to a total of 368 between 2000-2019 as per a recent global report, implying that disasters are imminent and everybody including persons with disabilities (PwD) needs to learn to live with them. The PwD have always been found to be the most affected during natural calamities and Covid. This vulnerable community often cannot access the emergency facilities like ramps, lifts, wheelchairs, telephones, medicines, door latches, toilets and accessories. Instances of negligence and discrimination by the establishments have led to their isolation and poor healthcare leading to increased risk. Disasters have caused injuries, deaths and increased impairment to persons with disabilities due to improper planning. Children with disabilities have been hit hard as online teaching methods were not conducive. The public on the street was unwilling to help disabled persons cross the roads due to the fear of Covid-19 infection. Disabled struggled in the same single queue alongside others in the crowd to receive rations and medicines. Studies revealed that PwDs have two to four times more mortality rate than the general public during the disaster. The basic needs of persons with disabilities are not understood by the establishments due to their non-participation in disaster management. Generally, there is no representation of members from PwDs in the management committees, and the authorities pay no attention to including them in planning. The social stigma and exclusionary approach to PwDs push them even more severely to all forms of mental distress. As per the 2011 census, India has 2.68 crore persons with disabilities of which 20.3 per cent of people have movement disabilities, 18.9 per cent have hearing impairments and 18.8 per cent have visual impairments. They need easy to access markets, schools, hospitals, roads, streets and non-slippery walkways without obstructions like stone posts, steps and encroachment. Establishments must start providing tactile floor guidance paths for independent movement of persons with visual impairments. The door sills in the public buildings should be provided with a ramp and stepped entrance to toilets to be avoided for wheelchair users and blind persons. When it is impractical to provide a lift or a ramp due to the shortage of space, a wheelchair stair-lift or platform lift could be a reasonable alternative. Preferably a visual emergency alarm must be provided to alert people who are deaf or hard of hearing in the event of any disaster. The public infrastructure should ensure that the physical environment is barrier-free by providing ramps, lifts, braille/engraved signage. National Building Code of India-2016 and “Harmonised Guidelines and Space Standards for Barrier-Free Environment for Persons with Disabilities” specify standards for the same. Section 46 of the RPwD Act 2016 makes it mandatory for all public and private buildings to make them accessible.  The Disaster Management Authorities at the Centre, state and district must take appropriate measures to ensure inclusion of persons with disabilities in its disaster management activities as defined under clause (e) of section 2 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005 for the safety and protection of persons with disabilities. The DDMA must maintain a record of details of persons with disabilities in the district and take suitable measures to inform such persons of any situations of risk so as to enhance disaster preparedness. State and district authorities must take all steps to address discrimination against persons with disabilities. The government and non-government establishments must plan and implement a barrier-free physical environment. Old buildings like temples, schools, hospitals, markets, heritage sites etc., need to be made accessible as PwDs are being physically hoisted leading to a feeling of loss of dignity.  (The writer is senior faculty and Head of Centre for Disaster Management, Administrative Training Institute, Mysuru) Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/a-world-with-better-access-for-pwds-1058331.html
06-12-2021||Right in the Middle||Aviation and devotion||It was reported a traditional puja was performed at Chennai airport by Air France, to invoke the blessings of Ganapathi and Kaligamba, by a Hindu priest, before the launch of the direct flight from Chennai to Paris after the pandemic. Even after decades of flying, I never cease to wonder how such a huge aircraft carrying a payload of men and cargo is airborne, defying the gravitational pull, manoeuvred to take off and land safely, despite the vagaries of weather. I feel relieved when the wheels touch down the runways, on a perfect three-point landing or with a thud — I feel nice to be on the terra firma once again. When I was flying to Bombay, my seatmate, a gentleman wearing a religious mark pointed out, “Sir, you can see the Tirupathi hills. And the temple of Lord Balaji over there. Today, the sky is clear, cloud-free, so we are blessed. Did you know many pilots never fly directly over the top of the temple but cruise alongside the seven hills?” “Man may create planes, rockets and satellites, but he cannot create another universe. The one created by sage Viswamitra was an upside-down fiasco.” Having said that, he prayed and immersed himself in the book he was reading. Such is the divine pull of Lord Balajee, even the flamboyant Vijay Mallya, reportedly flew his newly inducted Kingfisher flights first, circumambulating the sacred Seven Hills. I have not been on a pilgrimage to Mount Kailash or scaled the peaks of Mount Everest. But amid a nap in the Airbus to Delhi, I was woken up by the growl of the captain that the passengers on the left can see the mighty snow-capped Himalayas clearly at a distance. A person sitting ahead of me shouted: “Har har Shankar!” while another person completed it, with a “Jai Jai Shankar!” I was thrilled to get a glimpse of the mighty mountain. A southern landmark is the Ram Sethu. A gentleman who accompanied me on my most trips to Colombo always insisted on a window seat, for the sake of a breathtaking view of Ram Sethu when the aircraft flew from Chennai to Colombo’s Katunayake airport at the Southwest end of the island. When I saw it for the first time, I could visualise Ram and Lakshman followed by their allies from the kingdom of Kishkindha, marching over the bridge built by the Ksihkindha engineers. It is an irony such a bridge was not used by the victorious Rama, who returned with Sita, after vanquishing the ten-headed Ravana. No doubt he was in a hurry to reach within the expiry of 14 years of exile. Rama, Sita and the retinue flew by Ravana’s aircraft, the Pushpak Viman! Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/aviation-and-devotion-1058344.html
06-12-2021||Second Edit||Bail, at last, for Sudha Bharadwaj!||The grant of bail by the Bombay High Court to Sudha Bharadwaj, an activist-lawyer who has been jailed since August 2018 in connection with the Bhima-Koregaon case, is welcome, coming as it does after a long legal fight. The order is actually more a reminder of the difficulties in securing bail under the draconian Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) than a recognition of the right to bail of citizens. It is a default bail and was granted on technical grounds, and the conditions of bail will be decided only this week when Sudha Bharadwaj will appear before a special judge of the NIA court. The conditions can be stringent. The NIA has already filed an appeal against the High Court order in the Supreme Court. Bharadwaj is one of the 16 persons, most of them eminent persons, who were charged with terrorism and other serious crimes in the Bhima-Koregaon case.   Bharadwaj was granted bail because her term in captivity was extended beyond the prescribed period by a sessions court that had no jurisdiction. She got the right to default bail as far back as January 2019 when she completed 90 days in jail, as no chargesheet was filed against her by then. It has been granted to her now because she had applied for it. But eight others did not get it because they had not specifically sought it. The court noted in Bharadwaj’s case that the constitutional guarantee of personal liberty under Article 21 cannot be thwarted on technical grounds. The NIA had opposed her plea for default bail on the technical ground that it was premature. That would be a “too technical and formalistic view of the matter”, the court said.   The court rightly decided that an accused should get the benefit from a lapse of the investigation, especially when a constitutional right is involved. No one has been granted bail in the case except poet Varavara Rao, who got it on medical grounds. Another accused, Father Stan Swamy, died for lack of timely medical treatment. The charges against all the accused have sounded dubious, and it has been claimed that some evidence that was used to incriminate them was actually concocted and planted. It is unfortunate that courts could not generally go beyond technicalities in such cases. The Delhi High Court looked into the merits of a UAPA case earlier this year and granted bail to the accused, but the Supreme Court ruled that it could not set a precedent. The courts will hopefully go beyond technical grounds in such cases where personal freedom is involved and examine the merits of the charges, even when the State invokes the UAPA.  Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/bail-at-last-for-sudha-bharadwaj-1058341.html
06-12-2021||South||Flood alert for areas near river banks in Tamil Nadu's Tiruchirappalli||A flood alert was issued for people living on the banks of the Korayar and Ariyar rivers in Tamil Nadu by Tiruchirappalli district collector S Sivarasu on Monday as heavy rains lashed Manapparai and other catchment areas of the rivers. Sivarasu also directed the people to safeguard their livestock, especially in the rural areas. Weather department officials said that Manapparai town and suburbs have recorded 274 mm rainfall on Monday till 9 am. The heavy rains in Tiruchirappalli and surrounding areas for the past few days have resulted in waterlogging in the city and flooding of many residential areas. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/flood-alert-for-areas-near-river-banks-in-tamil-nadus-tiruchirappalli-1058206.html
06-12-2021||South||No Omicron variant in Tamil Nadu; special wards getting ready to treat patients||Seven persons who returned from “high-risk” countries to Tamil Nadu since December 1 have tested positive for Covid-19, but none of them has been infected with the Omicron variant so far. While six persons are being treated in Chennai and Nagercoil, one person is under home isolation in Kumbakonam after he tested negative and continues to be asymptomatic. Health Minister Ma Subramanian, who visited all four airports in the state that operate international flights, said 5,249 persons who returned from 11 “high-risk” countries in 28 flights and 609 persons, chosen randomly, from non-high-risk nations have been tested for Covid-19 since December 1. “Of this, seven persons from high-risk countries have tested positive for Covid-19. The genomic sequencing of their samples has returned negative for the Omicron variant. Six of the seven have Delta variant. Still, we have sent the samples to INSTEM (Institute for Stem Cell Science and Regenerative Medicine) in Bengaluru for deeper analysis,” the Health Minister said. Subramanian appealed to the people to get vaccinated as early as possible as there is “enough evidence” to prove that two doses of vaccine can help prevent death even if infected with Covid-19. Of the six who are under treatment, four are admitted to King Institute, one of the Covid-19 designated hospitals in Chennai, and two – one in a government hospital and the other at a private institute – in Nagercoil. The minister said hospitals in the state will have special wards to treat patients infected with the Omicron variant of the Covid-19 virus. He also said 12 government labs in the state have begun using Thermo Fisher TaqPath Assay as a proxy test for the Omicron variant, pending sequencing confirmation. The Thermo TaqPath RT-PCR test kits are being used to test samples taken from international travellers and others. Five labs in Chennai, two in Coimbatore, and one each in Tiruchirappalli, Salem, Madurai, Tuticorin and Kanyakumari have begun testing the samples. All samples that return positive will be sent for genomic sequencing. On the slow-paced vaccination in a few districts, the minister said he will meet local representatives in Vellore, Ranipet, and Tiruppattur on December 13 to stress upon them to convince people to take their jabs. The minister will also travel to Madurai and Mayiladuthurai in the coming days as part of the efforts to speed-up vaccination. Tamil Nadu has so far administered over 7 crore vaccine doses and is fast-tracking vaccination by holding two special camps across the state every week. The state has also found that the death rate among the vaccinated population is very less, while it is quite high among the unvaccinated. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/no-omicron-variant-in-tamil-nadu-special-wards-getting-ready-to-treat-patients-1058212.html
06-12-2021||South||O Panneerselvam and Edappadi K Palaniswami elected to AIADMK top posts in internal polls||O Panneerselvam and Edappadi K Palaniswami were on Monday elected unopposed as coordinator and joint coordinator, respectively, of the AIADMK, which has kick-started its first organisational elections since the death of party supremo J Jayalalithaa in 2016.  Panneerselvam and Palaniswami had filed their nomination papers on December 3, days after the party’s executive council approved an amendment to allow the election of coordinator and joint coordinator by primary members of the AIADMK through a single-vote system.  The duo was appointed to the coordinator and joint coordinator posts by the party's general council in 2017, which ousted VK Sasikala as the party’s interim general secretary. The election was aimed at keeping Sasikala, who has vowed to take over the AIADMK, at bay.  C Ponnaiyan and Pollachi V Jayaraman, the election commissioners of the party, said in a statement on Monday that several party leaders, including district secretaries and lawmakers, had filed nominations in favour of OPS and EPS. The nominations were taken up for scrutiny on Sunday. “There was only one nomination filed for the posts of coordinator and joint coordinator by O Panneerselvam and Edappadi K Palaniswami. Since the nomination is accepted under rule 20 (A), Section 2, Panneerselvam and Palaniswami are declared elected unopposed as coordinator and joint coordinator, respectively,” Ponnaiyan and Jayaraman said in a statement.  The internal polls have further legitimised the “dual leadership” structure, in a critical setback to Sasikala’s efforts to take over the AIADMK leadership. According to the AIADMK, Sasikala is not even a primary member of the party as she failed to renew her membership in 2017 after the by-laws were amended to accommodate Panneerselvam as coordinator and Palaniswami as joint coordinator.  This is the first time that the AIADMK is conducting organisational polls since Jayalalithaa’s death in 2016, when the general council had used its powers to appoint Sasikala as the interim general secretary. However, the council nullified Sasikala’s appointment a year later and introduced the posts of coordinator and joint coordinator by appointing Jayalalithaa as the “permanent general secretary.” Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/o-panneerselvam-and-edappadi-k-palaniswami-elected-to-aiadmk-top-posts-in-internal-polls-1058220.html
06-12-2021||South||Not onions, it's tomatoes that are making consumers weep||Retail prices of tomato have skyrocketed to a high of Rs 140 per kg in some parts of southern India as supplies have been hit due to heavy rains, according to the government data. Tomato prices are ruling high since September-end in most retail markets of the country but there has been a sharp rise is southern states of late due to continuous rains. In the northern region, retail prices of tomato were ruling in the range of Rs 30-83 per kg on Monday, while that in western region at Rs 30-85 per kg and at Rs 39-80 per kg in the eastern region, according to the data maintained by the Consumer Affairs Ministry. All India average modal price of tomato has remained high at Rs 60 per kg for over a couple of weeks now. Retail prices of tomato were ruling at Rs 140 per kg at Mayabunder and at Rs 127 per kg at Port Blair in the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. In Kerala, tomato was available at Rs 125 per kg in Thiruvananthapuram, at Rs 105 per kg in Palakkad and Wayanad, Rs 94 per kg in Thrissur, Rs 91 per kg in Kozhikode, and Rs 83 per kg in Kottayam on Monday. In Karnataka, the retail price of the key kitchen vegetable was ruling at Rs 100 per kg in Mangalore and Tumakuru, Rs 75 per kg in Dharward, Rs 74 per kg in Mysore, Rs 67 per kg in Shivamoga, Rs 64 per kg in Davanagere and Rs 57 per kg in Bengaluru. In Tamil Nadu too, tomato prices were as high as Rs 102 per kg in Ramanathapuram, Rs 92 per kg in Tirunelveli, Rs 87 per kg in Cuddalore, Rs 83 per kg in Chennai and Rs 75 per kg in Dharmapuri on Monday. In Andhra Pradesh, tomato was sold at Rs 77 per kg in Visakhapatnam and at Rs 72 per kg in Tirupathi, while in Telangana, tomato was costing Rs 85 per kg in Warangal. Retail price of tomato was ruling at Rs 85 per kg in Puducherry on Monday. In metro cities, tomato was sold at Rs 55 per kg in Mumbai, Rs 56 per kg in Delhi, Rs 78 per kg in Kolkata and at Rs 83 per kg in Chennai on Monday. On November 26, the consumer affairs ministry had said that tomato prices are likely to soften from December with the arrival of fresh crops from northern states. Retail tomato prices have risen from September-end due to unseasonal rains in Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh which led to crop damage and delay in arrival from these states, it said. Delayed arrivals from north Indian states was followed by heavy rains in Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Karnataka, which disrupted the supply and also resulted in crop damage. Tomato prices are highly volatile and any slight disruption in supply chain or damage due to heavy rains result in spurt in prices, it had said. As per the Agriculture Ministry, kharif (summer) production of tomato in the current year is at 69.52 lakh tonne as against 70.12 lakh tonne produced last year. Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/not-onions-its-tomatoes-that-are-making-consumers-weep-1058231.html
06-12-2021||South||Dead cows towed on road, IRB invites wrath of Hindu outfit||A video of IRB infrastructure developers company involved in highway works allegedly towing away two dead cows after tying them to the rear of a vehicle, has drawn the ire of an Hindu organisation. The clip, purportedly showing carcasses of two cows found on National Highway 66 being dragged away by using a rope instead of loading them into the vehicle, has gone viral on social media. The Hindu Jagarana Vedike (HJV) expressed anguish over the incident and alleged that cows are dying daily on the roads due to the unscientific manner in which the highway works are being executed by the IRB infrastructure developers, entrusted with the task of widening the National Highway. A case under Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act has been registered at the Byndoor police station in Udupi district in this connection, based on a complaint lodged by an eyewitness Prashanth Moily of Byndoor, police sources said. Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dead-cows-towed-on-road-irb-invites-wrath-of-hindu-outfit-1058251.html
06-12-2021||South||Aspiring model gang-raped by trio in Kochi hotel||A 27-year-old aspiring model was allegedly gang-raped by three persons at a Kochi hotel, who had invited her for a photoshoot, and had given her a drink laced with sedatives. The woman alleged that they had taken obscene photographs of her and were threatening her not to report the incident.  According to the police complaint, the incident took place over the last fortnight and was reported to the police on December 3. Following the complaint, one of the suspects was arrested, while two others are suspected to be on the run. The woman, in her complaint, said that she had come to Kochi from her hometown in Malappuram district and was provided accommodations at the hotel by one Ajmal, who had invited her for the photoshoot. She identified the other two suspects as Shammer and Salim, while alleging that one Christeena, who ran the hotel, also threatened her. She said that she was locked up for two days in the room and managed to escape from the premises on December 3. While Salim was nabbed, the three others are absconding, the police said. The woman's statement was recorded before a magistrate and she was subjected to a medical examination. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/aspiring-model-gang-raped-by-trio-in-kochi-hotel-1058280.html
06-12-2021||South||Don't take coercive action under new IT Rules: Madras High Court tells Centre||The Madras High Court on Monday restrained the Central government from taking any coercive action against digital media firms under the new cal codes made to the parent Information Technology Act. The first bench of Acting Chief Justice MN Bhandari and Justice PD Audikesavalu gave the injunction when a new Public Interest Litigation (PIL) petition from the Indian Broadcasters and Digital Media Foundation came up for hearing today. "The respondents (Centre) are restrained from taking any coercive action without the permission of the Court," the bench said and posted the matter for further hearing on January 25. The petition challenged the provisions of Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, brought in February this year. Earlier, the petitioner's senior counsel alleged that the Centre was initiating penal action as per the provisions of the Rules, even though the Bombay High Court had granted an interim stay of the Rules a couple of months ago. The Bombay High Court had on August 14 this year stayed the operation of sub-rules (1) and (3) of Rule 9 of the said Rules of 2021. The Kerala High Court had also passed a similar order restraining the Centre from taking any action, he pointed out. Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dont-take-coercive-action-under-new-it-rules-madras-high-court-tells-centre-1058289.html
06-12-2021||South||Fighting odds, Kerala's Wayanad becomes first fully e-file administered district||Enlisted as one of the most backward districts in the country, Wayanad in Kerala has fought all odds and become the state's first district to fully shift to the e-file system from the village office-level to the district collectorate. Many village offices of this district are located in remote areas and tribal hamlets where internet is a luxury, adding to its achievement of automating the entire workflow of the government. It is represented by Congress leader Rahul Gandhi in the Lok Sabha.  The e-file system aims to bring transparency and accountability in government activities with options like file tracking and file status monitoring facilities for the public. Officials are also sighing in reilef as physical transfer of files from village offices in remote locations to taluk offices and collectorate used to be a tiring task. Moreover, a shift to the e-file system has also ensured that the functioning of the district administration up to the grass-root level remained unaffected during the Covid lockdown. Wayanad district has 49 village offices and three taluk offices. Though the number of village offices is comparatively low, the remote locations of many village offices made the implementation a challenging task, which started in 2015. The district administration incentivised officials to effectively implement the system. Officials of Kerala State IT Mission (KSITM) implementing the e-office system across the state said that Wayanad could be even the first district in the country to make this much progress in transforming to e-files. A formal declaration of the same is likely to be made by the government soon. KSITM district project officer Nived S told DH that the primary focus was to establish high-speed internet connectivity at the village offices in remote locations as cables had to be laid through tough terrains and forest areas. BSNL and some private service providers made it possible. In some of the villages, cables were damaged in the natural calamities and there were also instances of wild animals damaging cables. Since many of the hilly areas faced frequent power failure during rough weather, UPS systems had to be installed. Apart from giving training to officials on using the systems, people are also being made aware of the facilities like submitting applications and checking its status online. People generally depend on Akshaya digital service centres for these services. Wayanad district collector A Geetha, who felicitated officials for effective implementation of the e-office, said that so far 1.03 lakh e-files were handled. During this year, 25,410 e-files were handled so far and pendency could be minimised. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/fighting-odds-keralas-wayanad-becomes-first-fully-e-file-administered-district-1058290.html
06-12-2021||South||At last, OPS, EPS shake hands; how long will the truce last?||A smiling O Panneerselvam and Edappadi K Palaniswami filing nomination papers together to become the coordinator and joint coordinator of the AIADMK through organisational elections denotes a truce arrived between the two warring leaders to keep their former boss and once-powerful V K Sasikala at bay.  The duo was on Monday elected unopposed as leaders of the AIADMK, which entered its golden jubilee year in October, effectively shutting the doors on Sasikala, the long-time aide of late chief minister J Jayalalithaa, albeit for now.  AIADMK leadership feel vesting the powers of electing the leadership with primary members through an amendment to the by-laws will make the “dual leadership” stronger, since according to the party, Sasikala is no longer a member after she failed to renew her membership in 2017. Panneerselvam, Jayalalithaa’s choice to stand-by as CM twice when she had to resign due to corruption cases, and Palaniswami, thrust into the political limelight by Sasikala, haven’t been on good terms ever since they were forced to bury their differences and come together at the behest of the BJP, which still has a considerable influence over the AIADMK.  However, what could have been the tipping point towards arriving at the truce is Panneerselvam asserting his authority within the AIADMK in mid-October by pitching for a debate on Sasikala’s re-induction into the party. OPS’ public statement was a rude shock to Palaniswami, who is dead opposed to any such move, and this might have brought in a change of mind.  The two leaders, sources in the party said, now understand that “dual leadership” and projecting a “united face” only can achieve their twin goals -- controlling the party themselves and preventing Sasikala from hopping onto the AIADMK bus.  It is also the realisation within the EPS’ camp that continued sidelining and erosion of Panneerselvam’s authority could push him towards the Sasikala camp, eventually leading to a vertical split in the party, that seems to have fastened the truce pact.  The truce works for OPS as well -- he will continue to be the coordinator, a post that places him a notch above Palaniswami in the party hierarchy – compared to playing the second fiddle for Sasikala or walk into political oblivion.  In the event of Sasikala controlling the party, both OPS and EPS would lose their authority in the AIADMK.  Sasikala’s reentry would also mean the party is controlled by her Mannargudi clan yet again, one of the prime reasons that political analysts attribute to the Jayalalithaa’s aide not gaining any traction despite AIADMK’s loss in the assembly polls. The family might spread its tentacles wide within the party and the majority in the party seems against such a scenario, the analysts said.  Despite several attempts, Sasikala, who was a backroom player when Jayalalithaa was alive, has not been able to galvanize the AIADMK cadre and her visit to flood-affected areas also received a lukewarm response from the public and her supporters.  Prof. Ramu Manivannan, Head of the Department of Politics and Public Administration, University of Madras, told DH that all the three stakeholders – OPS, EPS, and Sasikala – are playing their own survival game.  “AIADMK per se is still an asset and is not a liability. The party has a certain legacy thanks to M G Ramachandran and J Jayalalithaa and that is why we see an intense fight for the leadership. No one wants to leave the legacy. Sasikala can launch a party of her own if she wants, but she won’t because she wants a say in the AIADMK because of the legacy attached to it,” he said.  The individual compulsion of OPS and EPS seems to have solved the raging leadership issue in the AIADMK, for now. But the larger question of how long the peace will last remains unanswered – the leadership question might remerge once elections to urban local bodies are over.   Will Sasikala have a chance then? Only time can answer. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/at-last-ops-eps-shake-hands-how-long-will-the-truce-last-1058323.html
06-12-2021||State||Decision on Karnataka Cabinet expansion after Winter Session: CM||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Monday stated that a decision about the Cabinet expansion would be taken based on the party high command's suggestion after the Winter Session of the State Legislature. "We have Legislative Council elections before us now. Then comes the Session. After that, steps regarding Cabinet expansion would be taken, based on our senior leaders' suggestion," he said. Commenting on the issue of BJP-JD(S) pact for Council elections, Bommai said H D Kumaraswamy has to tell about the JD(S)' stand. On Covid Covid cases are now being reported in clusters. All suggestions being received related to measures to be taken to check the spread of infection would be placed before the expert committee, their opinion would be obtained and suitable decision would be taken, he said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/decision-on-karnataka-cabinet-expansion-after-winter-session-cm-1058137.html
06-12-2021||State||38 more Covid-19 cases reported in Chikkamagaluru||With 38 fresh Covid-19 cases being reported on Monday, Covid tally increased to 107 at the new cluster, Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya, in Seegodu in Koppa Taluk. Chikkamagaluru District Health Officer (DHO) Dr Umesh said 35 among 38 who had tested positive for Covid-19 were students and the remaining were the staff. Koppa Tahsildar H S Parameshwar said an ambulance was stationed at the Vidyalaya premises in order to help the school handle any emergency. Chief Minister’s political secretary D N Jeevraj said that 10 oxygen concentrators, pulse meters and PPE kits were sent to the Vidyalaya. "The condition of all Covid 19 positive people are stable,” he added. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/38-more-covid-19-cases-reported-in-chikkamagaluru-1058166.html
06-12-2021||State||NWKRTC board hinting at jail term for not giving change for bus fare creates confusion||A board at NWKRTC's regional terminal at Hosur in Hubballi left passengers shocked as it hinted that not bringing change for ticket fare could be punishable and even attract a jail term. The board stated that it was the passengers' responsibility to bring exact change for the fare as conductors cannot bring money during work hours. It went on to say that obstructing transport corporation staff's duty is punishable under the IPC. The second part of the message added that the Supreme Court has identified transport corporation drivers and conductors as pubic servants under IPC Section 21 and in case they are assaulted or obstructed from doing their duty, three years of jail term under IPC section 332, three years jail term under section 353 and three months of jail term under section 186 can be imposed. This made many passengers think that not giving the exact change of fare will attract punishment. When contacted, NWKRTC Hubballi divisional controller H Ramanagoudar clarified that they were two separate issues that were linked by mistake, admitting that creating confusion in such a manner was wrong. "Passengers can only be requested to give change. An explanation will be sought from those who installed the board and action will also be initiated," he added. DH Impact DH informed the NWKRTC officials about the board and the staff had it removed. "We will find out who installed this board. No such boards are found in other bus stands or in buses. Anyway, we will check again," Ramanagoudar said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/nwkrtc-board-hinting-at-jail-term-for-not-giving-change-for-bus-fare-creates-confusion-1058229.html
06-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Small industrial projects can get agri land in Karnataka||Small industrial projects with an investment of up to Rs 15 crore can now be set up on agricultural land in Karnataka, after the state government amended rules in the hope of attracting more investment. The Basavaraj Bommai government recently notified tweaks to the Karnataka Land Reforms Rules, according to which industrial projects worth Rs 15 crore can come under Section 109 of the Karnataka Land Reforms Act.  This means such projects need not follow the ceiling on ownership and other restrictions governing transaction of agricultural land.  Section 109 enables direct purchase of agricultural land from farmers and industrial projects can get up to 40 units (216 acres) of agricultural land. Otherwise, the ceiling prescribed for a family of five people is 108 acres, which is two units (10.8 acres) per head.  The notification states that such smaller industrial projects recommended by the district-level single window agency headed by the deputy commissioner can be granted exemptions under Section 109.  “Clearances given to industrial projects at the state level automatically come under Section 109. However, there was no such mechanism for small industrial projects that get cleared at the district level,” principal secretary (revenue) Tushar Giri Nath said. He added that the amendment of the rules was an “ease-of-doing-business reform to increase the flow of investments”.  In addition to small projects, industries with a total investment of up to Rs 500 crore can get exemption under Section 109 by the State Level Single Window Clearance Committee (SLSWCC) on the recommendation of the Land Audit Committee headed by the industries minister.  Projects worth more than Rs 500 crore can be brought under Section 109 by the State High Level Clearance Committee (SHLCC) on the recommendation of the Land Audit Committee headed by the chief minister, the notification states.  Last year, Karnataka controversially liberalised agricultural landholding by allowing non-agriculturists to buy farmlands.  Also last year, the government announced that once a proposal to purchase agricultural land for industrial purposes is cleared by the SHLCC or SLSWCC, the process under Section 109 has to be completed in 30 days (it was 60 days earlier). If not, it will be deemed permitted or approved. These and other reforms will be showcased in the flagship Invest Karnataka summit scheduled to take place in November 2022.  Between January and September this year, 128 investment projects worth Rs 18,357 crore promising 24,853 jobs have been cleared.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/small-industrial-projects-can-get-agri-land-in-karnataka-1058043.html
06-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka preparing Rs 578-crore road safety programme||The Road Safety Authority is drawing up a Rs 578-crore project for reducing accidents in Karnataka, which topped the list of states with a high number of fatal road accidents in 2020. Karnataka is one of the 14 states, including Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu, where the road safety improvement programme will be implemented.  The project, spread over the next five years, will focus on 11 major parameters, including driver training, road engineering, vehicle safety, enforcement and post-crash care. In addition, the state government can choose three electives based on specific needs.  Senior officials said the overall expenditure on 14 states was Rs 6,725 crore, which is being distributed as per the particular needs. Of the Rs 578 crore allocated to Karnataka, the release of funds will be based on key performance indicators. The Union Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (Morth) is funding 50 per cent of the project, while the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank will provide the remaining amount through equal loan amounts. “Karnataka needs this programme in view of the growth of the vehicle population over the last few years. We will soon propose the roadmap of the programme to the Transport department, following which the document will be sent for approval from the state and the Centre,” said J Gnanendra Kumar, additional commissioner, Road Safety Cell. He said the Authority will work on building an integrated road accident database that will help identify blackspots and bring transparency and accountability to the sector. “There is a need for creating awareness among the public and we believe it should start with the school curriculum. Our proposal will take into account the holistic aspect of road safety,” he noted. Gnanendra said the emphasis of the programme will be on reducing accidents and fatalities, with a focus on two-wheeler riders and pedestrians. Deaths due to traffic accidents in Karnataka have come down from 11,286 in 2016 to 10,951 in 2019 and dropping to 7,809 in 2020.  Officials said lockdown and travel restrictions were major factors for the reduction. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-preparing-rs-578-crore-road-safety-programme-1058059.html
06-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka minister hints at shutting schools, colleges after spike in Covid-19 clusters||A sudden spike in the number of Covid-19 clusters in various parts of the state especially at schools and colleges has left both the education and health department officials worried. While adopting a wait-and-watch approach, Primary and Secondary Education minister B C Nagesh on Monday said that government is ready to shut down schools if the numbers continue to increase. Dropping a hint about the likely decision by the state government in a few days, the minister told media persons that the safety of kids is the utmost priority. “Our top priority would be well being of the kids. If the situation turns worse, we are ready to shut down schools,” the minister clarified. However, the minister further explained that the department is already considering alternative modes of classes for kids in such emergency scenarios. “As of now there is no such fear and even parents need not panic. In fact, during examinations, we adopt stringent Covid protocols as it is known that we allow only one student per desk.”  The minister also said that he would personally visit a few of the schools and has sought a report already. “We are even thinking of issuing a separate advisory to residential schools,” he revealed. In the meantime, the number of infected kids has shot up to 107 at the Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya cluster in Koppa taluk of Chikkamagalur. Out of the 38 confirmed Covid positive cases, there are 35 students and three staffers of the school.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-minister-hints-at-shutting-schools-colleges-after-spike-in-covid-19-clusters-1058127.html
06-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Omicron being reported only from clusters: Karnataka CM||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Monday that Omicron variant of Coronavirus is being reported only from clusters in the state and the measures suggested by the experts have already been taken to check the spread of the new variant. He told media persons that the government has kept a strict vigil on the new strain. The guidelines will be changed from time to time based on the experts' advise, he said adding that the government is prepared to check the spread of Omircon. To a query on the students testing positive for Covid-19 at Jawahar Navodaya Vidyala in Seegodu of Chikkamagaluru district, Bommai said the school has been sealed down, besides subjecting all the students of the school to Covid-19 test. Check out DH's latest videos on Covid-19:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/omicron-being-reported-only-from-clusters-karnataka-cm-1058158.html
06-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Tomato prices touch Rs 100-mark per kg||The vegetable prices have soared in Mysuru city, with tomatoes touching Rs 100-mark per kg, in Mysuru city, on Monday. The tomato prices were hovering around Rs 50 to 80 last week and have shot to Rs 100. While the HOPCOMS outlet price is around Rs 100 per kg for the tomatoes, it is a little more in retail shops, depending on the quality of the produce and the locality it is sold. For the first time, the people have seen vegetables like knol-kohl sold at Rs 70 per kg, radish at Rs 70, Ridged gourd at Rs 80 per kg and Lady’s fingers at Rs 80. The prices of all vegetables have shot, burning a hole in the pocket of the common man. According to shopkeepers, there are not many tomatoes available in the wholesale market, resulting in great demand for the red vegetable. The supply is not as per the demand. It is around Rs 90 to Rs 95, in the APMC market, they claimed. Besides, heavy rain in the Mysuru district in the month of November has destroyed crops including vegetables. This is also one of the reasons for the increase in prices of vegetables, it is said. Except for potatoes, the prices of all vegetables, including greens have increased. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/tomato-prices-touch-rs-100-mark-per-kg-1058334.html
06-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||130 students test positive for Covid across Karnataka||The Department of Public Instruction (DPI) has stated that as many as 130 students between classes 1 and 10 have tested positive for Covid-19. The data was collated from all 34 educational districts as on Monday. The reports have been submitted by educational institutions where clusters have been reported. The highest number of Covid-19 cases have been reported in Chikkamagaluru district, with 92 positive cases. All these students belong to the Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya, a statement from the DPI read. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/130-students-test-positive-for-covid-across-karnataka-1058342.html
06-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Mekedatu padayatra: Participants to get certificate||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D K Shivakumar said the Congress party will take out a padayatra from Mekedatu to Bengaluru on January 1, demanding implementation of the Mekedatu project. It has been decided to distribute certificates to all the participants, he said. Those willing to participate should register their names along with their passport size photograph. Everyone should extend support to the historical movement, he said. Permission was given to the Mekedatu project while the Congress government was in power. Works can be initiated after getting permission from the Ministry of Environment. But, the present government has totally neglected it, he alleged. Congress has issued tickets to the youths for the MLC elections and is confident of winning, he said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/mekedatu-padayatra-participants-to-get-certificate-1058345.html
06-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Ban on religious conversion affects oppressed classes, says writer Aravind Malagatti||Writer Aravind Malagatti said the prohibition of religious conversion law would take away the freedom of the oppressed class. He was addressing the gathering in a session ‘A conversion ban’, as part of Mahaparinirvan Diwas to mark the death anniversary of B R Ambedkar, organised by Karnataka Dalit Welfare Trust, at Institution of Engineers, here, on Monday. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has said the forceful religious conversion will be banned and a new rule will be brought. But, the Indian Constitution has anti-conversion rules and there is no need for a fresh one, Malagatti said. He also urged the CM to reconsider it. Indian constitution allows conversion within a framework. Conversion is not new and exists since long. The country would remain intact if Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) made inter-caste marriage compulsory for its members, he said. Writer Na Divakar alleged that BJP has proposed a ban on conversion in order to be in power. This would result in moral policing and many such issues. BJP is not tolerating scheduled castes converting into Buddhism. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ban-on-religious-conversion-affects-oppressed-classes-says-writer-aravind-malagatti-1058346.html
06-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||5-year-old daughter of Omicron patient fit for discharge, tests negative; older daughter positive||The five-year-old daughter of 46-year-old Omicron-infected government anaesthetist is fit to be discharged, as she had tested negative on RT-PCR, according to doctors treating her at Bowring and Lady Curzon Hospital. However, the older daughter, a 14-year-old, is still RT-PCR positive. Doctors said they are not as concerned about the young girls having Omicron (even as their genomic sequencing results are still awaited) as much as their developing multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children (MIS-C) as that is common after Covid recovery in children. Dr Chikkanarasappa Reddy, professor of Paediatrics, Bowring Hospital, said, "Both the girls are asymptomatic. We have refrained from taking blood samples as both are in good spirits, have a good appetite, and are playing well with each other and their parents." "But we don't know how this new virus behaves. MIS-C is seen in children who recover from Covid. We don't know what the body's reaction will be. From our past experience, children develop MIS-C three to four weeks after recovery. Not that all children will develop it. We usually counsel parents to watch out for the sudden onset of fever and body weakness," he added. Asked if Omicron suspects and confirmed patients can be housed in the same ward while awaiting results, he said, "We cannot separate children from their parents. Also, they are contacts. Clinically, for all practical purposes, we treat it as Omicron only. We have kept all medicines ready but have not given them even paracetamol. They don't even have a fever. We keep checking during routine rounds." The doctor said when children are separated from their parents, there is a rise in anxiety levels. "We have seen this in routine Covid cases. Hence, they are all in the same room. The parents have been informed about their daughters. They are yet to take a call on whether to send their child home or to wait till their mother can be discharged," he said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/5-year-old-daughter-of-omicron-patient-fit-for-discharge-tests-negative-older-daughter-positive-1058367.html
06-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Monoclonal antibody therapy to Omicron suspected patients gives intriguing results||The administration of monoclonal antibody therapy to the Omicron variant-infected as well as suspected patients at the Bowring and Lady Curzon Hospital is giving intriguing results to doctors. Currently, the isolation ward of the hospital has four patients. While the 46-year-old anaesthetist is a confirmed Omicron-infected patient, the other three are suspected to be Omicron patients, including an ophthalmologist (wife of the 46-year-old doctor), another anaesthetist, a vascular surgeon and a cardiothoracic surgeon. Duty doctors at the hospital revealed to DH that the infection in all of them is resolved except in the ophthalmologist. According to doctors, she was the only patient who had not taken monoclonal antibody therapy. The objective of this treatment is to stimulate the patient's immune system to attack certain protein cells in the virus. The treating physician Dr Madhumathi R, professor of Medicine at Bowring, said, "Because she (the ophthalmologist) had not taken the cocktail antibodies, infection is taking its natural course. It is a new virus in its neonatal phase. It is very difficult to tell what therapy works. It depends on the attending clinician. Everybody may not receive it." Adding further, the doctor said, "Usually, the therapy is used for patients with risk factors like immunocompromised conditions, diabetes, hypertension and advanced age. Only one or two of them haven't taken this treatment. It is a costly treatment," she added.  Severe myalgia (muscle pain) While the doctors have come across similar symptoms in all the patients such as fever, they all had severe myalgia (muscle pain). "Obesity plays a role alongside any comorbid condition for that matter. Most of them have no comorbidities. One of them is slightly obese," she said. Daily schedule A typical day in the Omicron ward includes monitoring the vitals of the seven patients (including two children), checking oxygen saturation, making them do a six-minute walk test (desaturation is an early symptom of deterioration in the patient's condition), and collecting blood samples once in 48 hours to do routine investigations.  "They listen to music as it is normal to feel anxious about this situation. Since they are doctors they know how to manage these tests. Because this is a new virus, there is a little anxiety in the ward. We counsel and talk to them. There can be extrapulmonary manifestations like cardiac symptoms or post-viral complications so we advise rest, fluids and diet to improve their immune system," she said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/monoclonal-antibody-therapy-to-omicron-suspected-patients-gives-intriguing-results-1058368.html
06-12-2021||West||Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray, Governor pay tributes to Ambedkar on his death anniversary||Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari, Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar and other state ministers paid respects to Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar, the architect of the Indian Constitution, at his memorial 'Chaityabhoomi' here on Monday to mark his death anniversary. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, who is recuperating after a cervical spine surgery conducted last month, could not visit the Chaityabhoomi, Ambedkar's cremation place located in Dadar area here, but took to Twitter to pay respects to the iconic leader. “Humble tributes to Constitution architect Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar on the Mahaparinirvan Din (death anniversary)! We are experiencing the Amrit moments (75 years) of freedom today. Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar's invaluable contribution of building a strong republic nation is the reason behind it,” the Chief Minister's Office (CMO) tweeted. भारतीय राज्यघटनेचे शिल्पकार भारतरत्न डॉ. बाबासाहेब आंबेडकर यांना महापरिनिर्वाण दिनी विनम्र अभिवादन! आज आपण स्वातंत्र्याचे अमृत क्षण अनुभवत आहोत. त्यामागे डॉ. बाबासाहेब आंबेडकर यांचे सशक्त प्रजासत्ताक राष्ट्र उभारणीचे अमूल्य योगदान कारणीभूत आहे.- मुख्यमंत्री उद्धव बाळासाहेब ठाकरे Governor Koshyari visited the Chaityabhoomi on the occasion of the Mahaparinirvan Din and "joined the recitation of Buddha Vandana", his office said in a tweet. Deputy CM Pawar, after paying respects to Ambedkar, told mediapersons that the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in Maharashtra will take the state forward following the iconic leader's ideology of “equality, brotherhood and unity”. The NCP leader also asked all political parties to ensure there are “no differences created” among communities. “No incident should not be seen through a political prism. Efforts should be made to find a way out properly.  That is exactly what Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar tried to tell the country and the world,” said Pawar, who was accompanied by state Social Justice Minister Dhananjay Munde. The deputy chief minister, however, did not specify any particular incident as he made the remarks. He also urged people visiting the Chaityabhoomi to observe Covid-19 related norms to avoid spread of the disease. NCP president Sharad Pawar paid tributes to Ambedkar on Twitter, and hailed him for awakening people be-devilled by caste system, untouchability and slavery. Maharashtra Home Minister Dilip Walse Patil, Environment Minister Aaditya Thackeray, Minority Affairs Minister Nawab Malik, Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar and others leaders also paid respects to Ambedkar at the memorial. Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-governor-pay-tributes-to-ambedkar-on-his-death-anniversary-1058105.html
06-12-2021||West||MSRTC employees' strike enters 40th day; bus services resume at 78 depots||Employees of the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) continued their strike for the 40th day on Monday, even as the bus operations resumed in 78 out of total 250 depots across the state, officials said. On Sunday, the corporation operated the highest 1,700 buses, out of its fleet of nearly 16,000 vehicles, since the strike intensified after the Diwali festival last month, a spokesperson of the MSRTC said. A large number of the MSRTC employees have refused to relent, and are firm on their demand for the merger of the loss-making corporation with the state government. They went on the strike from October 28, and intensified it last month. Since most of the bus depots are shut, passengers have been facing a tough time. "The bus operations have resumed so far in 78 out of 250 depots," the MSRTC spokesperson said. The state-owned corporation has so far suspended 9,625 permanent employees and terminated the services of 1,990 daily wage workers following the strike, as per MSRTC officials. Despite repeated appeals and warnings by Maharashtra Transport Minister Anil Parab, who is the MSRTC's chairman, a large number of employees are continuing the strike and many of them have protested outside the depots and bus stands of the corporation. According to union sources, the MSRTC has transferred several employees since last week. As a result, the attendance at many depots has improved and bus operations at some more depots are likely to resume. The MSRTC is one of the biggest public transport bodies in the country with a fleet of around 16,000 buses and 93,000 employees. The corporation used to ferry nearly 65 lakh passengers per day before the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic last year.  Watch the DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/msrtc-employees-strike-enters-40th-day-bus-services-resume-at-78-depots-1058130.html
06-12-2021||West||Vaccine, mask two options to prevent Omicron: IMA||As Omicron cases surfaced in Maharashtra, the Indian Medical Association (IMA) on Monday stated that vaccination and masks are the two best available preventative options. The IMA-Maharashtra, the apex body of doctors in the state, is keeping a close watch on the situation. “We appeal to people in the state to abide by the Covid-specific protocols strictly. We advise strict use of masks, maintain hygiene and avoid crowding,” Dr Suhas Pingle, president, IMA-Maharashtra State, said. Dr Pingle appealed to people in the state to complete both doses of vaccination. The IMA team will communicate with the government authorities regarding the emerging situation. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/vaccine-mask-two-options-to-prevent-omicron-ima-1058139.html
06-12-2021||West||NIA seeks Supreme Court hearing over bail to Sudha Bharadwaj in Bhima Koregaon case||The National Investigation Agency on Monday asked the Supreme Court to give urgent hearing on its plea against default bail granted to lawyer and activist Sudha Bharadwaj by the Bombay High Court in Bhima Koregaon case. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta mentioned the matter before a bench presided over by Chief Justice N V Ramana, saying the High Court's order would come into effect on December 8. "I have to succeed or lose tomorrow," he said, indicating the matter required urgent hearing. The bench, also comprising Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli, agreed to consider his plea. The NIA had on December 2, approached the court challenging the Bombay High Court's December 1 order, granting default bail to Bharadwaj for her role in the 2018 Bhima Koregaon – Elgar Parishad case. Bharadwaj was taken into custody by Pune police on October 27, 2018. She sought bail on the ground that the judge who extended the 90-day period for filing a charge sheet was not designated by the central government. The chargesheet was filed only on February 21, 2019. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/nia-seeks-supreme-court-hearing-over-bail-to-sudha-bharadwaj-in-bhima-koregaon-case-1058143.html
06-12-2021||West||SC hints at CBI probe of criminal cases against Param Bir Singh||The Supreme Court on Monday hinted at transferring the probe against former Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh, after his letter claiming Rs 100-crore extortion charges against then Maharashtra home minister caused a stir, to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). It directed the state police to continue its probe for now, but restrained it from filing a charge sheet against the officer. A bench presided over by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul said the court was, prima facie, of the view that the probe against Singh can be handed over by to the CBI. As the Maharashtra state counsel opposed the plea by Singh, the bench, also comprising Justice MM Sundresh, pointed out that it was considering the issue from the point of likelihood of bias against him in the cases registered by the state police. The CBI, for its part, said it had no problem in taking over the investigation into criminal cases against Singh. It had already been entrusted to probe charges against then Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh. The court granted the CBI one week to file a written response in the matter. The bench also directed that the order, granting interim protection from arrest to Singh, would continue. An officer of the 1988-batch of the Indian Police Service, Singh was granted protection from arrest on November 22.  It fixed the matter for further hearing on January 11, 2022. Watch the latest DH Videos here: Singh had approached the top court against the September 16 order of the Bombay High Court, which directed him to approach the Central Administrative Tribunal, though it did not have any power to order the CBI probe.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sc-hints-at-cbi-probe-of-criminal-cases-against-param-bir-singh-1058197.html
06-12-2021||West||SC stays 27% OBC quota in Maharashtra local body elections||The Supreme Court on Monday stayed 27% reservation for the Other Backward Classes in the local body elections, brought by an Ordinance by the Maharashtra government.   A bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar and C T Ravikumar said that a 27% OBC quota could not have been implemented without setting up a commission and without collecting data regarding the inadequacy of representation local government wise. "Without setting up of a commission to collect data local government wise, it is not open to the State Election Commission to provide for reservation of OBC category. That is the first step which ought to have been done," the bench said in the order. The court passed the order in writ petitions, challenging the validity of the Maharashtra Ordinance which introduced a 27% OBC quota in the local body elections and the notifications issued by the State Election Commission in this regard. The bench ordered that the State Election Commission cannot be permitted to proceed with the election programme in respect of the OBC reservation category.   The last date for filing nominations for the local body has been fixed on December 7. In September this year, the state government brought the Ordinance to amend the Maharashtra Zilla Parishads and Panchayat Samitis Act, 1961 and Maharashtra Village Panchayat Act for Zilla Parishads, Panchayat Samiti and Gram Panchayats, reserving 27% seats for the (OBC) community. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sc-stays-27-obc-quota-in-maharashtra-local-body-elections-1058268.html
06-12-2021||West||Two more test positive for Covid-19 Omicron variant in Maharashtra, state total at 10||Two persons who arrived in Mumbai from South Africa and the United States have tested positive for the Omicron variant of Covid-19, taking the total to 10 in Maharashtra. The two persons — a 37-year-old from Johannesburg in South Africa and his 36-year-old friend from the US — landed in Mumbai on November 25. Both patients have no symptoms and are admitted to the Seven Hills Hospital in Mumbai, said officials. Both patients have taken Pfizer’s Covid-19 vaccine, according to officials of the Public Health Department.  “Five high-risk and 315 low-risk contacts of both these patients have been traced. Further tracing is currently under way,” officials said. Meanwhile, the Indian Medical Association (IMA) stated that vaccination and masks are the two best available preventive options.  The IMA-Maharashtra, the apex body of doctors in the state, is keeping a close watch on the situation.  “We appeal to people in the state to abide by the Covid-specific protocols strictly. We advise strict use of masks, maintain the hygiene and avoid crowding,” Dr Suhas Pingle, President, IMA-Maharashtra State, said. Dr Pingle appealed to people in the state to complete their vaccination schedule. The IMA team will communicate with the government authorities regarding the emerging situation. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/two-more-test-positive-for-covid-19-omicron-variant-in-maharashtra-state-total-at-10-1058304.html
06-12-2021||West||Five sailors quarantined as Omicron suspects in Goa||Goa Health Minister Vishwajit Rane on Monday said that five sailors suspected of having Omicron have been quarantined at a notified facility in South Goa while urging against panic in the coastal state. A senior state health services official also said that out of the five sailors, two are Russians, who boarded the vessel enroute.  The bauxite-carrying ship arrived in Goa's waters on November 18 after embarking from Cape Town in South Africa on October 31. "I would like to inform the people of the state of Goa, that five crew members from a vessel who were suspected of the #OmicronVirus in #Goa have been isolated. Their samples have been sent to Pune for genome sequencing, results of the same are awaited," Rane tweeted. "I appeal to the people of the state of Goa to not panic and continue taking all the precautions to stay protected from the virus," Rane also said. According to Dr Utkarsh Betodkar, a state epidemiologist, the test results are expected on Wednesday or Thursday. The official said that the Covid infection may have spread from one of the two Russian nationals who boarded the vessel after it arrived in Goa on November 18. The vessel is currently anchored at the Mormugao Port Trust in South Goa. "Two Russians boarded the ship on November 23. On November 29, one of them became partially symptomatic. He was tested in Goan waters and was found to be positive for Covid. Because he was positive, other crew members, around 21 of them, were tested. Results showed that four more are positive," Betodkar told reporters. Currently, one person is still in isolation on board the ship, because his documentation was being processed, while four persons, including the two Russian nationals have been quarantined at a notified government health centre. "We have taken them as suspects for Omicron and we have isolated them. Out of that, three are already isolated in the Cansaulim PHC, which is a notified facility. One person is still on the vessel isolated," the official said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/five-sailors-quarantined-as-omicron-suspects-in-goa-1058308.html
06-12-2021||West||Honour killing: Boy, mother behead sister, click selfie with head in Maharashtra's Aurangabad||In a suspected case of honour killing, a minor boy, with the help of his mother, allegedly beheaded his sister for marrying against the wishes of the family and then clicked a selfie with the head, the police in Aurangabad of Maharashtra said Monday. The incident took place in Ladgaon in Vaijapur tehsil on Sunday afternoon, an official said. "Kirti (21) had got married to Avinash Thore in Vaijapur on June 21 and was staying in Gayagaon village. This angered her family. Kirti's minor brother and her mother reached her house and beheaded her while she was preparing tea for them," subdivisional police officer Kailash Prajapati said. "The minor and his mother even clicked a selfie with Kirti's head. The dismembered corpse was found in the kitchen by her husband Avinash. The two accused reached Vaijapur police station after committing the crime," a second officer said.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/honour-killing-boy-mother-behead-sister-click-selfie-with-head-in-maharashtras-aurangabad-1058315.html
06-12-2021||West||Gujarat Congress gives grand welcome to new state president, LoP||The Gujarat Congress sounded the poll bugle on Monday by organising a grand reception for newly appointed state party president Jagdish Thakor and leader of opposition (LoP) Sukhram Rathwa outside the party headquarters in Ahmedabad. In a show of strength ahead of 2022 Assembly polls, the party gathered a large number of workers and supporters to welcome the new leaders. 64-year-old ex-MP Thakor, belonging to strong Other Backward Caste (OBC), and party MLA from central Gujarat Rathva, a tribal, took over the charge of Gujarat Pradesh Congress Committee's President and LoP respectively in a grand function held in front of Rajiv Gandhi Bhawan, the party's headquarters in Paldi. Almost all the top state leaders including four past presidents-Amit Chavda, Bharatsinh Solanki, Arjun Modhwadia and Siddarth Patel, State Working President Hardik Patel, independent MLA Jignesh Mevani, among other leaders, were present on the occasion on the stage. In their speeches, the Congress leaders attacked the ruling BJP and said that "defeating BJP in Gujarat" would be the key to defeat the Prime Minister Narendra Modi. In their speeches, Congress leaders attacked BJP government and said that after sensing defeat in 2022 Assembly poll, "rubber stamp Vijay Rupani" and his group of ministers were sacked. "After removing one rubber stamp, BJP brought Bhupendrabhai, who is another rubber stamp," Solanki said in his public speech. He claimed that "it is CR Paatil (Gujarat BJP president), a suspended head constable, who is actually running the state government." Invoking Paatil's origins in Maharashtra, Solanki said that "Gujarat can't be ruled by anyone other than Gujaratis." He also said that the Gujarat government is being "administered" by an IAS officer, who retired back in 2013, but continues to run the government to "cover corruption that took place during the time of then chief minister Narendra Modi." The new President Thakor, meanwhile, focused on issues related to farmers and unemployment while speaking about "roadmap" of the party to launch the poll campaign. He said that his party would waive off all loans of farmers and ensure job for 50 lakh unemployed youths. Several Congress insiders, DH spoke to, said that "it is early signs of a possible revival of the party before the upcoming Assembly polls, but it is too soon to predict anything. There are some leaders and their supporters who are upset with the new appointments." They said that the party is focusing on OBC, Tribals, Dalits and Muslims, their core voters, beside cosying up with Patidars, the most influential voters in the state. The party has Hardik Patel who has been given prominence with the post of working president while recently ex-president and former union minister Bharatsinh Solanki met Naresh Patel triggering a speculation over the latter joining politics. Patel is a prominent Patidar leader and president of Shree Khodaldham Trust, which manages Khodaldham temple, the shrine of Leuva Patel community's deity goddess Khodiyar in Rajkot. Hardik Patel told reporters later on Monday that "Congress would give Naresh Patel red carpet welcome if he joins." Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-congress-gives-grand-welcome-to-new-state-president-lop-1058316.html
