07-12-2021||Davangere||Man stabs brother-in-law on court premises in Jagalur||A 30-year-old man reportedly attempted to kill his brother-in-law with a knife on the premises of a court over a family dispute on Tuesday.  The accused, identified as Mallikarjuna (30) from Hiremegalagere village of Harapanahalli taluk, stabbed his brother-in-law, identified as Manjunath, of Gadimakunte village in Jagalur taluk, in the neck with a knife.  The man remained bleeding on the court premises for 40 minutes, with neither the police nor ambulance arriving at the spot. However, circle police inspector Manjunath Pandit and DSP Kannika visited the spot to take stock of the situation. Family members of Mallikarjuna had filed for divorce in court, seeking compensation.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/davangere/man-stabs-brother-in-law-on-court-premises-in-jagalur-1058503.html
07-12-2021||First Edit||No excuse for Nagaland killings||A counter-insurgency operation that went horribly wrong resulted in the killing of at least 14 people, including a jawan, in Mon district in Nagaland. The Assam Rifles, which conducted the operation on Saturday, and the Union Home Ministry have ordered investigations and the Nagaland police have filed an FIR for murder. It is necessary to find out how and why the operation went wrong, and responsibility needs to be clearly fixed and action taken. Military and counter-insurgency operations have gone wrong and even rogue in the North-East and they have caused disaffection and deepened the sense of alienation among the people there. Incidents like last week’s killings had not happened in Nagaland or elsewhere in the recent past. There is widespread anger across the state and elsewhere. There are protests and reports of violence. The incident is bound to have an impact even beyond the security situation in Nagaland and other states.   The repercussions are likely to be felt on the Naga peace process, which is even otherwise in a state of stalemate. The groups that are in talks with the Centre may come under pressure to keep away from the process at least for some time. Since the operation was conducted by the armed forces, the situation will be interpreted as a confrontation between the Nagaland people and India. There are many militant factions operating in the state. Some of them who opposed the peace process had been persuaded to join the talks in recent months, though an agreement has been held up for many reasons. Some factions are reportedly in favour of an early agreement but others, including the NSCN (IM), which had signed the 2015 Framework Agreement, have stuck to hard positions. The incident may strengthen their position and make it difficult for other groups to continue with the talks. The killings would remind the people of the trigger-happy ways of the security forces which have operated under draconian laws like the Armed Forces Special Powers Act (AFSPA) in the North-East and Jammu and Kashmir. A forum of seven Naga insurgent groups called the Naga National Political Groups (NNPG), which had supported the peace talks, has blamed the impunity enjoyed by the armed forces under AFSPA for incidents like the Mon killings. Successive governments have been insensitive to such criticism. The Nagaland incident has happened soon after the killing of seven personnel of the Assam Rifles by an insurgent group in Manipur, a state that had largely been peaceful in recent years. The North-East region is a complex tapestry of racial, linguistic, religious and other identities and there are historical, geographical and economic factors that have led to alienation, militancy and insurgency in the region. A security-oriented approach will not help in dealing with such situations. The Centre should focus on the political path, and it should begin by repealing AFSPA. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/no-excuse-for-nagaland-killings-1058649.html
07-12-2021||In Perspective||Anti-conversion bill is unconstitutional, unnecessary||Come December, Christians begin preparations in earnest as they look forward to celebrating Christmas in a solemn, peaceful and joyous manner, the highpoint being the Holy Mass in churches. But this time around, Christians in Karnataka are a worried lot in light of the spate of recent attacks on Christian places of worship and the proposal to table the anti-conversion bill during the upcoming winter session of the Assembly in Belagavi from December 13-24. To highlight recent cases, in September, members of the Hindu Jagarana Vedike, barged into a church in Udupi, alleging that people were being illegally converted to Christianity by the pastor. In October, members of the Bajrang Dal and Vishwa Hindu Parishad gathered inside a makeshift church in Hubbali district and started singing bhajans, alleging that the pastor was forcefully converting people. Since January, there have been 32 reported incidents of attacks on churches in Karnataka. In Belagavi, some pastors were recently told by the police not to conduct prayer meetings as right-wing groups may attack them and the police will not be able to give them protection, according to media reports. This is frightening, and a sad commentary on secularism, prompting even the Archbishop of Bengaluru to say that there are signals suggesting it is not a good time to be a Christian in Karnataka. Ever since the issue of religious conversions was raised by a BJP MLA from Hosadurga during the monsoon session of the Assembly, the Christian community has strongly opposed the proposal of the anti-conversion bill, questioning the need for such an exercise when sufficient laws and court directives are in place to monitor any aberration of the existing laws.  An enquiry into these allegations conducted by the taluk administration noted that there were no such attempts of forced conversions; those who converted to Christianity did it of their own volition, Rev. Peter Machado, Archbishop of Bengaluru said in a statement on December 4 after a peace assembly of Christians. Many are of the view that the anti-conversion bill is primarily targeted against the minorities. The first anti-conversion law was passed in Odisha in 1967, leading to attacks on Christians, culminating in the Kandhamal genocide in 2007-08. After Odisha, six other states followed suit, resulting in increased attacks on Christians in those states.  Today, there is enough documentation to show that persecution of Christians is taking place in many states and Union Territories in India. Christians fear the proposed law will only make the situation worse.  “The issue of forced conversion is a highly exaggerated subject. Many of our BJP leaders have studied in Christian schools and they have also chosen Christian hospitals for medical treatment. None of them were forcefully converted,” asserted Machado.  It must be pointed out that if there were indeed rampant conversions as alleged, the Christian population should have seen an increase. On the contrary, official statistics show the opposite. In Karnataka, the Christian population was 1.91% as per the 2001 Census, and it decreased to 1.87% in 2011.  Moreover, the anti-conversion bill is a violation of the Constitution. Article 25 of the Constitution guarantees that “all persons are equally entitled to freedom of conscience and the right freely to profess, practise and propagate religion”, subject to public order, morality and health and to other provisions of the part on fundamental rights. Even Ambedkar, who was the chief architect of India’s Constitution, had converted to Buddhism, and he did not have to seek the permission of the State to do so.  Isn’t then such a law as proposed now contrary to the principles outlined by the Constitution?  Last but not the least, the process of passing such a law hastily is flawed.  The Karnataka government says that the draft of the bill will be ready soon and it will be tabled in the winter session starting December 13. This leaves little time for a public discussion on a matter of crucial importance.  There’s another issue troubling the Christian community. In October, the Legislative Committee on Backward Classes and Minorities Welfare ordered a survey of authorised and unauthorised churches and their personnel in Karnataka. The question that many are asking is: If such a survey is desirable, why single out only Christians, why not the places of worship of other religions, too? Isn’t this discriminatory?  Given the bogey of conversion and anti-religious feelings being whipped up, an anti-conversion law, if passed, could be abused by religious fundamentalists, as seen in other states that have passed such a law.  At this juncture, it is imperative that the government ensures communal harmony and peace by safeguarding Christian worshippers during prayer services and keeping right-wing groups in check.  And in the interests of the minorities and upholding democratic values, the anti-conversion bill must not be tabled as there is no need for such a law. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/anti-conversion-bill-is-unconstitutional-unnecessary-1058647.html
07-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Man sentenced to 6 months jail for rash driving, killing 2 people||Yohan, who had mowed down three pedestrians while killing two on the spot near Hiriyadka First Grade college, was sentenced to six months imprisonment by Principal Civil Judge and JMFC Deepa. On July 19, 2015, Yohan was driving his car in a rash manner and had mowed down three pedestrians near the college. Among the three, Saraswati and a girl Dhiti died on the spot. Another girl Tejaswi sustained serious injuries. A case was registered and a charge sheet was submitted to the court by Hiriyadka police.Judge Deepa, upholding the argument of Senior Public Prosecutor Badrinath Nayari, sentenced Yohan to six months of imprisonment. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/man-sentenced-to-6-months-jail-for-rash-driving-killing-2-people-1058371.html
07-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Five assaulted with lethal weapons||In two separate incidents, five youth were brutally assaulted with lethal weapons by miscreants at Andetadka in Illantilla village near Uppinangady on Sunday night. Fayaz (26) and Afeez (19), who were sitting beside a shop, were assaulted by an armed group of four to five people. Both the victims were shifted to a government hospital in Puttur. Hours later, at around 8.30 pm, 30 to 40 people arrived in two-wheelers and attacked Siddique, Ayyub and Zakaria, who were also sitting near the shop. They too were admitted to a private hospital in Puttur. Uppinangady police visited the spot and have registered cases against the miscreants. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/five-assaulted-with-lethal-weapons-1058373.html
07-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||KVG Medical College wins Mediquiz||Akshitha Anand and Ankitha Anand from K V G Medical College in Sullia won Mediquiz – 2021. The quiz competition witnessed a thrilling end after the team from the KVG Medical college succeeded in overcoming a stiff competition from Nusaiba Farheen and Nithya G S representing Kanachur Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS). The Department of General Medicine-KIMS had organised the annual state-level inter-medical college quiz contest on medical subjects for MBBS undergraduate students at conference hall in the college recently. The KIMS President U K Monu awarded the trophy and merit certificates to winners and runners-up, and also congratulated them on their exemplary achievements. Medical Superintendent Dr Devidas Shetty, Vice Principal K G Kiran, Chief Administrative Officer (CAO) Dr Rohan Monis were also present. Head of Medicine Department Dr Devdas Rai was the quiz master. As many as 37 teams participated in the quiz contest. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/kvg-medical-college-wins-mediquiz-1058379.html
07-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||This book shop in Puttur, a beacon of hope for poor students||The tiled shop in Koornadka, Puttur, is a mere stationery shop selling books and pens for some but for students keen on pursuing their studies against all odds it is a ray of hope. If not for the modest shop (Madhav enterprises), owned by 50-year-old G Madhav Prabhu, hundreds of children would have dropped out from schools without fulfilling their dreams, declares a video clip uploaded on social media. Incidentally, the video clip on social media generated more than ‘40,000 likes’ a few days ago and also created a few ‘admirers’. Madhav, who was forced to dropout from the school, initially assisted his father in running a grocery shop. Twenty years ago, he opened a stationary shop near Koornadka mosque. "In 2005, a group of students, after completing the seventh standard public examinations, had stopped at my shop," recollected Madhav, tracing his 15 years journey of reviving dreams. Madhav noticed students making fun of a boy who sat on the steps of his shop looking miserable. The boy, after some gentle persuasion, revealed that despite being the class topper he was not able to pursue education like the other children of his age. His mother, who worked as a domestic maid, was struggling to make ends meet, Madhav told DH. Madhav instilled courage and provided free notebooks, textbooks, pens, photo copies of text books and even conducted tuition at his house until he completed second year Pre-University course. "Madhav does not wait for students to approach him for help," said Basith M K, working at Reliance Retail Limited in Puttur. “When he learns about a student, who is not able to pursue engineering or medicine due to poverty, he collects photocopies of the marks card and bank passbook. These are sent to people, who have expressed a desire to help poor students. Thus, without any middlemen, money is deposited into accounts of the students,” he said. Basith, who completed his education with the help of Madhav, said that the latter does not keep count of students, who received help nor does he burden them with any expectations. “He seeks the help of only those who are inspired to help others,” Basith said. After the video clip was uploaded on social media, many admirers stop at his shop to hand over old books. “These books are again distributed to students facing NEET and other examinations,” said Madhav. “If some books have no takers, he hands them over to the Book Bank of Vivekananda PU College,” said Physics Lecturer Harish Shastri B. Basith said he even discusses life’s problems with Madhav, whom he considers his godfather. Madhav, who is single, plays down his act of helping others and says he gave only what was available in the shop. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/this-book-shop-in-puttur-a-beacon-of-hope-for-poor-students-1058380.html
07-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka govt releases Rs 36 lakh to set up 'gaushala' in Ramakunja||The state government has released Rs 36 lakh for setting up a district-level government-run 'gaushala' at Ramakunja in Kadaba taluk of Dakshina Kannada district. The 'gaushala' will come upon 98.45 acres of land. The survey of the land has been completed. Department of Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Services Deputy Director Prasanna Kumar told DH that the government had released Rs 24 lakh in the first instalment and later, Rs 12 lakh in the second instalment. “Now, we have to prepare a plan and start the work. The 'gaushala' will be run through the district Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (SPCA). The plan for the 'gaushala' will be placed before the SPCA for approval. The SPCA will decide on a number of cattle to be accommodated in the 'gaushala',” he said. It may be recalled that the Karnataka government in July had approved the establishment of 'gaushalas' in all districts of the state at a total cost of Rs 15 crore in the first phase, to supplement the Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Act, 2020. The government has announced one 'gaushala' for the district now. During the district Development Coordination and Monitoring Committee (Disha) meeting in July, held under the chairmanship of MP Nalin Kumar Kateel, the MP had directed tahsildars to identify land in each taluk for the 'gaushala' as well. 14 'gaushalas' in district The district has a total of 14 'gaushalas' run by various organisations, of which, 10 have accepted assistance from the government through ‘Support to Pinjarapol’ and other 'gaushala' schemes this year. Four 'gaushalas' are not willing to accept assistance from the government though the government has approved assistance. This year, a total of Rs 23.97 lakh has been released to 10 'gaushalas' in the district. To avail of the assistance, a 'gaushala' should have a minimum of 50 cattle and a maximum of 200 cattle. A sum of Rs 70 per day per cattle is given under the scheme. If a 'gaushala' accepts assistance from the government, then it should take care of the cattle seized by the police as well, Kumar added. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-govt-releases-rs-36-lakh-to-set-up-gaushala-in-ramakunja-1058488.html
07-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||G T Devegowda supports Congress in MLC polls: Tanveer Sait||Congress MLA Tanveer Sait on Tuesday said that JD(S) MLA G T Devegowda has been campaigning in support of Congress candidate for Mysuru-Chamarajanagar MLC elections for local body constituency.  Devegowda, who represents Chamundeshwari Assembly segment, has been campaigning for Congress candidate and it will definitely help Congress to get more votes, Sait said while speaking to reporters. Sait said JD(S) is playing "opportunist politics", adding that Congress party candidate will win MLC polls. It has to be noted that Devegowda has maintained distance from JD(S) since 2018. JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy also had said that the doors of the party had permanently closed for Devegowda.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/g-t-devegowda-supports-congress-in-mlc-polls-tanveer-sait-1058498.html
07-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Home minister’s video proves cattle theft increased during BJP rule: U T Khader||Mangalore MLA U T Khader said that the recent incident of assault on those who tried to prevent illegal transportation of cattle in Shivamogga and video of Home Minister Araga Jnanendra slamming the police for being corrupt has proved that cattle theft and illegal transportation of cattle has increased during the BJP-rule in Karnataka. Whether Karnataka Prevention of Cow Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Act, 2020 was introduced just for publicity? he sought to know during a press meet in Mangaluru. When there are so many factories exporting beef in the state, then it is natural to transport cattle. Why did the government fail to close it down, he asked. Kerala and Goa have no issues like cattle theft and illegal transportation of cattle. On the recent untoward incidents in the Dakshina Kannada district, he said the elected representatives and religious leaders should give priority to communal harmony and brotherhood in the society. The police should act sternly against those anti-social elements who try to disrupt peace in society. “A few are trying to issue provocative statements and post derogatory statements on the social media in the district, for self-gain. The government should take stern action against such provocative statements, to prevent anti-social elements from raising their heads again in the district,” said the former minister. On State BJP President Nalin Kumar Kateel inviting all the Congress leaders except U T Khader to join BJP, Khader said that “Kateel was Congress worker in the past during his younger days. I want to invite all BJP leaders to join the Congress to remain happy. Those who desert Congress to join the BJP should read the history first.” BJP against decentralisation Stating that the BJP is against decentralisation of power, the MLA said that the BJP is against decentralisation of power and a three-tier panchayat raj system. The voters during the Legislative Council election from local bodies constituency should send a warning to the government while exercising their franchise, that any effort to snatch away the rights of the gram panchayat members will not be tolerated. The funds from the Finance Commission released to GPs are deducted by the state government. Even after several months, the government failed to conduct Zilla Panchayat and Taluk Panchayat elections. Now, during the MLC election, they are promising to hold the election in January. Is it possible to hold the election when the government is yet to issue rules and regulations to the newly created delimitation commission to redraw panchayat boundaries, Khader asked. Further, he said the government is also looking at the scrapping of taluk panchayats. Taluk panchayat has 22 departments. Is it possible for an MLA to handle all these departments without an elected body in the taluk panchayat, he sought to know. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/home-minister-s-video-proves-cattle-theft-increased-during-bjp-rule-u-t-khader-1058500.html
07-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||DKBOA to introduce electronic ticket issuing machines in all buses in a phased manner||Dakshina Kannada Bus Operators Association (DKBOA), which had introduced ‘Chalo’ prepaid travel cards for commuters in the city buses, is set to introduce automated electronic ticket issuing machines that allows passengers to get tickets by tapping prepaid cards, on a pilot basis on route number 27 (between State Bank and Mangaladevi). The machine has been installed on buses that operate with one stage, with a fare of Rs 12. The association has plans to introduce the machines in all the city buses in a phased manner, DKBOA President Jayasheela Adyanthaya said. There are more than 10 stage routes for city buses in Mangaluru. In the second stage, buses operating on route number 5, 29, and 18 will be introduced with the automated electronic ticket issuing machines. Daily commuters will have to tap the card on the machine, to avail tickets. "The staff from Chalo are working on the system to introduce more stages in the ticket issuing machine, so that it can be used in all city buses,” he said. To give emphasis on digitalisation and cashless travel, even students will get Chalo cards. The students can avail 60 per cent concession on ticket charges using the card, he added. City buses operating in the district for past 41 years had given upto 60 per cent concession to students worth Rs 14,74,50,762.65. In the past, the students were issued with manual student passes. Now, they will be given a Chalo Card. “We want 90 per cent of the passengers to accept digital system using a Chalo card. Using the card, commuters can avail 10 per cent of concession on the travel. Chalo aims to phase out cash exchange, he said. Chalo Card can be recharged at 45 recharging centres in the city and with the help of bus conductors. Adyanthaya said Chalo app is being used in 33 cities in the country. Chalo app live ticketing is used in 15000 buses in these cities. The Chalo app in Mangaluru has already integrated around 200 private buses in Mangaluru into a single live tracking. With this, the time of waiting at the bus stop for the commuters are reduced as they can check the live location and arrival time of a bus on their mobilephone. There is good response for Chalo card in city buses with Rs 30 lakh recharges are done every month, he said. A chalo card can be purchased from any of the chalo counters by presenting an Aadhaar Card or PAN Card. Passengers can also upload an online KYC at www.chalo.com/activate to obtain a QR code which will enable them to buy a Chalo Card from conductors in any of the city buses or at chalo recharge counters. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dkboa-to-introduce-electronic-ticket-issuing-machines-in-all-buses-in-a-phased-manner-1058523.html
07-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Four held for attack over sand mining issue||A group of men attacked six persons, damaged a car and a house for lodging a police complaint against illegal sand mining at Doddahalli in the taluk on Monday night. The police arrested four persons in this regard. Anil and others of Doddahalli had lodged a police complaint against Divakar and his associates for alleged illegal sand mining and transportation. Following the police complaint, Divakar and his men allegedly barged into the house of Anil, assaulted him and also damaged his car and house. They also assaulted Jagadeesh, Theerthamallesh, Shivappa, Rajashekar and Bhagya, who came in rescue of Anil, said the police. The injured persons are undergoing treatment in a government hospital. The Arehalli police produced the suspects before the court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/four-held-for-attack-over-sand-mining-issue-1058558.html
07-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mahesh Joshi favours Mandya for Sammelana||Kannada Shaitya Parishat President Mahesh Joshi favoured Mandya for the 87th Akhila Bharatha Kannada Sahitya Sammelana. The 86th Sammelana is scheduled to be held in Haveri. Joshi was addressing in a programme organised to honour newly elected Mandya district Kannada Sahitya Parishat President Ravi Kumar Chamalapura at Kalamandira, here. He said, "Two Sammelanas were held in Mandya in 1971 and 1994." Professor M Krishnegowda and others were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mahesh-joshi-favours-mandya-for-sammelana-1058592.html
07-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Siddalingeshwara and Mahadeshwara idols damaged||Miscreants have demolished idols at a temple in Mathada Kaval near Berya in the taluk. The incident came to light on Tuesday. The miscreants demolished idols of Siddalingeshwara and Mahadeshwara at Mathada Kaval. The doors of the temple were closed on Monday night after the villagers celebrated the last ‘Karthika Somuvara’. The incident came to light when a few villagers visited the temple on Tuesday. The villagers alleged that the miscreants destroyed the idols intentionally to create violence in the village. Mysuru DySP A R Sumith visited the spot.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/siddalingeshwara-and-mahadeshwara-idols-damaged-1058598.html
07-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Amid opposition to eggs, kids' health study begins in Yadgir||Amid opposition of various Lingayat seers for the distribution of eggs to students, a 45-member team, including students and faculty members from Karnataka State Rural Development and Panchayat Raj University (KSRDPU), Gadag, has taken up a 10-day baseline study in Yadgir district from Tuesday to ascertain the health parameters of the children. The state government is providing eggs to students of classes one to eight to eradicate malnutrition in seven districts in Kalyana Karnataka and Vijayapur district in the midday meal.  Yadgir DDPI Shantanagouda told DH that a total of 30 schools have been selected in three taluks of the district. "A total of 41 students and four faculty members from the KSRDPU have arrived for the study. Eleven schools each from Yadgir and Surpur taluks and eight schools in Shahapur taluk have been chosen for the study. The team includes local doctors who will help in conducting the study in a scientific manner," he added.  During the study, the university students will check the height, weight and other health parameters of students. After four months, they will conduct another study to know whether distributing eggs helped the students against malnutrition. They will submit a report to Kalaburagi division public instruction additional commissioner Nalini Atul, the DDPI said adding that the study has been taken up on the directions from the RDPR principal secretary Uma Mahadevan. A KSRDPU official, who refused to be quoted, said the students from food science technology, master of public health and master of social work are part of the team. They will study the nutrition supplement and other parameters and will submit the report, he added.  '80 per cent want eggs' Nalini Atul said, "After we decided to distribute eggs to the children, the department conducted an informal survey in all schools of the region. About 80 per cent to 85 per cent of students expressed their willingness to have eggs along with midday meals.  About the increase in students' attendance after egg distribution started, she said, "We have directed all headmasters, BEOs and DDPIs of the region to submit a report in this regard. We can't say about the attendance increase in schools without proper data. We need to study the situation for at least 15 to 20 days."  Echoing the same view, Yadgir DDPI Shantanagouda said it is too early to say that the number of students arriving at schools has increased only after egg distribution started. About 75 per cent to 80 per cent will be an average attendance in schools of the district, he said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/amid-opposition-to-eggs-kids-health-study-begins-in-yadgir-1058663.html
07-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||World Soil Day observed at Kasaragod ICAR||World Soil Day was celebrated at ICAR-Central Plantation Crops Research Institute, Kasaragod. Dr Anitha Karun, Director, CPCRI, inaugurated the programme. Nafeesath Hamsheena, agriculture officer, Krishi Bhavan, Puthige, offered felicitations. Dr P Subramanian, principal scientist, handled a session on 'Soil Health Management in Plantation Crops'. Soil health cards were distributed among the selected farmers at the function. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/world-soil-day-observed-at-kasaragod-icar-1058669.html
07-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Health campaign at Mudipu on December 8||As a part of Madari Grama Abhiyan, Jana Shikshana Trust in association with Zilla Panchayat, Department of Health and Family Welfare, Fr Muller Homoeopathic Medical College, Balepuni Gram Panchayat and others, will organise a health campaign at the Covid Counselling Centre at Mudipu on December 8 at 10 am. Zilla Panchayat CEO Dr Kumar will flag off the programme. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/health-campaign-at-mudipu-on-december-8-1058671.html
07-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Ban on sale of liquor||To ensure peaceful conduct of Legislative Council elections to local bodies constituency, Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V has banned the sale and transportation of liquor from midnight of December 9 to midnight of December 10.  Liquor outlets should remain closed during the period, he said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ban-on-sale-of-liquor-1058672.html
07-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Miscreants assault three men at fish shop in Uppinangady||Miscreants barged into a fish shop and assaulted three men at Subrahmanya Cross in Uppinangady on Monday night. According to police, the injured were identified as Ashok, Mahesh, and Mohandas. In a complaint, Mohandas said that his brother Ashok was selling the fish in the shop when about 25 to 30 youths in 20 bikes and a car arrived at the spot and barged into the shop holding swords and iron rods. They assaulted all three of us who were inside the shop. They later fled the spot, he stated. All were conversing in Beary language, the complainant told the police. A case was registered at Uppinangady police station. Superintendent of Police Rishikesh Sonawane said that additional forces had been deployed at Uppinangady with two police inspectors, 4 PSI, 38 head constables, 3 DAR platoons and 2 KSRP platoons following the series of assault cases. Further, a team of officers and staff from Bantwal, Belthangady, Puttur and Uppinangady stations have been constituted to probe into the incidents, he said. The motive behind the incidents are yet to be established through investigation, he added. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/miscreants-assault-three-men-at-fish-shop-in-uppinangady-1058674.html
07-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Election to Kotekar, Vittal TPs on December 27||The election to Kotekar and Vittal Town Panchayats in Dakshina Kannada district will be held on December 27. Out of the total 15,533 voters in Kotekar TP, 8,057 are women. There are 17 wards in the town panchayat limits. This is the second election after Kotekar was upgraded as town panchayat. Out of the 17 wards, BJP had bagged 9 seats and had come to power in the previous term. Congress had won four seats, CPM -1, SDPI - 1 and independents - 2. The term of the council had ended a few months ago. The political activities have commenced after the announcement of the election in Kotekar. Even in Vittal TP limits, the political activities have gained pace. The Vittal Town Panchayat had come into existence in 2015. The election will be now held for 18 wards. In the previous term, the council of the town panchayat had 12 seats and Congress had won six seats. The term of the previous council had ended in July and Bantwal Tahsildar Rashmi S R was serving as administrator of the TP. Already, the BJP and the Congress have prepared a list of aspirants. With the change in reservation, a few of the previous councillors will either have to change their wards to contest or decide not to contest the election. Though the Town Panchayat came into existence five years ago, the Urban Development Authority has not been constituted. As a result, the residents have to visit Mangaluru to get single site approval, the residents said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/election-to-kotekar-vittal-tps-on-december-27-1058677.html
07-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Ban on movement of vehicles to facilitate road works||The construction of roads from Kilpadi Junction to Kukkatte Road and from Kukkate Junction to Kollurpadavu is in progress. Hence, the movement of vehicles has been restricted till April 30. All the vehicles from Mulki to Kukkatte Junction have to use Panjinadka, Balkunje, Uleppadi road or Kavatharu temple road-Balkunje-Uleppadi to reach Kukkatte, said Police Commissioner N Shashi Kumar. All the vehicles from Kukkatte Junction to Mulki should use Uleppadi-Balkunje-Panjinadka route. To facilitate the construction of the road at Shaktinagara and Kuntalpadi road in ward number 21, the movement of vehicles has been banned till December 30.  All the vehicles to Kuntalpadi - Shakthinagara from Yeyyadi and Maryhill have to take a right turn at Dandakeri (Kuntalpadi) bridge and use Kodange road to travel to Shakthinagara, Bikarnakatte and Nanthoor. Vehicles from Shakthinagar to Yeyyadi and Maryhill should use Yeyyadi-Adithyanagara-Maryhill. The movement of vehicles from Padi Railway bridge till Jalligudde road has been banned till December 30 to facilitate the work. Vehicles plying from Jalligudde to Padil-Pumpwell should use Kallakatte-Faisalnagara-Veeranagara to Bajal Road (Padil) underpass. Vehicles from Jalligudde to Pumpwell-Thokottu should use the Jalligudde Cross-JM Road-Ekkur stretch. Route numbers 11B and 11C buses should travel on Pumpwell-Ekkur-J M Road-Jalligudde Cross and return back on the same route. All the route number 9 buses should travel on Ekkur-JM Road-Bajal and return on the same stretch, Kumar added. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ban-on-movement-of-vehicles-to-facilitate-road-works-1058678.html
07-12-2021||Karnataka Politics||‘Administration machinery has failed in state’||Former minister B Ramanath Rai lashed out at Home Minister Araga Jnanendra for his recent outburst against police department. Rai told reporters at district Congress Bhavan on Monday that the statements by the home minister showed police officials in a poor light. The minister’s criticism against police department reveals that administration machinery in the state has failed. Rai, declaring Jnanendra as an incompetent home minister, said the minister’s remarks on his own department seems to justify claims of corrupt practices being followed in the transfer of officials. He also wondered why BJP leaders were silent on complaints from contractors’ association to prime minister that those in power were demanding 40% commission. “During election campaigns in Karnataka, Narendra Modi called the then Siddaramaiah-led state government as 10% commission Sarkar. What is the PM’s take on the present government and its 40% commission?” Rai asked. Rai declared on taking retirement from politics if anyone showed a single house allocated to a beneficiary in Gram Panchayat under the housing scheme during the tenure of present BJP-led state government. During Siddaramaiah’s government in state, at least 60 houses were sanctioned to beneficiaries in each Gram Panchayat, he recollected. “BJP is responsible for diluting the power of Gram Panchayats. No development works had taken place here after the BJP government took over,” he said and expressed his confidence on Congress candidate winning the Legislative Council elections.  Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/administration-machinery-has-failed-in-state-1058374.html
07-12-2021||Karnataka Politics||Kota confident of victory in Council poll||BJP candidate for Legislative Council poll and Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary said that he will win from local authorities’ constituency of Dakshina Kannada and Udupi with more than the expected margin. Poojary, speaking to media persons, said that the first round of campaign had been completed. The poll preparations are in full swing at the grassroots level. He added that the coastal districts of Dakshina Kannada and Udupi have three Parliamentarians and 12 MLAs. The next round of the campaign will cover Sullia and Puttur. Elaborating over his party’s contributions to the decentralisation of Panchayat system, Poojary said that the priority was always to empower local-tier governance. The honorarium of the members were increased to Rs 1,000 from the existing Rs 500. Steps will be taken toincrease it to Rs 2,000, he added. Poojary said that Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai was working with transparency and sensitivity. There is no possibility of him being removed from the position. There is no need to indulge in gossiping about his visit to Delhi. The visit is only to ensure the development of the state, he added. The minister said that there was no proposal for lockdown. However, the Covid-19 protocols should be strictly followed, he said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/kota-confident-of-victory-in-council-poll-1058381.html
07-12-2021||Karnataka Politics||District-level leaders can decide to back BJP or Cong: Kumaraswamy on Legislative Council polls||The JD(S) leadership has empowered district-level leaders of the party to take a call on whether to back BJP or Congress candidates in MLC elections at constituencies where the party has not fielded any candidates. The decision, according to JD(S) leader HD Kumaraswamy, was taken with a view on the 2023 general elections in the state. "In some constituencies, they (JD(S) workers) are backing BJP and in a few others, Congress. This is being done after taking my permission and in an open manner," Kumaraswamy told reporters, ending speculation about who the regional party would back in 19 of the 25 constituencies that are scheduled for polls on December 10. The former CM maintained that there was no secret pact and local leaders would take a call. The situation among leaders of various parties at the local level is different from that of state-level leaders, Kumaraswamy said, noting that there was a difference of opinion about whom to support in these elections. He said that the objective of the party was to secure wins for JD(S) candidates in the future and to create favourable situations for the same. To a question, Kumaraswamy said that the outcome of this decision will be clear during the 2023 general elections. "Any discussion on this issue is premature. Whether this will benefit or harm the party will become clear soon," he said. On Congress' allegations of an alliance with BJP, Kumaraswamy dismissed the same. "If it were so, why did they (BJP) field candidates in six constituencies where we are contesting?" he asked, adding that there was a triangular contest in constituencies where JD(S) was in the fray. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/district-level-leaders-can-decide-to-back-bjp-or-cong-kumaraswamy-on-legislative-council-polls-1058533.html
07-12-2021||Karnataka Politics||BJP doesn't need support of any political party, says Prasad||Chamarajanagar MP V Srinivas Prasad on Tuesday said that the BJP had its own strength to face MLC elections for local body constituencies and need no support from any other political parties.  In a press conference here Prasad said, "The BJP has its own strength and the JD(S) leaders have sought BJP’s support in six constituencies where it has fielded candidates. Our leader B S Yediyurappa has stated that it will be helpful for the BJP if the JD(S) extends support where the party has not fielded candidates. However, the party high command will take a call."  Srinivas Prasad ridiculed JD(S) MLA G T Devegowda and the leader of the opposition Siddaramaiah for becoming closer in recent days. “Siddaramaiah tasted the worst defeat against Devegowda in the 2018 Assembly elections. It was like a war field in the Chamundeshwari Assembly segment. Devegowda brought JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy and launched ‘Janata Parva’ from Chamundeshwari constituency to defeat Siddaramaiah, but now the political rivalries are coming together and it is shameful,” he said. Prasad said, "Siddaramaiah is greedy for power and he ran away to Badami in 2018. Siddaramaiah has no necessity to contest from two constituencies in the 2018 elections and it shows his weakness. He accidentally won in Badami and became the leader of the opposition.” Minister in-Charge of the district S T Somashekar and BJP candidate for MLC polls Kautilya R Raghu were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bjp-doesnt-need-support-of-any-political-party-says-prasad-1058554.html
07-12-2021||Karnataka Politics||Congress to raise 40% kickbacks row in session: Siddaramaiah||Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah said on Tuesday that they would seek a detailed investigation into the allegations of over 40 per cent of kickbacks levelled by the contractors' association. In a press conference here, Siddaramiah cited news articles in Deccan Herald and Prajavani regarding the 40 per cent kickbacks, about which the contractors' association had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Siddaramaiah said, “I have never seen such a government in my 40-year political career. We will raise the matter in the legislature session.” The former chief minister said crops on six lakh hectares have been destroyed due to floods and heavy rainfall in the state. Several houses have been damaged, but the government has failed to take necessary measures, he said. “The government is yet to compensate the 2017 flood victims. I have raised the issue twice in the previous sessions, but it was of no use,” he said. "BJP has no faith in the Panchayat Raj system and gram sabhes have been stopped after the party came to power. The BJP government has failed to sanction houses to the poor.  Housing Minister V Somanna claims the government has no funds to construct houses," Siddaramaiah said.  Siddaramaiah refused to react to party leader B B Chimmanakatti’s opposition to the former’s plan to contest the next Assembly election from Badami segment.  Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/congress-to-raise-40-kickbacks-row-in-session-siddaramaiah-1058660.html
07-12-2021||Karnataka Politics||Deve Gowda to contest Lok Sabha poll from Tumakuru again||JD(S) national president H D Deve Gowda on Tuesday that he would contest the Lok Sabha election from Tumakuru in 2024. Speaking at a Legislative Council election meeting, he said, "I am now 89 and going all around to save the JD(S). I will contest the Lok Sabha election from here again. JD(S) does not mean only Deve Gowda and H D Kumaraswamy." Gowda said Kumaraswamy had waived a farm loan of Rs 25,000 crore when he was the chief minister. "I don't know whether he will become chief minister after the 2023 election," he remarked.  He said, "Congress leader K N Rajanna is roaming around saying that he defeated me in the election. We had given him all opportunities when he was with our party. The leaders, who we encouraged, are now tolerating us."  Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/deve-gowda-to-contest-lok-sabha-poll-from-tumakuru-again-1058664.html
07-12-2021||Karnataka Politics||Belagavi legislature session is very much on, says CM Bommai||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Tuesday dismissed rumours that the legislature session scheduled here from December 13 would be postponed. "We will follow all Covid-19 guidelines and will go ahead with the session," the CM told reporters here.    "The district administration has made all necessary arrangements for the smooth conduct of the session," he added.   The losses caused due to the recent rains and floods would come up for discussion during the session, Bommai said.    "Measures taken by the government to help those affected by nature's fury would also be discussed," he said.  The CM said, earlier it used to take three to four months for the compensation amount to be disbursed after the survey of losses due to rains.  "We have changed the norms and compensation is now released within 24 hours after survey reports are submitted. Till now, total compensation of Rs 422 crore has been released and Rs 50 crore to Rs 80 crore is given away per day," Bommai said.   Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/belagavi-legislature-session-is-very-much-on-says-cm-bommai-1058665.html
07-12-2021||Karnataka Politics||Mangaluru man rapes minor girl, consumes poison||A 26-year-old man made an attempt to kill himself after allegedly raping a minor girl, at Biligere Police limits, in the taluk. The man repeatedly raped his wife’s cousin and the incident came to light as she became pregnant. Fearing the consequences, the man consumed poison and underwent treatment in K R Hospital in Mysuru.   Biligere Police have registered a case under The Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act.     Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/mangaluru-man-rapes-minor-girl-consumes-poison-1058668.html
07-12-2021||Main Article||A Nobel for journalists: What does it mean?||In 1935, journalists wrote on typewriters and their stories were set in lead type. Breaking news meant printing an afternoon paper, but many journalists were learning the format of that exciting new platform called radio. 1935 was also the last time a journalist won the Nobel Peace Prize. Although a journalist today might not recognise the technological landscape, most will surely find the political scene awfully familiar. Authoritarian regimes are on the rise, cracking down on independent journalism as they prosecute, jail or murder those who expose corruption, abuse of power or criminal conduct, or guarantee impunity to anyone attacking a journalist. Maria Ressa in the Philippines and Dmitry Muratov in Russia work as journalists in that environment. This week, they will receive the Nobel Peace Prize for their work, which symbolises the work of hundreds of journalists at great risk of physical harm, legal liability, or economic hardship. As the award citation reads, selecting both journalists “is intended to underscore the importance of protecting and defending” freedom of expression and information. Unfortunately, the political and social atmosphere in which Maria and Dmitry's work is representative of a wider trend, one that seems to have grown over the past years: the loss of respect for the value of press freedom, even in societies that had once taken it for granted. A solid investigation of government corruption can provoke prosecution. Revealing illegal activities by private companies can unleash a response of unlimited resources to smear a journalist. Exposing a criminal network can get a reporter or editor killed, and then killed again when authorities do not prosecute the perpetrators. The 1935 Nobel Peace Prize to German journalist Carl von Ossietzky reminds us that journalism has always faced this peril, especially when the truth affects the powerful. Ossietzky was jailed by the Nazi regime for revealing details about Germany’s rearmament during the 1920s, in violation of its international commitments.  He also warned of rising anti-Semitism and militarism. Authorities jailed and tortured him.  Back in 1935, the concept of independent journalism was taking root, moving away from the previous century’s model of political activism, and toward a watchdog role that would be its trademark in the following decades. It survives today, even as social media enables information “bubbles” where every person can follow only the news they agree with and consider everything else to be fake. These bubbles decrease faith in hard facts and a free press, while populist politicians exploit these attitudes. And yet, journalists march on, despite harassment, pressures, or attacks. “You don’t really know who you are until you’re forced to fight to defend it,” Maria Ressa said in 2018 when she received the Golden Pen of Freedom that the World Association of News Publishers awards annually to journalists fighting for their rights to publish. By then, Maria had faced a legal offensive designed to keep Rappler, the online newspaper she founded in 2012, from exposing corruption and abuse of power by President Rodrigo Duterte of the Philippines. She faced online harassment that led her to become one of the first journalists to denounce social networks for enabling the enemies of a free press. Two years earlier, Dmitry Muratov received the same award. By that time, six journalists from Novaya Gazeta, the newspaper he founded in 1993, had been killed, among them Anna Politkovskaya, one of Russian President Vladimir Putin’s fiercest critics. Dmitry and Maria had improbable journeys. Maria left her career in global media to launch Rappler and report in her homeland. Dmitry began as a journalist in Soviet-era Russia and quickly knew that without independence, journalism is powerless. Today, they are the contemporary expression of a line of journalists that, as Carl von Ossietzky before them, are committed to exposing social and political evils that hinder peace. They denounced racism, dictatorships,  political repression, drug trafficking, terrorist groups, human rights abuses, impunity, war crimes or military build-ups.  With Maria and Dmitry, scores of journalists and media entrepreneurs around the world continue that line, from Myanmar to Nicaragua, from Ethiopia to Turkey, from Mexico to Iran and from Saudi Arabia to China. Their names might not be as familiar as our soon-to-be Nobel laureates, but are worthy of mention: Anye Chang Naing, Carlos Joaquín Chamorro, Dawit Kebede, Can Dündar, Marcela Turati, Mohammad Mossaed, Jamal Khashoggi, Jimmy Lai. The list leaves out so many people, but it is enough to know that the fight for press freedom extends far and wide. Carl von Ossietzky received his Nobel Prize in 1936, a year after it was awarded. That same year, the prize for Literature went to American playwright Eugene O’Neill, who once famously wrote: “There is no present or future, only the past happening over and over again, now.” Every day, Maria Ressa, Dmitry Muratov  and their colleagues around the world struggle to defeat that curse. (The writer is a journalist based in Mexico and a board member of the World Editors Forum). (This article was commissioned by the World Editors Forum/WAN-IFRA to mark the awarding of the 2021 Nobel Peace Prize to two of its Golden Pen of Freedom laureates) Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/a-nobel-for-journalists-what-does-it-mean-1058646.html
07-12-2021||National||India reports 6,822 new Covid-19 cases, 220 deaths||India logged 6,822 new coronavirus infections, the lowest in 558 days, taking the country's total tally of Covid-19 cases to      3,46,48,383, while the active cases declined to 95,014, the lowest in 554 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. The death toll climbed to 4,73,757 with 220 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been recorded below 10,000 for 11 straight days and less than 50,000 for 163 consecutive days now. The active cases comrpise 0.27  per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.36 per cent, the highest since March 2020,the ministry said. A decrease of 3,402 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.  India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-6822-new-covid-19-cases-220-deaths-1058424.html
07-12-2021||National||Munawar Faruqui now dropped from Gurgaon Comedy Festival: Report||Organisers said that they received "repeated calls" and online messages over the past two days opposing Faruqui’s participation in the three-day festival. "We did not want to hurt anyone’s sentiments or put the public in danger… so we removed him from the panel. The decision was taken yesterday and we made changes on the poster and ticketing platform. For us, safety of artists and public is a priority… audience is everything," Mubin Tisekar, co-founder of The Entertainment Factory, which is organising the event, told the publication. The comedy festival is scheduled to be held from December 17-19 at Airia Mall. Meanwhile, Haryana head of BJP’s IT department, Arun Yadav, filed a police complaint against Faruqui, accusing him of insulting Hindu gods and goddesses and asked police to ensure he does not perform. “To maintain peace and harmony between different sections of the society, I request you to look into the matter and stop him… His activities have offended my Hindu faith,” wrote Yadav in the complaint. The comedian was put in jail for a month earlier this year because his show allegedly showed Hindu deities in a bad light.  Aman Yadav, ACP, Sadar, who has the additional charge of ACP Sohna, told the publication that a complaint has been received against Faruqui, raising objection to his participation in a festival to be held in Gurgaon and regarding content of some of his videos online. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/munawar-faruqui-now-dropped-from-gurgaon-comedy-festival-report-1058431.html
07-12-2021||National||Rajya Sabha to discuss surrogacy regulation bill||The Rajya Sabha on Tuesday will initiate discussion on the Surrogacy Regulation Bill and Assisted Reproductive Regulation Bill, which will be introduced by Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya "To move that the The Assisted Reproductive Technology (Regulation) Bill, 2021 for the regulation and supervision of the assisted reproductive technology clinics and the assisted reproductive technology banks, prevention of misuse, safe and ethical practice of assisted reproductive technology services for addressing the issues of reproductive health where assisted reproductive technology is required for becoming a parent or for freezing gametes, embryos, embryonic tissues for further use due to infertility, disease or social or medical concerns and for regulation and supervision of research and development and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto, as passed by the Lok Sabha, be taken into consideration." Mandaviya will move that the Bill to constitute National Surrogacy Board, State Surrogacy Boards and appointment of appropriate authorities for regulation of the practice and process of surrogacy and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto, as passed by Lok Sabha and as reported by the Select Committee of Rajya Sabha, be taken into Consideration, the RS business mentioned. The reports of standing committee of the rural development panchayati raj, water resources, consumer affairs and women empowerment will also be presented in the Upper House. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajya-sabha-to-discuss-surrogacy-regulation-bill-1058447.html
07-12-2021||National||Relief to Sudha Bharadwaj: SC dismisses NIA plea against bail order||A bench of Justices U U Lalit, S Ravindra Bhat and Bela M Trivedi dismissed the NIA's petition against the High Court's order of December 1. The development would ensure that Bharadwaj would come out of jail on Wednesday. The top court agreed with the High Court's view that the court which allowed the NIA time beyond 90-day period for filing the charge sheet under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act against her was not competent to do so. If an investigating agency fails to file the charge sheet within the stipulated time, the accused is entitled to get default bail under the Criminal Procedure Code. Additional Solicitor General Aman Lekhi appeared for NIA while senior advocate A M Singhvi for Bharadwaj. The NIA had on December 2, approached the court challenging the Bombay High Court's December 1 order, granting default bail to Bharadwaj for her role in the 2018 Bhima Koregaon – Elgar Parishad case. Bharadwaj was taken into custody by Pune police on October 27, 2018. She sought bail on the ground that the judge who extended the 90-day period for filing a charge sheet was not designated by the central government. The chargesheet was filed only on February 21, 2019. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/relief-to-sudha-bharadwaj-sc-dismisses-nia-plea-against-bail-order-1058449.html
07-12-2021||National||1984 anti-Sikh riots case: Ex-Congress MP Sajjan Kumar charged with rioting, murder||A Delhi court has announced charges against former Congress leader Sajjan Kumar in the 1984 riots case, in connection with two murders in Delhi's Raj Nagar locality. The court charged him with rioting, murder, and dacoity under sections 147, 149, 148, 302, 308, 323, 395, 397, 427, 436, 440 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) in connection with the murder of Jaswant Singh and Tarun Deep Singh. The family of the duo had alleged that Sajjan Kumar instigated a mob that led to burning alive of the two men besides setting afire their house on November 1, 1984. As per the case in this regard registered at the Saraswati Vihar police station, Sajjan Kumar was identified by one eyewitness after showing his photograph. Earlier in 1994, the case was closed as untraced and the SIT had opened it again, advocate Harpreet Singh Hora apprised. The court has heard arguments from both sides and now the matter is listed on December 16 for formal framing of charges. "This court is of the considered opinion that a prima facie case is made out against the accused for framing of charge against him for commission of the offences punishable under sections of 147/148/149 IPC as well as the offences punishable under 302/308/ 323/395/397/427/436/440 read with Section 149 IPC. Charges are accordingly directed to be framed against him for the said offences," read the order of Additional Sessions Judge M.K. Nagpal dated December 4. The court order said the evidence is sufficient to make a prima facie opinion that an unlawful assembly or mob of several thousand persons armed with deadly weapons like iron rods was there to resort to large-scale looting, arson, or destruction of property of Sikhs to avenge the killing of the then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi by two Sikh bodyguards. "The above incident of attack on the house of complainant took place at the hand of said mob only and in the said attack not only the house and other household articles of the complainant were looted and destroyed, by fire or otherwise, but also the killing of her husband and son took place and even the complainant and the other victims suffered injuries at the hands of participants of such mob," the court order read. "Further, there is also sufficient material on record for this court to form a prima facie opinion that the accused was not only a participant of the said mob but also leading it", it read. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/1984-anti-sikh-riots-case-ex-congress-mp-sajjan-kumar-charged-with-rioting-murder-1058455.html
07-12-2021||National||Army made no attempt to identify civilians before shooting, tried to 'hide' bodies: Report||A preliminary spot report submitted by Nagaland's director general of police and commissioner said that residents of Oting village in Mon district found army personnel trying to hide the bodies of six coal miners soon after they were gunned down on Saturday evening.  The report submitted to the Nagaland government on Sunday stated that troops of Army's 21 Para Special Forces ambushed a pick-up truck at 4.10 pm a few kilometres from Oting village, in which eight miners were returning from their work in Tiru area, killing six of them on the spot. Two others were critically injured. They fired at the truck apparently without any attempt of identification. "On hearing the gunshots, the villagers went to the spot being apprehensive why the individuals did not return home from work. On reaching the spot, they found the pick-up truck and the special forces personnel trying to hide the bodies of the six villagers by wrapping and loading them in another pick-up truck (Tata Mobile) apparently with the intention of taking the bodies to their base camp," said the report submitted by DGP, TJ Longkumer and Nagaland Commissioner Rovilatuo Mor. Both the officials had visited Mon soon after the incident and prepared the preliminary report.  "On finding the bodies in the Tata Mobile, under a tarpaulin, violence broke out between the villagers and the security personnel. As a result, the irate villagers burnt three vehicles belonging to the security force personnel. In the melee, the security personnel again opened fire against the villagers, which led to the death of seven more villagers. Eyewitnesses have confirmed that the special forces personnel opened fire indiscriminately as they fled the scene towards Assam side while firing on the coal mine hutments on the way," the report stated.  The report stated that 13 civilians were killed on Saturday while 14 others were seriously injured. Eight other civilians received minor injuries. "Two of the seriously injured persons were taken to Assam side by the security forces themselves and are in the ICU of Dibrugarh Medical College in Assam," said the report. The report, however, did not mention the army man who was killed by the angry villagers following the first round of firing.  Another protester was killed on Sunday afternoon in Mon when they ransacked a camp of Assam Rifles personnel and set it afire.  The 3 Corps of Army on Sunday morning issued a statement in which it claimed that a "specific operation" was launched in Tiru area based on "credible" intelligence about the likely movement of insurgents.  Nagaland government formed a five-member Special Investigation Team (SIT), headed by an inspector general of police, to carry out a thorough investigation into the killings within a month. "We hope the SIT investigation will reveal everything so that the guilty can be punished," Nagaland government spokesperson and minister Neiba Kronu told reporters in state capital Kohima on Tuesday. The minister said that two critically injured villagers were still in Dibrugarh hospital while six others were in a hospital in Dimapur, and 22 were discharged. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/army-made-no-attempt-to-identify-civilians-before-shooting-tried-to-hide-bodies-report-1058459.html
07-12-2021||National||PM Modi inaugurates AIIMS, fertiliser plant in UP's Gorakhpur||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday dedicated to the nation three mega projects, including an AIIMS and a major fertiliser plant, in Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath's home turf Gorakhpur. The other projects he inaugurated is a Regional Medical Research Centre of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). The three big-ticket projects are worth over Rs 9,600 crore. The newly built fertiliser plant will be operated by the Hindustan Urvarak Rasayan Limited (HURL). The Gorakhpur AIIMS, built at a cost of Rs 1,011 crore, will benefit not only the people of eastern Uttar Pradesh but also a huge population of Bihar, Jharkhand and Nepal with its world-class health facilities, officials said. Similarly, the regional medical research centre set up at a cost of Rs 36 crore will facilitate the test and research of vector-borne diseases, they added. The high-tech lab will decrease the dependency of the area on big cities for tests related to vector-borne diseases. The inauguration of the three big projects comes just months ahead of the Uttar Pradesh assembly polls. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-inaugurates-aiims-fertiliser-plant-in-ups-gorakhpur-1058470.html
07-12-2021||National||Army's actions in Nagaland 'could amount to murder', says ex-SC judge: Report||The death of 14 civilians in Nagaland's Mon due to firing by the Indian Army could amount to murder depending on the investigation and what facts are revealed, a former Supreme Court judge said. Justice Lokur also said the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Protection Act (AFSPA) doesn't mean security forces can "go around just killing anybody", and underlined the 'defective application' of the Act which gives armed forces the power to conduct ops anywhere in enforced states and arrest anyone without a warrant. "The armed forces proactively did whatever they did. So, it would certainly qualify as an 'intention to kill'... depending on the investigation it could, perhaps, be called 'intention to kill'," Justice Lokur told the news channel. He also called for an independent investigation by 'eminent people', saying there is "sufficient chance" for the Army to try and cover up the incident. Two officials have said that villagers found the Army's special forces trying to "hide" the bodies of six people by wrapping and loading them on a pick-up van with the intention of taking them to their base camp. With agency and bureau inputs. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/armys-actions-in-nagaland-could-amount-to-murder-says-ex-sc-judge-report-1058474.html
07-12-2021||National||Armed forces' perseverance, courage are outstanding: PM Modi||On occasion of the Armed Forces Flag Day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday hailed the exemplary contributions of armed forces and said their perseverance and courage are outstanding. Since 1949, December 7 is observed as the Armed Forces Flag Day throughout the country to honour the martyrs and the men in uniform who valiantly fought and continue to fight on our borders. "On Armed Forces Flag Day, I would like to acknowledge once again the exemplary contributions of our armed forces. Their perseverance and courage are outstanding," Modi tweeted. "I would also urge you all to contribute towards our forces' welfare," the prime minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/armed-forces-perseverance-courage-are-outstanding-pm-modi-1058481.html
07-12-2021||National||Security forces to get anti-drone technology soon in Jammu, Punjab||To curb the threat of smuggling of arms and narcotics from Pakistan through drones along the border in Jammu and Punjab, authorities in India are in a process of developing anti-drone technology with foreign assistance. The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) will be funding the project for developing anti-drone technology to be installed along the border. “The Border Security Force (BSF) and Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) with the help of certain foreign companies and startups in the country are already in a process of developing anti-drone technology,” source said and added the new technology would be developed at the earliest to plug drone activities which otherwise have the potential to give boost to militancy and narco-terror activities. The ability of drones to evade radar, wreak devastation at strategic installations and transport weapons to terrorists has become a new concern for the country’s security establishment. Of late, Pakistan has been reportedly procuring drones from China and Turkey. Since 2020, there has been a spurt in air-dropping of weapons by drones and smuggling of narcotics along the border in Jammu and Punjab. The June 27 twin terror attacks using drones on the Indian Air Force (IAF) Station in Jammu was a rude wake-up call for India to relook at existing options and enhance its anti-drone capabilities for unmanned warfare. On Sunday, Union Home Minister Amit Shah while addressing BSF personnel on the occasion of the force’s 57th Raising Day in Jaisalmer, Rajasthan, announced that India was developing indigenous technology to thwart the growing threat of drones on the country’s borders and it will soon be made available to the security forces. Official sources said that initially the new anti-drone technology will be installed along the border in Jammu which shares almost 198 kilometers long boundary with Pakistan and Punjab which has 553 kilometers long border with the neighboring country. “However, in future, anti-drone technology can be installed at Rajasthan border and Rann of Kutch in Gujarat even though there has been no drone activity in these states presently,” they said and added it was not possible for the militants to send drones into Indian territory carrying consignment of weapons and narcotics without active support of Pakistan army and Rangers. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/security-forces-to-get-anti-drone-technology-soon-in-jammu-punjab-1058484.html
07-12-2021||National||Rahul Gandhi demands compensation for families of dead farmers||Keeping the spotlight on the farm issue ahead of state polls, Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday made a pitch in Lok Sabha for compensation for family members of farmers killed during farm as he maintained that nearly 700 farmers died during the agitation. “Not giving compensation and jobs in the name of martyred farmers and not withdrawing police cases against Annadata will be blunders. After all how many times, the Prime Minister will apologize,” Gandhi tweeted after having raised the issue in a Zero Hour mention in the lower House. “If Modi govt is saying that no farmer has been martyred or they do not have their names, then here is a list of their names. I think families of martyred farmers should get compensation and employment, it is their right,” he said in the Lok Sabha presenting a list, which had details of the farmers who lost their lives during farmer agitation. After he hit out at the central government for its alleged inability to maintain a date on the death of farmers, his party members walked out of the House along with NCP and DMK members, shouting slogans against the government. While Gandhi made a pitch for compensation and jobs to the next of kin of farmers who died during the agitation, his party colleagues sought a statement from the government on the issue. “Around 700 farmers died in farmers’ agitation. On November 30, the agriculture minister was asked a question - ‘how many farmers died in the agitation? Agriculture minister said he had no data. We found out that the Punjab government has paid compensation of Rs five lakh each to more than 400 farmers. Of these 400 farmers, 152 have also been given jobs. I have one more list of 70 farmers from Haryana. These are the names here,” Gandhi said. “I asked questions in Parliament on agrarian injustice -- Will the farmers who died get compensation? Is the government considering doing something on MSP? How did Covid affect agriculture? "They did not answer the first two questions and answered the third -- 'Farming continued smoothly during the pandemic!' What a joke!" Gandhi said in another tweet. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rahul-gandhi-demands-compensation-for-families-of-dead-farmers-1058490.html
07-12-2021||National||Harsh Vardhan Shringla embarks on visit to Bangladesh||Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla is undertaking a two-day visit to Bangladesh from Tuesday, the Ministry of External Affairs said. It said the visit will provide an opportunity to review the wide-ranging bilateral cooperation and help prepare for the upcoming visit of President Ram Nath Kovind to that country. Shringla will meet his Bangladesh counterpart Ambassador Masud Bin Momen and is scheduled to call on Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina and Foreign Minister AK Abdul Momen. He will also call on Road Transport and Bridges Minister and Awami League General Secretary Obaidul Quader, according to the MEA. "India's relationship with Bangladesh is one of the strongest pillars of its 'neighbourhood first policy'. In this special year, India and Bangladesh are jointly commemorating 50 years of the establishment of their diplomatic ties," the MEA said. "The Foreign Secretary's visit to Bangladesh, a day after the Maitri Diwas celebrations, will provide an opportunity to review the wide-ranging cooperation between the two countries," it said in a statement. 'Maitri Diwas' was observed on December 6 to mark India's recognition to Bangladesh in 1971. The MEA on Monday announced that President Kovind will pay a state visit to Bangladesh from December 15 to 17 to attend the 50th victory day celebrations of Bangladesh. The year 2021 marks the 50th anniversary of the liberation of Bangladesh and the birth centenary of Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman. In reflection of close ties, India is also hosting a number of events to mark the 50th anniversary of the 1971 Indo-Pak war that led to the liberation of Bangladesh. Around 93,000 Pakistani troops had surrendered before the joint forces of the Indian Army and the "Mukti Bahini" on December 16, 1971, that paved way for the birth of Bangladesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/harsh-vardhan-shringla-embarks-on-visit-to-bangladesh-1058493.html
07-12-2021||National||AFSPA: What is it? Where is it in effect? Why the clamour for a repeal?||On the night of December 4, 14 civilians in Mon district of Nagaland were gunned down by army personnel in what officals have termed a case of 'mistaken identity' during 'counter insurgency' operations. The first incident, in which six civilians were killed, occurred when Army personnel mistook coal mine workers returning home in a pick-up van on Saturday evening for insurgents belonging to the Yung Aung faction of the banned outfit NSCN(K). After the workers failed to reach their homes, villagers went to look for them and surrounded Army vehicles. In the ensuing clash, one soldier was killed and Army vehicles burnt. Soldiers were claimed to have fired in self-defence, killing seven more civilians. Rioting spilt over into Sunday afternoon when angry mobs vandalised the offices of the Konyak Union, an influential group of the Nagas to which the victims belonged, and an Assam Rifles camp in the area. At least one more person was killed as security forces repulsed the attackers. The horrifying incident brought the spotlight back on the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act, 1958, which gives the armed forces powers to open fire, execute searches and take persons into custody in designated areas, and its repeal. Where is the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act currently in place? At present, the act, colloquially called AFSPA, is in effect in Nagaland, Assam, Manipur (excluding parts of Imphal) and parts of Arunachal Pradesh in the northeast. The act was also enacted in Jammu and Kashmir under the Armed Forces (Jammu and Kashmir) Special Powers Act of 1990. The Central government has enacted AFSPA in these states as it considers them to be "disturbed" areas, where there is a threat to peace and possible insurgency, due to which army personnel are deputed to aid civilians. The law has been repealed in states where insurgencies have subsided, and where governments are able to manage the region using the police force. Thus, AFSPA was repealed in Tripura in 2015, and in Meghalaya in 2018, while its use was also restricted in Arunachal Pradesh. Call for repeal: Why has AFSPA been widely condemned? However, the act has received flak over the years due to various alleged crimes that range from crime against women to exploitation of locals for personal gain due to the unprecedented powers granted by the act. Various allegations of corruption have also surfaced over the years, with several politicians also terming the law "draconian" in nature. Among the most infamous incidents was the Malom massacre of 2000 in Manipur, in which 10 civilians were gunned down, following which Irom Sharmila, one of the biggest campaigners against the act, had started a hunger strike, for which she was arrested on the grounds of committing a "suicide attempt." There was also an incident of rape and murder of a woman, allegedly by a group of Assam Rifles men, in 2004 in Manipur, which sparked outrage and public outcry against the act. Nagaland incident "The state government has told the Centre that we don't the AFSPA. This is a draconian law. A democratic country should have no place for such a draconian law. We have a lot of other acts to handle law and order issues," Rio told reporters after taking part in the funeral of 14 villagers. "The AFSPA is in force for more than 60 years now citing law and order issue. The state cabinet recommended for its withdrawal as the underground groups are in ceasefire for 25 years now and is engaged in talks. But the Centre declares the state as a disturbed area from time to time and refuses to withdraw AFSPA," Rio told the crowd. NSCN-IM and NNPG, the rebel groups in ceasefire on Sunday said security forces were resorting to such killings and harassment of innocent civilians taking advantage of the AFSPA. Army officials often stress that some special power is required to control "unwanted situation" created by militant groups in the Northeast, which operates allegedly with the the aid of "external forces. It is worthy to note that the BJP is an ally of the government in Nagaland. (With agency inputs) Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/afspa-what-is-it-where-is-it-in-effect-why-the-clamour-for-a-repeal-1058495.html
07-12-2021||National||India says disturbed over sentencing of Aung San Suu Kyi||India on Tuesday said it is "disturbed" by the recent verdicts relating to Myanmar's ousted leader Aung San Suu Kyi and others, saying the rule of law and the democratic process must be upheld. Suu Kyi had been sentenced to a four-year jail term by a court in Myanmar after holding her guilty of inciting dissent in the first of a series of verdicts. Her sentence was later reduced from four years to two years. "We are disturbed at the recent verdicts. As a neighbouring democracy, India has been consistently supportive of the democratic transition in Myanmar," Spokesperson in the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) Arindam Bagchi said. "We believe that the rule of law and the democratic process must be upheld. Any development that undermines these processes and accentuates differences is a matter of deep concern," he said. Bagchi was responding to a media query about the proceedings against Aung Sang Suu Kyi and others in Myanmar. "It is our sincere hope that keeping their nation's future in mind, efforts would be made by all sides to advance the path of dialogue," he said. Myanmar was rocked by massive protests after the military seized power in a coup on February 1. Hundreds of people, including children, were killed in the crackdown against the protesters by Myanmarese authorities. Leader of the National League for Democracy (NLD) Suu Kyi was among the key people detained by the military following the coup.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-says-disturbed-over-sentencing-of-aung-san-suu-kyi-1058508.html
07-12-2021||National||Proposed India bill banning cryptocurrency payments could mean jail for violations||A proposed legislation that would ban the use of cryptocurrencies as a method of payment in India also seeks to make those who infringe the law subject to arrest without a warrant and being held without bail, according to a source and a summary of the bill seen by Reuters. Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government has previously flagged that it plans to ban most cryptocurrencies - a move which follows measures by China this September that intensified its crackdown on cryptocurrencies. According the summary of the bill, the Indian government is planning a "general prohibition on all activities by any individual on mining, generating, holding, selling, (or) dealing" in digital currencies as a "medium of exchange, store of value and a unit of account". Flouting any of these rules would also be "cognizable" which means an arrest without a warrant is possible, and "non bailable," it said. The source, who has direct knowledge of the matter, was not authorised to speak to media and declined to be identified. The finance ministry did not respond to an email seeking comment. Although the government has previously said it aims to to promote blockchain technology, the proposed law will also deal a blow to its use as well as to the non-fungible token market in India, lawyers said. "If no payments are allowed at all and an exception is not made for transaction fee then it will also effectively stop blockchain development and NFT," said Anirudh Rastogi, founder of law firm Ikigai Law. The government's plans to crack down heavily on cryptocurrency trading sparked a frenzy in the market and several investors exited with significant losses. Lured by a barrage of advertisements and rising prices for cryptocurrencies, the number of investors in crypto assets has surged in India. While no official data is available, industry estimates suggest there are some 15 million to 20 million crypto investors in the country, with total crypto holdings of roughly 450 billion Indian rupees ($6 billion). The government now plans to also come down heavily on advertisements that seek to woo new investors, according to the draft summary of the bill and the source. Self-custodial wallets that allow people to store digital currencies outside exchanges are also likely to be banned, the source added. The tough new regulations stem from the central bank's grave concerns about digital currencies and aim to put in safeguards to ring-fence the traditional financial sector from cryptocurrencies, the draft summary of the bill said. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) will be the regulator for crypto assets, the draft summary also said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/proposed-india-bill-banning-cryptocurrency-payments-could-mean-jail-for-violations-1058516.html
07-12-2021||National||'BJP's sun is certain to set,' says Akhilesh in SP-RLD rally||In a public display of his electoral alliance with the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD), Samajwadi Party (SP) President Akhilesh Yadav on Tuesday participated in the first joint rally of the two parties at Meerut and said that the anger of the farmers would prove costly for the BJP in the forthcoming assembly polls in the state. "The BJP's sun is certain to set, they (BJP) have committed atrocities on the farmers...their party leaders crushed the farmers under the wheels of their vehicles and they will have to go. BJP will be wiped out in the polls," Akhilesh said. "This government has sold the airports, railway stations, Air India; those seeking jobs are being lathi charged; inflation has soared," the SP president said, listing out allegations against the BJP. He also referred to the farmers' agitation and said that their government (SP-RLD), if elected, would hike the minimum support price (MSP) and also ensure that the farmers did not have to face any problems in selling their produce. RLD president Jayant Chaudhary attacked UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and said that the latter was happy only when he was among his cattle. "I request you (people) to make sure that he is free after the polls so that he can spend all his time among them," Jayant said. It was the first public meeting of the two parties and was intended to send the message among their workers to work unitedly. "We want to convey to the workers of both the parties that we are together in our fight against the BJP and that they should work unitedly to achieve the objective," senior SP leader Atul Pradhan said. Sources in the SP and RLD said that more joint rallies would be planned in the 'Jatland', referring to the western region of the state, in the days to come.  Akhilesh was also in talks with the Bhim Army (a dalit outfit) founder Chandrashekhar alias Ravan, who wields considerable influence over the SC community in the western region. SP, RLD and Bhim Army aim at "bringing together Jats, Yadavs, Jatavs and Muslims" to counter the saffron party in the region, sources said.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjps-sun-is-certain-to-set-says-akhilesh-in-sp-rld-rally-1058521.html
07-12-2021||National||Omicron scare makes companies wary of resuming work-from-office||With the spread of the Omicron Coronavirus variant in India, Indian companies are once again considering to ban overseas trips of their employees and allowing only essential travel within the nation. The new variant has created panic once again as countries have started announcing travel curbs to stop the spread of Omicron. “Our priority is employee security and well-being. Though the company has asked employees to return to their cities from November 15, there is still no definite date for them to come back to the office,” a TCS spokesperson told BS. TCS further said that the company was continuously monitoring the current situation and right now employees are coming in a staggered manner. The company also made sure that all employees are fully vaccinated, he added. On the other hand, another big IT company Tech Mahindra has given an option to the employees to choose the location as per their convenience. “We have put in place defined measures in line with the directives issued by respective state governments, to ensure a safe work environment for our associates. Our associates have the flexibility to work from anywhere and we expect the trend of hybrid working to continue. The approach we’ve taken is largely voluntary for people — the only thing we’re insisting is full vaccination. Over 98 per cent of our associates are vaccinated (at least one dose) and of that, only 20 per cent are working from offices. Most of our senior leaders are also working from the office,” BS quoted Harshvendra Soin, global chief people officer and head-marketing, at Tech Mahindra. With over 23 Omicron cases in India right now, the Centre has asked all the states to ramp up testing and vaccination rollout in the states for passengers coming from abroad. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/omicron-scare-makes-companies-wary-of-resuming-work-from-office-1058522.html
07-12-2021||National||KMC polls: No need for central forces, SEC tells Raj Bhawan||Putting an end to the month-long debate whether central forces will be deployed for the Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) elections scheduled on December 19, the State Election Commission (SEC) informed the Raj Bhawan on Tuesday that it is satisfied with the deployment mechanism of Kolkata Police and there is no need to depute central forces for the KMC polls at this moment. Sources in the commission said that the SEC after a detailed discussion with Kolkata Police and the state Home Department officials is satisfied with the number of forces and the deployment mechanism designed by the Kolkata Police. "There is no need for central forces at this moment, and this has been communicated to Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Tuesday," a senior SEC official told IANS on condition of anonymity. The crucial security-related meeting, which was supposed to take place on Monday, was postponed for a day after the Kolkata Police informed the commission that they were working on a plan, which will be ready by Tuesday. Earlier, the commission had a detailed discussion with Subhankar Sinha, Joint Commissioner (Headquarters), Kolkata Police, and submitted a draft proposal to State Election Commissioner Sourav Das regarding the deployment pattern for the elections. Though Dhankhar had insisted on central forces for conducting the polls, Das, following the toe of the state government, was keen to conduct the polls with the help of the state forces. Top sources in the commission said that in the plan submitted by the state government to the SEC, it was said that the Home Department will be able to provide a 32,000-strong police force -- 26,000 from Kolkata Police and another 6,000 from the state police force -- to provide poll-related security in all the 144 wards of Kolkata Municipal Corporation. Interestingly, almost a similar number of forces was used for the Assembly elections held earlier this year. The commission will need additional forces and election officials because the number of booths has increased substantially in this poll. According to available data, the number of main booths will be 4,842 and the number of additional or auxiliary booths will be 365. As a result, the commission has to plan to increase the number of forces to manage the additional number of booths. The plan submitted by the Home Department shows that each booth will have one Sub-Inspector (SI) and one Additional Sub-Inspector (ASI), to be accompanied by two armed policemen. Constables are likely to manage the queue. Each borough will have a Quick Response Team (QRT) to manage any untoward incident. The QRTs will be managed by the Rapid Action Force (RAF) of Kolkata police. The civic volunteers or Green Police will not be used in the civic polls. Though the BJP had written to the State Election Commissioner to conduct the elections with central forces to maintain neutrality, a senior SEC official said, "The state force is capable enough to conduct the polls and we don't feel there is any need for central forces." Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kmc-polls-no-need-for-central-forces-sec-tells-raj-bhawan-1058536.html
07-12-2021||National||Congress seeks probe into illegal construction at UNESCO-endorsed church||The Congress on Tuesday demanded a judicial probe or an investigation by an independent agency into alleged illegalities in the construction of a bungalow in the protected area surrounding the 17th-century heritage church complex in Old Goa near Panaji. "Let this enquiry not be conducted by government officials who will be under political pressure. It has to be conducted by an independent professional agency or by a retired judge. Only then will we get to the bottom of the truth in this matter," state Congress leader Tulio D'Souza told a press conference at the state Congress headquarters here. The controversy surrounding the construction of the allegedly illegal bungalow, located near the St. Cajetan Church in Old Goa erupted some months back and prompted civil society protests ahead of the 2022 Assembly polls. The bungalow was constructed by BJP national spokesperson Shaina N.C.'s husband Manish Munot in partnership with a local politician's Spouse Suraj Lotlikar, who belonged to the Goa Forward Party (GFP). In face of sustained protests, Deputy Chief Minister and Town and Country Planning Minister Chandrakant Kavlekar has already said that the permissions and licences for constructing the structure were illegally obtained, even as the local village panchayat has now revoked permissions for the projects and served the original owner of the land where the construction has been carried out, with a show-cause notice. Goa Archbishop Fr. Filipe Neri Ferrao last week also warned politicians against such illegalities, especially at heritage sites endorsed by UNESCO. The Congress also said that the scope of enquiry announced into the illegal structure by Union Tourism and Culture Minister G. Kishen Reddy on December 4 should be widened and not just limited to violations of heritage laws. "G. Kishen Reddy said that there would be an enquiry. We want to know whether this enquiry is only to bless all the illegalities, or it will be conducted by an independent professional agency to expose and bring to book. He has only talked about ASI (Archaeological Survey of India), because he is a central minister," D'Souza said. "We want a comprehensive enquiry covering Central as well as state government departments, town planning, CRZ authorities, etc and all departments which had given permission to this structure. All this should be inquired into and the enquiry should be a public one. People not only want the structure demolished, they also do not want such frauds and such illegalities," he added. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-seeks-probe-into-illegal-construction-at-unesco-endorsed-church-1058538.html
07-12-2021||National||Madras High Court orders winding up of SpiceJet over outstanding dues||The Madras High Court has ordered the winding up of private carrier SpiceJet Limited and directed the official Liquidator attached to the High Court to take over its assets, in a plea filed by a Swiss company over unpaid dues. The airline said the court has stayed the order for a period of three weeks, subject to the condition that it deposits the amount equivalent to $5 million within two weeks. SpiceJet said it shall initiate appropriate remedial steps, including preferring an appeal. The court was allowing a company petition from Credit Suisse AG, a stock corporation registered under the laws of Switzerland, which prayed for winding up of the Indian firm under the provisions of the Companies Act, 1956 and appoint the Official Liquidator of the High Court as the Liquidator with all powers under Section 448 of the Companies Act to take charge of SpiceJet's assets, properties, stock in trade and books of accounts. The claimed non-payment by Credit Suisse AG "as a purported assignee" of SRT Technics, amounts to $24.01 million under the agreement, SpiceJet said. The "respondent company (SpiceJet) has miserably failed to satisfy the three pronged test suggested by the Supreme Court in Mathusudan Govardhandas & Co. v. Madhu Woollen Industries (P) Ltd., and hence had rendered itself liable to be wound up for its inability to pay its debts under Section 433 (e) of the Companies Act 1956," Justice R Subramanian said in his order on Monday and directed the private carrier be wound up and the official liquidator take over its assets. According to the petitioner, SpiceJet had availed of the services of SRT Technics, Switzerland, for maintenance, repair and overhauling of aircraft engines, modules, components, assemblies and parts, which are mandatory for its operations. An agreement for performance of such services for a period of 10 years was entered into between SpiceJet and SRT Technics on November 24. 2011. The terms of payments were also agreed. On August 24, 2012 a supplemental agreement was also entered into to change certain terms of the agreement. The amendments included extension of time for payment of money due under various invoices and also a deferred payment scheme. Since there was a general increase in the cost, the 2012 supplemental agreement included adjustment of flight hour rates and provisions for escalation were also made. Upon provision of the services under the agreement, SRT Technics had raised invoices and SpiceJet had issued seven bills of exchange for the monies due under the invoices. It also acknowledged the debts from time to time by issuing certificates of acceptance in relation to the bills of exchange which would imply the respondent had not disputed the correctness of the claim made in the invoices. The petitioner, namely Credit Suisse AG, entered into a financing agreement in September 2012 with SRT Technics and under a transaction agreement, the latter assigned all its present and future rights to receive payments under the agreement to the petitioner company. The assignment included the Bills of exchange issued by SpiceJet pursuant to the 2011 agreement and the 2012 supplementary agreement. In view of the assignments made by SRT Technics, the petitioner is entitled to receive payments of the monies due under the seven invoices from Spicejet, petitioner company claimed. The petitioner has been making repeated requests to the airline to make payments under various invoices. Since it did not honour its commitment under the agreements with SRT Technics and that SpiceJet is not in a position to meet its financial obligations, the petitioner issued a statutory notice. As there was no response, it preferred the present company petition before the High Court to wind up SpiceJet. SpiceJet contended the alleged debts are not legally enforceable and as such there cannot be a winding up order under Section 433 of the Companies Act. The petitioner is not a creditor of SpiceJet and in the absence of any contractual relationship of a debtor and creditor, a winding up proceeding will not lie. The agreements between SpiceJet and SRT Technics do not authorise assignment to the present petitioner. SRT Technics had also issued a notice under Section 434 of the Companies Act in January 2015 and did not pursue the winding up, it argued and claimed that there was no liability to pay the very debt. Rejecting the contentions, the judge said a reading of certain clauses in the agreement would show the parties to the contract are bound to fulfill all obligations which occurred prior to the termination and it will not prevent either party from claiming against breach of any obligations under the agreement including recovery of excess payments made by SpiceJet to SRT Technics. The above clause would make it very clear that while it was open to SpiceJet to terminate the contract for the reason that SRT Technics did not have a valid authorisation, the termination by itself would not relieve SpiceJet of the obligations that arose under the contract prior to such termination becoming effective. Admittedly, SpiceJet had not chosen to terminate the contract. It had continued to avail the services. "Therefore in my opinion, it cannot now turn around and say there is a violation of the provisions of the Aircraft Act or the C.A.R. Rules made there under and therefore the liability ceased. I thus find that the respondent Company has miserably failed to satisfy the three pronged test suggested by the Hon’ble Supreme Court in Mathusudan Govardhandas & Co. v. Madhu Woollen Industries (P) Ltd., supra, and hence had rendered itself liable to be wound up for its inability to pay its debts under Section 433 (e) of the Companies Act 1956. I am therefore of the opinion that this Company Petition should be allowed and the respondent Company directed to be wound up. The Official Liquidator is directed to take over the assets of the respondent Company," the judge said. SpiceJet, in its intimation to BSE, said "the Madras High Court vide its order dated December 6, 2021, has stayed the earlier order of winding up and appointment of official liquidator for a period of three weeks, subject to the condition that the Company deposits the amount equivalent to $5 million within a period of two weeks." The court proceedings arose out of an old agreement between SpiceJet Limited and SRT Technics for provision of Engine Maintenance Services. "Credit Suisse AG initiated the Company Petition No. 363 of 2015 titled 'Credit Suisse AG v SpiceJet Limited' as a purported assignee of SRT claiming non-payment of amounts aggregating to $24.01 million under the Agreement," the airline said in the communication. It opposed the petition inter alia in the court on the grounds there is no legally enforceable debt because SRT did not possess the relevant Directorate General of Civil Aviation approval for provision of services under the Agreement. "SRT made a fraudulent misrepresentation to the Company (SpiceJet) of having applicable DGCA approval for providing the services," it alleged. The company raised a bona fide dispute claiming the provision of engine maintenance without DGCA approval is contrary to Indian and other applicable laws and voids the entire agreement. The Court, despite holding that SRT did not have a valid authorisation from DGCA to carry out engine maintenance during the currency of the Agreement, rejected SpiceJet's defence and ordered its winding up and directed the official liquidator to take over the assets of the company. "The company is examining the order and shall initiate appropriate remedial steps, including preferring an appeal before the appellate jurisdiction within the time frame allowed by the Madras High Court," the private carrier added. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/madras-high-court-orders-winding-up-of-spicejet-over-outstanding-dues-1058545.html
07-12-2021||National||Farmers agitation likely to end as Centre 'accepts' most demands||The year-long agitation of farmers against the three contentious farm laws, which were withdrawn last week, is likely to end soon with the government having met “nearly all demands” raised by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM). However, some points of divergence still remain, mainly on the issue of the timing of the withdrawal of cases against protesters and the constitution of the panel on MSP. While the government offered to withdraw cases after the agitation is called off, SKM, an umbrella body of over 40 farmers' unions, is insisting on the quashing of FIRs as a pre-requisite for withdrawing the agitation. The agitation could be called off as early as Wednesday but a final decision on it would be taken on Wednesday afternoon after another round of meeting by the protesting unions, who seem to have reached a consensus on their final course of the agitation, which has kept the political pot boiling in the country since November 26 last year. The decision has been taken after the Centre gave the proposal in writing to the farm leaders on Tuesday regarding withdrawing the cases lodged against farmers in the course of the year-long protest and setting up a committee for a law on MSP. “SKM confirms to have received a written draft proposal from the Home Ministry of Government of India — SKM will seek further clarifications on a few points from the government’s proposal and will re-convene tomorrow for further discussion,” it said in a statement after discussing the proposal “constructively.” “We have replied to the letter of the government. The government is saying that it will withdraw cases once the farmers withdraw the agitation. They are asking farmers to go back on this promise. But who will trust them like this? We will discuss it in a meeting over this,” SKM leader Rakesh Tikait said. The protesting unions are also opposed to the inclusion of “pro-farm bill” leaders in the panel on MSP and in their reply to the government, demanded that only members from SKM should be included in the MSP panel. The government has proposed that the committee will include farmers from outside the SKM as well, besides scientists and representatives from the Central and the state governments. SKM had earlier nominated five members, Balbir Singh Rajewal, Ashok Dhawle, Shiv Kumar Kakka, Gurnam Singh Chaduni and Yudhvir Singh, for the panel on December 4. Home Minister Amit Shah is reported to have asked a leader of the SKM on the setting up of the MSP panel after which some forward movement began. SKM leader Balbir Singh Rajewal categorically said that the farmers' unions will not accept the government’s condition that cases against farmers will be withdrawn after the agitation is called off. Another farmer leader Kulwant Singh Sandhu claimed “nearly all demands raised by us have been met” referring to the government’s letter regarding assurances on farmers' demands. While he claimed that a “consensus” has been reached, the farmer union leaders from Haryana appeared adamant about the withdrawal for FIRs first. The Central government, in its proposal to SKM, said, “The governments of UP and Haryana (both BJP-ruled)  have given full consent that cases lodged during the agitation against farmers will be withdrawn soon after the agitation is ended. The departments related to Government of India (Railways) and the Union Territory (Chandigarh) have also agreed to withdraw the cases after the agitation is ended. Even for compensation, UP and Haryana governments have given their in-principle consent. Even the government of Punjab has made public announcements on these two subjects.” Referring to all the five demands of SKM, including objections to electricity bill and removing criminal liability clause from the electricity bill, the Central government said, “In this way, all five demands have been appropriately addressed. Now there is no justification for continuing the farmer agitation.” Three days after the first anniversary of the farmer agitation on November 26, the government, on the first day of the Winter Session of Parliament on November 29, repealed the three contentious laws, namely Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The withdrawal was done 10 days after Modi, on November 19, in a televised address to the nation, announced that the government will repeal the laws as it could not convince a section of farmers about the benefits of the new farm laws. The move, coming just months before elections in agrarian states of Punjab and UP, two epicentres of protests, along with Haryana, was criticised by the Opposition as a delayed decision taken due to electoral considerations.   Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-agitation-likely-to-end-as-centre-accepts-most-demands-1058546.html
07-12-2021||National||National Conference wants statehood, special provisions for J&K restored||The demand for the restoration of full statehood of Jammu and Kashmir along with the restoration of provisions of Articles 370 and 35-A of the Constitution were among the seven resolutions passed by the National Conference on Tuesday, in a meeting chaired by party president Farooq Abdullah. Its other demands included the restoration of the 'darbar move' practice, special package for the tourism industry, employment for youth, implementation of the Mandal Commission recommendations in Jammu and Kashmir, a legal guarantee of minimum support price for crops and slashing prices of essential commodities. The resolutions were adopted at a day-long convention of the NC's central zone, comprising the Jammu, Samba and Kathua districts, held at Sher-e-Kashmir Bhawan. The party alleged that Jammu and Kashmir has been "downgraded and downsized by bifurcating it into two Union Territories disrupting the social fabric, integrity and composite culture of the erstwhile state." "The three regions of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir were having different languages and cultures which were being shared and enjoyed by the people of all three regions equally and peacefully," the resolution stated. It called for the restoration of full statehood, along with Articles 370 and 35-A, in the "larger interest" of the people of Jammu and Kashmir. It was aimed at unity, integrity, peace, progress and communal harmony for the people, the party said. "It is also imperative to safeguard the jobs and land of the people of Jammu and Kashmir for the people of Jammu and Kashmir which is only possible with the restoration of the pre-August 5, 2019 situation," the resolution stated. Another resolution called for the restoration of the 149-year-old tradition of 'darbar move', under which the government functioned from Srinagar and Jammu for six months each. The practice was ended by the administration under the Lt Governor last year. "Around 8,000-9,000 employees working in civil secretariats, with headquarters in Jammu and Srinagar, used to shift from one headquarter to another. It was a unique practice which had strengthened the relations of the people in the two regions sharing their culture, secular fabric and socialism as well. The move used to boost economic activities as well in both the capitals. Ending this practice not only will shatter communal harmony, brotherhood and strong relations between Dogra, Kashmiri and Ladakhi culture but has also brought commercial activities to a standstill," the resolution stated. Another resolution demanding a special package for the tourism industry was passed by the NC. The party promised that, if voted to power, it would redress the grievances of the tourism industry and will explore more tourist places in Jammu as well as Kashmir. The resolution legal guarantee of MSP said, "As the farming community has been fighting for passage of legislation for MSP, the National Conference supports their just and genuine demand." It also demanded compensation to the farmers for the damage to their crops due to hailstorms and torrential rains. "The farmers are being harassed and tortured by snatching away their lands under cultivation, forcing them to adopt the path of agitation. We stand with these farmers and appeal to the government to defer this campaign till a popular government is established in Jammu and Kashmir," the NC said. Claiming the unemployment rate in Jammu and Kashmir was at an "all-time high" of 22.2 per cent and the highest among all the Union Territories and states, the party demanded adequate employment opportunities for the youth. "The government must review its employment policy and must absorb all those at the verge of becoming over-age," the resolution said.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-conference-wants-statehood-special-provisions-for-jk-restored-1058550.html
07-12-2021||National||Centre seeks time in SC on farmers' road blockade||The Union government on Tuesday sought time from the Supreme Court in a plea by a woman resident from Noida against the road blockade at Delhi border by the farmers, in view of repeal of three contentious farm laws. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta submitted before a bench presided over by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul that the matter should be adjourned in view of the changed circumstances. Advocate Prashant Bhushan, appearing for some farm unions also agreed to it. Taking note of the submission, the bench, also comprising Justice M M Sundresh, posted the matter for consideration in January 2022. In a public announcement, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has on November 19, 2021, said the Union government would repeal the three farm laws. On November 29, both the Houses of Parliament passed the repeal bill. The farmers, however, continued to carry on with their sit-ins demanding a law on minimum support price of farm produce among others. The bench had repeatedly said that the farmers did have a fundamental right to protest but they cannot block the roads indefinitely. It had issued notice to 43 leaders of various farmer organisations, including Rakesh Tikait, and Yogendra Yadav, who have been protesting against the three farm laws, at the Delhi-NCR border since November 26, 2020. Noida resident, Monicca Agarwaal sought the top court's directions to the government to remove protesters at the borders, as it causes a lot of inconveniences to the people travelling to and fro Delhi for various purposes Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-seeks-time-in-sc-on-farmers-road-blockade-1058560.html
07-12-2021||National||Sanjay Raut meets Rahul Gandhi to discuss 'forging Opposition unity'||Days after Shiv Sena firmly backed Congress against Trinamool Congress, its leader Sanjay Raut on Tuesday met Rahul Gandhi here to discuss emerging political scenarios and forging unity among Opposition parties. The meeting came amid speculation that Shiv Sena would formally join the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) even as Sena sources said that it was not necessary as they are already in an alliance with Congress in Maharashtra where it runs the government. Raut's discussions with Rahul also came days after Sena said in an editorial in its mouthpiece 'Saamna' that creating an alliance parallel to UPA sans Congress was akin to strengthening "fascist" forces after West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's visit to Mumbai and her search for allies to form an opposition alliance. "An Opposition front is not possible without Congress. The face of the opposition front may be a matter of discussion. Rahul Gandhi will soon visit Mumbai. There should be only one opposition front," Raut told reporters after the meeting with Rahul. Asked whether the Sena would join the UPA, he said, "it was a long meeting. I will first meet (party supremo and Maharashtra Chief Minister) Uddhav Thackery and then we'll talk about it." Mamata has been attempting to form a grouping of opposition parties arguing that Congress has not been able to take on the BJP and ceding space. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sanjay-raut-meets-rahul-gandhi-to-discuss-forging-opposition-unity-1058564.html
07-12-2021||National||Punjab polls: Kejriwal woos SC community, promises free education for their children||In a bid to woo the Scheduled Caste community ahead of Punjab assembly polls, AAP national convener Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday promised to provide free education to their children, besides bearing their coaching fees for higher studies, if his party comes to power. Addressing a gathering of the SC community in Hoshiarpur district, Kejriwal accused Charanjit Singh Channi of playing "vote bank politics" as the Punjab chief minister belonged to the same community. Notably, Channi is the first Punjab chief minister who belongs to the SC community. The state has a nearly 32 per cent Dalit population. Kejriwal asked the people in the gathering to vote for the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) for once, saying they had given many chances to the rival political parties—Congress and the Shiromani Akali Dal. The Delhi chief minister told the gathering that he has five “guarantees” for the SC community. Given details, he said the AAP government will provide the best education to the children belonging to the SC community free of charge if voted to power in the Punjab assembly polls due early next year. “If a child belonging to the SC community wants to coach, as we did in Delhi, for engineering, medical education, railway, IAS or any paper, his/her entire fee will be borne by the Punjab government,” he promised. If a child of the SC community wishes to go abroad for pursuing graduation and post-graduation, the expenses will be borne by the state government, he stated. He also promised that the state government would bear medical expenses on the treatment of any disease being suffered by any member of the SC family. He further promised said that each woman above 18-years would get Rs 1,000 per month. Taking on the Punjab CM, Kejriwal said Channi hails from the Ravidassia community. “That is why he is asking the SC community to vote for him”. He told the gathering that though he did not come from the SC community, “but I come from your family”.             “If anybody from your family gets sick, I will get your treatment done by becoming your son. If tomorrow, your child wants to become an IAS officer I and you will make him the IAS officer. If your child wants a good education then your elder brother will help you. Channi sahib will not help,” said the Delhi chief minister. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/punjab-polls-kejriwal-woos-sc-community-promises-free-education-for-their-children-1058574.html
07-12-2021||National||India successfully flight tests VLSRSTA Missile||India Tuesday successfully flight tested the indigenously developed new Vertical Launch Short Range Surface-to-Air Missile from Odisha coast here, Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) said. The DRDO-developed quick reaction surface-to-air-missile was test-launched from the Integrated Test Range at Chandipur near here at about 3.08 pm, an official of the organisation said. To monitor the missile’s trajectories number of tracking instruments were used. The missile has an operational range of 50 to km distance and features mid-course inertial guidance through fiber optic gyroscope and active radar homing in the terminal phase, he said. The DRDO in its official Twitter post said, "Vertical Launch Short Range Surface to Air Missile for @IndianNavy was flight tested from ITR Chandipur. The missile was tested against an electronic target at a low altitude. The weapon is planned for integration onboard naval ships." Defence Minister Rajnath Singh congratulated DRDO, Indian Navy and industry for the successful flight test of VLSRSTA and said the system will enhance the defence capability of Indian naval ships against the aerial threat, RMO (defence minister) India said in its official Twitter post. Ahead of the test firing of the tactical missile on Tuesday, Balasore district administration as a safety measure temporarily shifted more than 4,500 people residing within a 2.5 km radius of launch pad number 3 of the ITR form where the weapon with a dummy payload was positioned and launched. A district revenue official said, ”On the request of ITR authority people residing in six hamlets in close proximity to the ITR launch site had to be temporarily shifted to nearby shelter centres with compensation. They will return to their homes after the DRDO gives the green signal for it.” Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-successfully-flight-tests-vlsrsta-missile-1058577.html
07-12-2021||National||Padma Shri awardee Nanda Kishore Prusty passes away, PM condoles demise||Padma Shri awardee and centenarian teacher from Odisha, Nanda Kishore Prusty, who was fondly called Nanda Sir, passed away at a private hospital here on Tuesday, family sources said. Prusty had contracted Covid-19 and was admitted to a Covid hospital in Jajpur district. As his health condition deteriorated, Prusty was shifted to the Sum Hospital here. He died at the age of 104, the sources said. The centenarian teacher belonged to Kantira village in Jajpur district. He was loved by one and all for his selfless dedication towards eradicating illiteracy in the area. On November 9, he was conferred with the Padma Shri award for his contributions in the field of education. Prusty, who was a Class 7 pass out, spent several decades of his life providing free education to children and adults in Jajpur. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik, Union Home Minister Amit Shah, Union Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan and many other leaders paid condolences to the departed soul. Sharing a photograph with the teacher on Twitter, Modi said, "Pained by the demise of Shri Nanda Prusty Ji. The much respected 'Nanda Sir' will be remembered for generations due to his efforts to spread the joys of education in Odisha. He drew the nation's attention and affection a few weeks ago at the Padma Awards ceremony. Om Shanti." Expressing sorrow over the demise of Prusty, Patnaik said, "His valuable contribution to the field of education and his lifelong sacrifice will remain an ideal forever. I extend my heartfelt condolences to the bereaved family." "Deeply saddened by the demise of Nanda Kishore Prusty Ji. He was recently conferred with the Padma Shri for his pioneering contribution towards providing free education to the children in Odisha. The nation will always remember this noble soul for his selfless service. Om Shanti," Shah tweeted. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/padma-shri-awardee-nanda-kishore-prusty-passes-away-pm-condoles-demise-1058581.html
07-12-2021||National||Can’t let kids with rare diseases die, no explanation by Centre for not utilising fund: Delhi HC||The Delhi High Court Tuesday said the Centre has not given sufficient justification for Rs 193 crore lying unutilised in the rare diseases fund for children and emphasised that it will not let kids die from such illnesses despite funds being available. The high court pulled up the authorities for making a “mockery of the whole thing” and said it was strange that the allocated funds are available but not being spent on children suffering from rare diseases. “The affidavit filed by Respondent no. 1 (Centre) gives no reason or sufficient justification for not utilising the unspent amount of the fund for the last three years on children suffering from rare diseases,” Justice Rekha Palli said. The high court said the government’s affidavit also gives no sufficient justification as to why names of petitioner children are not included till date on the digital crowdfunding platform made operational for medicines and treatment for rare illnesses. It asked the government to take instructions on whether it is possible to provide treatment to the petitioner children and then adjust the amount collected through crowdfunding. The court granted time to Additional Solicitor General Chetan Sharma to seek instructions on the issue and listed the matter for further hearing on December 14. “What is this? Children are dying because of lack of funds... What about the corpus which is available with the government here. I will not permit these children to die despite funds being available. When there are funds, why should the children suffering from rare diseases not get it?” the judge said. The court did not accept the submission of the government counsel that the unutilised amount in the fund gets lapsed and said "what kind of answer is this?". On the issue of transfer of the unutilised amount of over Rs 63 crore, lying with the Kerala High Court after it was collected from the general public for the treatment of a person suffering from a rare disease, to the rare diseases fund, the Centre told the Delhi High Court that it has filed an impleadment application before the Kerala court. The court was hearing a batch of petitions on behalf of children suffering from rare diseases, including Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy (DMD) and Mucopolysaccharidosis II or MPS II (Hunter Syndrome), and seeking direction to the Centre to provide them uninterrupted and free treatment as the therapy is very expensive. DMD, one of the various forms of muscular dystrophy, is a rare genetic disease that affects boys almost exclusively and causes progressive weakness. MPS II is a rare disease that is passed on in families and it mainly affects boys and their bodies cannot break down a kind of sugar that builds bones, skin, tendons and other tissues. On August 11, the court was informed that pursuant to an order passed by the Kerala High Court for establishing a digital crowdfunding platform, over Rs 63 crore was collected from the general public for the treatment of a person suffering from a rare disease, who died and the amount was thus lying unutilised. The court had then asked the Centre to obtain instructions on the utilisation of the amount for the treatment of other similarly placed patients under the National Policy for Rare Diseases, 2021. On January 28, the court had passed an order directing the Central government to make operational the digital crowdfunding platform for medicines and treatment for rare illnesses. On March 23, the court had passed a slew of directions in connection with the treatment of persons with rare diseases, including a direction to notify the National Health Policy for Rare Diseases by March 31 and set up a National Consortium for Research, Development and Therapeutics, a rare diseases committee at AIIMS and a fund for such ailments. It had directed that the entire unspent budget allocated for rare diseases over the past three years shall be immediately moved into the rare diseases fund, which shall be managed, supervised and utilised by nodal agency AIIMS. The digital platform created under the policy for receiving crowdfunding shall be linked to the fund and those individuals and companies wishing to contribute shall make direct contributions into it, the court had said. In July, the court was informed by the Centre that it has made operational a digital platform for crowdfunding of the expensive medicines and treatment for rare diseases. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/can-t-let-kids-with-rare-diseases-die-no-explanation-by-centre-for-not-utilising-fund-delhi-hc-1058586.html
07-12-2021||National||Air quality panel orders immediate closure of NCR industries not using cleaner fuels||In a stern action against industries, the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) on Tuesday ordered immediate closure of all those NCR industries which have not switched to cleaner fuels in industrial areas despite their availability. The CAQM said violating industries/industrial units will not be permitted to operate till December 12, 2021 and the position will be reviewed for further decisions. "There is an emergent need for preventive measures, as a matter of extreme emergency, to prevent further deterioration in air quality. Flying Squads of CAQM will launch special drives and inspect sites to ensure compliance," the commission said. "Strict enforcement of the commission's directions to be ensured and closely monitored by the respective state governments and government of Delhi," it said. In its official statement, the CAQM expressed concern over the 'very poor' air quality in the capital and NCR. "Despite the measures taken in different sectors towards improvement of air quality in Delhi-NCR, the air quality still remains in the 'very poor' to 'severe' category," it said. "Keeping in view the need to enforce strict actions against the deteriorating air quality of the region, the commission believes that there is an urgent need to take further preventive measures, as a matter of extreme emergency and abundant caution," the CAQM added. According to the commission's November 11 order, all industries in the NCR having gas connectivity shall be run only on gas, failing which industries concerned shall be closed. It was also directed that all industries in NCR where gas connectivity is available shall immediately be shifted to gas and state governments will have to furnish industry-wise date of shifting. Additionally, NCR state governments -- Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan, and the Delhi government -- were required to further set up effective enforcement mechanisms, including intensive and continuous drives, by deputing an adequate number of teams consisting of senior officers. The commission said the Flying Squads deputed by it are going on field visits and "rigorously inspecting" various sites contributing to deteriorating air quality of Delhi-NCR and reporting their compliance of the directions to the CAQM. "The commission is reviewing the progress on a daily basis by holding the review meetings with the Flying Squads to take stock of the situation and take necessary punitive actions against the violators," it said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/air-quality-panel-orders-immediate-closure-of-ncr-industries-not-using-cleaner-fuels-1058588.html
07-12-2021||National||Former Goa CM & Congress MLA joins BJP||Former Chief Minister and now former Congress MLA Ravi Naik joined the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party on Tuesday. Naik joined the BJP at a formal induction ceremony here, in the presence of former Maharashtra Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis. Earlier on Tuesday, Naik submitted his resignation as a legislator to the Speaker of the Goa legislative assembly Rajesh Patnekar. With his resignation, the legislative strength of Congress has been reduced to three MLAs from the 17 MLAs who were elected to the state legislative assembly in 2017. "Only Modi can take the country ahead and ensure that no one stays hungry. BJP will win at least 27 MLAs in these elections," Naik said. Naik's sons Roy and Riteish had already joined the Congress last year. Reacting to Naik's exit from the Congress, state president of the opposition party, Girish Chodankar said that Naik had been disowned from the Congress, the day both his sons joined the BJP. "The day both his sons joined the BJP, on the third day we disowned him as a Congress MLA and told him that a person who sends his children across (to another party) and tries to sail in two boats, the Congress does not want such leaders. Congress wants leaders who stick with the party," Chodankar said. Naik has served as the Chief Minister of Goa on two occasions from 1991 to 1993 and for seven days from April 2 to April 8 in 1994. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/former-goa-cm-congress-mla-joins-bjp-1058590.html
07-12-2021||National||No concurrent sentence for subsequent convictions, especially in drug trafficking case: SC||The Supreme Court on Tuesday declared that if a person already undergoing a jail term is sentenced in a subsequent conviction, such a prison term would normally commence at the expiration of the previous imprisonment. "The general rule is that where there are different transactions, different crime numbers and cases have been decided by the different judgements, concurrent sentence cannot be awarded under Section 427 of Criminal Procedure Code," a bench of Justices M R Shah and B V Nagarathna explained. The top court, further, said under Section 427 (1) of the CrPC, the court has the power and discretion to issue a direction that all the subsequent sentences can run concurrently with the previous sentence. However, such discretion has to be exercised judiciously depending upon the nature of the offence or the offences committed and the facts in situation. The top court dealt with the legal provision while rejecting a plea by Mohd Zahid, a resident of Pakistan's Lahore, against Delhi High Court's judgement. The HC had dismissed his contention that he was sentenced to 12 years jail in a case by Amritsar court for the import of four kg of heroin. So, his subsequent sentence of 15 years jail by a Delhi court for recovery of 750 grams of heroin should be allowed to run concurrently or he would suffer 27 years of jail. The bench said while awarding the sentence or punishment in the case of NDPS Act, the interest of the society as a whole is required to be taken into consideration. Even while applying discretion under Section 427 of the CrPC, no discretion or leniency can be exercised in favor of the accused, found to be indulging in illegal trafficking in narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances. Those who are dealing in narcotic drugs are instruments in causing death or in inflicting death blow to a number of innocent, young and vulnerable victims. Such accused cause deleterious effects and deadly impact on society. They are hazardous to society. Such organised activities of clandestine smuggling of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances into this country and illegal trafficking in such drugs and substances have a deadly impact on the society as a whole, the court said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-concurrent-sentence-for-subsequent-convictions-especially-in-drug-trafficking-case-sc-1058594.html
07-12-2021||National||Deadline for submission of life certificates for Central government pensioneers extended to December 31||Union minister Jitendra Singh on Tuesday said the government has decided to extend up to December 31 the deadline for submission of life certificates by Central government pensioners, in yet another reform to enhance ease of living for senior citizens. The decision was taken in view of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic and the vulnerability of the elderly population to coronavirus, he said. Earlier, a pensioner was required to submit the life certificate by November 30 for uninterrupted disbursement of his or her pension. Singh, the Minister of State for Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions, said the pensioners can submit life certificates through any of the modes, including in physical form or digitally, during the extended period. Pension will continue to be paid by the pension disbursing authorities (PDAs) uninterrupted during this extended period, a statement issued by the Personnel Ministry said. The minister said that pension disbursing banks have been advised to continue to maintain Covid-19 appropriate behaviour while obtaining life certificates and to ensure proper arrangement and social distancing measures at their branches to prevent crowding. Singh said that the government headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi has always sought "ease of living" for all sections of society, including retirees and pensioners, who are the nation's assets with their experience and due to long years of service rendered by them. Last week, the minister had launched a unique face recognition technology for pensioners, the statement said. The minister said the face recognition technique of giving life certificates is a historic and far-reaching reform as it will touch the lives of not only 68 lakh Central government pensioners but also crores of pensioners of state governments, among others. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deadline-for-submission-of-life-certificates-for-central-government-pensioneers-extended-to-december-31-1058608.html
07-12-2021||National||Don't go to Kolkata even by mistake: Goa CM to locals||In a veiled reference to the alleged post-poll violence in TMC-ruled West Bengal, Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Tuesday appealed to local people not to visit Kolkata "even by mistake". Without taking any names, he also slammed supporters of TMC and others for comparing the party supremo and West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee to goddess Shantadurga. Sawant was addressing a gathering at Ponda town after inducting former Congress MLA Ravi Naik in the BJP. Former Maharashtra chief minister and BJP's Goa in-charge for polls Devendra Fadanavis was present along with Goa BJP chief Sadanand Shet Tanavade. “Someone comes from Delhi (referring to AAP), TMC comes and MGP ties up with them (for upcoming Goa polls),” Sawant said. The chief minister accused both the parties (TMC and AAP) of telling “blatant lies” in the run-up to the Goa polls, due in February next year. “Our people don't go to Delhi. And don't go to Kolkata, even by mistake. I am telling you the truth. Don't dare to go there (Kolkata). Do you know what happened there post the recent elections (in West Bengal)? Do you want that kind of violence in Goa?” he asked. Without taking the name of West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, Sawant said that some leaders are calling her bigger than goddess Shantadurga. “Have they turned insane? They are comparing her (Mamata) to the goddess. We have to tell them that she cannot be compared with our goddess Shantadurga,” he commented. Sawant said Goa is a cultured state where Goans treat Muslims, Hindus, and Christians as brothers and sisters. "Here no one kills anyone or commits atrocities on anyone,” he said. The chief minister alleged that 500 people arrive from Kolkata in Goa by train every day. “You have seen a video. They (people from Kolkata) come here and are paid Rs 500 per day,” he said insinuating that the TMC lacked local support for campaigning. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dont-go-to-kolkata-even-by-mistake-goa-cm-to-locals-1058609.html
07-12-2021||National||Video of people from WB arriving in Goa for poll work fake, says TMC||A video being circulated on social media of people from West Bengal arriving by train in Goa to vote for the Trinamool Congress in the 2022 Assembly polls here was fake, the Mamata Banerjee-led party said on Tuesday. Addressing a press conference, TMC leader Trajano D'Mello said the BJP government in Goa should take action if they believe the video is true. He also said by making such claims, the BJP and its IT Cell which was forwarding it across social media platforms, were discrediting the Election Commission. "The video is fake and BJP workers and leaders are forwarding it along with their purchasing partner the Congress. Such fake videos are emerging because the ruling BJP is shivering with fear after the TMC announced an alliance with MGP for the Goa polls," he claimed. Incidentally, addressing a public gathering in Ponda during the day, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant had spoken about the video, and had claimed 500 people were arriving from West Bengal daily for a sum of Rs 500 per month to convince people to vote for a particular party. In the video, some youth can be heard saying they have been brought here by a poll consultancy firm to vote in the upcoming Goa elections. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/video-of-people-from-wb-arriving-in-goa-for-poll-work-fake-says-tmc-1058615.html
07-12-2021||National||SII may cut Covishield's monthly production by half amid demand slump||With not enough orders for Covishield from the central government, Serum Institute of India (SII) CEO Adar Poonawalla on Tuesday said the company is looking at slashing monthly production of vaccines by at least 50 per cent. SII has written to the government to seek clarity on its requirement, if any, for normal two doses for eligible people in the country and also on booster doses. "I am actually in a dilemma that I never imagined... we are producing 250 million doses a month but the good news is that India has covered up a large part of its population and we would have completed all our orders to the Ministry of Health in a week's time," Poonawalla said in an interview to CNBC-TV18. On his future production strategy, the SII CEO said that as there was "no other orders in hand so I am going to reduce the production by at least 50 per cent to begin with...on a monthly basis until the orders again pick up either in India or the world". Pointing out that the export of Covishield is also slow currently, he said the export orders would pick up in the next quarter. "Over the eight months when we could not export, other countries managed vaccine supplies from donations from the US and elsewhere and we have lost a lot of market share," he said, however, added that he is now going to try to claw the demand back in the first quarter of next year. Initially, it is going to be slow but will pick up though it will never be to the tune of probably needing 250 million doses a month unless there is a requirement from the central government, Poonawalla said. "If they need more vaccines for the booster doses, we have already written to them (central government). Now it is their decision on the booster policy whether they will procure more and stockpile before the next surge happens, if at all it comes. We are awaiting their directions," he added. He further said: "We must keep in mind that we don't need a situation like last year where suddenly the country needs hundreds of millions of doses, that won't be possible if we dial down our production. So that is why we have explained this to the government and experts to please let us know now. If you need more doses for boosters we have it in stock, we can produce more. Just give us that guidance. That discussion is on at the moment." Poonawalla said the vaccine major currently has a stock of 500 million doses. "Half of that is finished product and half can be finished in a matter of two months and it has a shelf life of nine months, so we have to decide what to do with the stock. It is available on priority to India and if not, we will start exporting a lot more from quarter one of 2022," he stated. Poonawalla said the government has been informed and the company would wait for a few days for them to come back before deciding on its next course of action. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sii-may-cut-covishields-monthly-production-by-half-amid-demand-slump-1058616.html
07-12-2021||National||Accused found guilty under NDPS Act should not be shown leniency: SC||An accused who is found to be guilty of the offence under the NDPS Act should not be shown any leniency as they are instruments in causing death to several innocent young victims, the Supreme Court said on Tuesday. The top court also said that while applying discretion under Section 427 of CrPC (Criminal Procedure Code), it shall not be in favour of the accused who is found to be indulging in illegal trafficking in narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances. "No leniency should be shown to an accused who is found to be guilty for the offence under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. Those persons who are dealing in narcotic drugs are instruments in causing death or in inflicting death blow to a number of innocent young victims who are vulnerable. Such accused cause deleterious effects and deadly impact on society. "They are a hazard to society. Such organised activities of clandestine smuggling of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances into this country and illegal trafficking in such drugs and substances have a deadly impact on society as a whole. Therefore, while awarding the sentence or punishment in case of NDPS Act, the interest of the society as a whole is required to be taken into consideration," said a bench of Justices M R Shah and B V Nagarathna. The bench observed while dismissing an appeal filed by Mohd Zahid against an order of the Delhi High Court which had rejected his plea and confirmed his sentence of 15 years along with a fine of Rs 1.5 lakh under the NDPS Act. The top court said, "Even while exercising discretion under Section 427 of CrPC (Sentence on offender already sentenced for another offence) to run subsequent sentence concurrently with the previous sentence, the discretion is to be exercised judiciously and depending upon the offence/offences committed.   "Therefore, considering the offences under the NDPS Act which are very serious in nature and against the society at large, no discretion shall be exercised in favour of such accused who is indulging into the offence under the NDPS Act," the bench said. Zahid was also sentenced to undergo 12 years of rigorous imprisonment by the Amritsar court for recovery of 4 kg of heroin. While in the case in Delhi, he was sentenced to 15 years for recovery of 750 grams of heroin. The question for the consideration before the top court was whether the sentences imposed against Zahid by two different courts in two different trials but against the same accused/person should run concurrently or consecutively. The bench said in the present case, Zahid has been convicted concerning two different transactions, there are different crime numbers and the cases have been decided by the different judgements.   "Therefore, the appellant is not entitled to any benefit of concurrent sentence under Section 427 of CrPC. There is no specific order or direction issued by the court while imposing the subsequent sentence that the subsequent sentence to run concurrently with the previous sentence," the bench said. The top court dismissed the appeal filed by Zahid and directed the sentences shall run concurrently. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/accused-found-guilty-under-ndps-act-should-not-be-shown-leniency-sc-1058631.html
07-12-2021||National||International passengers mandated to file self-declaration form on 'Air Suvidha' portal||To ensure the smooth passage of international travellers arriving in India, the Centre on Tuesday mandated contactless self-declaration by them on the 'Air Suvidha' portal. The portal was launched in August 2020 and is used to ease international passenger arrival in India. The portal aids passengers in providing their details of travel and final stay along with RTPCR and vaccination status, among other details. "In today's time, this helps the state officials in contact tracing. The implementation of the Air Suvidha portal intends to provide hassle-free, queue free and convenient air travel to all international passengers arriving in India," the Ministry of Civil Aviation said in a statement. "To ensure the necessary prevention of the Omicron variant of Covid-19, the exemption forms in the Air Suvidha portal have been discontinued, and filling of the details have been made compulsory for all international passengers arriving in India," it added. As per the statement, all international passengers arriving in India are mandated to declare their current health status prior to boarding on the Air Suvidha portal along with the required documents. "For immigration, the copy received in e-mail is essential on arrival in India and has to be verified at the 'APHO' counter," the statement said. According to the ministry, all applications from 'at risk' countries are marked with 'H' and 'red band', while others are marked 'green'. "This helps in smooth on-arrival segregation and processing. The application also takes into account countries visited in the last 14 days to highlight 'at risk' applications. This field has also been made into a multi-select drop-down option for standardisation. "For 'at risk' countries, passengers are advised to pre-book their test on arrival, and the links to the respective testing facilities are provided to the passengers on SDF submission," the ministry said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/international-passengers-mandated-to-file-self-declaration-form-on-air-suvidha-portal-1058666.html
07-12-2021||National Politics||Congress gives adjournment notice in Lok Sabha on Chinese intrusion||Congress MP Manish Tewari on Tuesday gave an adjournment notice in the Lok Sabha on the issue of Chinese intrusion. The notice says, "China has been taking an aggressive stance along the LAC encroaching repeatedly into Indian territory resulting in skirmishes along the Line of Actual Control since April, 2020 including the deadly standoffs at Pangong Tso Lake and Galwan Valley. "The Chinese have now built villages in Indian territory, including the one on the banks of River Tsari Chu, in Upper Subansiri district of Arunachal Pradesh. Also, there are reports of a second village in Indian territory of Arunachal Pradesh. According to reports, China has also set up multiple villages in the strategically vital Bhutanese territory of Doklam." The Congress has been saying that the government is not presenting a clear picture on the issue of LAC in the Northeast and at Ladakh. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-gives-adjournment-notice-in-lok-sabha-on-chinese-intrusion-1058437.html
07-12-2021||National Politics||Suspension of 12 MPs: Opposition Rajya Sabha members to sit on Dharna||Intensifying their protest demanding revocation of suspension of 12 MPs, Opposition lawmakers in Rajya Sabha will sit on a dharna on Wednesday in solidarity with suspended MPs. The decision was taken at a meeting of Opposition floor leaders chaired by Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge. Sources said it was also decided that the Opposition should further intensify the protest inside Rajya Sabha. On Thursday, sources told DH that the Opposition is mulling the possibility of Lok Sabha MPs sitting on a similar dharna. However a final decision has not been taken. The government has been insisiting that suspended MPs must apologise if they want the suspension revoked but the Opposition has not budged so far. The 12 Opposition MPs -- six from the Congress, two each from the Trinamool Congress and the Shiv Sena, and one each from the CPI and the CPI(M) -- were suspended from the Rajya Sabha last Monday for the entire Winter Session of Parliament for their "unruly" conduct in the previous session in August. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/suspension-of-12-mps-opposition-rajya-sabha-members-to-sit-on-dharna-1058442.html
07-12-2021||National Politics||Transform or there could be changes with time: PM Modi's warning to MPs at BJP parliamentary party meeting||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday emphasised on the attendance of party MPs in Parliament, saying if they don't transform themselves, there could be changes with time, sources said. The prime minister made the remarks at the BJP parliamentary party meeting at the Ambedkar International Centre here, the sources told PTI. Sharing the details of the meeting, which was for the first time held outside Parliament complex, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi said the prime minister told party MPs that all of them should organise sports competitions in their respective constituencies. On the issue of attendance, the prime minister said party MPs should regularly attend Parliament proceedings and remarked that when children are pointed out an issue again and again, even they don't repeat it. The prime minister told MPs to change themselves, otherwise change would happen with time, the sources said. The poor attendance of BJP MPs has been flagged by Modi many times in the past also. At the meeting BJP President J P Nadda asked party MPs to call district presidents and presidents of mandals from their respective constituencies for tea and interact with them Similiarly, the prime minister will call district presidents from his constituency Varanasi on December 14 At the start of the meeting, tribal MPs including Union Minister Arjun Munda felicitated Prime Minister Modi for celebrating Birsa Munda's birthday as 'Jan Jatiya Diwas'. A book compiling the work done by various ministers on the Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav was also distributed among BJP MPs.   Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/transform-or-there-could-be-changes-with-time-pm-modis-warning-to-mps-at-bjp-parliamentary-party-meeting-1058476.html
07-12-2021||National Politics||'Laal Topi' a red alert for UP: Modi's barb against Samajwadi Party||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday launched a scathing attack on the Samajwadi Party (SP) and cautioned the people of Uttar Pradesh against supporting them saying that those wearing red caps were dangerous for the state. Addressing a public meeting after inaugurating fertiliser factory and AIIMS in chief minister Yogi Adityanath's home town of Gorakhpur, Modi said that the SP wanted to grab power to "fill" its own coffers, 'release' the terrorists from the jails and give a free hand to the mafia elements. "In laal topi walon ko UP ke logon ke dukh se matlab nahin hai. Inhe satta chahiye apni tijori bharne ke liye, atankvadiyon ko riha karne ke liye aur mafia ko khuli chooth dene ke liye," (These red cap-wearing people have no concern for the sufferings and pain of common man. They want power to fill their coffers, release the terrorists from jails and give a free hand to mafia elements), the prime minister said. "The red cap is a red alert for UP. It denotes danger," Modi added. लाल टोपी वालों को सरकार बनानी है, आतंकवादियों पर मेहरबानी दिखाने के लिए, आतंकियों को जेल से छुड़ाने के लिए। Modi accused the previous SP regime of trying to create obstacle in the way of development of the state by not cooperating with the centre on developmental projects. "The previous government did not want to provide land for the AIIMS. It later gave the land unwillingly," he claimed. He said that the SP had deviated from the principles of the socialist ideologue Ram Manohar Lohia and Jai Prakash Narayan. He also said that the Centre and the BJP government in the state continued to work for the development of UP even during the Covid-19 pandemic. "This is the benefit of the double engine government," he added. Modi, in his speech, heaped praise on Adityanath and said that the latter had been able to improve the law and order situation in the state and instill a feeling of security among the people of the state. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/laal-topi-a-red-alert-for-up-modis-barb-against-samajwadi-party-1058482.html
07-12-2021||National Politics||RLD formally announces alliance with Samajwadi Party, says BJP's politics of hatred will be rejected||Rashtriya Lok Dal president Jayant Chaudhary on Tuesday formally announced his party's alliance with the Samajwadi Party and said if they come to power in Uttar Pradesh next year, the first work will be to build a memorial for "martyrs" of the farmers' protest. Slamming the BJP government in the state for the recent leak of a government competitive examination question paper and subsequent cancellation of the test, Chaudhary said because of such incidents youngsters are not getting appointments, and they have to migrate and work in other places. The BJP will get a befitting reply from the people in the Uttar Pradesh assembly polls next year as they have understood its politics of hatred, the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) chief said while addressing a rally along with Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav in Meerut. Talking about the alliance, Chaudhary said, "Akhilesh ji and I are together, and I am making an announcement in this regard. The first work our double-engine government will do is to construct a memorial for martyr farmers, who died during farmers' protest here in the land of Chowdhury Charan Singh." The BJP talks of "hatred" and "our Babaji (Chief Minsiter Yogi Adityanath) starts with Aurangzeb and ends with the Kairana exodus", the RLD leader said. The BJP during the last assembly elections had claimed that many Hindu families had migrated from Kairana town in fear of criminals. The claim of migration has been contested by some political parties. "The paper (competitive exam) is leaked, youths are not getting appointments. Youths from here migrate due to lack of opportunities and work in other states. Now this time, people will not fall in the trap of 'nafrat ki baatein' (talks of hatred)," he said. The RLD leader said, "Babaji becomes angry very fast. You have never seen him smiling. He smiles only when he is with 'bacchde' (calves). I ask you people to free him so that he can play with his calves for 24 hours. He cannot handle government files." Hailing the farmers' agitation, Chaudhary said, "I appreciate farmers for winning a big battle and forcing (Prime Minister Narendra) Modiji, probably for the first time, to bow before them." He was referring to the repeal of three central farm laws that had triggered a year of protests. "In Lakhimpur Kheri farmers were crushed. Over 700 of them died during the agitation (against the laws)," he said. On October 3, during violence in Lakhimpur Kheri, eight people were killed, including four farmers and two BJP workers. Chaudhary asked people to be there in Aligarh on December 23 on Kisan Diwas for another rally. Addressing the gathering, Yadav remembered Chowdhury Charan Singh, Baba Saheb Ambedkar, Ram Manohar Lohia and farmers leader Mahendra Singh Tikait, and highlighted their contribution to making an egalitarian society. "Now, the BJP will be wiped out from the state. This time there would be sunset of the BJP forever in West Uttar Pradesh," he said. "Kisanon ka inquilab hoga, 2022 me badlav hoga (There will be revolution by farmers and change in 2022)," Yadav said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rld-formally-announces-alliance-with-samajwadi-party-says-bjps-politics-of-hatred-will-be-rejected-1058541.html
07-12-2021||National Politics||TMC won't play second fiddle to Congress, says Abhishek Banerjee||Trinamool Congress will coordinate with other Opposition parties in Parliament in demanding revocation of suspension of 12 MPs but "will not play second fiddle" to the Congress. This was the message General Secretary Abhishek Banerjee gave to MPs at a meeting of the Trinamool Parliamentary Party here on Tuesday. He told the MPs that the protest against the suspension should not be seen just as two Trinamool MPs' problem but that of the entire Opposition. Before the meeting, he also spent time with the protesting MPs at Gandhi Statue in Parliament. Banerjee said that one cannot be in a "grey" zone on the protest and one has to take a definite decision. "You cannot be in grey. You have to be either black or white," sources quoted him as saying. Instructing them to intensify the ongoing protest in Parliament, he said, "when it is abnormal outside (the House), you cannot expect normalcy inside (the House). We cannot have exceptions in Rajya Sabha that we will participate in one Bill or one particular discussion. We have to remain strong till we reach the goal of revocation of suspension." Sources said the message from Banerjee was that there is no "ekla chalo" (walk alone) but Trinamool was "not going to play second fiddle" to Congress. In the meeting, sources said, it was decided to seek time from Union Home Minister Amit Shah for a party delegation to submit a memorandum demanding repeal of the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act. It will also seek compensation for the families of civilians killed by security forces in Nagaland as well as ask the government to come clean with its position on the controversial law. It was also decided that Lok Sabha MPs would meet in the party's office in Parliament just before the proceedings start to "discuss, share ideas, coordinate and prepare for the day". Two MPs Nusrat Jahan and Mimi Chakrabarty, who skipped the meeting, will be issued show-cause notice seeking an explanation for their absence, sources said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/tmc-wont-play-second-fiddle-to-congress-says-abhishek-banerjee-1058604.html
07-12-2021||National Politics||Opposition MPs to sit on dharna with suspended lawmakers, protest 'authoritarian' rule||Opposition MPs in Rajya Sabha will join 12 suspended lawmakers for a day-long dharna at the Gandhi statue in Parliament, in a show of solidarity, on Wednesday. Opposition parties, having resumed their protests against the suspension of MPs, chose to intensify their stir demanding the revocation of their "undemocratic" punishment, while underlining that they will not tender an apology. The leaders are likely to raise the issue at the beginning of the proceedings of Rajya Sabha in the morning and then leave the House to attend the protest. The decision was taken at a meeting of opposition floor leaders chaired by Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha, Mallikarjun Kharge, on Tuesday, during which they deliberated on various options, including ending the protest, but the overwhelming view was that they should not succumb to the government's pressure and instead, intensify their protest. Sources said parties that parties, including the DMK, RJD, Shiv Sena, CPI(M) and CPI, strongly batted for intensification of the protest with the government not budging and demanding an apology from the MPs. The view among most leaders was that they should not succumb to the government, which they felt had erred in suspending the MPs. The leaders also felt that there is a need to counter the government narrative of opposition disrupting Parliament and highlight that the Lok Sabha was functioning while Rajya Sabha is facing trouble because of the "government's authoritarian" approach. While a section in Congress wants an early resolution to the issue of suspension, including by looking at the option of tendering apology or Kharge expressing regret on behalf of the MPs, others did not agree to any sort of watering down on the position. Trinamool Congress, which has refrained from attending opposition party meetings called by Congress, was also of the view that there cannot be normalcy inside Rajya Sabha, with its General Secretary Abhishek Banerjee telling party MPs that there was no "grey" zone and they will have to intensify the protest and act in unison with other parties. A senior leader mulled the proposal of expressing regret with some suspended MPs but the response was negative. The decision of the opposition meeting was reflected in the proceedings of the day, as they disrupted the House, leading to the adjournment of Rajya Sabha, as the government also did not insist on passing the two bills listed in the business for the day. "The government is responsible for the stalemate. We tried for smooth functioning. The government's intention is not to run the House. They are keeping out those who speak. This protest will continue...Modi wants to run a dictatorship," Kharge told reporters. Congress chief whip Jairam Ramesh said, "Tomorrow (Wednesday), all opposition MPs of Rajya Sabha will sit in front of the Gandhi Statue for the entire day in solidarity with the 12 MPs suspended for the entire session in violation of the Constitution and Rules of Procedure." Kharge appealed to Lok Sabha opposition MPs to express their solidarity with suspended MPs. Senior Rajya Sabha MP Manoj K Jha said, "It is not just that 12 MPs are suspended, it is democracy that is suspended in this country. You (government) are scared because you know that the opposition will expose you on all counts, including price rise. You do not want that." Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/opposition-mps-to-sit-on-dharna-with-suspended-lawmakers-protest-authoritarian-rule-1058605.html
07-12-2021||National Politics||NCP, Shiv Sena appear to differ on Congress role in Opposition ranks||NCP and Shiv Sena on Tuesday appeared to have differing perceptions on the role of Congress in the Opposition ranks even though none of them wanted to exclude the grand old party in the fight against the BJP. While the NCP highlighted the strength of non-UPA MPs exceeding the Congress, Sena maintained that an Opposition front will not be possible without Congress. NCP spokesperson Nawab Malik's comments came after a meeting of his party's Working Committee and on a day Sena's senior leader Sanjay Raut met former Congress president Rahul Gandhi to discuss emerging political scenarios and forging unity among Opposition parties. Raut's meeting came days after Sena firmly backed Congress against Trinamool Congress. "We will make every effort to unite all non-BJP parties, including the Congress, to forge an alternative to the BJP. People want change in 2024. If an alternative alliance is formed, there will be a change in 2024," Malik told reporters while choosing to ignore the issue of leadership of such an alliance. Malik also said an anti-BJP front should have the Congress but the existing UPA does not have all parties and no non-UPA parties should be excluded. "Sharad Pawar has been saying this for some time now that not all opposition parties are in the Congress-led UPA. In fact, the number of non-UPA MPs exceeds the UPA MPs. If we do not bring all of them on board then it will be difficult to build an anti-BJP front," he said. As the NCP leader highlighted the need for uniting all Opposition parties, Sena was of the view that Congress cannot be ignored. "An Opposition front is not possible without Congress. The face of the opposition front may be a matter of discussion. Rahul Gandhi will soon visit Mumbai. There should be only one opposition front," Raut told reporters after the meeting with Rahul. The meeting came amid speculation that Shiv Sena would formally join the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) even as Sena sources said that it was not necessary as they are already in an alliance with Congress in Maharashtra where it runs the government. Raut's discussions with Rahul also came days after Sena said in an editorial in its mouthpiece 'Saamna' that creating an alliance parallel to UPA sans Congress was akin to strengthening "fascist" forces after West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's visit to Mumbai and her search for allies to form an opposition alliance. Asked whether the Sena would join the UPA, he said, "it was a long meeting. I will first meet (party supremo and Maharashtra Chief Minister) Uddhav Thackery and then we'll talk about it." Mamata has been attempting to form a grouping of opposition parties arguing that Congress has not been able to take on the BJP and ceding space. She had met Pawar during her recent visit to Mumbai but could not meet Thackeray due to his health conditions. Raut and Aditya Thackeray, a Maharashtra Minister and Uddhav Thackery's son, had met Mamata.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ncp-shiv-sena-appear-to-differ-on-congress-role-in-opposition-ranks-1058606.html
07-12-2021||National Politics||No chance of an opposition front without Congress, says Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut, after a meeting with Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday, said that there can be no opposition front without the Congress, in the wake of West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's statement questioning the existence of the UPA. “There was a discussion about the UPA. It is not right to comment on it. I will talk to Uddhavji (Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray) and then speak to you (the media),” Raut told reporters after meeting Gandhi in New Delhi. The Shiv Sena, a former BJP ally, is not part of the alliance that was in power at the Centre between 2004 and 2014. Raut declined to share details of the meeting. When asked how the opposition parties are coming together to take on the BJP in the 2024 Lok Sabha polls, Raut said efforts for this are on. “I have told Rahulji to take a lead in this and work towards it. There can be no (opposition) front without the Congress. What will two-three fronts of opposition do?” the Rajya Sabha MP said. “I have not talked about any leader leading the front. I am only saying there should be only one front. If there are two-three fronts, then it cannot be an alternative. Only then can we present an alternative (to the BJP),” he said. His meeting with Gandhi comes days after Banerjee visited Mumbai and made comments questioning the very existence of the UPA. During the visit, she also met Maharashtra minister Aaditya Thackeray and NCP president Sharad Pawar. The Congress and the NCP are constituents of the Shiv Sena-led MVA government in Maharashtra. Banerjee's meeting with opposition leaders comes amid a strain in ties between the TMC and the Congress. Following a landslide victory in West Bengal earlier this year, the TMC has inducted several Congress leaders to its fold. In Meghalaya, 12 of 17 Congress MLAs defected to the TMC, making it the principal opposition party. In Mumbai, Banerjee had said there was no UPA and made a pitch for unifying opposition parties to take on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) at the Centre. When asked how Congress and TMC can be brought together when the relations between the two are strained, Raut said Pawar will play a role in this. In his weekly column in Sena mouthpiece Saamana on Sunday, Raut claimed that Banerjee was contemplating an alliance excluding the Congress. He added that Gandhi will be visiting Mumbai soon. Raut said he is meeting Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Wednesday and the two will discuss national politics. Arch-rivals in the state until 2019, the Sena and the Congress came together along with the NCP to form the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in the state. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/no-chance-of-an-opposition-front-without-congress-says-shiv-sena-mp-sanjay-raut-1058611.html
07-12-2021||National Politics||Nagaland MP K G Kenye enters Rajya Sabha Well seeking time to speak on killings||K G Kenye, the lone MP from Nagaland, on Tuesday afternoon entered the Well of Rajya Sabha demanding that he be heard on the killing of civilians by security personnel during the discussion of two Bills but did not get a chance. He received support from the Opposition MPs, who halted their sloganeering demanding revocation of suspension of 12 MPs, but was not allowed as the discussion was on. Kenye entered the Well after the House re-assembled at 3 PM and stood near the reporters' table for some time pleading for a chance to speak during the debate on The Assisted Reproductive Technology (Regulation) Bill, 2021 and The Surrogacy (Regulation) Bill, 2020 together. Opposition MPs who were shouting slogans stopped for a brief while and urged Deputy Chairman Harivansh to allow him. As the Deputy Chairperson did not call him, the Opposition MPs then started shouting slogans supporting Kenye and the issue he raised. After a few minutes, Kenye returned his seat while Harivansh adjourned the House, as the Opposition continued their protest. "Today the government got the Rajya Sabha adjourned at 3 PM for the day because it did not want the lone Nagaland MP, K G Kenye, to speak on the horrific killings in his state. And the Rajya Sabha is the Council of States," Congress Chief Whip Jairam Ramesh tweeted. He also said, "he (Kenye) is an outstanding speaker and a very dignified man. Felt very sorry for him today. The entire Opposition pledged him support to speak." Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/nagaland-mp-k-g-kenye-enters-rajya-sabha-well-seeking-time-to-speak-on-killings-1058612.html
07-12-2021||National Politics||Dhankhar behaving like working president of Bengal BJP: TMC||The Trinamool Congress on Tuesday slammed West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar for behaving like a "working president" of the state BJP and asked him to come clean on demands by a saffron party MLA to separate Darjeeling hills from the state. TMC state general secretary Kunal Ghosh said Dhankhar has been trying to "find flaws in the civic poll preparations by the SEC", in a bid to help the saffron camp. "The BJP is completely clueless regarding the KMC polls after a humiliating defeat in the West Bengal assembly elections. So, our honourable governor, in order to score some political points in front of his bosses in New Delhi, is behaving like a working president of the state BJP," Ghosh said. The party is finding excuses as it is sure to face defeat, and the governor is aiding it by trying to find flaws in the civic poll preparedness by the state election commission, he said. “The governor should maintain the dignity of his office," Ghosh said. Dhankhar has emphasised the deployment of central forces for free and fair polls during the civic body elections, a demand made by the BJP as well. "He is so interested in the municipal polls… But, we would like to know his views on the BJP MLA demanding separation of Darjeeling hills from West Bengal; we would like to know if he supports it or not?” Ghosh said. "Why is he silent on it? If he is so concerned about West Bengal, then he should say he doesn't back the demand. The TMC has clearly said it is against the division of the hills," the senior Trinamool Congress leader said. Ghosh was referring to BJP legislator Bishnu Prasad Sharma from Kurseong, who had written to party president J P Nadda, calling for separation of Darjeeling hills from the state. Sharma had claimed that the people of the hills, which has witnessed several violent movements over statehood, do not want it to be a part of West Bengal. BJP state vice-president Jaiprakash Majumdar termed Ghosh’s comments as "baseless" and an insult to the office of the Governor. "This is what you can expect from an anarchic party like the TMC," he said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dhankhar-behaving-like-working-president-of-bengal-bjp-tmc-1058614.html
07-12-2021||National Politics||BJP will not bring down Ashok Gehlot govt in Rajasthan, it will fall due to infighting: Poonia||Rajasthan BJP president Satish Poonia said on Tuesday that his party will not bring down the Ashok Gehlot-led Congress government in the state, but it will fall due to infighting. He added that if the government survives the infighting, the people will oust the Congress from power in the 2023 assembly polls. He exuded confidence that the BJP will form the next government in Rajasthan with a thumping majority because of welfare policies of the Narendra Modi government. Poonia said there is anger among farmers and the youth against the Ashok Gehlot government. "BJP is not bringing down Ashok Gehlot government, but it will fall due to infighting, or else the people of Rajasthan will oust it from power in 2023," Poonia said. Responding to Gehlot's allegation that Home Minister Amit Shah tried to bring down the state government, Poonia said the chief minister should look at what the Congress had done while in power at the Centre. The Congress-led UPA government had misused Article 356 more than 90 times in the country and conspired to bring down state governments, the BJP leader claimed. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-will-not-bring-down-ashok-gehlot-govt-in-rajasthan-it-will-fall-due-to-infighting-poonia-1058633.html
07-12-2021||North and Central||CAQM's 'flying squads' inspect 576 sites in Delhi-NCR, 111 units spotted for immediate closure||As many as 576 sites have been inspected so far by the 'flying squads' constituted by the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) to ensure compliance with the panel's directions to control air pollution, sources said on Monday. Sources at the CAQM said that during the inspection, the 'flying squads' identified 111 units for immediate closure which include 28 industrial sites, 42 construction and demolition sites and 41 sites found using diesel generator sets. "Thirty of these sites are in Delhi, 23 in Haryana (NCR), 43 in Uttar Pradesh (NCR) and 15 in Rajasthan (NCR)," sources said. The flying squads visited 576 sites and observed serious violations and non-compliances there. The CAQM had on Sunday constituted 40 flying squads to inspect and monitor the compliance of the panel's directions to control air pollution in Delhi-NCR. A few days earlier it had constituted a five-member Enforcement Task Force (ETF) to monitor and supervise the implementation of its directions through inspection teams or flying squads. The ETF has been holding exhaustive review meetings with the 40 flying squads. Twelve inspection teams each have been constituted for the NCR districts of Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Delhi, while four teams have been deputed in the national capital region (NCR) districts of Rajasthan. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/caqms-flying-squads-inspect-576-sites-in-delhi-ncr-111-units-spotted-for-immediate-closure-1058395.html
07-12-2021||North and Central||India, Russia sign pact to deepen space cooperation||India and Russia on Monday vowed to deepen collaboration in the space sector, including in the human spaceflight programme, and signed an agreement for cooperation in the building as well as operation of launch vehicles. The pact was signed during the India-Russia summit held between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Russian President Vladimir Putin A joint statement issued after the summit said the two countries welcomed the enhanced cooperation between the Russian State Space Corporation 'Roscosmos' and the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) including in the human spaceflight programmes and satellite navigation. They agreed to study the prospects of the development of mutually beneficial cooperation in the development of launch vehicles and the use of outer space for peaceful purposes, including planetary exploration. The two sides welcomed the active work carried out within the framework of the Memorandum of Understanding between Roscosmos and ISRO on joint activities in the human spaceflight programme and noted with satisfaction the training of four Indian astronaut candidates from the Yu.A.Gagarin Research and Test Cosmonaut Training Center. Four Indian astronauts have already undergone generic space flight training in Russia as part of the Gaganyaan programme, India's first manned space flight mission. To facilitate further cooperation in Space, the two countries signed an agreement on technology protection due to cooperation in the field of research and use of outer space for peaceful purposes and building and operation of launch vehicles and ground-based space infrastructure. Both sides intend to strengthen cooperation within the UN Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space (UN COPUOS), including the issues of the long-term sustainability of outer space activities, the statement said. It said the two sides noted the significant progress achieved in the construction of the remaining nuclear power plant units at Kudankulam.  Both sides noted the importance of continued further discussion on the second site in India and the Indian side will strive to finalise formal allotment of the second site in accordance with earlier signed agreements, the statement said. They welcomed the continuation of technical discussions on the VVER 1200 of the Russian design, joint manufacturing of equipment and localisation of components. The two countries also noted successful cooperation in the setting up of the Rooppur Nuclear Power Plant in Bangladesh and expressed their readiness to explore similar cooperation in third countries as well. The leaders during the summit reaffirmed that bilateral energy cooperation is a key pillar of ties and an energy bridge between the two countries.  Both sides reiterated their joint efforts under the Roadmap for Cooperation in Hydrocarbons for 2019-24 to further deepen bilateral cooperation in the energy sector and welcomed the opening of Bharat Energy Center in Moscow, representing five Indian oil and gas public sector companies, to enhance engagement with Russian stakeholders in the energy sector. They noted with satisfaction, the fruitful, wide-ranging collaboration between the oil and gas companies of the two countries, including between JSC Rosneft Oil Company and Oil and Gas Public Sector Undertakings of India in implementing the Vankorneft, Sakhalin-1 and Taas-Yuryakh Neftegazodobycha projects in Russia, and Nayara Energy Limited's oil refinery in India.  The two sides also welcomed prospective two-way investment initiatives of both countries, which are currently under discussion. India and Russia reaffirmed their commitment for increasing sourcing of Russian crude oil on long-term contracts through preferential pricing, strengthening LNG imports to India, and the possible utilisation of the Northern Sea Route for energy supplies.  The two sides further agreed for the expansion of cooperation in the gas sector and welcomed the creation of a Gas Task Force to identify mutually beneficial areas including the development of investment in gas infrastructure and distribution projects, use of natural gas in transport and emerging fuels including hydrogen. Both sides, appreciating the strength of the Indian petrochemical market, agreed to expand collaboration through Russian participation by way of investment, technological and other ways of collaboration in the Indian petrochemical sector. They welcomed the interest of Nayara Energy in the production of products like polypropylene in India, the statement said. The two countries also agreed to consider prospects for expanding cooperation in hydro and thermal power, energy efficiency and the sector of renewable energy.  They also noted the need for cooperation in hydrogen economy, low-emission development, including exchange of best practices.  The Indian side emphasised the need for responsible and reasonable pricing of global energy supplies determined by market forces, the statement said.  Both sides noted the importance of dialogue between consumers and producers for stabilizing energy prices, it said. The day began with Defence Minister Rajnath Singh's talks with his Russian counterpart Sergey Shoygu under the framework of the India-Russia Inter-Governmental Commission on Military and Military-Technical Cooperation (IRIGC-M&MTC). Separately, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar held talks with his Russian counterpart Sergey Lavrov. Then the foreign and defence ministers of the two sides held the '2+2' dialogue. Lavrov and Shoygu arrived here late Sunday night.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/india-russia-sign-pact-to-deepen-space-cooperation-1058411.html
07-12-2021||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh government issues guidelines for all districts on Omicron variant||The Uttar Pradesh government has issued guidelines for all districts regarding the Omicron variant of coronavirus, an official statement said on Monday. Apart from conducting RT-PCR tests of all passengers coming to the state, genome tests of all infected patients are also being carried out according to the guidelines, it said. Following the confirmation of cases of the new variant in other states of the country, the state government is ensuring strict vigil on the borders and is also emphasising on further improving the health facilities in rural and urban areas, the statement said. Medical facilities are rapidly being improved to deal with the virus. In the state's Community Health Centres (CHCs) and Primary Health Centres (PHCs), 19,000 beds are being increased and 55,000 beds in medical colleges, it added. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has directed senior officials to make proper arrangements in hospitals for dealing with the new variant. Along with this, the state government is also keeping a close watch on availability of oxygen, beds, laboratories, the statement said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-government-issues-guidelines-for-all-districts-on-omicron-variant-1058412.html
07-12-2021||North and Central||Modi, Shah, Sonia among those tested, jabbed for Covid in Bihar!||Narendra Modi, Amit Shah, Sonia Gandhi, Priyanka Chopra and Akshay Kumar – these are the names of residents of a non-descript rural area of an impoverished south Bihar district. If the state health department is to be believed, they are all villagers who have been "tested and vaccinated" for Covid-19 in Karpi panchayat of Arwal district. "This embarrassing matter came to our notice about 20 days ago when the civil surgeon was inspecting the records. The two data operators concerned have been sacked and FIRs lodged against them," said Arwal's District Magistrate J Priyadarshini. "Instructions have been issued to closely examine records of other parts of the district. If more such anomalies come to the fore, more action shall follow since lapses of this kind reduce the drive against the pandemic to a farce," she added. Notorious for maintaining irreconcilable records, one of the most famous examples of which was cattle having been shown transported on scooters during the fodder scam of the 1990s, Bihar has lately made news for having the names of actors Sunny Leonne and Emraan Hashmi among job aspirants and college students. The latest incident has given fresh ammunition to the opposition against the Nitish Kumar government in the state. Leader of the opposition Tejashwi Yadav shared a screenshot, purportedly of the list wherein Modi, Shah, Gandhi and Chopra have been shown to be inoculated thrice. "We can see why the health department in Bihar is perceived to be corrupt and incompetent," Yadav tweeted in an oblique reference to the NITI Aayog's recent report, which has put the state at the bottom in the country on various parameters, though it has been vehemently contested by the ruling dispensation. (With PTI inputs) Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/modi-shah-sonia-among-those-tested-jabbed-for-covid-in-bihar-1058439.html
07-12-2021||North and Central||Phone tapping case: Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot's OSD quizzed by Delhi Crime Branch for over 2.5 hours||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot's OSD Lokesh Sharma has been interrogated for about two and a half hours by the Delhi Crime Branch in the famous case of phone tapping. The interrogation happened on Monday. The official sources confirmed that over a dozen questions were asked to Sharma. In March 2021, a case was registered against Lokesh Sharma in the phone tapping case under several sections on the basis of a complaint filed by the Union Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, who had alleged that his image had been tarnished via the audio leaked by the OSD. Lokesh Sharma had challenged this FIR in the Delhi High Court and got relief from arrest from the High Court till January 13. This phone tapping controversy of Rajasthan was reported in July 2020 during the rebellion by some Congress leaders after a dispute between the Sachin Pilot and Ashok Gehlot groups came to the fore. At that time, a purported audio clip of a phone conversation between Gajendra Singh Shekhawat and Congress leaders had surfaced. The audio was leaked to the media after which the Union Minister had filed a complaint to the then Delhi Police Commissioner through email. During interrogation, the crime branch asked Sharma about how the clip, which went viral, reached him. Lokesh Sharma was given the notice for questioning three times in the past by the Crime Branch. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/phone-tapping-case-rajasthan-cm-ashok-gehlots-osd-quizzed-by-delhi-crime-branch-for-over-25-hours-1058440.html
07-12-2021||North and Central||Rare striped hyena spotted in Asola Sanctuary after 2015: Officials||A striped hyena -- a near-threatened species with a global population of less than 10,000 individuals -- has been spotted in Delhi for the first time in around seven years, according to forest and wildlife department officials. Camera traps installed in the Asola Bhatti Wildlife Sanctuary have confirmed the presence of the nocturnal animal in the forest, they said. “This is the first time a striped hyena has been caught on a camera trap in Delhi. According to reports, a striped hyena was killed in a road accident in Dera Mandi area in 2015. That was the last sighting,” Deputy Conservator of Forests (DCF), South Division, Amit Anand said. A wildlife guard in the Asola sanctuary said the staff had found the pugmarks of the animal on a few occasions in 2017-18. The striped hyena invests most of the day in its den. It forages individually and is rarely seen in groups. "It's a scavenger and plays an important role in maintaining the stability of a forest ecosystem. The presence of a striped hyena in Asola indicates an improvement in the Asola forest," said wildlife expert Prof Randeep Singh of Amity University. “Though pugmarks have been found on several occasions in the Aravalli forests of Gurugram, Faridabad and Delhi. This could be the first time it has been caught on camera, but I am not surprised,” he said. Anand said they had been expecting striped hyenas to be present near Ayanagar and Dera Mandi village, but “we found it closer than we thought – in Deoli”. He said the department has been able to confirm the presence of two leopards -- a sub male and a male -- in the sanctuary through the images captured by camera traps. “The leopards are active these days, and we think that their kill might have attracted the striped hyena,” the DCF said. The International Union for Conservation of Nature has categorised striped hyenas as 'near threatened' species and their global population is estimated to be below 10,000. Earlier this year, the Forest and Wildlife Department had set up around 20 camera traps in the sanctuary to conduct an animal census, which started in July, to ascertain the number of species and the pattern of their distribution in the forest. The wildlife sanctuary covering 32.71 sqkm area on the Southern Delhi Ridge of Aravalli hill range on Delhi-Haryana border lies in southern Delhi and northern parts of Faridabad and Gurgaon districts of Haryana. It is part of the Northern Aravalli leopard wildlife corridor, which extends from the Sariska National Park in Rajasthan to Delhi Ridge.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rare-striped-hyena-spotted-in-asola-sanctuary-after-2015-officials-1058446.html
07-12-2021||North and Central||Deaf-mute Delhi woman raped, blackmailed; accused arrested||A 29-year-old hearing and speech impaired woman was allegedly raped in the national capital, an official here said on Tuesday, adding that the accused has been arrested. According to the official, the victim had been "repeatedly raped" since November 21, by the 34-year-old man, identified as Rehan, a resident of Maujpur. The victim, who approached the police with her mother and sister, lodged a complaint on December 5 after which, a counsellor appointed by the Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) was called. However, since the victim was deaf and mute, an interpreter was required for recording her statement. "Due to late night hours, no interpreter wasn't available. Later, a private interpreter was arranged and the DCW counsellor counselled the victim and also recorded her statement with the help of the interpreter," the official said. The medical examination of the victim was conducted at the Jag Pravesh Chandra Hospital. The police registered a case under sections 376(2)(n) and 506 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the Bhajanpura police station. According to sources, the accused was residing in the same locality as the victim. "The accused had also made an obscene video of the act and threatened the girl with dire consequences if she revealed to anyone about the heinous crime," the sources said. He also blackmailed her with the same video to rape her multiple times. During the course of investigation, the accused was arrested after which the police produced him before a local court on Monday. "The court has sent the accused to judicial custody," the official said, adding that further investigation in the case is still on. Recently, during an event, Delhi Police Commissioner Rakesh Asthana, had averred that the safety of women in the national capital is their topmost priority. "Overall the approach is that if a woman is in distress, if a child is in distress, then proper attention is given to them," he said. However, as per data, crime against women in Delhi still continues to show an upward trajectory, compared to last year's figures. According to the data compiled by Delhi Police, 1,725 women have been allegedly raped in 2021 till October 31 in the city. In 2020, 1,429 women had to face the heinous crime till the same period. Compared last year's data, there has been an increase of 20 per cent. In 2020, the total number of crimes against women stood at 7,948 which this year has increased to 11,527. In total, the crime against women has increased by a massive 45 per cent in the national capital in just the past 10 months. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/deaf-mute-delhi-woman-raped-blackmailed-accused-arrested-1058464.html
07-12-2021||North and Central||Rajya Sabha adjourned for the day amid Opposition ruckus||Amid Opposition ruckus in the Rajya Sabha, no business could be conducted on Tuesday as the House was adjourned for the day. After the proceedings began at 11 a.m., the House was first adjourned till 2 pm and then till 3 pm. It was finally adjourned for the day as the discussion on the surrogacy bill started. Leader of Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge raised the issue of the suspension of 12 MPs from the House and RJD MP Manoj Jha too raised a point of order, but was rejected by the Chair. Environment Minister Bhupinder Yadav also raised a point of order that Congress leader Jairam Ramesh was speaking from other seat, and following sloganeering the deputy chairman adjourned the House for the day. The faceoff continued with the Treasury Bench demanding an apology from the suspended protesting MPs which is bring denied as the opposition insist that they are not at fault. "The suspension of the MPs is against Constitution as the incident is of previous session as the house was adjourned its wrong to suspend them in Winter session," Kharge said. Earlier, the opposition leaders, including Sharad Pawar, joined the protesting MPs and Kharge said that the opposition will join the MPs and observe fast for a day. Kharge, floor leader of Congress in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury and other Opposition MPs protested in support of the suspended MPs in front of the Gandhi statue in Parliament House. The suspended MPs are Syed Naseer Hussain, Akhilesh Prasad Singh, Phulo Devi Netam, Chhaya Verma, Ripun Bora and Rajmani Patel of the Congress; Priyanka Chaturvedi, Anil Desai of the Shiv Sena; Elamaram Kareem of the CPI-M, Binoy Viswam of the CPI; and Dola Sen and Shanta Chhetri of the Trinamool Congress. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajya-sabha-adjourned-for-the-day-amid-opposition-ruckus-1058465.html
07-12-2021||North and Central||RDIF proposes Sputnik Light as booster shot in India||The talks on production of Russia’s anti-SARS-CoV-2 vaccine Sputnik Light in India are in advanced stage and the single shot jab is being proposed to be administered as a booster for people already inoculated with two doses of Covishield. “The talks on Sputnik Light are nearing completion,” Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov told journalists in New Delhi. He was asked about talks on producing the single shot version of Russian Sputnik V anti-Covid-19 jab in India. The RDIF stated that a clinical trial of a combination of Sputnik Light with the AstraZeneca vaccine had demonstrated that it induced strong immunity and had a high safety profile. “The AstraZeneca vaccine is produced in India under the Covishield brand and Sputnik Light could be successfully applied as a booster in partnership with Serum Institute of India, which already produces the two vaccines,” it added. The Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF), which is promoting the Sputnik V vaccine around the world, also stated that it had also provided regulatory authorities in India with documents for registration of Sputnik M – the vaccine for adolescents aged 12-17. The Russia's Ministry of Health registered Sputnik M on November 24, 2021, and cleared it for use for inoculation of adolescents. Lavrov was in New Delhi for the first India-Russia 2+2 dialogue and the summit between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Russian President Vladimir Putin. Lavrov discussed with External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar the cooperation between India and Russia to contain the Covid-19 pandemic. It was also discussed and reviewed during the summit between Modi and Putin. The two sides agreed to fast-track mutual recognition of anti-SARS-CoV-2 vaccination certificates to inoculated citizens of India and Russia, acknowledging that it would further facilitate movement of persons between the two countries. Russia’s two-dose Sputnik V vaccine is already being used in India after it received an emergency use authorization from the national regulator in April 2021. The vaccine, however, has not yet been approved by the World Health Organization (WHO). The RDIF stated that it had reached agreements with leading pharmaceutical companies of India, including Serum Institute of India (SII), the world’s largest vaccine producer, as well as Gland Pharma, Hetero Biopharma, Panacea Biotec, Stelis Biopharma, Virchow Biotech and Morepen. “Today India is the leading production hub for Sputnik V and Sputnik Light vaccines.” “A major partner of RDIF, Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories, has conducted additional clinical trials of Sputnik Light in India. Positive data from the trials has also been presented to India's regulator”. Watch the latest coronavirus videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rdif-proposes-sputnik-light-as-booster-shot-in-india-1058472.html
07-12-2021||North and Central||DPCC spent over Rs 12 crore on 3 phases of odd-even scheme: RTI reply||The Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) spent over Rs 12 crore from a fund set up for green projects on the implementation of the three phases of the odd-even car rationing scheme between 2016 and 2019, according to government data obtained through an RTI application. The reply to the RTI filed by activist Amit Gupta revealed that the pollution control body gave Rs 3.38 crore to divisional commissioner and secretary, revenue department, and Rs 25 lakh to Delhi Tourism and Transport Development Corporation Ltd from the Air Ambience Fund for the implementation of the first odd-even drive in January 2016. The DPCC gave Rs 4.50 crore and Rs 4.25 crore to the divisional commissioner and secretary, revenue department, for the implementation of the second and third phase of the drive in April 2016 and November 2019, respectively. According to the Graded Response Action Plan, the odd-even scheme is one of the measures needed to be taken in case of an "emergency" -- if PM2.5 and PM10 levels remain above 300 micrograms per cubic metre and 500 micrograms per cubic metre respectively for 48 hours or more. Set up in 2008 and collected through the Department of Trade and Taxes, the Air Ambience Fund gets 25 paise from the sale of each litre of diesel in Delhi. A total of Rs 547 crore has been collected in the fund since March 2008. Of this, Rs 527 crore has been spent on green activities. The government utilised only Rs 59 crore till 2015. In the last seven years, it has used Rs 468 crore from the fund. According to the RTI reply, the money has been utilised for grant of subsidy to battery-operated vehicles, e-rickshaws, odd-even drive, maintenance of the bio-gas plant at the Delhi Secretariat, operating online air monitoring stations, study on real-time source apportionment, installation of smog tower and salary of environment marshals. “Amount spent on smog tower (in Connaught Place) till date from the Air Ambience Fund is Rs 22.91 crore,” it said. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had inaugurated the over 24-meter-high air-purifier on August 23 as a pilot project. The smog tower has 40 fans and 10,000 filters and can clean air in a one-km radius around the structure, at a rate of around 1,000 cubic metres per second, according to officials. The Delhi government has formed a 16-member team of experts from DPCC, IIT-Bombay, NBCC and Tata Projects to monitor the functioning of the smog tower. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dpcc-spent-over-rs-12-crore-on-3-phases-of-odd-even-scheme-rti-reply-1058483.html
07-12-2021||North and Central||TRS MPs to boycott Winter Session over farmers’ issues||The TRS on Tuesday announced that its MPs are boycotting Parliament for the remainder of the Winter Session and wanted the  Narendra Modi government to go as it is being "anti-farmer". TRS MPs, all of them dressed in black, walked out from both Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha and announced the walk-out. TRS has nine Lok Sabha MPs and seven Rajya Sabha MPs. Party's Rajya Sabha floor leader Keshav Rao alleged that the Centre is insensitive to farmers' demands. He said TRS is an opposition party and "not a fence-sitter". "We want this government to go...This is an anti-farmer government, insensitive to the demands of the farmers. Today, piles of grains are rotting on the roads in Telangana for the simple reason that the FCI is not lifting the produce," he said. He said no lawmaker would like to boycott Parliament but the TRS is being forced to take this decision. "Please be clear that we are against this government. We are an opposition party, not a fence-sitter, and we want this BJP-led government to go," he said. The TRS has been raising the issue of procurement of paddy by the Food Corporation of India (FCI) from Telangana and submitting notices seeking suspension of business to discuss it. However, it was not allowed for the past nine days. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/trs-mps-to-boycott-winter-session-over-farmers-issues-1058485.html
07-12-2021||North and Central||17 girls molested in Uttar Pradesh school on pretext of practical exam, one held||In a shocking incident, as many as 17 girls who were made to stay for the night at a school on the pretext of preparation for practical examination, were allegedly drugged and molested by owner of a school and his associates in Uttar Pradesh's Muzaffarnagar district. According to police sources, Yogesh Kumar, the owner of the private school situated at Bhopa area in the district, was arrested on Monday, while a hunt was launched to nab the others. Sources said that the incident had happened a fortnight back but the local police did not take any action against the school owner and other accused persons despite complaints from the parents of the girls. A case under POCSO Act and other sections of the IPC was lodged and the in-charge of the Purkazi police station was suspended on charges of laxity. Officials said that Yogesh, who runs a school in Bhopa area, had taken 17 girls to another school in Purkazi area on November 18 for their High School practical examination. Yogesh and his associate, identified as Arjun, made the girls stay at the school for the night after their practical examination saying that they needed to prepare for their next exam and also that it was already dark and it would be safe if they stayed back. The duo also informed the parents of the girls and told them that they would be staying at the school as it was already very late. Sources said that the duo mixed sedatives in the 'khichri' and served it to the girls. They allegedly molested the girls later. The matter came to light after one of the girls said that something bad had happened to her. Yogesh and Arjun, when confronted by the girls, allegedly threatened to kill their families if they told anything to their parents. Police said that they had approached the district education officials to cancel the recognition of the school. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/17-girls-molested-in-uttar-pradesh-school-on-pretext-of-practical-exam-one-held-1058487.html
07-12-2021||North and Central||Delhi govt issues notice to 3rd international airline for flouting Covid norms||After Etihad and American Airlines, the Delhi government has issued a show-cause notice to Qatar Airways for failing to follow the mandatory Covid-19 guidelines issued by the Union Health Ministry in the wake of the spread of the Omicron variant. According to a Delhi government notice, the Qatar Airways flight arrived in the national capital on Tuesday from the Hamad International Airport in Doha and it failed to identify 2 per cent travellers of the total people onboard who were supposed to undergo random RT-PCR testing upon their arrival at the Indira Gandhi International Airport. "Non-compliance shall be viewed seriously, and it would be presumed that the Station Manager has nothing to say in the matter and action as deemed fit shall be initiated as per relevant provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005; Section 188 of IPC and other applicable laws," said the notice. The Central government has made it compulsory for airlines to test passengers arriving from "at-risk" countries, at the airport itself, who will only be allowed to leave after the results have come. Of the total flight passengers, 2 per cent will be subjected to the test randomly. The Centre has designated the UK, South Africa, Brazil, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Singapore, Hong Kong, and Israel as "at-risk" nations. Meanwhile, two cases of Omicron variant was reported in Mumbai on Monday, pushing India's total tally of the new variant to 23. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-issues-notice-to-3rd-international-airline-for-flouting-covid-norms-1058492.html
07-12-2021||North and Central||Kejriwal alleges illegal sand mining going on in Punjab CM's constituency, demands probe||Illegal sand mining is taking place in Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi's constituency, and theft of sand worth Rs 20,000 crore is underway in the state, AAP national convener Arvind Kejriwal claimed on Tuesday. Kejriwal, the chief minister of Delhi, also demanded an independent probe into the alleged illegal sand mining in Channi's home constituency and the registration of an FIR. Kejriwal is in Amritsar on a day-long visit ahead of the assembly elections in Punjab scheduled for early next year. "If illegal mining is going on in the chief minister's own constituency then it is difficult to think that he (Channi) is not aware about it," the Delhi chief minister said outside the Amritsar airport. Kejriwal's accusations comes days after his party's leader Raghav Chadha made a surprise visit to Jindapur village in Chamkaur Sahib and claimed that illegal sand mining activity was going on in Channi's home constituency. Channi had on Sunday refuted Chadha's claims. Kejriwal sought to know who was patronising alleged illegal sand mining in Channi's constituency. "People of Punjab want to know whether he is the owner or has partnership in the illegal sand mining in his constituency or is he patronising it," he said. "What is the truth and it should come out," he told reporters in Amritsar. Kejriwal said former chief minister Amarinder Singh had said a few days back that there were several MLAs and ministers who either patronise illegal sand mining or are involved in it. The AAP leader also alleged that illegal mining was taking place in a large scale in Punjab. "If people who are at the helm are involved in it and ministers and the chief minister face such accusations then where the public will go and how will development take place," he asked. "According to an estimate, Rs 20,000 crore worth of illegal sand mining is taking place," Kejriwal alleged. The Delhi chief minister said if his party comes to power in Punjab, it will stop illegal sand mining and the money so generated after stopping it “will go into the pockets of women”, referring to his poll promise of Rs 1,000 per month for women.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kejriwal-alleges-illegal-sand-mining-going-on-in-punjab-cms-constituency-demands-probe-1058505.html
07-12-2021||North and Central||Muslims must hand over mosque near Krishna 'janmabhoomi', says UP minister||Uttar Pradesh minister Anand Swarup Shukla has said Muslims should hand over a mosque close to a temple at the Shri Krishna Janmabhoomi in Mathura to Hindus, referring to it as a “safed bhavan” (white structure). In provocative remarks on Monday, he said while the court had resolved the Ayodhya issue, the “white structures” in Varanasi and Mathura hurt Hindus. "A time will come when the white structure in Mathura that hurts every Hindu will be removed with the help of the court,” Shukla, the Minister of State for Parliamentary Affairs, said Monday evening. “Dr Ram Manohar Lohia had said that the Muslims of India would have to believe that Ram and Krishna were their ancestors and that Babar, Akbar and Aurangzeb were attackers. Do not associate yourself with any building built by them," he said. The minister said, "The Muslim community should come forward and hand over the white structure located in the Shri Krishna Janmabhoomi complex in Mathura to Hindus. Time will come when this work will be completed." On the Babri Basjid demolition that took place on December 6, 1992, he said that "karsewaks had removed a blot on Ramlalla” and now, "a grand temple is being constructed there". Asked about the conversion of former Shia Waqf Board Chairman Syed Wasim Rizvi to 'Sanatan dharma' (Hinduism), he said Muslims should follow and do "ghar wapsi" (return to Hinduism). "All Muslims in the country are converted. If they see their history, they will find that 200-250 years ago, they converted to Islam from Hinduism. We will like all of them to do 'ghar vapasi',” he said, hailing Rizvi for his "courageous" step. "This step is a challenge for Maulanas and Maulvis who live in the country and promote a Talabani mindset," Shukla said. He said India's basic culture is of "Hindutva" (Hinduism) and "Bhartiyata" and that they are complementary to each other. He termed the Samajwadi Party, its founder Mulayam Singh Yadav and president Akhilesh Yadav as “anti-Hindu” and accused them of “ordering firing” on unarmed 'karsewaks' in Ayodhya. On Sunday, BJP MP Ravindra Kushwaha had said when the Narendra Modi government can repeal the farm laws keeping in mind the protests by farmers, it can also withdraw the Places of Worship (Special Provisions) Act, 1991 to pave way for the construction of a grand temple at Shri Krishna Janmabhoomi in Mathura. Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya had also offered support for a new temple in Mathura. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/muslims-must-hand-over-mosque-near-krishna-janmabhoomi-says-up-minister-1058519.html
07-12-2021||North and Central||Drass in Ladakh freezes at -18.4 degrees||With the cold wave tightening its grip further, Drass in Ladakh region recorded the season's coldest night at bone chilling minus 18.4 degrees Celsius while ski-resort Gulmarg in north Kashmir witnessed a minimum temperature of minus 7 degrees. A local MeT department official said Srinagar recorded a minimum of minus 1.4 degrees Celsius. On December 1, Srinagar had recorded the season's coldest night at minus 2.5 degrees Celsius. He said the minimum temperature in the famous ski-resort of Gulmarg settled at a bone chilling minus 7 degrees Celsius, while night temperature in south Kashmir tourist resort of Pahalgam, which also serves as one of the base camps during the annual Amarnath Yatra, settled at minus 4.8 degrees. Drass, in the frontier region of Ladakh, which is the second-coldest inhabited place in the world after Siberia, continues to be the coldest place in the region with a low of minus 18.4 degrees Celsius on the night of December 6 while the neighbouring Kargil town recorded a low of minus 5.6 degrees, the official said. Leh in Ladakh recorded a low of minus 10.8 degrees Celsius against the previous night’s minus 5.6 degrees, he said and added cold wave conditions across Kashmir and Ladakh are likely to continue for the next few days as the weather is expected to remain dry with cloudless night skies. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/drass-in-ladakh-freezes-at-184-degrees-1058527.html
07-12-2021||North and Central||Police detain Surjewala, Selja, Vivek Bansal during Panchkula protest||Senior Congress leaders Randeep Singh Surjewala, Kumari Selja and Vivek Bansal, among other party leaders, were briefly detained in Panchkula while holding a demonstration against alleged corruption in the recruitment of dental surgeons. The Congress leaders were detained by police as they sought to gherao the Haryana Public Service Commission office in protest against the alleged corruption in the recruitment. Police took the leaders to the Panchkula police lines from where they were let off later. Haryana Congress president Selja later told reporters in Panchkula that police had briefly detained them. Commenting on the alleged scam, she said, “We have been right from the beginning saying that such a scam is not possible without the patronage of those at the helm. This is why we have demanded a high court-monitored independent probe so that truth comes out”. Bansal, who is party's in-charge for Haryana affairs, alleged the BJP-JJP government is playing with the future of youths in the state. “We want an independent probe so that the truth comes out,” he said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/police-detain-surjewala-selja-vivek-bansal-during-panchkula-protest-1058540.html
07-12-2021||North and Central||Man gets death sentence for raping, killing minor in Gujarat||A POCSO court in Surat on Tuesday awarded a death sentence to a 35-year-old migrant worker for raping and murdering a two-and-a-half-year-old girl last month in Gujarat, terming it as the "rarest of rare" case. To ensure fast justice delivery, the Pandesara police had submitted the charge sheet within seven days of the arrest of the accused on November 8. The court had recorded statements of 43 witnesses and the judgment was delivered within a month. The court on Monday convicted the accused, Guddu Yadav, on charges of kidnap, rape and murder under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. On Tuesday, special POCSO court judge PS Kala observed that the case was the "rarest of rare", and awarded capital punishment to the accused under IPC Sections 376-AB (rape on a woman under 12 years of age) and 302 (murder). The court also asked the state government to pay Rs 20 lakh as compensation to the victim's family. On the last day of the hearing on Monday, public prosecutor Nayan Sukhadwala had demanded capital punishment for the convict, who hailed from Bihar and was currently working at a factory in the Pandesara area of Surat city, with his wife and two children. To back his argument for the harshest possible punishment, Sukhadwala had urged the court to consider the case as the "rarest of rare", and cited 31 judgements given by different courts in similar matters in the past. The act of the accused was so barbaric that it caused the girl's internal organs to spill out, the prosecutor informed the court. The accused had also thrown the victim's body in bushes to hide his crime, he said. On the other side, the lawyer of the accused had sought leniency, saying the capital punishment would make his children's future uncertain. As per the prosecution, the victim, who was the daughter of a migrant workers' couple, also from Bihar, was abducted, sexually assaulted and then smothered to death by the accused on the night of November 4. The body was found on November 7 near a factory, located about a kilometre from her house. The police, after scanning the footage of several CCTV cameras and collecting information from their informers and locals, arrested the accused on November 8. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-gets-death-sentence-for-raping-killing-minor-in-gujarat-1058548.html
07-12-2021||North and Central||'Ox and buffalo can't be yoked together,' says UP minister on SP-RLD alliance||Uttar Pradesh minister Laxmi Narayan Chaudhary on Tuesday mocked the Samajwadi Party and Rashtriya Lok Dal alliance for the upcoming Assembly polls, saying an "ox and a buffalo cannot be yoked together". He challenged SP chief Akhilesh Yadav and RLD President Jayant Chaudhary to contest the polls from each other's stronghold to set all doubts about the alliance to rest. "This alliance is purely an opportunistic one and it will not fulfil any political objective. I throw an open challenge to both of the leaders," he said. "If there is a political understanding between them, then Jayant Chaudhary should contest from Etawah, Mainpuri, Etah, Farrukhabad or Azamgarh, and Akhilesh Yadav from Chhaprauli, Baghpat or any seat in the Meerut division. This will set all doubts to rest about the alliance," Laxmi Narayan Chaudhary told PTI. He claimed the voters of RLD will never vote for the SP and vice versa. "This alliance is not in the interest of the people of the state, but for personal interests," he said. The SP and RLD on Tuesday formally announced their alliance for the 2022 Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls at a rally in Meerut and exuded confidence that the BJP will be "wiped out" from the state. While SP chief Akhilesh Yadav promised to provide due rights to the farmers, RLD president Jayant Chaudhary said the first work after coming to power would be to build a memorial of those who died during the protest against the now-repealed Central farm laws. Asked as to whether the alliance will continue after the UP Assembly elections, Laxmi Narayan Chaudhary, who is the dairy development, animal husbandry and fisheries minister, said "In villages, there is saying that an ox and a buffalo cannot be yoked together." "In the 2009 Lok Sabha elections, RLD was contesting with the help of the BJP. The current RLD chief (Jayant Chaudhary) was a candidate from Mathura and then party chief Ajit Singh was contesting from Baghpat. Even before the counting was over, they posed for photographs with Sonia Gandhi and eventually went with the Congress," he said. The minister also sought to compare the RLD as a "political Bhasmasur", referring to a mythological demon who could turn people into ash by touching their head. "After the death of former Prime Minister Chaudhary Charan Singh, the existence of the political party, which allied with the RLD, was in grave danger," he said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ox-and-buffalo-cant-be-yoked-together-says-up-minister-on-sp-rld-alliance-1058575.html
07-12-2021||North and Central||Modi failed to remove 'dil ki doori, dilli ki doori,' says NC leader Farooq Abdullah||Terming the prevailing situation in Jammu and Kashmir "grave", regional National Conference (NC) President Farooq Abdullah on Tuesday said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi “failed” to keep his promise of removing “dil ki doori and Dilli ki doori”. “The PM had promised us of removing ‘dil ki doori and Dilli ki doori (distance between hearts and the distance with Delhi)’. Neither were the hearts connected, nor was the distance between Jammu and Kashmir, and Delhi bridged,” he said, addressing a party convention in Jammu. Octogenarian Abdullah, who represents the Srinagar Parliamentary constituency in Lok Sabha, said Modi should tell the people if there have been any changes since his June 24 meeting with leaders from the valley in New Delhi. Without naming Union Home Minister Amit Shah, in reference to his statement that the situation in Jammu and Kashmir had improved after the abrogation of Article 370, the NC chief said, “False claims were being made even though the situation on the ground is grave.” On senior RSS leader Indresh Kumar’s suggestion that Abdullah should leave the country, he said he is an Indian and will die an Indian. “Jammu and Kashmir had acceded to India because of the democratic principles and non-violent policies of Mahatma Gandhi,” Abdullah, a former chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir, said. “People of Jammu and Kashmir had put their trust in Gandhi's India and not in Godse India. Without any discrimination, the people of Jammu and Kashmir accepted everyone,” he said, asserting that they will rise above “oppression and will get back what has been snatched from us.” “We have to stand up and fight for our rights. We have not picked up guns or grenades or hurled a stone. We do not demand prime ministership or presidency but our fight is for our rights which were snatched from us,” he said. The demand for the restoration of full statehood and provisions under Articles 370 and 35-A of the Constitution were among the seven resolutions passed by the NC during the day-long meeting chaired by Abdullah. The other demands included the restoration of the 'darbar move' practice, special package for the tourism industry, employment for youth, implementation of the Mandal Commission recommendations in J&K, a legal guarantee of minimum support price for crops and slashing prices of essential commodities. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/modi-failed-to-remove-dil-ki-doori-dilli-ki-doori-says-nc-leader-farooq-abdullah-1058585.html
07-12-2021||North and Central||Services at govt-run hospitals hit as resident doctors' strike enters second day||Long queues of patients were seen outside government-run hospitals, including those in Delhi, as resident doctors boycotted routine services for the second consecutive day on Tuesday as part of a nationwide protest over the delay in NEET-PG 2021 counselling. The worst-hit were daily outdoor patient department services, even as senior doctors looked after arrangements and the ailing. Resident doctors’ and medical associations have said the delay in NEET-PG admission in medical colleges has caused an acute shortage of manpower and expressed concern that this comes at a time when cases of the new Covid variant, Omicron, are being detected in the country. Besides Delhi, residents doctors are on strike in major cities of Rajasthan such as Jaipur, Kota, Jodhpur, Udaipur and Bikaner, and in Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara and civil hospitals in Gujarat, among other states and cities. The National Eligibility cum Entrance Test for Postgraduate (NEET-PG) courses are conducted for fields like the Master of Surgery, and Doctor of Medicine. In the national capital, patient care at Centre-run Ram Manohar Lohia, Safdarjung and Lady Hardinge hospitals remained hit due to the protest called by the Federation of Resident Doctors' Association (FORDA). The AIIMS Resident Doctors' Association (RDA) said its members will wear black ribbons at work in support of the cause of the overburdened resident doctors of the country and against the delay in NEET-PG counselling. The Indian Medical Association (IMA) has sought Prime Minister Narendra Modi's intervention to ensure that post-graduate admissions are done on a war footing. General Secretary of the Safdarjung Hospital RDA, Dr Anuj Aggarwal said, "We are continuing with the protest because of no concrete action by the Union health ministry." The resident doctors have been waiting patiently for some positive outcomes of the Supreme Court proceedings in the matter. However, there seems no respite, said Dr Sunil Duchania, president, Lady Hardinge Medical College RDA. "As withdrawal from OPD and all routine services didn't bring any concrete response from the authorities, the resident doctors have withdrawn from all services (routine as well as emergency) from December 6 in support of the nationwide protest called by FORDA," Duchania said. The Progressive Medicos and Scientists Forum (PMSF), in a statement, said the delay in PG admissions have left them "overworked" and patients that they treat "underserved". "Those PG students from current batches who survived their peers in the aftermath of the COVID-19 pandemic have not only suffered immense personal losses but have also lost nearly two years of post-graduate learning which a resident doctor is supposed to acquire during their two to three years of training," it said. The AIIMS RDA said the delay in NEET-PG counselling is depriving Indian citizens of services of around 42,000 doctors who would have otherwise joined at least six months ago. "Several hospitals are functioning with just two-third capacity of their total resident doctors' strength, compromising with the quality of patient care. As cases of the new variant of coronavirus are increasing exponentially globally, it is prudent that our nation should be prepared for another wave of the pandemic," it said. Medical services were also affected in medical colleges in Jaipur, Kota, Udaipur, Ajmer, Jhalawar, Bikaner and Jodhpur in Rajasthan due to the resident doctors’ strike President, Jaipur Association of Resident Doctors, Dr Amit Yadav, said as there were no resident doctors in the first year and heavy workload was there on other resident doctors due to the pandemic, academic activities have been badly affected. He also said the resident doctors are engaged in "clerical works" related to the Chiranjeevi health insurance scheme and Bhamashah scheme in Rajasthan. Around 1,000 resident doctors of various medical colleges in Gujarat are on strike, claiming shortage of manpower in civil hospitals due to the delay in new admissions to PG courses has significantly increased their workload. The resident doctors, attached to various government hospitals, had observed a similar strike on November 29 and stayed away from the OPD (out-patient department) work from 9 am to 5 pm. "Patients will not suffer due to the strike as resident doctors will remain available for emergency duties. But, we may withdraw ourselves from other services if a lasting solution does not come soon," said Dr Oman Prajapati, vice president of the Junior Doctors' Association of Ahmedabad's B J Medical College, attached to the Civil Hospital. Resident doctors in other major cities, such as Surat and Vadodara, also joined the strike and sat outside the premises of their respective colleges to register their protest. The IMA on Monday expressed concern over the manpower shortage in healthcare amid detection of cases of Omicron variant, and said it is "disastrous to note the postponement of NEET-PG admission in medical colleges". As the resident doctors boycotted work, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya had met the resident doctors and a FORDA delegation at the RML hospital on Monday. According to FORDA members, the minister and said he will get the case mentioned in the Supreme Court for an early hearing and appealed to the doctors to call off their protest, but the resident doctors refused. In a letter to Mandaviya on December 4, the FORDA had said healthcare institutions across the country are running short of an adequate workforce of resident doctors with no admission in the current academic year yet. "With the possibility of a Covid-19 wave looming large, the situation will be disastrous for the healthcare sector with its bearing on the country's population," it had said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/services-at-govt-run-hospitals-hit-as-resident-doctors-strike-enters-second-day-1058587.html
07-12-2021||Oasis||Welcoming the change||The Greek philosopher, Heraclitus of Ephesus, said: “The only constant in life is change." Yet, when change happens, we are often surprised. We are all human. Covid-19 has caused significant changes in the way people live, work and socialise. There was a time wherein people ate and drank snacks and beverages without even washing their hands, once they returned home after commuting on public transport. Not anymore! Yes, Covid has brought out the fear psychosis among people about contracting the virus and made them extra-cautious about masking, social distancing and keeping self and environment hygienic. This is good for humanity, in general, to avoid pandemics in future besides opening up new business opportunities for new necessities. Reducing headcounts in the office with the introduction of work from home culture eased the pressure on real estate and helped cool down the skyrocketing real estate prices. This, in a way, re-opened affordable housing possibilities which will transform a vast number of hitherto tenants as owners of their own homes. Food delivery and online business model which came to India a few years ago not only helped enhance the volume of business but ensured continuity of business for every restaurant and every vendor during the lockout. Vegetable vendors and small-time shop owners learn the trick of receiving orders through phone and home delivery. Though studying online is cumbersome and stressful, surprisingly kids have shown resilience to cope up with it. All these pandemic-triggered changes helped us with huge savings of money and time, besides reducing the undue pressure on natural resources. Let's hope once the pandemic crisis eases, all businesses will reopen, maybe with a welcome change of more customer orientation and responsible business practices. For sure, there will be stiff competition among the age-old established business houses and newly formed ones resulting in cost-effective, superior quality products and services. Thanks to Covid-19, hygiene became the top priority for humanity and more and more hitherto-casual groups of people are showing high levels of self-discipline on this critical aspect. Let's wish and pray for the shifting of people’s attitude towards a simple responsible lifestyle with gratitude. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/welcoming-the-change-1058645.html
07-12-2021||Opinion||Of 'B' teams, malnourishment, and tribal rights - or why our politics ignores key issues||A day after Mamata Banerjee's high profile Mumbai visit, where she projected herself as the face of the coalition against Narendra Modi for the 2024 general elections, the West Bengal chief minister posed for a picture with industrialist Gautam Adani. Congress supporters pounced on this as evidence of the Trinamool Congress (TMC) being the "B Team" of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). But the TMC chief had made no bones about her willingness to do business with the most powerful capitalists in the country, both of them known to be close to the ruling party at the Centre. "We need both, Ambanis and Adanis and kisans and the public sector," she had declared in Mumbai. This wasn't quite what Banerjee had said barely a year earlier. In February, she had described Adani as a "big BJP capitalist who will forcibly purchase crops from farmers." But that was just a month away from the Assembly elections. With the prime minister campaigning against her, it would have been stupid not to express vociferous support for the farmers' protest. Now that the TMC chief has shown her ability to take on Modi, she can confidently welcome the "BJP capitalist" – an openness that Congress CM Bhupesh Baghel cannot display in his frenetic attempts to get Adani to mine the Hasdeo Arand forests in Chhattisgarh. Neither the Adivasis' determined resistance to this 7,500-hectare project that will not only destroy their homes but also prove to be an environmental catastrophe nor his own leader's promise to these very Adivasis deters Baghel. In 2015, when the BJP ruled Chhattisgarh, Rahul Gandhi had met Hasdeo's Adivasi gram sabhas which had passed resolutions against mining, to express his party's support to their struggle for their "jal, jangal, jameen (water, forest and land)". There's hardly any party that hasn't been seduced by the country's two most successful corporates. Those who oppose Banerjee's national ambitions might do better to expose her shocking record on a more crucial front: tackling malnutrition. Even as the latest National Family Health Survey (NFHS) showed an increase in child malnutrition in Bengal compared to 2015-16, data submitted to the Rajya Sabha on utilisation of central funds under the POSHAN Abhiyaan meant to fight malnutrition revealed that Bengal has used not a single paisa till March 2021. Malnutrition is not as appealing a topic as Adani or opposition unity, so news about it is buried in the inside pages. But the brief news report on the Ministry of Women and Child Development's data released last week to the Rajya Sabha showed a criminal apathy cutting across party lines towards ensuring that our future generation does not waste away. The NFHS showed an increase in malnutrition in children under 5 in all but nine of 22 states; yet 12 states had not used even half the central funds allotted to them to prevent this. Those who hadn't even used one-third were the BJP governments of Arunachal Pradesh, Ladakh and Puducherry and the Congress government of Punjab. Uttar Pradesh lags behind the already low national average on child malnutrition, anaemia in children and pregnant women, infant and child mortality, showed the NFHS but had used just over a third of the funds. The topic of malnutrition always gets lost in statistics. But to get to its essence, one only needs to visualise the figure of the under-nourished child we see on our footpaths, and then remember just two statistics: 74 years after Independence, every third child in our country is that emaciated child. Governments know that childhood malnutrition affects long-term physical growth and mental capacity. Yet, they couldn't be bothered to use the funds available to transform the future of that child. Elections are around the corner in five states, including the country's electorally most important state. The speeches of BJP leaders, including the PM, sell the same old themes of "appeasement, riots, vote-bank politics, lungi-topiwalas" and coalesce with images emanating every day from BJP-ruled states: namazis, churchgoers, Muslim vendors, Hindu-Muslim couples and inter-faith friends being systematically attacked; Dalits raped and police failing to file FIRs. Will voters in these states reject this divisive electoral campaign as did their counterparts in 12 other states? That would be a difficult feat, given the BJP's financial and political might. If it is achieved, all those sickened by the routine bullying of minorities by Hindutvawadis, backed by BJP governments, will celebrate. But is that enough? Does a non-BJP government ensure a solution to other equally vital issues of malnutrition, of "development" that displaces the poorest and ruins the environment? Or, can all those issues wait for now? (The writer is a journalist) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/of-b-teams-malnourishment-and-tribal-rights-or-why-our-politics-ignores-key-issues-1058479.html
07-12-2021||Opinion||A crisis for masculinity as robots replace men||By Andreas Kluth It’s not easy being female. But it’s often no picnic being male either. The world is changing faster than ever and, with it, so are notions of masculinity. Many men are feeling unmoored, for better or worse. If you happen to be James Bond, you take this flux in stride and effortlessly turn — via a few intermediary incarnations — from the Sean Connery version of manhood into the more vulnerable and complex Daniel Craig variety. But how many real-life men have an inner 007 to channel? The reality for many of those who aren’t necessarily alpha males is bleaker. The US, for example, just counted record numbers of deaths from drug overdoses — more than 100,000 in one year and roughly double the number in 2015. And about 70% of those who died were men. In China, the government worries about a “masculinity crisis,” as the nation’s boys allegedly become effeminate, whatever that might mean nowadays. Educators are pondering ways of strengthening the “yang spirit” — as in the masculine-ish yang that complements the more feminine yin force in Taoism. Some experts in Germany use the exact same phrase — a “crisis of masculinity” — to describe the situation of men in what used to be communist East Germany. For decades after reunification in 1990, eastern women moved west or married western men, leaving many of the region’s males single, frustrated and alienated. Reunification and its discontents may be a unique situation, but it appears that there’s something more general about modernity that can undermine and threaten manhood. Consider, for example, how one particular vector of change is slamming into masculinity: the automation of manufacturing with robots. In general, I think of robots as a boon. They make production more efficient and, therefore, all of us better off. But even good things aren’t usually good for everybody. With automation, the losers are the blue-collar manufacturing workers who used to do what the robots now take care of. And those workers are overwhelmingly men. That’s not me throwing stereotypes around; that’s hard statistics. By contrast, jobs in the service sector, and especially those where “people skills” are prized, aren’t threatened by robots at all, at least not yet. And here women appear to have a statistical edge. In economies where robots are used a lot, blue-collar men therefore find it harder on average to keep or find good employment, whereas women on balance fare better.  This bifurcation in prospects for men and women translates into a shrinkage in the wage gap that traditionally favored men. In general, that’s a good thing, of course, as it leads to fair rewards — equal pay for equal work. But a vanishing wage gap also has side effects, as the late Gary Becker, a Nobel laureate in economics, famously explained. In “A Theory of Marriage,” published in 1973, he introduced the notion that a shrinking male-female wage gap reduces the value of wedlock to women. Back when the lads made a killing and the lasses made a pittance, it made sense — economically, at least — to “specialize” within a household consisting of a working husband and a wife, and maybe children. Once women earn better wages, however, they no longer gain much from tying themselves to men, at least not in the same way. The consequence of Becker’s logic should be an observable bear market in the marriage value of men, leading to less matrimony and fewer births in wedlock (though not necessarily fewer births overall). And so it appears. The coal country of Appalachia, for example, had a boom in the 1970s and a bust in the 1980s. As predicted, marriage rates and births in wedlock increased in the 1970s when (largely male) coal miners did well, then decreased in the 1980s when they struggled. Enter Massimo Anelli, Osea Giuntella, and Luca Stella — researchers, respectively, at Bocconi University in Milan, the University of Pittsburgh and the Free University of Berlin. Using data from the U.S., they found that the more robotics transformed manufacturing in a given region, the smaller the income gaps between women and men. Marriages declined, divorce and cohabitation increased. Marital fertility also decreased, while out-of-wedlock births increased. There’s nothing inherently good or bad about such correlations and trends. They just mean that societies are changing. But change is hard for people. And men, as they lose the roles their fathers and grandfathers might have considered self-evidently masculine, appear to be at particular risk. One is that they fall prey to demagogues on the far right. In eastern Germany, male frustration is certainly one explanation for the rise of the Alternative for Germany, a populist party. In the U.S., regions with lots of robots were among those where Trumpism is big. A related phenomenon is the misogynistic “incel” movement of men who label themselves as “involuntary celibates.” They often radicalize themselves online, blame women for their low status and spread conspiracy theories. In California, Florida and Toronto, incels have gone on killing sprees. The best advice to individual men would seem to be to welcome the evolution of masculinity as a liberation — let’s stop worrying about it and flow with it. But, for communities and societies, the flux in manhood bears dangers. This Chinese talk of strengthening the yang spirit seems corny and amiss. Even so, it bears remembering that yin and yang must be in balance to have harmony.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/a-crisis-for-masculinity-as-robots-replace-men-1058502.html
07-12-2021||Panorama||The many benefits of Vitamin A||Ever been told to properly eat your carrots and spinach because they’re good for your eyes? If yes, chances are you are familiar with the many benefits of the wonder nutrient - Vitamin A. Abundantly available in carrots, tomatoes, bell peppers, and broccoli, Vitamin A is required by the human body for normal functioning. Its deficiency can also cause a range of problems ranging from vision, immune function, reproduction and skin health. Benefits of Vitamin A Vitamin A helps vital organs like the heart, kidneys, and lungs function optimally. When it comes to eyes, it helps them adjust to dim light conditions. Its benefits are more easily understood if one knows what insufficient Vitamin A could translate to, health-wise. A mild vitamin A deficiency could be behind dry skin, fatigue, vulnerability to infections, and even infertility. If one is seriously deficient in this essential micronutrient, they could majorly undermine eye health, and experience issues such as severe eye dryness, night blindness and irregular patches on the white of the eyes. According to the World Health Organisation, Vitamin A deficiency contributes to maternal mortality and other poor outcomes of pregnancy and lactation. Insufficient Vitamin A diminishes the ability to fight infections. What does Vitamin A help with? Better overall eye health Lessening the risk of blindness, including night blindness, and vision loss due to macular degeneration Development of immune cells and strengthen body’s ability to fight infections Supporting a healthy pregnancy and fetal growth Treating acne and supporting skin health, to some extent Reducing the risk of some types of cancers, such as lung and prostate cancers Sources of Vitamin A As a rule of thumb, no matter the health goal, a balanced diet plan should factor in all nutrients according to the daily requirement of the specific micronutrient. Coming from both animal sources (called retinoids and including retinol) and plant sources (called carotenoids and including beta-carotene), Vitamin A is formed within the human body by the conversion of beta-carotene into vitamin A. The provitamin Vitamin A can be naturally obtained from green leafy vegetables like broccoli and spinach, bright-coloured vegetables like sweet potatoes, pumpkin, carrots and squash, as well as bell peppers, tomatoes, apricots, mangoes, and dairy products like milk. It is also found in certain kinds of cheese. One can also find a type of this vitamin, called preformed Vitamin A, from meat, poultry, fish, and dairy products. If you are keeping your meals balanced, there’s a strong possibility that you are meeting the recommended daily allowance (RDA) of Vitamin A — which is about 600 micrograms for both men and women.  These limits, however, have recently been revised by the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) to about 1000 micrograms for men and 840 micrograms for women, applicable from 2023. In addition to filling up your plate with healthier food choices, one way of upping your daily Vitamin A intake could be oral supplements. However, one must be aware of the amount of every micronutrient going inside the body, so it does not cause exceed the tolerable upper level (UL) intake. (The writer is a nutrition specialist) Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/the-many-benefits-of-vitamin-a-1058643.html
07-12-2021||Right in the Middle||A whole new gaze||"When the wind blows, gentlemen will cover their eyes,” grandma spoke slowly and firmly. Sleepy little kids wondered why but we were too tired to ask, after a whole day of playing and jumping around, not to mention the huge meals served up lovingly by her. “That’s because lady’s skirts get blown about in the wind and gentlemen, including young boys like you, should look away.” Her stories invariably contained a subtle message and the thing guys in the group nodded obediently before drifting off to sleep.  When I saw a group of labourers ogling at a young girl who was dressed very conservatively and was just passing by, I kind of understand why my parents refused to let me go unaccompanied, especially after evenings. "We stay in the national capital, for god’s sake!” I, a young teenager, had shouted, only to be answered very patiently: "That’s exactly why we don’t want you to go alone!” A young girl was sitting in an upmarket restaurant wearing the most fashionable clothing. Glowing in youth and beauty, she was the cynosure of all eyes. As I made my way to the restroom, I observed how everything about her was perfect, her makeup, hair, dress… Well, almost. I saw a group of waiters huddled close by, near the restroom, suppressing giggles and trying to maintain a straight face. It was her jeans, which had slipped down, deliberately. I averted my eyes as I hurried back, feeling unhappy about the whole thing, especially as I couldn’t go up and tell her to cover up. I knew that would be given a lecture on how men should learn to control themselves and not ask women to cover up. “Sunday longer than Monday" was the code word used to earn the attention of fellow girl students when the inner clothes showed from beneath their dresses. It immediately made one conscious and involuntarily pull the dupatta or saree pallu around oneself. It was especially embarrassing to me when as a young teacher, I would be warned by a female student about a strap showing. I would cringe for days, thinking about it. A few years later, showing the strap from beneath the blouse and fabric beneath the lower dress became 'fashionable’, with heroines in many songs showing this. A recent ad showed a group of young women sitting by the sidewalk and gazing unabashedly at a handsome guy exercising. Another one depicted two famous actors, one eyeing the band of his underpants as it peeps out from his trousers. There was another where she again loses herself in a similar sight. This time, it was a role reversal, a female gaze, instead of a male one. And why not? Women have come a long way… Isn’t it? Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/a-whole-new-gaze-1058644.html
07-12-2021||Second Edit||Important to hold session at Belagavi||The recent demand of the Karnataka State Secretariat Employees’ Association to cancel the 10-day legislature session scheduled to be held at Suvarna Soudha, Belagavi, from December 13 is without merit. Amidst fears of the Omicron variant, the association has claimed that a large number of government officers and media persons travelling to Belagavi would increase the threat of infection. However, Covid only seems to be a ruse not to get out of their comfort zone in Bengaluru. If Covid indeed is a threat, then the government has taken the right decision to hold the session at Suvarna Soudha, and not in Bengaluru, which emerged as the epicentre of the virus during both the first and second waves. The government has done well to reject the demand and hold fast to its plans to conduct the session in Belagavi with adequate precautions, and it is hoped that it will not change its mind. Suvarna Soudha was built at a cost of over Rs 400 crore to commemorate the 50th anniversary of Karnataka’s formation and also to reiterate the state’s control over Belagavi, given its longstanding border dispute with neighbouring Maharashtra, which has also staked claimed to the city. Administratively, Soudha was to serve as a gateway to the government to the economically backward districts of the northern parts of the state, now renamed Kalyana Karnataka. In reality, however, the building has turned out to be a white elephant as virtually no government activity takes place here, with even the legislature session not being held here for three years now. Thus, the very purpose of bringing governance closer to the region’s people, who now have to travel to faraway Bengaluru to get their work done, has been defeated. The situation has reached such a pass that the government is now considering renting out the auditorium and the meeting halls for private conferences to raise funds for the building’s upkeep. The government should keep up its promise of shifting the head offices of some departments to Belagavi so that the people of the region can get their issues resolved locally. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai should set an example by operating from Suvarna Soudha for at least a few months in a year. Only then will other ministers and bureaucrats follow suit. Unless a concerted effort is made to decentralise administration, Suvarna Soudha will remain a useless showpiece. Holding the annual winter session there is thus important. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/important-to-hold-session-at-belagavi-1058648.html
07-12-2021||South||Centre punishing Tamil Nadu, other states for population control, not giving due share of tax revenues: DMK||DMK leader Kanimozhi accused the Centre on Monday of "punishing" Tamil Nadu and other southern states by giving a smaller share of tax revenues to them as they have taken effective measures to control population over the years. Raising the issue of devolution of tax revenues in the Lok Sabha during the Zero Hour, she said the 15th Finance Commission, in its final report, changed its terms of reference and adopted the 2011 census data rather than the 1971 population figures for devolving tax revenues among the states. It has also considered 15 per cent of devolution based on the population of the states according to the 2011 census and 12.5 per cent of devolution based on demographic performance. "This effectively punishes states like Tamil Nadu, which have effectively contained its population since the 1970s," Kanimozhi said. Other southern states also "get punished" as they get a smaller share of the tax revenues from the Centre only because their population has decreased, she added. "This is an unfair devolution of revenues as it hinders the development of well-performing states and it is like they are being punished and penalised for such accomplishments," the DMK leader said. Referring to the National Family Health Survey (NFHS) report, she said Tamil Nadu has a fertility rate that is lower than the national fertility rate and gave credit for it to a successful implementation of the family planning programme in the state. "Our prime minister, in his Independence Day speech in 2019, had said a small section of the society, which keeps its families small, deserves respect. Unfortunately, when a population control measure is taken by a state, it is not rewarded and is punished by the Union government," Kanimozhi said. She said there was a decline of 19 per cent in the tax share from the Centre between the 13th Finance Commission and the 14th Finance Commission. "And this trend of depreciation is continuing. Many of the states, which are performing well, especially when it comes to population control, are being penalised. States like Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh, which have done very well, are on the losing end," the DMK leader added. She also raised apprehensions about a further reduction in the number of parliamentary constituencies in Tamil Nadu during a delimitation process due to a decline in the state's population. Tamil Nadu had 41 parliamentary constituencies at the time of election in 1962 but now, it has 39 seats in the Lok Sabha as its population has gone down, Kanimozhi pointed out. "We have been reading that again the delimitation process will reduce our seats even further. I think this is very unfair and goes against the ethos of democracy. This has to be rectified. We need our due share of taxes and the number of seats should not be reduced and it has to be brought back to 41," she added. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/centre-punishing-tamil-nadu-other-states-for-population-control-not-giving-due-share-of-tax-revenues-dmk-1058415.html
07-12-2021||South||Students in Kerala made to wear 'I am Babri' badge; police case filed||A police case was registered against three youths at Pathanamthitta district in Kerala for making school students wear badges with the writing 'I am Babri'. The accused, including a minor, were workers of Campus Front, the students wing owing allegiance to Popular Front of India and SDPI. The incident took place on Monday in connection with anniversary of the Babri Masjid demolition. Students of the St George High School at Kottangal in Pathanamthitta district were made to wear the badge.Teachers who noticed it asked the students to remove the badge. Based on the complaint of the school authorities and PTA, the police registered a case. The BJP had also demanded action. The police registered the case under various sections of the IPC for promoting enmity. Campus Front activists were said to have distributed the badge near the school gate. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/students-in-kerala-made-to-wear-i-am-babri-badge-police-case-filed-1058486.html
07-12-2021||South||Prabhas donates Rs 1 crore to Andhra CM Relief Fund for flood victims||Actor Prabhas has donated a huge amount of Rs 1 crore to the Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister's Relief Fund. After the recent floods which caused devastation in some areas of the state, the Baahubali actor has donated the money. Earlier, Prabhas, who is well-known for his generosity apart from his movies, had come forward to donate a whopping amount of Rs 4.5 crore to help the needy during Covid-19. Now that the actor has made a huge donation in favour of flood-hit people in Andhra Pradesh, he is being praised for his generosity. The Telugu film industry has contributed significantly in the form of donations to help the flood victims. Actors Ram Charan, Mahesh Babu, Jr NTR, Allu Arjun, and others have donated a sizable amount of money. On the work front, Prabhas is awaiting the release of Radhe Shyam which is hitting the marquee on January 14. He will then wrap up his shooting formalities with KGF fame Prashanth Neel for their upcoming movie Salaar while Om Raut's Adipurush is under production too. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/prabhas-donates-rs-1-crore-to-andhra-cm-relief-fund-for-flood-victims-1058512.html
07-12-2021||South||Kerala magician drives blindfolded 'to open CM's eyes' to plight of artistes||An internationally acclaimed magician in Kerala on Tuesday drove his jeep blindfolded in "a symbolic protest to open Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan's eyes" towards the plight and suffering of the stage artistes and performers. Samraj, 65, was joined by several of his followers who also rode motorcycles blindfolded, behind his vehicle. The drive started from the Martyrs Column in the heart of Thiruvananthapuram to the State Secretariat, covering a distance of about 800 metres. Samraj, an engineer by profession, became a full-time magician after quitting his job in the Middle East a few decades ago. He is the winner of the prestigious 'Merlin Award', popularly known as the 'Oscar of Magic'. Talking about his unconventional and unique way of protesting, Samraj said, "We decided to drive blindfolded to highlight the sufferings of about 10,000 people who make a living by performing on the stage." "It has been now more than 20 months... The artistes and performers are yet to get assistance to resume their work. The film industry has started and practically every sector has opened up but stage artistes still have not gotten back to work. These are some untold miseries. Therefore, we decided to organise such a protest," said Samraj. Samraj, who lives in Mavelikera, about 100 kilometres from the state capital, was in the news recently over a solo magic performance to draw the attention of the authorities. He demanded that authorities allow them (stage artistes) to get back to work by resuming shows in halls and stages, and especially, in the places of worship. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-magician-drives-blindfolded-to-open-cms-eyes-to-plight-of-artistes-1058534.html
07-12-2021||South||Sleepless nights for residents near Mullaperiyar dam||Hundreds of families of Vandiperiyar panchayat — near popular tourist spot of Thekkady in Idukki district of Kerala — are having sleepless nights over the past few weeks as Tamil Nadu authorities continue to release water from the Mullaperiyar dam during nights, allegedly without adequate alerts. While many have started sleeping on higher floors or rooftops, some families are taking shelter at elevated spots by setting up temporary sheds. The nightmare caused by the 2018 floods when water from the Mullaperiyar dam gushed into around 200 houses is still fresh in people's minds, locals said. Repeated pleas of the Kerala government and a letter sent by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan to his Tamil Nadu counterpart MK Stalin seem to have yielded no results yet. On Monday night, around 50 houses were flooded after nine shutters of the dam were opened, allegedly without adequate alerts. Families, many with kids and aged people, had to frantically move out of their houses at night. B George, a local ward member of the locality, told DH that the people have been going sleepless for nearly a month as the spillway shutters were opened on several nights without warning. The people are constantly keeping an eye on the river to see if the water level increases and are keeping their valuables ready to move out at a moment's notice. Along with the floodwater, mud also enters the house and it is becoming increasingly strenuous to frequently clean the house after the water recedes, residents said. Noushad PM, a ward member of Vandiperiyar panchayat, said that even as relief camps have been set up, people were not willing to move out permanently until the present rains were over. Also, locals said that it was not easy to move out of their houses and that staying at relief camps poses a risk of Covid-19 spread as well. The police, revenue authorities and rescue teams have been on constant vigilance to take swift actions in case of an emergency situation, Noshad said. Meanwhile, the demand for decommissioning the 126-year-old dam, owing to safety concerns, was gaining momentum. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sleepless-nights-for-residents-near-mullaperiyar-dam-1058559.html
07-12-2021||South||Omicron fear: 'No vaccine, no salary', other measures in Telangana to widen vaccine coverage||As fear of the Omicron variant increases, various authorities in Telangana are applying different measures to make the unwilling people take the Covid-19 vaccine and also adhere to the mask rule. The management of the Telangana State Cooperative Apex Bank (TSCAB) has told its employees that their December salaries would be credited only after producing the vaccination certificate. “We had conducted two free vaccination drives, one in June and another in September for the benefit of our employees but found that about 20% of them did not take the jab. As such carelessness could aid in Covid-19 spread, we took this decision. If anyone is prohibited from taking the vaccine, they should furnish the reasons and a medical certificate,” Dr Nethi Muralidhar, managing director, TSCAB told DH. In Shaikapur village near Zahirabad, a town close to the Karnataka border, power supply was reportedly cut to a few houses where the residents were refusing to be jabbed. The step was taken as only about half of the eligible population was vaccinated in the village. Electricity was restored after the locals took the vaccine. In some villages, vaccine certificates are being verified unofficially to dispense PDS ration. Meanwhile, in news providing some comfort to the state health authorities, genome sequencing of all the 13 Covid-19 positive samples of foreign returnees to Hyderabad revealed that none of them were infected by the Omicron variant. However, as Omicron cases are being reported from various parts of the country, the Telangana government has upped its vigil while also moving to accelerate the vaccination coverage. Officials also said that a Rs 1,000 fine would be imposed on people found not complying with the mask rule. The public are asked to carry their Covid-19 vaccine certificates while heading out. Surveillance teams would keep an eye on visitors in places like malls and could randomly ask for jab proof. “Telangana government is well prepared to tackle any eventuality in the wake of concerns over Omicron, the new variant of SARS-CoV-2. It is important to complete vaccination by taking both doses and it is also equally important to adhere to precautions against Covid-19, including wearing a face mask and maintaining a safe physical distance,” Dr Srinivasa Rao, director, the public health department has appealed. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/omicron-fear-no-vaccine-no-salary-other-measures-in-telangana-to-widen-vaccine-coverage-1058579.html
07-12-2021||South||Tamil Nadu announces Rs 50,000 relief to families of Covid-19 victims||Tamil Nadu government has issued an order to provide Rs 50,000 as a relief to the next of kin of those who lost their lives due to Covid-19 infection. A government order dated December 3 issued by the Revenue and Disaster Management Department asked district collectors to use funds from the State Disaster Response Fund to provide the relief.  The order signed by Kumar Jayant, Principal Secretary to the Government, said Rs 50,000 will be provided to persons who died of Covid-19 including to those involved in relief operations or associated with preparedness activities subject to the cause of death being certified as Covid-19.  The relief will be provided from the SDRF, in strict compliance with NDMA guidelines issued in September 2021. “This ex-gratia assistance will be applicable from the date of first Covid-19 case reported in the country and will continue till de-notification of Covid-19 as a disaster or till further, whichever is earlier,” the order said.  However, families of frontline workers who received Rs 25 lakh as ex-gratia for Covid death under the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund (CMPRF) and children who received Rs 5 lakh after losing both parents and Rs 3 lakh for children who lost one parent.  As many as 36,539 persons have lost their lives due to Covid-19 in Tamil Nadu since March 2020. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-announces-rs-50000-relief-to-families-of-covid-19-victims-1058582.html
07-12-2021||South||Sasikala meets Rajinikanth as 'courtesy call'||Former AIADMK leader V K Sasikala met Tamil superstar Rajinikanth at the latter’s residence in Chennai to congratulate the actor for being conferred with Dadasaheb Phalke award.  Sasikala, long-time aide of late chief minister J Jayalalithaa, drove to Rajinikanth’s residence in upscale Poes Garden on Monday to meet the actor and his family. Rajinikanth’s bungalow is close to Veda Nilayam, Jayalalithaa’s residence where Sasikala lived for nearly 30 years.  A statement from Sasikala’s office, which also released pictures, said the former AIADMK leader met Rajinikanth to congratulate him for the award and to enquire about his health. The meeting was dubbed as a “courtesy call.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sasikala-meets-rajinikanth-as-courtesy-call-1058583.html
07-12-2021||South||I-T raids in Tamil Nadu unearth suppressed income of Rs 1,000 crore||Income Tax searches on two popular companies in Tamil Nadu whose interests range from jewellery to textiles have unearthed suppressed sales to the tune of over Rs 1,000 crore over a period of several years by “manipulating” their books of accounts. The owners of the two companies are understood to be related to each other, and details about their suppression of sales, and obtaining bogus bills were found during the recent raids at premises owned by the firms. The companies’ stores are located in Chennai, Coimbatore, Madurai, and Tirunelveli, while sleuths raided 37 premises related to them on December 1. Both the firms are market leaders in textile and jewellery sectors. The first group, according to I-T Department, had been actively involved in systematically suppressing sales by manipulating their books of accounts, and this was revealed in documents seized during the raid. “The extent of suppression of sales is found to be more than Rs 1,000 crore, over a period of several years. It was also found, that, the assessee had made unaccounted cash purchases of about Rs 150 crore in the textile division and jewellery division, during the past few years,” an Income Tax department official said. As far as the second group is concerned, incriminating material seized during the search, has revealed that the assessee group had obtained bogus bills from a set of parties to the tune of Rs 80 crore and thereby suppressed taxable Income. “Evidence relating to the unaccounted purchases of gold have also been gathered. Besides, the assessee group is found to be debiting inflated making charges of jewellery. In addition, unaccounted rental receipts and the unaccounted scrap sales aggregating to Rs 7 crores have also been detected,” the official added. During the searches at premises belonging to the two groups, cash of Rs 10 crore and jewellery/bullion worth about Rs 6 crore was recovered. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/i-t-raids-in-tamil-nadu-unearth-suppressed-income-of-rs-1000-crore-1058591.html
07-12-2021||State||Pooja Hegde says she is a proud Karnataka girl, wins hearts||Kannada cinema lovers on social media are celebrating after their favourite popular actress Pooja Hegde, who made it big in the Telugu and Tamil film industries. stated that she is proud about her roots. Pooja Hegde was in Bengaluru to launch an awards event when she said that she loved the fact that she hailed from Karnataka and the coastal town of Mangaluru in Dakshina Kannada district. Pooja maintained that she grew up in Mumbai, yet she always insisted that she was from Karnataka, born and brought up in Mumbai. She said she was very happy to have come from a state that has produced great talent for Indian cinema. Pooja, who made her acting debut in 2016 in the Hrithik Roshan-starrer 'Mohenjo Daro', added that whenever Karnataka is mentioned, people ask her if there is something in the water that produces so many beautiful actresses and good-looking women. A much sought-after actress in Tollywood today, Pooja said she was ready to act in a Kannada movie if she's approached with a good script. That was music to the ears of her fans in her original home state. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/pooja-hegde-says-she-is-a-proud-karnataka-girl-wins-hearts-1058514.html
07-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Former MLA Urimajalu K Rama Bhat passes away||Former MLA of Puttur Urimajalu K Rama Bhat, known popularly as BJP’s Bheeshma in erstwhile Dakshina Kananda district, passed away on Monday evening. He was 92. Bhat, an active RSS member since his school days, had contested as many as seven times from Puttur Assembly constituency. He had won the elections in 1977 and later in 1983. He contested his first election as a Jan Sangh candidate and his final election in 1983 on a BJP ticket. Bhat’s contributions are acknowledged for strengthening the BJP in DK and grooming many leaders. The former MLA having plunged into RSS movement at a young age was in close contact with BJP’s towering leaders like Atal Bihari Vajpayee and Lal Krishna Advani. Bhat, who was imprisoned during Emergency, had helped his cell mate Advani in learning Kannada language. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had recently contacted him and had enquired about his health. Bhat had become widely popular for his corruption-free governance during his stint as the MLA. He had also served as trustee of Mahalingeshwara temple in Puttur, as president of Puttur Municipality Council and Campco and was instrumental in setting up many educational institutions. Rama Bhat leaves behind his wife, son and two daughters. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/former-mla-urimajalu-k-rama-bhat-passes-away-1058369.html
07-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19: Paramedical college declared containment zone||Dr M V Shetty Paramedical College in Vidyanagara near Kavoor was declared as ‘containment zone’ by Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) on Sunday after nine students tested positive to Covid-19. Following the MCC’s orders on collecting swabs from students, who had returned from Kerala, 173 swabs were collected. Three students pursuing Bachelor of Physiotherapy (BPT) tested positive for covid on Saturday. Four students pursuing Diploma in Medical Laboratory Technology (DMLT) and two nursing students tested positive for covid on Monday. “The building was declared as containment zone. The remaining students were considered as primary contacts and isolated in the hostel itself. Food was being provided at the doorstep of primary contacts,” District Nodal Officer for Covid-19 Dr Ashok H said. The samples had been sent for genomic sequencing on Sunday night. 16 children positive As many as 16 children studying at Navodhaya school in Kurnad, on the outskirts of Mangaluru, had tested positive for Covid-19 on November 15. However, the issue has come to light lately. The building was sealed and declared a containment zone on November 15 itself. The swabs of 231 primary contacts were tested. Presently, only three covid positive cases are under constant surveillance, sources said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-paramedical-college-declared-containment-zone-1058370.html
07-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Company apologises after inhumane disposal of dead cow||A video clip showing the personnel of a construction company dragging dead cattle in an inhumane manner not only went viral on social media but also triggered protests from Sangh Pariwar and other Hindu organisations. A protest rally was also taken out amidst tight security at the toll plaza in Shiroor on Monday. In the video clip, the carcass of cow was shown tied behind a towing vehicle. The cattle was later dragged and dumped in an inhumane manner on December 5. Vishwa Hindu Parishat (VHP) district vice president Sreedhar Beejur condemned the act of the personnel, belonging to the IRB construction company, as totally inhumane. “Already, the Company has proved to be anti-public with its reckless approach. The entire stretch under construction is causing a lot of inconveniences to public,” he charged. If irregularities do not end, the Hindu organisations, led by VHP, will stage an indefinite protest at toll plaza, he threatened. VHP Byndoor president Jagadheesh Kollur said that the last rites of the cattle should have been performed. Following protests, Praful Kakade, on behalf of the IRB company, apologised and promised that such inhumane act will not be repeated. Later, a memorandum was submitted to Byndoor Tahsildar Shobhalakshmi. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/company-apologises-after-inhumane-disposal-of-dead-cow-1058372.html
07-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||'Will appoint president to Yakshagana Academy after Council polls'||Kannada and Culture Minister V Sunil Kumar said that the president of Yakshagana Academy will be appointed soon after the Council elections. Owing to the model code of conduct, the president could not be appointed. Steps will be taken to appoint the president on a priority basis after the model code of conduct ends, he added. The post of the Yakshagana Academy president was lying vacant after M A Hegde died on April 13, 2021. Yakshagana artists and members were expressing discomfiture over the vacancy for the last few months. Though Yakshagana Academy awards for 2020 were announced, they are yet to be presented. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/will-appoint-president-to-yakshagana-academy-after-council-polls-1058375.html
07-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||‘Ray’s women characters were non-stereotypical’||The master filmmaker Satyajit Ray was prophetic about the problems arising out of certain kinds of globalisation and captured the ‘existentialist struggles’ of middle classes in many of his films, said National Golden Lotus award winner film critic Prof N Manu Chakravarthy. He was delivering a commemorative address on ‘Satyajit Ray - In Our Times’, a virtual talk organised as a part of the film master’s birth centenary by Gandhian Centre for Philosophical Arts and Sciences (GCPAS), Manipal Academy of Higher Education (MAHE), Manipal. Chakravarthy said that Ray anticipated the nature of capitalist globalisation in many of his films such as ‘Mahanagar’, ‘Nayak’, ‘Pratidwani’, ‘Seemabadh’ and others. Citing a dialogue from one of Ray’s films, he said that Ray believed that a sense of justice and equality were better achievements of modern age than man landing on the moon. Ray’s women characters are very strong and non-stereotypical ones. They, in fact, provide a counterpoint to the dominant masculinist narrative, he added. Imbibing the intellectual heritage of Rajaram Mohan Roy, Ishwar Chandra Vidya Sagar and of course Gurudev Rabindranath Tagore and Mahatma Gandhi, Ray formed his views about colonialism, nationalism, women, education, modernity, war and peace and others which also reflected in his films such as ‘Ghare Baire’ and ‘Shatranj Ke Khiladi’. Critiquing those who are becoming willing partners in the process of dehumanised mindless globalisation and related areas, Chakravarthy cited Ray’s opinion, coming through his films, that one shouldn’t become wealthy on the misery and suffering of the people. GCPAS Head Prof Varadesh Hiregange said that Ray captured reality of his times in his cinematic mode of ‘realism,’ emerging as a class by himself, as a classicist producing classics and cutting across class barriers to be counted among masters of world cinema. Prof Phaniraj said that Ray remains as a contemporary with his humanism and modernism. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ray-s-women-characters-were-non-stereotypical-1058378.html
07-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka is taking measures to set up more genomic sequencing labs: CM||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Tuesday stated that steps are being taken to increase the number of genome sequencing laboratories in the state. "Experts and machinery have to be arranged for that, and instructions in this regard are given to Health Department secretary. All districts have Covid testing laboratories. In the wake of Omicron variant, suspected samples are being sent for genome sequencing. They are also being sent to the National Center For Biological Sciences (NCBS) for higher reference," he said. Arrangements are being made to get genome sequencing reports speedily. More such laboratories would also be set up, he added. 'Disappointed with Siddaramaiah' In reply to Leader of Opposition Legislative Assembly Siddaramaiah's criticism that Bommai is telling lies repeatedly, he said, "I have great respect towards Siddaramaiah. But, his recent statements have brought disappointment". Lakhan Jarkiholi is Congress rebel candidate in Legislative Council elections from Belagavi local authorities constituency, and that would not have any impact on the BJP. BJP candidate Mahantesh Kavatagimath would definitely win, he said. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-is-taking-measures-to-set-up-more-genomic-sequencing-labs-cm-1058471.html
07-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karanth Layout: HC junks pleas challenging notifications||The high court has dismissed a batch of petitions challenging preliminary and final notification for the acquisition of lands for Dr Shivaram Karanth Layout in view of the orders passed by the apex court. Justice S R Krishna Kumar has extended the interim orders in these petitions till December 20, 2021, so as to enable the petitioners to challenge the order. The preliminary notification for the acquisition was issued on December 30, 2008. Several petitions were filed challenging the notification and the matter had reached the apex court. On August 3, 2018, the apex court had restored the preliminary notification by reversing the orders passed by both the single and division bench of the Karnataka High Court. The Supreme Court had also directed the authorities to issue final notification within three months, without excluding any acquired land. After the order of the apex court, the Bangalore Development Authority issued the final notification on October 30, 2018. Dismissing petitions challenging both the preliminary and final notifications, the court said that restoration of the preliminary notification by the apex court in respect of the entire extent of 3,546 acres 12 guntas, would have the effect of validating, confirming and affirming the preliminary notification with effect December 30, 2008, onwards and not from any later date. “Consequently, all acts, deeds and things, as well as all transactions, documents etc., which have been done or come into existence after December 30, 2008 onwards, by or at the instance of any person in respect of any portion of the notified land measuring 3,546 acres 12 guntas, would get subsumed by the judgment of the Apex Court and become subject to the outcome of the acquisition proceedings pursuant to the preliminary notification,” the court said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karanth-layout-hc-junks-pleas-challenging-notifications-1058654.html
07-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Vehicle registration: High Court restores system followed prior to October 31||The High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday passed an interim order directing the transport authorities to restore the first sale registration process of non-transport and fully built transport vehicles as per the system that existed prior to October 31, 2021. The state government had allowed registration of vehicles by the manufacturers and dealers of motor vehicles by a notification dated October 31, 2021. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Ritu Raj Awasthi and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum passed this order on the petition filed by Rosemerta Technologies Limited, a company claiming to have entered into an agreement with the state government for issuing smart card-based registrations. The company has contended that the state government’s decision to do away with the issuance of smart card-based registration certificates and bringing in electronic registrationor online mode of registration in its place is arbitrary and illegal. The company had entered into an agreement with the state government in 2009 which is valid till 2024. As per the agreement, the company issues smart card-based registration certificates for the new vehicles. However, with the October 31, 2021 notification, the registration certificate would now be issued through electronic or online mode and the petitioner company would no longer be required to issue the smartcard-based registration certificate. “Prima facie, the contention raised by the counsel for the petitioner appears to be correct and as such requires consideration. Let the statement of objections be filed by the additional government advocate within three weeks. List on January 31, 2022. In the meantime, the registration of non-transport vehicles and fully built transport vehicles on the first sale shall be registered as per the existing system prior to issuance of the impugned notification dated 31 October 2021.,” the court said. The petitioner alleged that while the draft notification was issued on October 26, 2021, proposing to amend rule 33 of the Karnataka Motor Vehicles Rules, 1989, within five dayson October 31, 2021, the notification was issued authorising the dealers to register the vehicles. It could be recalled that in another PIL, filed by retired transport department official Mohammed Dastagir, the court had passed an interim order that registrations pursuant to the notification dated October 31, 2021, will be subject to further orders.  Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/vehicle-registration-high-court-restores-system-followed-prior-to-october-31-1058655.html
07-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka sees 299 new Covid-19 cases, 6 deaths||Karnataka logged 299 fresh Covid-19 cases and six deaths on Tuesday, taking the total number of infections to 29,98,699 and the toll to 38,243. The day also saw 260 discharges, taking the total number of recoveries in the state so far to 29,53,327. Bengaluru Urban district accounted for 215 cases. The capital city also saw 97 discharges and three deaths. The total number of active cases in the state are now 7,100. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 0.36 per cent, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) was  two per cent. Out of six deaths reported on Tuesday, three were from Bengaluru Urban and one each was from Dakshina Kannada, Dharwad and Mysuru. Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 215, Dakshina Kannada 14, Kodagu 12, Mysuru 11, followed by others. A total of 5,39,96,839 samples have been tested in the state so far, out of which 81,194 were done on Tuesday alone. As many as 4,49,511 Covid vaccination doses were administered on Tuesday taking the total vaccination doses to 7,82,02,774.  Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-sees-299-new-covid-19-cases-6-deaths-1058657.html
07-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||'Police helping accused advocate get bail in Supreme Court'||Mangaluru South ACP Ranjith Bhandaru, heading one of the four teams formed to arrest advocate K S N Rajesh Bhat, who is absconding after sexually assaulting a law student, was accused of harassing main witnesses by activist Prasanna Ravi. Prasanna told media persons at Patrika Bhavan on Tuesday that Commissioner of Police had issued a look out notice against Rajesh. But even 50 days after filing FIR against him, the accused still remained at large. It appears that the police are deliberately helping the accused to apply for bail in Supreme Court, she charged and urged commissioner to hand over the case to DCP Hariram Shankar. Prasanna also accused Mangaluru South ACP of mentally harassing the victim. All College Students' Association Dakshina Kannada unit president Dhanush Shetty warned that members, along with the victim, will observe a fast unto death. Timeline October 18, 2021: A case of sexual assault was lodged against Rajesh Bhat in Women's Police Station, Pandeshwar. October 23, 2021: Rajesh suspended from Bar Council. October 29, 2021: District sixth Additional Sessions court rejected the anticipatory bail application by the accused. October 30, 2021: All College Students' Association and other like-minded organisations staged a protest in front of Mini Vidhana Soudha demanding the arrest of the accused.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/police-helping-accused-advocate-get-bail-in-supreme-court-1058670.html
07-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Rama Bhat cremated with state honours||Hundreds of followers of former MLA late Urimajalu K Rama Bhat paid rich tributes to the departed soul on Tuesday. Condolences poured in from all quarters, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Condoling the death, Modi tweeted, "In the history of Jan Sangh and BJP, stalwarts like Urimajalu K Rama Bhat Ji have a special place. He tirelessly worked to strengthen our Party in Karnataka and served among people. I am saddened by his demise. Condolences to his family. Om Shanti''. The funeral procession was taken out from his residence at Kombettu in Puttur to Vivekananda Degree College and Engineering College, where the public paid their last respects. Later, the body was placed for public homage on the premises of Puttur Cooperative Town Bank. The former MLA was cremated at the Hindu crematorium in Madivalakatte with full state honours. State BJP president and MP Nalin Kumar Kateel, former minister D V Sadananda Gowda, Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary, MLA Sanjeeva Matandoor, MLC S L Bhoje Gowda among others were present.  Donates eyes Rama Bhat had wished to donate his eyes after his death. Accordingly, doctors from K S Hegde Charitable Hospital retrieved the eyes, said family sources.   Tributes Campco Ltd paid rich tributes to Rama Bhat, who was a former president of the giant cooperative. The condolence meeting was convened by Campco's management and staff at its head office. Rama Bhat had served as the president of Campco from January 1, 1991, to August 18, 1993, and from January 1, 1994, to December 31, 1996. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/rama-bhat-cremated-with-state-honours-1058673.html
07-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Udupi DC forms 12 committees to contain Covid-19||Deputy Commissioner Kurma Rao has set up 12 teams to contain Covid-19 in Udupi district. The team members should work in coordination on shifting the Covid-19 infected to covid care centres, Covid-19 health centre (DCHC) and to hospitals in case of necessity. They should also work on tracing the contacts, declaring containment zones, monitoring containment areas, collecting information from private clinics and primary health centre on ILI, SAARI and other cases. The teams should work in coordination and submit a report to district administration daily, the DC stressed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/udupi-dc-forms-12-committees-to-contain-covid-19-1058676.html
07-12-2021||West||Don't create panic over 5 Omicron suspect cases in Goa: CM tells media||Even as five suspected cases of the Omicron Covid variant have been identified in Goa, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant has asked the media not to create panic, while also urging 1.20 lakh residents of the state who have not taken the second jab, to step up and get themselves fully inoculated. "Do not create a panic situation in the state by referring to them as Omicron suspects. I am continuously following up on the situation," Sawant said. Five sailors, including Russian and Georgian nationals, have tested positive for Covid with Omicron-like symptoms. They were onboard a cargo ship which had embarked from South Africa and is currently in Goa's Mormugao Port Trust, since November 18. Four of the five sailors are quarantined at a government designated facility, while one is in isolation on the vessel anchored at the port. Their samples have been sent to a Pune facility for genome sequencing test. Sawant also urged the 1.20 lakh Goans, who have skipped the second Covid vaccination dose to get themselves inoculated. "No doubt we want to take precautions, but we should not create panic situations. 1.20 lakh Goans have not taken the second dose. They should take that. We want to declare Goa as a 100 per cent vaccinated state by December 19. This is our target, people should help us achieve that. Take the second dose before (Prime Minister) Narendra Modi arrives in Goa," he added. Modi is scheduled to arrive in Goa on December 19 to inaugurate several projects. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/dont-create-panic-over-5-omicron-suspect-cases-in-goa-cm-tells-media-1058426.html
07-12-2021||West||I-T dept detects hidden Rs 500-cr transactions after raids on Gujarat group||Unaccounted transactions of over Rs 500 crore have been detected after the Income Tax Department last month raided a Gujarat-based group engaged in the manufacture of stainless steel and metal pipes, the CBDT said on Tuesday. The searches were launched on November 23 at thirty premises of the unidentified group in Ahmedabad and Mumbai. "A large number of incriminating documents, loose sheets, digital evidence etc. have been found and seized. These evidences contain detailed records of the group's unaccounted income on which due taxes have not been paid," the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) said in a statement. A preliminary analysis of evidence, the policy-making body for the tax department said, indicates that the group is indulging in "unaccounted sales of goods and scrap in cash which is not recorded in the regular books of account”. Evidences related to "malpractices like unaccounted cash loans advanced and interest earned thereon, expenses incurred in cash, bogus expenses and purchases, unaccounted land investments etc. has also been unearthed," it said. The deleted WhatsApp chat of a key person showed evidence of obtaining huge accommodation entries (bogus business entries in the accounts) by the group to "reduce" its taxable income, the CBDT said. It added that 18 bank lockers were put under restraint. "The search action has led to the detection of total unaccounted transactions exceeding Rs 500 crore," it said.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/i-t-dept-detects-hidden-rs-500-cr-transactions-after-raids-on-gujarat-group-1058515.html
07-12-2021||West||Goa: Ravi Naik resigns as Cong MLA, party's strength in House reduces to 3||In another setback to the Congress ahead of Goa polls, party MLA and former chief minister Ravi Naik tendered his resignation from the state Assembly on Tuesday. Earlier, former Goa chief minister Luizinho Faleiro had resigned as Congress MLA in September this year and later joined the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress, which has decided to contest the state polls due early next year. With Naik's resignation, the Congress' strength in the 40-member Goa Assembly has come down to three. Reacting to Naik's resignation, state Congress chief Girish Chodankar said the party had "disowned" him long back and he was not even being considered as the party's candidate for the forthcoming state polls. Naik, who represented Ponda constituency in Goa, submitted his resignation to Legislative Assembly Speaker Rajesh Patnekar. He was accompanied by his two sons, who joined the ruling BJP last year. “I have resigned. I will let you know what is the next course of action,” Naik told reporters here after submitting his resignation. According to sources, Naik is expected to join the BJP later in the day in the presence of the party's Goa election in-charge Devendra Fadnavis. Ravi Naik's younger son Roy Naik said he has requested his father to join the BJP. In 2017 state Assembly polls, Congress had emerged as the single largest party by winning 17 seats. However, the BJP, which had won 13 seats, forged an alliance with some regional outfits and independents to form government in the coastal state. Meanwhile, Chodankar claimed Naik's exit will not dent the Congress as the latter was "only technically present in the party". "His one leg was already in the BJP. He had sent his sons to the BJP first,” the Congress leader told reporters. Chodankar said Congress has already started creating a new leadership in the Ponda Assembly constituency. “We had not involved Naik in any of the party functions. We had disowned Naik long back,” he said. The Congress leader said he had already predicted that Naik would quit the party four-five months before the elections. The Ponda block committee, during a meeting held to shortlist the candidate from the constituency for the forthcoming, had not mentioned Naik's name, he said. “Naik was not even considered as the party's candidate for the next election,” he added. Since the 2017 state Assembly polls, a number of Congress MLAs quit the party and joined the BJP. Valpoi MLA Vishwajit Rane was the first to resign from the Congress. He later joined the BJP and won the bypoll from the seat. Rane is currently the state's health minister. Soon after Rane's exit, two more Congress MLAs - Subhash Shirodkar (who represented Shiroda seat) and Dayanand Sopte (Mandrem) - left the party to join the BJP. Both of them later won the by-elections held in May 2019. The biggest setback for the Goa Congress came in July 2019, when a group of its 10 MLAs, led by then Leader of Opposition Chandrakant Kavlekar, quit the party. Kavlekar is currently serving as deputy chief minister in the Pramod Sawant-led state government. At present, the Congress has only three MLAs in the state - Leader of Opposition Digambar Kamat, Aleixo Reginaldo (representing Curtorim Assembly seat) and Pratapsingh Rane (from Poriem seat). Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-ravi-naik-resigns-as-cong-mla-partys-strength-in-house-reduces-to-3-1058520.html
07-12-2021||West||'Magnetic Maharashtra 2.0': State signs MoUs worth Rs 5,051 crore||The Maharashtra government has signed 12 MoUs worth around Rs 5,051 crore at the 8th 'Magnetic Maharashtra 2.0' investor summit, Industry Minister Subhash Desai said here on Tuesday. This comes close on the heels of the recent Dubai Expo where the state government inked 26 MoUs for investments worth Rs 15,260 crore with a job creation potential of over 10,000 last month. In the past couple of years, the state has signed 96 MoUs worth a total of over Rs 1.88 lakh crore with a potential to create more than 3.34 lakh jobs, the Shiv Sena Minister added. At the signing ceremony, where Additional Chief Secretary, Industries, Baldev Singh was also present, Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) CEO P Anbalagan said that Tuesday's MoUs have a potential to generate at least 9,000 jobs for the state. "The investment intentions signed are spread across the state in various districts in line with the government's objective of equitable development. They also include strategic sectors like defence and aerospace, IT and ITES, bio-fuels, automobiles, etc," said Anbalagan. Desai said that the state has been at the forefront of industrial development in the country for decades, by developing its infrastructure rapidly that has resulted in a flow of investments here even during the past couple of years of the Covid-19 pandemic. "This is due to the state's proactive policy-making and progressive vision that it continues to attract foreign investments and remains the top destination for FDI in India. We are determined to fast-track progress to reach the atrillion-dollar economy' goal," he added. Terming the 'Magnetic Maharashtra 2.0' initiative guided by Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray as a "resounding success", Desai said: "Now it is imperative to carry the tremendous momentum and multiply efforts to strengthen employment opportunities via key investments here." Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/magnetic-maharashtra-20-state-signs-mous-worth-rs-5051-crore-1058589.html
