08-12-2021||First Edit||A tragedy and a national loss||It is with a great sense of shock and dismay that the country received the news that it had lost its top-most military officer, Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) Bipin Rawat, in a helicopter crash in Coonoor in Tamil Nadu on Wednesday. Old soldiers do not die, but only fade away, but it was not in Gen Rawat’s nature to fade away, either. He was not the conventional soldier who would keep to the barracks and keep the world out of his mind. Even as an officer of high calibre, he had his views on many matters and expressed them without hesitation, and faced criticism for some of his comments. But it is not at death that these are to be discussed, especially when the death is unnatural and tragic. He was the first CDS of the country. The government handpicked him to be the single-point military adviser to it and to bring about force transformation through the creation of theatre commands. Over the last 18 months or so, through the continuing border stand-off with China, he had been carrying out these critical roles. The government will have to ensure that his departure does not lead to a slackening in any of these. Apart from Gen Rawat and his wife, Madhulika Rawat, there were 12 others, some of them senior army officers, in the Mi-17V5 helicopter that crashed in the hilly terrains of Coonoor. All but one is reported to have died. The mishap has national security implications of a high order and the questions surrounding it will, hopefully, be answered in the coming days. Gen Rawat was on an official visit and was going from the Sulur airbase to the Wellington cantonment at Ooty. Initial reports have indicated that the copter crashed either due to inclement weather or because it hit a tree. The first question that would arise is whether such weather had been taken into consideration when the short-duration trip was planned. There will be other questions when the details of the crash emerge.   The Mi-17 V5 variant is one of the latest versions of the Mi series military transport helicopter which is used around the world. It is considered safe but has been involved in some accidents. An IAF Mi-17 copter crash-landed in Arunachal Pradesh last month though there was no loss of life. Helicopter crashes have taken lives in India in the past. Notably, Andhra Chief Minister YS Rajasekhara Reddy and Arunachal Pradesh Chief Minister Dorjee Khandu died in helicopter crashes in 2009 and 2011, respectively. There have been other casualties too. The latest, though, will deeply trouble the nation, which would salute a distinguished soldier who took leave in the most unfortunate circumstances.  Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/a-tragedy-and-a-national-loss-1058947.html
08-12-2021||In Perspective||Inflation mandate alone won’t do for MPC||The unanimous decision of the six-member Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) to maintain the status quo on policy rates and a 5:1 majority decision to continue with the accommodative stance did not come as a surprise. But it is a missed opportunity as far as commencing the ‘normalisation’ glide path from the ultra-loose policy rates that have been prevalent since May 2020. The repo rate, the rate at which the banks borrow from the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), is unchanged at 4 per cent. The reverse repo rate, the rate at which interest is offered by the RBI to banks that park their excess funds with the RBI also remains untouched at 3.35 per cent.   Though the rationale of the MPC to maintain status quo in policy rates is, as spelt out, to support the nascent economic growth -- Q2 (July-September) FY22 GDP of 8.4 per cent, PMI Manufacturing 57.6, GST monthly collections of over Rs 1 lakh crore each month in the last five months, buoyant direct tax collections, fiscal deficit under control, supported by substantial exports of merchandise -- the MPC seems to have underestimated the ‘inflation surge’, which can stifle the very growth and recovery that we are witnessing, overestimating the fear of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus, and has decided to wait and watch the policy measures that will be announced in the Union Budget on February 1. The next RBI/MPC policy announcement is set for February 9.   The mandate of the MPC is to target keeping inflation within the 4 per cent-6 per cent range. Retaining the Consumer Price Index (CPI) for FY22 (April 1, 2021-March 31, 2022) at 5.3 per cent and projecting the Q3 (October-December 2021) at 5.1 per cent and Q4 (January-March 2022) at 5.7 per cent (down from the 5.8 per cent projected earlier) does not make sense.  The increase in food and fuel/oil inflation, rise in global and local commodity prices, loss of commercial crops due to unseasonal rains, and huge input cost pressures will feed into the core inflation which will, in turn, have adverse cascading effects -- leading to show-stoppers to the growth story. The above cues indicate inflation shooting beyond the RBI tolerance level of 6 per cent by March 2022.  The logic of the MPC that the reduction in excise duty and state VAT on petrol and diesel would support consumption demand by increasing the purchasing power of the people is not an economic proposition but an ‘astrological prediction’! A paltry reduction by Rs10-15 in fuel prices, after continuously increasing it by Rs 30-40, is adding insult to injury. Similar is the case with the rise in the prices of edible oil, LPG, auto gas and medicines, which will have a ripple effect on the prices of various other goods and services and thus impact inflation.  High liquidity in the market also poses an inflation threat. Inflation combined with nascent growth but with continuing high unemployment will only lead to stagflation. Nearly Rs 11 lakh crore liquidity is in the market. This was the right time to raise the reverse repo rate by at least 0.3-0.5 per cent to narrow the rate corridor nearer to the repo rate at 4 per cent. This would have also sent the right signals to the banks to lend more aggressively at higher interest rates – rather than park excess liquidity at reverse repo rate -- to productive sectors such as the core industries, MSMEs, infrastructure, real estate and affordable housing. That would have had a multiplier effect on investment, income, employment and savings.  Further, such a move would have also signalled the end of the regime of low-interest rates and applied the brakes on the banks and NBFCs from lending indiscriminately — personal and credit card loans, loans against properties, loans through fintech companies, which can eventually lead to sticky or non-performing assets (NPAs) and brewing of the asset bubble. A hike in reverse repo would have also prevented ‘poaching/swapping of housing loans’ and the ‘rate war’ amongst banks and housing finance companies (HFCs).  Despite surplus liquidity, credit offtake has been dismal and anaemic at 7 per cent. Good AAA-rated corporates are deleveraging their balance sheets by retiring their high-cost loans with low-cost funds through debentures, CPs and other ‘market borrowings’, avoiding banks.   However, RBI is continuing its Variable Reverse Repo Rate operations to absorb Rs 6.5 lakh crore on December 17 and another Rs 7.5 lakh crore on December 31, before moving to the Fixed Reverse Repo auctions from January.  Over the last two years, and especially since the pandemic, the behaviour of the economy indicates changes in the macroeconomic dynamics, where inflation is caused by supply side bottlenecks, huge output gap, input price pressures from global oil prices, geopolitical factors, the emergence of innovative fintech companies and innovative fund-raising methods.  This necessitates a total relook at the very mandate of the MPC, which will have to keep ‘growth’ as the focal point and not merely chase the inflation mandate. Otherwise, the MPC will become redundant.  (The writer is a former banker) Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/inflation-mandate-alone-won-t-do-for-mpc-1058951.html
08-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Family of four found dead in suspected suicide pact in Mangaluru||Four members of a family, including two children, were found dead at a house at Morgan’s Gate in Mangaluru on Wednesday. The deceased are Nagesh Sheriguppi (30), Vijayalakshmi (26), Sapna (8) and Samarth (4). Nagesh was found hanging while Vijayalakshmi and children were found lying on the beds. It is suspected that they had consumed poison. The family hails from Sunag in Bilagi taluk of Bagalkot. According to the preliminary report, Nagesh was working as a driver and Vijayalakshmi was working as a security guard. City Police Commissioner N Shashi Kumar visited the spot. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/family-of-four-found-dead-in-suspected-suicide-pact-in-mangaluru-1058770.html
08-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||MIA to start online booking facility RT-PCR test||The Mangaluru International Airport will shortly start a facility for online booking of slots for RT-PCR test at the airport. In addition, passengers will also be able to register for their test usingQR codes displayed at strategic locations in the arrival corridor. The airport has put in place all necessary measures to implement the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare’s latest Covid-19 guidelines for international passengers arriving in India. The MIA has set up a waiting area sufficient for 123 passengers, four registration counters and four sampling booths, including one on stand-by, and 70 Rapid PCR machines, which give results in 30 minutes, said a release. The MIA has also made available an adequate waiting area for accommodating 123 passengers that is equipped with adequate washrooms, food and beverage facilities, Wi-Fi and foreign exchange service. Dedicated passenger service executives are available in this area to assist the passengers. Sanitisation and cleaning are being carried out at regular intervals in the testing areas. Seating arrangements have been made for passengers at arrivals. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mia-to-start-online-booking-facility-rt-pcr-test-1058831.html
08-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||CUSS kiosks gain acceptance at Mangalore airport||The common-use self-service (CUSS) kiosks at Mangalore International Airport (MIA), which help passengers to print their boarding pass and baggage tag, is gaining popularity after the Covid-19 pandemic. The MIA, at present, has four such kiosks, all of which print boarding passes. But three of them are enabled to print both the boarding pass and baggage tag. The staff also assist people, who are not technically savvy, on how to use the kiosks. The MIA has plans to set up additional CUSS kiosks and install them in a phased manner to decongest the space opposite the check-in area. The IT and operations team at the MIA have taken the lead in popularising these kiosks among the passengers. The presence of these kiosks also adds value to passenger safety during a global pandemic by going contactless. The entire process of printing the boarding pass and the baggage tag does not take more than 30 seconds (even with a PNR that has a maximum of six passengers on a single ticket). The machines can print up to 150 tags and boarding passes on one roll. At present, Air India (AI), Air India Express (IX), GoFirst (G8) and IndiGo (6E) have facilitated the use of these kiosks for their respective customers. Siddharth Pande, a flyer who used this facility at the airport, said the CUSS kiosks were the way going forward as they reduce touchpoints. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/cuss-kiosks-gain-acceptance-at-mangalore-airport-1058966.html
08-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||MAHE to help students train at Yakshagana Kendra||MAHE Pro-Chancellor Dr H S Ballal said that there was a need to save the art, culture and tradition of the coastal districts. MAHE has been supporting four institutes, including Yakshagana centre, he added. Dr Ballal was addressing the gathering during the national-level Yakshagana workshop organised at Yakshagana Kendra in Indrali recently. The Yakshagana Kendra is continuing its founder late Dr Kota Shivarama Karanth’s legacy under the guidance of Yakshagana guru Sanjeeva Suvarna through the Gurukula system of Yakshagana training, he added. MAHE will extend all support to Kendra, including hiking members’ salaries and providing other facilities. He said, “It is a matter of pride that engineering students of MAHE hailing from other states are training in the Yakshagana at the centre. If a student wishes to learn Yakshagana under National Education Policy, the MAHE will extend all support’’. BJP Leader Thingale Vikramarjuna Hegde said that the Kendra had been imparting training in the Yakshagana in the traditional manner. Many artists now in Yakshagana Mela were trained by Sanjeeva Suvarna. Entrepreneur Tallur Shivaram Shetty, MGM College Principal Dr Devidas S Nayak and others spoke on the occasion. Certificates were distributed to 14 student-participants of the workshop. A Yakshagana titled ‘Nala Karkotaka’ was staged on the occasion. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mahe-to-help-students-train-at-yakshagana-kendra-1058968.html
08-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Gayathri Navada selected for Halasangi award 2021||Gayathri Navada, author and researcher, has been selected for Halasangi award-2021, instituted by Halasangi Geleyara Prathishtana. Gayathri is selected under folk category. The award carries a cash prize of Rs 51,000 and a citation. It will be presented during a programme scheduled to be held on December 17. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/gayathri-navada-selected-for-halasangi-award-2021-1058973.html
08-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Hassan all prepared for MLC elections: Deputy commissioner||Deputy Commissioner R Girish said that the district administration is all prepared to conduct free and fair MLC elections scheduled for December 10. In a press conference here on Wednesday, the DC said that the voting will commence at 8 am and conclude by 4 pm. As many as 257 polling stations have been established across the constituency for a total of 3,578 voters. In all, the district administration has appointed 570 staff for election duty and 285 micro observers will be on duty at the polling stations. EC guidelines No voters are allowed to carry mobile phones inside the polling station and the voting process will be videographed as per the guidelines of the Election Commission, the DC said, adding, as many as 30 KSRTC buses, 14 maxi cabs, 18 jeeps will be used for transportation. The counting of votes will be held at the Government Engineering College on December 14. Additional Deputy Commissioner Kavita Rajaram and others were present on the occasion. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/hassan-all-prepared-for-mlc-elections-deputy-commissioner-1058977.html
08-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Depressed over daughter’s death, man attempts suicide||A 55-year-old man killed himself near his son-in-law’s house at Malegere village in Belur taluk on Wednesday. Nagaraju of Doddagadduvalli in Hassan taluk is deceased. Nagaraju’s daughter, who was married to a man from Malegere village a year ago, had died while giving birth to a baby, recently. Following the death of his daughter, Nagaraju was upset that she was not properly taken care of by her husband and his family members. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/depressed-over-daughter-s-death-man-attempts-suicide-1058978.html
08-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka girls selected for national-level skating competition||Anagha Rajesh and Arna Rajesh have been selected for national-level roller skating competition, scheduled to be held in New Delhi from December 11 to 14. The girls had won medals at 37th state-level roller skating championship organised by Karnataka Roller Skating Association in Bengaluru recently. Arna had won gold and silver medals in the inline skating event (Under-7 category). Anagha too won silver and two bronze medals in the inline skating event (Under-14 category). The girls are students of Lourdes Central School in Bejai and are members of Hi-Flyers Skating Club in Mangaluru. They are being trained by Mohandas K, Jayaraj and Pratheek Raj, sources said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-girls-selected-for-national-level-skating-competition-1058984.html
08-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||'Bhattha Muhurtha' held in traditional manner in Udupi Krishna Mutt||'Bhattha Muhurtha',the final ritual of pre-Paryaya preparations, was organised in a traditional manner on the premises of Krishna Mutt temple in Udupi on Wednesday. Vidhyasagara Theertha Swami of Krishnapura Mutt, one of the Astha Mutts in Krishna temple, will ascend ‘Paryaya Peeta’ and take over the reins of Sri Krishna Mutt’s administration from January 18, 2022. The seer is presently on a pilgrimage visiting holy places across the country. The Bhattha Muhurtha (paddy storage) is the fourth and final ritual (other being ‘Bale Muhurtha’, ‘Akki Muhurtha’ and ‘Kattige Muhurtha’) leading to the Paryaya celebrations. Before the start of procession with ‘Bhatthada Mudi’ (husk sacks carrying rice), prayers were offered to presiding deity in the Krishnapur Mutt. The rituals were carried out under the supervision of the Mutt’s priest Veda Murthy Srinivas Upadhyaya. The procession stopped briefly at Chandramouleshwara and Anantheshwara temples before proceeding to ‘Badagu Malige’ (temple’s storehouse during the Paryaya) in Sri Krishna temple. Before entering the Krishna temple, special prayers were offered to ‘Madhwavadiraja Peetha’,  Lord Mukhyaprana, Lord Subhramanya, ‘Navagraha,’ and ‘Brindavan’. The ritual ended with ‘Shikhara’ placed on top of the stack of firewood, neatly arranged in the form of a wooden chariot. The stacking of wood was initiated during the ‘Kattige Muhurtha’. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/bhattha-muhurtha-held-in-traditional-manner-in-udupi-krishna-mutt-1058985.html
08-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||'We need to follow Ambedkar in letter and spirit'||Higher education is key for the progress of Dalits, women, OBCs. Dr Ambedkar stressed on this and started educational institutions to achieve this, said Prof Govardhan Wankhede, former professor, Tata Institute of Social Sciences, Mumbai and Dean of School of Education. Speaking during Dr B R Ambedkar’s 65th Mahaparinirvana Day celebrations organised by the Centre for Dr B R Ambedkar Studies at Mangalore University, he opined that the bureaucracy has failed to effectively implement timely, the reservation policy in India. Caste system is responsible for poverty and economic inequality in the country. “Those benefited from the affirmative policies must follow Ambedkar’s principles in letter and spirit,” he said. He expressed concern about the privatisation of education. Mangalore University Vice Chancellor Prof P Subrahmanya Yadapadithaya opined that the development of Backward Classes is crucial for the growth of the country. “Ambedkar is globally relevant as his philosophy spoke about humanity. We should study him more to understand him from the academic perspective,” he added. MU Registrar Dr Kishor Kumar C K and others were present. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/we-need-to-follow-ambedkar-in-letter-and-spirit-1058986.html
08-12-2021||Karnataka Politics||BSY welcomes HDK's decision||Former chief minister B S Yediyurappa stated that he would welcome JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy's decision to permit local leaders to take a call on backing BJP in the legislative council polls on the basis of local factors. Speaking to media persons, here on Tuesday, he exuded confidence that JD(S)workers will back BJP in constituencies where Congress is dominant.  When questioned on ministerial berth for his son and State BJP Vice-President B Y Vijayendra, he said he had not asked Central leadership to accord ministerial berth to his son. The party leaders would take a call in this regard.  He would focus on strengthening the party in the state. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bsy-welcomes-hdks-decision-1058704.html
08-12-2021||Karnataka Politics||No personal rivalry with Deve Gowda or Kumaraswamy, comments based on issues: Siddaramaiah||Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah said that he has nothing personal against JD (S) leaders HD Deve Gowda or HD Kumaraswamy but he is their political opponent.Siddaramaiah was replying to a query about a series of tweets by Kumaraswamy alleging that Siddaramaiah is targeting the Deve Gowda family and making efforts to finish JD(S). At a press conference on Wednesday, Siddaramaiah said he has no personal rivalry with or intentions of revenge against the JD(S) or its party leaders. "But, we have political differences and I make comments based on issues and not personal remarks," he said. "Kumaraswamy claims the party is secular but why did he form the government with BJP?" he said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/no-personal-rivalry-with-deve-gowda-or-kumaraswamy-comments-based-on-issues-siddaramaiah-1058772.html
08-12-2021||Karnataka Politics||‘Steps taken to ensure fewer invalid votes’, says Shenava||BJP has taken all steps to ensure that there will be fewer invalid votes during Legislative Council elections to local bodies’ constituency from Dakshina Kannada and Udupi, BJP district spokesperson Jagadeesha Shenava said. He told media persons that during the previous Council elections there were 250 to 300 invalid votes. The BJP has created large scale awareness among 5,000 voters, he added. Shenava also expressed confidence that in addition to BJP votes, BJP candidates will also get 17 per cent votes of other political parties. He said under the leadership of BJP district unit President Sudarshan Moodbidri, conventions had been organised at all places. Shenava also said that BJP candidate Kota Srinivas Poojary had in-depth knowledge about the panchayat raj system and was aware of the problemsfaced by the panchayat members. Shenava also urged police to initiate stringent action against those attempting to trigger communal clashes in the region. Though the accused involved in Kavoor cattle lifting and Nagabana vandalism were arrested, those who had hatched the conspiracy are still at large, he said. BJP District Spokesperson and MUDA President Ravishankar Mijaru, among others, were present. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/steps-taken-to-ensure-fewer-invalid-votes-says-shenava-1058965.html
08-12-2021||Karnataka Politics||Mandya is not Congress or JD(S) property: Narayanagowda||Minister Incharge of the district K C Narayanagowda on Wednesday came down heavily against the JD(S) and the Congress leaders and said that Mandya district was not their ancestral property. The minister was addressing a gathering, while campaigning for BJP candidate for MLC elections, Manju at Koppa. Narayanagowda said that the Congress and the JD(S) leaders had a feeling that Mandya was their property. The JD(S) leaders have been making false statements and misleading the people of the district. Rs 1,700 crore funds The BJP has allotted Rs 1,700 crore funds for the development of the district and drinking water facility had been provided for 200-plus villages. The government has prepared a plan to fill 50 tanks, he said. Maddur taluk unit president Panedoddi Raghu, Nagamanala taluk unit president Somashekar and others were present on the occasion. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/mandya-is-not-congress-or-jds-property-narayanagowda-1058972.html
08-12-2021||Karnataka Politics||'Will retire from politics, if corruption charges proved', says Siddaramaiah||Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah on Wednesday said that he would retire from politics if BJP proved charges of corruption during his tenure as chief minister. Speaking to reporters during his visit to the city to attend a private programme, he said that corruption is rampant in the BJP government and there are no development activities. The situation so worse that the government needs to give commission to get grants, he said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/will-retire-from-politics-if-corruption-charges-proved-says-siddaramaiah-1058975.html
08-12-2021||Karnataka Politics||Siddaramaiah finds Congress's internal democracy in Chimmanakatti's resentment||Opposition leader Siddaramaiah on Wednesday found Congress party’s internal democracy in the resentment of former MLA of Badami B B Chimmanakatti and said that Congress party has given the freedom to express opinion freely. To a question about former MLA of Badami B B Chimmanakatti openly expressing his resentment at him intending to contest the Assembly elections from Badami at a press conference here, Siddaramaiah said, “Congress is the only party having internal democracy and the party members are provided an opportunity to express opinion freely.” Padayatra for Mekedatu Siddaramaiah also said that Congress has decided to take out a padayatra from Mekedatu to Bengaluru demanding the implementation of the Mekedatu project across river Cauvery. The Congress government prepared a detailed project report and there are no obstacles to the project but the state government is delaying the project, the Opposition leader charged. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/siddaramaiah-finds-congresss-internal-democracy-in-chimmanakattis-resentment-1058980.html
08-12-2021||Karnataka Politics||BJP, JD(S) against social justice, reservation: Siddaramaiah||Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah on Wednesday said that the BJP and the JD(S) are anti-social justice and reservation. He also questioned the parties’ contribution towards strengthening the local bodies. In a press conference, the former chief minister said that Congress is the only party that is in favour of social justice and reservation. “The Congress proved the party’s commitment to social justice by fielding candidates from SC, ST, OBC, minorities and women for MLC elections to the local body constituencies,” he said, adding that either the BJP or the JD(S) have not committed to ensuring social justice. Siddaramaiah said the BJP had opposed the 73rd and 74th amendments to the Indian Constitution, which gave reservation and made election mandatory for local bodies once in five years. However, the then BJP MP Rama Jois had challenged the amendments in the Supreme Court, which had rejected the application. He said the BJP government has violated the 73rd and 74th amendments by postponing elections to the Zilla panchayats and taluk panchayats. The local bodies have no elected representatives, he said. Siddaramaiah said the BJP has failed to strengthen the local bodies. “Atal Bihari Vajpayee was prime minister for six years and Narendra Modi is in the office from 2014, but what are their contributions towards the local bodies?”, he asked. False statements “Whether the local bodies were given more funds or more power?” he asked and called upon the people of the state to understand the facts. Siddaramaiah also charged Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai with making false statements that the Anna Bhagya scheme was a national programme and not of the Congress government. “If it was a national programme, then why Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and other states were not distributing free rice. Karnataka is the only state that had introduced the scheme for the welfare of the poor,” he said. Claiming that the BJP is anti-poor, Siddaramaiah said, none of the poor became wealthy but Gautam Adani, the founder and chairman of Adani Group, emerged as the richest person in Asia during Modi’s period. He said Contractors’ Association president Kempanna has levelled 40% kickback allegation and has also written to Modi. What happened to Prime Minister Modi’s pledge, “Na khaunga, na khane dunga” (Neither will I indulge in corruption nor will I allow it), he questioned. Former minister Dr H C Mahadevappa, Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee working president R Dhruvanarayan and Congress candidate for MLC polls Dr D Thimmaiah were present. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bjp-jds-against-social-justice-reservation-siddaramaiah-1058982.html
08-12-2021||Karnataka Politics||‘Anti-Religious Conversion Law to create vote bank’, says Siddaramaiah||Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah on Wednesday condemned BJP’s plans to implement Anti-Religious Conversion Law and alleged that the idea is to create a vote bank. Speaking to reporters here, Siddaramaiah said the BJP government is planning to bring in the Anti-Religious Conversion Law only to create a vote bank and the BJP is targeting Christian community people. “The Indian constitution has banned forceful conversion and it has provided provisions to punish the offenders. What is the necessity for a new law?” he asked. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai had earlier said the state will have an anti-religious conversion law and the state government is studying related laws enacted by other states. Siddaramaiah said that he has nothing personal against JD(S) leaders H D Deve Gowda or H D Kumaraswamy, but said he is a political opponent ofJD(S). Replying to a question about a series of tweets by Kumaraswamy alleging that Siddaramaiah is targeting the Gowda family and making efforts to finish JD(S), he said, “We have political differences and I make comments based on issues and not personal remarks.”  “Kumaraswamy claims the party is secular but why did he form the government with BJP?” he said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/anti-religious-conversion-law-to-create-vote-bank-says-siddaramaiah-1058983.html
08-12-2021||Main Article||Regulate, don’t ban, in haste||A recent visit to a restaurant after a long break was greatly satisfying. Friends catching up, much merriment, and a full course, sumptuous meal. The bill that came at the end raised eyebrows but never mind. Along with the bill, the waiter inserted two vouchers for Rs 500 each. What’s this, we asked. These can be used on your next visit here, he said. No expiry date. And also, transferable. It is quite an innovative way of ensuring a repeat visit, and customer loyalty. What if I just give it to a friend. Or what if I ‘sold’ it for a discount (say at half the face value) to a stranger? Or what if I put it up for sale on social media, and got the best bid? Is such a transaction illegal? Does selling a voucher for real cash upset the country’s monetary policy? Does it harm the RBI’s currency sovereignty? These questions are not facile.  In the 1970s, there was a loyalty programme called Ramon Bonus Stamps. You earned these on every purchase, and then they could be exchanged for gifts, or could be given to friends. Some collectors may even have exchanged it for real money. It was a huge success but soon led to some enterprising businesses printing just the “bonus stamps” which threatened to become a parallel currency. Hence the Ramon Bonus Stamps scheme had to be stopped.  Of course, this was before the era of the hologram or QR-code authentication, which would have eliminated counterfeiters. Not surprisingly, loyalty programmes have survived, as the most recent restaurant vouchers demonstrate. The points you earn on loyalty (whether on airlines, or credit card purchases or on Amazon), can be used to buy merchandise, or make donations for charity. Some, like Amazon, have become wallets that can then be used to pay for many other goods and services, not necessarily linked to the source company which created the wallet. The prepaid wallets have led to a lot of regulation but did not have to be banned.  Now, think about the new world of cryptocurrencies. The terminology is unfortunate since they are not (yet) meant to be a parallel currency, out to replace the sovereign currency. But because their origin is from the Blockchain technology-based Bitcoin, whose founders wanted to rebel against the monopoly of sovereign fiat money, the “currency” moniker has stuck. Unlike the Ramon Bonus Stamps of yore, or Amazon Pay type wallets, why are authorities so riled up about cryptocurrencies? There is a bill soon to be tabled in Parliament which aims to ban all private cryptocurrencies (there are dozens, if not hundreds, of these). Countries like China, Vietnam, Morocco and Bolivia have banned private cryptocurrencies. But in most other countries, these crypto-assets are heavily traded. The authentication of the trade and ownership of cryptocurrencies is based on the distributed electronic immutable ledgers stored and replicated worldwide, also known as decentralised Blockchain technology.  Crypto authentication works similarly to how our Aadhaar number gets authenticated instantly from a remote server, maintained with high security by the government. But in the case of cryptos, the authentication does not depend on any central authority or any government. It is based on the sophisticated mathematics of cryptography and on algorithms. Not even the most determined cyber expert or hacking can crack the security of crypto asset ownership. That is why it has become a darling of investors for more than a decade now.  Crypto coins have to be “mined” by algorithms and there can only be a finite number of them. No one can increase this limit. The earliest one is the Bitcoin whose quoted “price” reached a high of $65,000. As per J P Morgan analysts, the target price can reach $120,000. That’s why it attracts many speculative investors, and it is also the reason for great volatility.  The crypto asset mania has affected Indian investors, too. An estimated 20 million Indians have invested in crypto-assets with a collective estimated value of about Rs 40,000 crore. During the recent T20 Cricket World Cup, the total spending on television ads from crypto exchanges was about Rs 50 crore. Ads were splashed across the front pages of newspapers, too, touting cryptos as “doubling the value of your investments”. That is why even the Prime Minister had to issue a cautionary note. But he was referring to misleading advertisements, not crypto assets per se. Not surprisingly the ads toned down considerably. But then came news that the government may ban cryptocurrencies totally. This spooked investors and the value dropped by more than half.  Given that this is based on Blockchain technology, which will play a crucial role in enhancing the security of contracts, help in cross-border transactions, and will also be the basis of the RBI’s soon-to-be-introduced digital currency, it seems silly and knee-jerk to simply ban crypto asset trading and ownership. If people choose to park some of their savings in crypto, like they do in gold, it does not threaten the stability of the sovereign currency. Nor does it make monetary policy defunct. People go for gold, as a hedge against unexpected inflation. This is their way of expressing distrust in an inflationary currency. So also, if people turn to cryptocurrencies, it is like them expressing partial distrust, or skepticism, in the stability of the fiat currency.  It is better to regulate the trading of crypto currencies, to keep track of the digital trail and perhaps garner some tax revenue, too (like the security transaction tax on stock markets). No doubt, with increasing acceptance, it might be used to buy real goods and services, but that too can be regulated. Surely enough, vigilance technology can be used to prevent its use to fund terrorism or drugs. If crypto transactions cross country borders, and effectively mean flight of capital, it is already happening through the annual import of gold. So long as the proportion is small compared to the size of the national economy, it is premature and foolish to become alarmed. Indeed, the presence of an active crypto market is a challenge for the authorities to maintain a stable sovereign currency, with low inflation and a high level of people’s trust. That’s the most effective antidote to keeping the crypto-mania from flaring up.  (The writer is an economist and Senior Fellow, Takshashila Institution)(Syndicate: The Billion Press)  Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/regulate-don-t-ban-in-haste-1058959.html
08-12-2021||National||DH Deciphers | AFSPA: Why is it controversial and why hasn't it been repealed yet?||The killing of 13 civilians by the security forces in Nagaland on December 4 has reignited the debate about the Armed Forces Special Powers Act and renewed the demand for repealing it. Although the union government has regretted the killings and called them "a case of mistaken identity", critics say it's time to withdraw the sweeping powers that the armed forces have under this "draconian" law. Here's a closer look at how the AFSPA came about, its controversial provisions and why the government hasn't repealed it yet: What is the AFSPA? The AFSPA or the Armed Forces Special Powers Act was enacted on September 11,1958 to help the armed forces contain insurgencies in the Naga Hills of the then undivided state of Assam as well as in the union territory of Manipur. It replaced the Armed Forces (Assam and Manipur) Special Powers Ordinance promulgated on May 22, 1958. It was modelled on the Indian Armed Forces (Special Powers) Ordinance, which had been promulgated in 1942 to quell the Quit India movement launched by Mahatma Gandhi in 1942, demanding the end of colonial rule in the country. The territorial scope of the AFSPA was subsequently extended to the other north-eastern states. It was later withdrawn from some of the states. It is at present not in force in Tripura and Meghalaya. It has also been withdrawn from Imphal Municipal Area of Manipur. It remains in force across Assam as well as in three districts – Tirap, Changlang and Longding – and two police station areas in Namsai district of Arunachal Pradesh. An almost identical law – Armed Forces (Jammu and Kashmir) Special Powers Act – was enacted in September 1990, especially for Jammu and Kashmir.The Armed Forces (Punjab and Chandigarh) Special Powers Act was enacted for Punjab and Chandigarh in 1983 to deal with the separatist movement by the Khalistanis. It was withdrawn in 1997. What special powers does the AFSPA give the armed forces? Section 3 of the AFSPA empowers the Governor of a State or the Administrator of a Union Territory or the Central Government to declare the State or the Union Territory fully or partially a disturbed area. The Section 4 of the Act gives sweeping powers to any Commissioned Officer, Warrant Officer, Non-Commissioned Officer or any other person of equivalent rank in the armed forces deployed in a disturbed area to fire upon or otherwise use force against any person violating law, even to the extent of causing death, if she or he (the officer) think it is necessary to do so for maintenance of public order. The officer of the armed force can also prohibit assembly of five or more persons or carrying of weapons. She or he can arrest, without warrant, any person, who has committed a cognizable offence or against whom a reasonable suspicion exists that she or he has committed or is about to commit a cognizable offence. The officers of the armed forces can also enter and search without warrant any premises to make any such arrest. How does the AFSPA shield the officers of the armed force? The Section 6 of the AFSPA 1958 and Section 7 of the AF (J&K) SPA 1990 shield the personnel of the armed forces against prosecution, lawsuit or any other legal proceeding in respect of anything done or purported to be done in exercise of the powers conferred by the Act, except with prior sanction of the Central Government. Why do the human rights activists demand repeal of the AFSPA? The activists and national and international human rights organizations have been demanding repeal of the AFSPA, alleging that the sweeping powers it gives the armed forces have resulted in a culture of impunity both in the north-eastern states as well as in J&K,where the security personnel accused of arbitrary detention and torture as well as extrajudicial executions and fake encounters can hardly be brought to justice as the Central Government very rarely gives nod to prosecute them. The Extra-Judicial Execution Victim Families Association of Manipur documented as many as 1528 alleged extrajudicial executions by the armed forces in the tiny north-eastern state between 1978 and 2010. Amnesty International stated that the law facilitated grave human rights violations. Human Rights Watch stated that Section 4 of the AFSPA violated the right to life and right to liberty and security while Section 6 of the AFSPA 1958 and Section 7 of the AF(J&K)SPA 1990 violated a person's right to remedy. The United Nations High Commission for Human Rights repeatedly called upon the Government of India to repeal the law. Irom Chanu Sharmila brought the alleged abuse of the law under international attention with her 16-year-long “hunger-strike” from 2000 to 2016. There have been a series of agitations by people in Manipur as well as other north-eastern states, demanding scrapping of the AFSPA. What is the position of the armed forces and the Government of India on the AFSPA? The Government of India in November 2004 appointed a five-member commission headed by Justice B P Jeevan Reddy to review the AFSPA in the northeastern states. The panel in June 2005 recommended that the AFSPA, which was a “symbol of hate, oppression and instrument of high handedness”, should be repealed. Another panel appointed by the Supreme Court and headed by Justice Santosh Hegde also concluded that the law had been misused by the armed forces. The Justice J S Verma Committee, which was constituted after the Nirbhaya gang-rape case in Delhi in December 2012 to review laws against sexual assault, also recommended review of the AFSPA. The armed forces argue that its personnel do need the protection of the AFSPA to deal with insurgency in the conflict zones. The Government of India has been turning down demands for repealing the law, citing the argument of the armed forces that the security personnel deployed in counter insurgency operations would be demoralised by a flurry of fake allegations and lawsuits if the law is repealed. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-deciphers-afspa-why-is-it-controversial-and-why-hasnt-it-been-repealed-yet-1058692.html
08-12-2021||National||Farmers to end year-long protest? Key meeting today||Various farmer organisations under the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) are likely to make a major announcement on their year-long agitation after a meeting on Wednesday. The SKM is also likely to meet union ministers. Sources say that as soon as clarification is received on the proposal related to several critical demands sent by the union government, the farmers will end the protest. A five-member committee of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) held an emergency meeting on Wednesday morning before the crucial meeting at 2 pm. It is expected that before making a major announcement, the SKM will hold consultations with other farmer groups on ending the year-long agitation. Farmers have demanded withdrawal of the cases registered against them. They said, they will announce end of the protest after government fulfils all their demands. After repealing all three farm laws, the SKM has put forth several other demands before the union government, of which most of them have been accepted. The government wants farmers to end the protest before the assembly elections in Punjab next year. This is the reason the Union Home Ministry sent a draft proposal to the SKM on Tuesday. Farmers have been demanding apart from repeal of farm laws, compensation to all who died during the agitation, legal guarantee on minimum support price and withdrawal of cases against all farmers. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-to-end-year-long-protest-key-meeting-today-1058721.html
08-12-2021||National||India sees 8,439 daily Covid-19 cases, 195 fatalities||With 8,439 more people testing positive for Covid-19 in a day, India's infection tally rose to 3,46,56,822 on Wednesday, while the count of active cases declined to 93,733, the lowest in 555 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data. The death toll due to the disease has climbed to 4,73,952, with 195 daily fatalities being recorded, the data updated at 8 am showed. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been recorded below 10,000 for 12 straight days and less than 50,000 for 164 consecutive days now. The active cases count has declined to 93,733, comprising 0.27 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020. The national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.36 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. A decrease of 1,281 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours, the data showed. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 0.70 per cent. It has been less than two per cent for the last 65 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 0.76 per cent. This has been below one per cent for the last 24 days, according to the health ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease has surged to 3,40,89,137, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.37 per cent, the data showed. The cumulative number of doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 129.54 crore. India's coronavirus infection tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5, 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and the one-crore mark on December 19. The country crossed the grim milestones of two crore infections on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 195 new fatalities include 134 from Kerala and 19 from Maharashtra. Of the 134 deaths recorded in Kerala, 28 were logged over the last few days and 106 were designated as Covid-19 deaths after receiving appeals based on the new guidelines of the Centre and the directions of the Supreme Court, a state government statement said on Tuesday. A total of 4,73,952 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,41,194 from Maharashtra, 41,902 from Kerala, 38,243 from Karnataka, 36,549 from Tamil Nadu, 25,099 from Delhi, 22,911 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,562 from West Bengal. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to co-morbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-sees-8439-daily-covid-19-cases-195-fatalities-1058724.html
08-12-2021||National||Lok Sabha to discuss Bill seeking extension of CBI, ED director's tenure||The government on Wednesday will try to pass Bills which are already tabled in the Lok Sabha. The two Bills -- The Central Vigilance Commission (Amendment) Bill, 2021, and The Delhi Special Police Establishment (Amendment) Bill, 2021 -- which extend the tenure of Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and Enforcement Directorate (ED) director up to five years -- are likely to be passed by the Lok Sabha. Both Bills were introduced in the Lower House last week. A discussion on climate change and its various related aspects is also likely to take place in the Lok Sabha. Opposing the ordinance, opposition members will move a resolution that this House disapproves of the Central Vigilance Commission (Amendment) Ordinance, 2021 and The Delhi Special Police Establishment (Amendment) Bill, 2021. Union Minister Dr Jitendra Singh will move the Bills further to amend the Central Vigilance Commission Act, 2003, and the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act, 1946, be taken into consideration. He will also move the Bills for passing. Union Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat is to move that the following amendments made by Rajya Sabha in the Dam Safety Bill, 2019 in the Bill to provide for surveillance, inspection, operation and maintenance of the specified dam for prevention of dam failure related disasters and to provide for institutional mechanism to ensure their safe functioning and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto, be taken into consideration. He will move that the amendments made by the Rajya Sabha be agreed. The Dam Safety Bill, 2019 was passed by the Lok Sabha on August 2, 2019, and transmitted to the Rajya Sabha for its concurrence. The Rajya Sabha passed the Bill with amendments On December 2, 2021 and returned it to the Lok Sabha on December 3. Under rule 193, Kanimozhi Karunanidhi and N.K. Premachandran are to raise a discussion on climate change. Union Ministers of state Raosaheb Dadarao Danve, Darshana Jardosh, Som Parkash and Devusinh Chauhan are likely make statements on the status of implementation of the recommendations or observations of the standing committee related to their respective ministries. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lok-sabha-to-discuss-bill-seeking-extension-of-cbi-ed-directors-tenure-1058737.html
08-12-2021||National||World looking towards India for affordable, sustainable tech-enabled solutions: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday said the world is looking towards India for affordable and sustainable technology-enabled solutions across all streams of emerging domains, including 5G, artificial intelligence and robotics. In a message for the Indian Mobile Congress, Modi emphasised that it was important to look at how the country's innovation and efforts contribute more towards bringing positive change in the lives of people. "From 5G technology to artificial intelligence, virtual reality, cloud, Internet of things and robotics, the world looks towards India with optimism to provide technology-enabled solutions that are affordable and sustainable," Modi said. He said the nation's digital size is immense and digital potential is unparalleled. "As the future holds great potential with rapid technological progress, it is important to think and plan how our innovation and efforts contribute more towards bringing positive change in the lives of people and improving various sectors such as healthcare, education, agriculture and MSMEs," Modi said. The prime minister's message was read out at the Indian Mobile Congress which started on Wednesday. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/world-looking-towards-india-for-affordable-sustainable-tech-enabled-solutions-pm-modi-1058760.html
08-12-2021||National||Army helicopter with CDS Bipin Rawat, senior Defence officials crashes in Tamil Nadu; 11 feared dead||An Indian Air Force (IAF) helicopter carrying the Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat, his wife and twelve others crashed in Coonoor in the Nilgiris district on Wednesday. Eleven persons are feared dead, while the status of Gen Rawat is not yet known. Bad weather is suspected to be the reason behind the crash. The chopper with nine senior military officials on board took off from the Sulur Air Base in Coimbatore on Wednesday morning and it was bound for Wellington in the Nilgiris. The chopper crashed 10 mins before it was to reach its destination. Police, fire and rescue personnel and army officials rushed to the spot. The IAF confirmed that Mi-17V5 helicopter with CDS Gen Bipin Rawat on board,  met with an accident on Wednesday near Coonoor, Tamil Nadu. "An Inquiry has been ordered to ascertain the cause of the accident," the IAF said. A high-level medical team was rushed from Coimbatore. What we know so far: 1. An IAF Mi-17V5 helicopter, with CDS Gen Bipin Rawat on board, met with an accident today near Coonoor, Tamil Nadu 2. An Inquiry has been ordered to ascertain the cause of the accident 3. Local military officers have reached the location and were told that locals have taken two bodies with 80 per cent burns to a local hospital, News agency ANI reported 4. A total of 14 persons, including CDS Rawat's wife were on board the helicopter.  5. Latest visuals from the spot (between Coimbatore and Sulur) where a military chopper crashed in Tamil Nadu :  Latest visuals from the spot (between Coimbatore and Sulur) where a military chopper crashed in Tamil Nadu. CDS Bipin Rawat, his staff and some family members were in the chopper. 6. Local military officers have reached the location and were told that locals have taken two bodies with 80 per cent burns to a local hospital. Few bodies can be seen downhill in the area of the accident. Efforts are on to retrieve the bodies and check identities, news agency ANI reported 7. The Chief of Defence Staff was on his way to the Defence Staff College in Wellington 8. A high-level medical team was rushed from Coimbatore 9. The chopper crashed 10 mins before it was to reach its destination 11. CM Stalin directs Nilgiris District administration to  help the Army in rescue operations 12. The government is expected to issue a statement on Thursday in the Parliament Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/army-helicopter-with-cds-bipin-rawat-senior-defence-officials-crashes-in-tamil-nadu-11-feared-dead-1058761.html
08-12-2021||National||Price rise, unemployment due to govt's failure: Rahul Gandhi||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday said the root cause of price rise, unemployment and agri crisis is the alleged failure and arrogance of the Modi government. He said the Congress-ruled states are trying to solve the issues of people by listening to their minds besides raising their voice against injustice. "Inflation, unemployment, agrarian crisis, China's occupation - the root of all is the same - Modi government's failures, arrogance and love for friends," Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. "Along with raising our voice against injustice, we are solving the issues of the people in Congress-ruled states. Listening to the minds of the people," he said. The former Congress chief has been accusing the Modi government of not addressing the issues of the people.  Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/price-rise-unemployment-due-to-govts-failure-rahul-gandhi-1058762.html
08-12-2021||National||'They shot right at us, no signal to stop, we didn’t flee,' says Nagaland ambush survivor||Sheiwang, 23, has bullet injuries in his elbows and chest and is admitted to the Assam Medical College and Hospital (AMCH) in Dibrugarh. 30-year-old Yeihwang, also in the group shot at during the Army operation, is also at the same hospital. Home Minister Amit Shah told the Rajya Sabha Monday that the vehicle with the miners was “signalled to stop” and was fired upon after “it tried to flee”. Sheiwang’s account contradicts Shah. “We were not signalled to stop. They killed us directly. We were not trying to flee… we were just in the vehicle,” he said. After working at the coal mine for a week, eight were returning home in a pick-up truck on Saturday. “Suddenly, on the way, we were fired upon. I do not remember how long it lasted, but it was for a while. It sounded like bombs were exploding. It was not even dark, they still shot us,” Sheiwang is quoted as saying in the report. All those in the vehicle fell to the floor and after the firing, and Shiewang was taken into another vehicle after the shelling stopped. He said he was aware of the others’ deaths, including his brother’s. “On their way back, they had crossed the Tiru bridge, after which the vehicle descended towards a drain (a large depression in the road). It is here that the vehicle, while moving, was suddenly fired upon. The bullets came from the front as well from the back and continued for about 2-3 minutes,” Sheiwang’s relative Nyemkhah told IE. A doctor at the hospital told the paper on condition of anonymity that the two survivors were left at the hospital early Sunday. “No one knew who they were, where they came from,” he said. There was a rumour in the hospital that they could be “insurgents”. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/they-shot-right-at-us-no-signal-to-stop-we-didn-t-flee-says-nagaland-ambush-survivor-1058763.html
08-12-2021||National||Experts unsure about Covid boosters as Omicron continues to spread||The Omicron variant of Covid-19 has resumed a worldwide debate on the need of booster shots of vaccines, and while some countries have gone ahead with boosters, experts remain unsure. He also said that the presence of surplus stock that is nearing expiry is no grounds for going ahead with boosters. "India is likely to have sufficient supply for quite some time. But excess supply cannot be a criterion for booster shots. Unused supplies can be used in other ways: giving them free of cost, the government or manufacturers buying them back, or more exports," he said. Administering booster shots early would be a matter of ethics and fairness, Ramanan Laxminarayan, director of the Center for Disease Dynamics, Economics and Policy, told Mint. "Are we better off focusing on the unvaccinated or in boosting immunity in those already vaccinated?" he asked. “All priorities come at a cost, and it will be deeply unfortunate if the focus on the booster shots comes at the cost of vaccinating more of India’s population that remains at risk." Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/experts-unsure-about-covid-boosters-as-omicron-continues-to-spread-1058765.html
08-12-2021||National||Scientists launch new platform to boost research on pollination||To partake in growing research related to pollination in the past three decades, a group of scientists launched the Indian Pollinator Initiative (InPollin) platform to boost research and education around the ecology and conservation of pollinators. The group of academics decided to launch this platform to enable collaborative research on the subject after working on different aspects of pollinator biology since 2018. Pollination is the act of transferring pollen grains from the male anther of a flower to the female stigma. Production of 70 per cent of leading global food crops and over 80 per cent of wild plants are dependent on pollination to set fruit. Following in the footsteps of the African Pollinator Initiative and the EU Pollinator Initiative, the Indian platform plans to join the International Pollinator Initiative helmed by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (UN FAO).  The body has formed a Governing Council for a period of one year and has adopted a constitution. It will also have a quarterly newsletter and various outreach activities to intrigue young scientists.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/scientists-launch-new-platform-to-boost-research-on-pollination-1059097.html
08-12-2021||National||Rs 42 lakh spent on cricket matches involving Jharkhand CM, MLAs: Report||The Jharkhand government has attracted unwanted attention after it emerged that the bill for two cricket matches organised by Chief Minister Hemant Soren earlier this year – involving all 82 MLAs, top government staff and mediapersons – has amounted to Rs 42 lakh. Quoting an RTI response, the report added that new kits alone – including t-shirts, tracksuits, caps, kit bags, socks and shoes – cost Rs 33 lakh. Protective gear was not purchased as both games were tennis-ball matches. While over 100 people received the goods, only 33 took to the field. The matches, meant to promote sport in the state, were held on March 18 and March 22. The bill for first one held at the Jharkhand State Cricket Association (JSCA) stadium stood at Rs 30.85 lakh, with Rs 23.99 lakh for sports gear; Rs 3.17 lakh for dinner packets and snacks; and Rs 1.29 lakh as supply fuel for the lights, apart from bills for other items, the report stated. Bill for the second match held in Birsa Munda Athletics Stadium came up to Rs 11.33 lakh, of which 9.37 lakh was spent on sportswear. While state sports minister Hafizul Hassan declined to comment on the matter, official sources told the publication that the matches are “played annually, and this is nothing new”.  Vinod Singh, the CPI (M-L) MLA from Bagodar, on the other hand, said that the government should "spend money at the panchayat level for strengthening the state’s sporting culture.” Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rs-42-lakh-spent-on-cricket-matches-involving-jharkhand-cm-mlas-report-1058778.html
08-12-2021||National||GDP growth forecast falls by 0.3 percentage points: Report||Fitch Ratings on Wednesday cut India's economic growth forecast to 8.4 per cent for the current fiscal year ending March 31, 2022, on the grounds that the rebound from the second wave of Covid-19 infections has been more subdued than expected. Fitch, which had previously forecast a GDP growth of 8.7 per cent in 2021-22 (April 2021 to March 2022), however, raised the economic growth projection for the next financial year (FY23) to 10.3 per cent, from previously forecast 10 per cent. The economy had contracted by 7.3 per cent in the 2020-21 fiscal as restrictions imposed to curb the spread of coronavirus pummelled business activity. "India’s economy staged a strong rebound in 3Q21 (July-September 2021) from the Delta variant-induced sharp contraction," Fitch said in its Global Economic Outlook (GEO). The GDP rose a sharp 11.4 per cent, compared to the preceding April-June quarter, when it had slumped 12.4 per cent. "However, the bounce was more subdued than we expected in our September GEO. The rebound in the services sector was weaker than hoped for," it said. Nevertheless, business surveys and mobility data point to activity growing robustly in October-December 2021. Growth in the manufacturing sector is constrained by ongoing supply shortages, but the supply bottlenecks are expected to ease in the coming months. Carmakers are signalling a ramp-up of production, while domestic coal production is increasing to make up for shortages. Fitch said it expects the services sector to show a strong reading amid the lifting of most restrictions. "We have cut our FY22 (financial year ending March 2022) GDP growth forecast, to 8.4 per cent (-0.3pp). GDP growth momentum should peak in FY23, at 10.3 per cent (+0.2pp), boosted by a consumer-led recovery and the easing of supply disruptions," it said. An increasing share of the population being fully vaccinated has reduced the risk of future disruptive outbreaks and will support consumer confidence. But, "risks to the recovery remain, especially in the near term, given that less than a third of the population is fully vaccinated. The newly discovered Omicron variant has added to risks," it said. On inflation, Fitch said price rise is largely driven by domestic factors. Inflation rate has consistently hovered above the upper-band of the Reserve Bank of India's 2 per cent-6 per cent target since the onset of the pandemic, initially pushed up by pandemic-related disruption to local supply chains, boosting food prices. Core price pressures (excluding food and energy) have been gradually rising, with core inflation hovering around 6 per cent in recent months. "However, in contrast to many other emerging marks (EMs), food inflation has edged down markedly over the past months, helping to contain overall inflationary pressures. We expect headline inflation to average 4.9 per cent in 2022 and 4.2 per cent in 2023, from 5 per cent in 2021, amid moderate food inflation," the rating agency said. Fitch expected the RBI to start raising interest rates in 2022, by 75 basis points, beginning in the second quarter of 2022. "A still large negative output gap and inflation close to the midpoint target should allow the RBI to lag many other EM peers in the interest rate-normalisation process. However, the central bank will continue to roll out liquidity withdrawal auctions to reduce excess liquidity in the banking system," it added.   Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gdp-growth-forecast-falls-by-03-percentage-points-report-1058784.html
08-12-2021||National||Proud moment for Konkani community: Damodar Mauzo on winning Jnanpith award||Veteran Konkani writer Damodar Mauzo, who was awarded the 56th Jnanpith, on Wednesday said it was a proud moment for the Konkani community. Mauzo became the second Konkani writer after late Ravindra Kelekar to win this top literary award. The eminent litterateur had handled various genres of writing including short fiction, novels, children's books. Talking to PTI, Mauzo said the Jnanpith award will motivate the Konkani writing movement. “This is a proud moment for the Konkani community,” the 77-year-old writer said. Mauzo shares the Jnanpith Award with eminent Assamese poet Nilmoni Phukan. “I never thought that I would receive the Jnanpith. I had no such expectations on getting this award," he said. Mauzo said Konkani, which struggled to be recognised as a language, underwent major developments in the post-liberation era. “It is a proud moment for the Konkani community that the language has won two Jnanpith awards in a short span of time,” Mauzo said. Late Kelekar had won the Jnanpith in the year 2006. Mauzo said the new entrants to the Konkani writing should understand that “literature never goes waste.” He felt that Konkani writers should focus on learning other languages too so that they can translate their own works. Mauzo had won the Sahitya Akademi award for his novel 'Karmelin' in the year 1983. The novel has been translated into more than a dozen languages. On Tuesday, Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant tweeted “Congratulations to Goa's son, writer par excellence who propagated Konkani in literature, Shri Damodar Mauzo on being conferred with the prestigious Jnanpith Award.” Check out latest DH vidoes here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/proud-moment-for-konkani-community-damodar-mauzo-on-winning-jnanpith-award-1058785.html
08-12-2021||National||J&K Delimitation Commission unlikely to submit its report on time||With the Central government time and again making delimitation as a prerequisite for holding much awaited assembly polls in Jammu and Kashmir, the Delimitation Commission may miss the deadline of March 6, 2022 to complete the exercise. The Commission, headed by Justice (Retired) Ranjana Prakash Desai, was set up by the Union Law Ministry on March 6, 2020 with one-year tenure. However, with little work in a year, its term was extended by another year in March this year. The Commission has to share a draft report with five associate members and then put it in public domain for claims and objections which is a time consuming exercise. However, with less than three months left, the Commission is unlikely to complete the exercise by March 6, 2022. Since it was constituted, the Commission has made only one visit to J&K for four days from July 6-9 this year. The Commission had stated that it will visit the Union Territory again, but no visit was made in the last five months. The panel had to update five associate members about the progress made on delimitation of 90 Assembly constituencies in the Union Territory (UT) which has also not been done so far. It has only held one meeting with the associate members on February 18 this year in New Delhi. As Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah had several times in the past stated that assembly polls in J&K will be held only after the completion of delimitation, any delay in completion of the exercise will further postpone elections. In Lok Sabha, Union Minister of State for Home Nityanand Rai did not give any deadline for completion of delimitation exercise in J&K. While responding to a question by Satyadev Pachauri, who wanted to know the time by which the working of Delimitation Commission is likely to be completed, he said, “as early as possible.” Once the delimitation exercise is completed, the number of Assembly seats in J&K will go up from 83 to 90. 24 seats of the Assembly will continue to remain vacant as they fall under Pakistan-occupied-Kashmir (PoK). Assembly seats in J&K were earlier delimited in 1963, 1973 and 1995. The last delimitation exercise was conducted in J&K under President’s rule in 1995 by retired Justice K K Gupta Commission. The next exercise was due in 2005, but in 2002, then state government chose to freeze delimitation until 2026. The decision was in line with the pan-India freeze on delimitation of Lok Sabha constituencies till the first census after 2026. However, as the August 5, 2019 decision annulled J&K’s constitution, the freeze on delimitation till 2026 also became irrelevant. In fact, J&K Reorganisation Act, which came into force on October 31, 2019, mandates delimitation of constituencies in the UT. The elections in J&K have been due since the PDP-BJP alliance fell apart in June 2018, after which the erstwhile state was brought under central rule. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jk-delimitation-commission-unlikely-to-submit-its-report-on-time-1058789.html
08-12-2021||National||Hoping for safety of CDS General Bipin Rawat, others: Rahul||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday said that he hoped that everyone on the chopper was safe, including Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat. "Hoping for the safety of CDS General Bipin Rawat, his wife and others onboard the chopper. Prayers for speedy recovery." Rahul Gandhi tweeted. Hoping for the safety of CDS General Bipin Rawat, his wife and others onboard the chopper. Prayers for speedy recovery. The number of casualties are still unknown and the local police have ascertained only three rescued and searches are on for others. Along with General Rawat, his wife Madhulika Rawat, Brigadier L.S. Lidder, Lieutenant Colonel Harjinder Singh, Naik Gursewak Singh, Naik Jitender Kumar, Naik Vivek Kumar, Naik B. Sai Teja, Havaldar Satpal and pilots were travelling in the chopper. Confirming about General Rawat's presence, Indian Air Force tweeted, "An IAF Mi-17V5 helicopter, with CDS Gen Bipin Rawat on board, met with an accident today near Coonoor, Tamil Nadu." The force said that an inquiry has been ordered to ascertain the cause of the accident. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hoping-for-safety-of-cds-general-bipin-rawat-others-rahul-1058793.html
08-12-2021||National||Kisan Rail a game changer for small farmers: Ashwini Vaishnaw||Union Rail Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw on Wednesday said that the Kisan Rails have become a boon for small farmers during the pandemic and even after that. YSR Congress' Talavi Rangaiah that this service is a 'game changer' for small and famers who have been producing fruits and vegetables. Responding to a question during the Question Hour in the Lok Sabha, the Rail Minister also informed that as of now 1,642 Kisan Rails have been operating and by introducing the sleeper coaches in these rails, the damage to the goods has been substantially less. The Minister also said that the transporting costs via Kisan Rail is still cheaper than trucks. He also said that these are goods trains, therefore, the farmers are not allowed to travel in these trains. Replying to the BJP Member Sanghmitra Maurya's question to initiate a Kisan Rail from Badaun in Uttar Pradesh, Viashnaw further said if booking of goods comes up in good numbers, the Ministry will definitely consider the proposal to start a new Kisan Rail from there. He also informed the House that for perishable goods like vegetables and fruits, the air conditioned containers are being used. And the government also provides a 50 per cent subsidy on the freight for perishable items. The Minister also said that for transporting milk, special tankers are being used. The provision of the Kisan Rail was announced during the Union Budget of 2020-21 and this was launched for perishable items in September this year. Kisan Rail transformed smaller stations into major farm produce loading hubs and enriched small and marginal farmers due to stoppages at small stations. Smaller stations like Sangola, Jeur, Rahuri, Kopargaon, Yeola, Niphad have become major fruits and vegetable loading hubs. The Indian Railways is running the Kisan Rail train services, to transport perishables and agri-products including milk, meat, fish, fruits, vegetables and dairy products. Main crops or farm-produce transported via Kisan Rail train include oranges, onions, potato, banana, mango, tomato, pomegranate, custard apple, capsicum, chikoo, carrot from the small villages to big cities and the farmers have now been getting better price in comparison with the local sale. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kisan-rail-a-game-changer-for-small-farmers-ashwini-vaishnaw-1058808.html
08-12-2021||National||3 militants killed by security forces in J&K's Shopian||Three militants affiliated with The Resistance Front (TRF), an affiliate of Pakistan-based Lashker-e-Taiba (LeT) outfit were killed in an encounter with security forces in south Kashmir’s Shopian district on Wednesday. “#ShopianEncounterUpdate: 02 more unidentified #terrorists killed (Total 03). #Search going on. Further details shall follow (sic),” J&K police said in a tweet. The gun fight broke out in Check e Cholan of Shopian during the wee hours today after the security forces cordoned off the area following inputs about the presence of militants there, reports said. A police official said as the security forces approached towards the suspected spot, the hiding militants fired upon them, to which they retaliated, triggering an encounter in which three ultras were killed. A police official said that they had input that the slain militants were affiliated with LeT/TRF. He, however, added that their identification is being ascertained. 153 militants have been killed in the Valley so far this year, of which 131 were locals and 22 Pakistanis. In 2020, the number of militants killed in the Valley stood at 195. According to official estimates over 200 militants were still active in the Valley. “Among the active militants, 80 are believed to be from Pakistan and more than 120 are locals. Between January and July this year, 76 locals picked up arms and by now the number may have reached 100,” a senior police officer said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/3-militants-killed-by-security-forces-in-jks-shopian-1058810.html
08-12-2021||National||Appointment of Law Commission chairperson, members under consideration, Centre tells SC||The Union government has told the Supreme Court that the appointment of chairperson and members of Law Commission of India was under consideration of the concerned authorities and there is no proposal to make it a statutory body. The Law Commission undertakes research in law and review existing laws for making reforms and enacting new legislations on a reference made to it by the Centre, apex court and High Courts.  It has remained headless since September 1, 2018. Responding to a PIL filed by BJP leader and advocate Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay, the Law and Justice Ministry said the 22nd Law Commission has been constituted on February 21, 2020 and the appointment of its chairperson and members are under the consideration of concerned authorities. Terming the PIL as frivolous and not maintainable being devoid of merits, the Ministry said the petitioner has raised an issue which falls out of the doctrine of separation of powers and the government is presently seized of the matter regarding appointment of chairperson and members. The top court had January 25 sought a reply from the Centre on a PIL to make the Law Commission as a statutory body and appoint chairman and members in the body. The petitioner claimed that with the Law Commission not working, the Centre doesn’t have the benefit of recommendations from this specialised body on the different aspects of law, which are entrusted to it for study and recommendations. The Commission is also entrusted to undertake studies and research for bringing reforms in justice delivery systems for elimination of delay in procedures, speedy disposal of cases, reduction in cost of litigation etc., he pointed out. Upadhyay asked the court to direct the Centre to take appropriate steps to appoint a Chairperson and members of Twenty Second Law Commission of India. Alternatively, being custodian of the Constitution and protector of the fundamental rights, the court may use its plenary constitutional power to appoint the Chairperson and members of the Commission of India and declare it as a statutory body, he pleaded. In its reply, the ministry said the averments made by the petitioner misled the court to issue notice in the PIL which was liable to be dismissed with heavy cost at pre-admission stage only. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/appointment-of-law-commission-chairperson-members-under-consideration-centre-tells-sc-1058815.html
08-12-2021||National||Need tighter cybercrime regulations for OTTs and preventing cyberbullying, says IT minister Vaishnaw||There is a need for tighter regulations to deal with cybercrimes, Union Minister for Electronics and Information Technology Ashwini Vaishnaw said Wednesday. Replying to questions in Lok Sabha, Vaishnaw underlined the need to have "a lot of discussions and a broader consensus" on bringing "stricter norms" for over-the-top (OTT) platforms to check the telecast of movies and serials that create disharmony among communities and religions. "This subject of cybercrimes, the way it is affecting our children, actually there is a need to have a consensus for making much tighter regulation. There is no doubt about it," the minister said during the Question Hour. "(Whenever) we make cyber laws tighter by even a little bit and try to implement it, all of our members start shouting that democracy is being throttled and people's right to freedom is being taken away," he said. Raising the issue of cybercrimes and children becoming victims of cyberbullying, Congress member Hibi Eden had noted that existing cyber laws were "quite weak" to deal with the problem, and asked if there was a specific instruction from Vaishnaw's ministry to increase the awareness level of officials in various government departments on cybercrimes and also making it part of the curriculum for students. Replying to a question asked by Congress member MK Vishnu Prasad as to whether the government would consider bringing in stricter norms to censor the OTTs where movies and serials create disharmony among various religions and communities, the minister said all over the world, people are "really worried" with the way social media intermediaries have become "all pervasive today". "All over the world, people are really worried where the entire cyber world is moving because of the way social media intermediaries have become all pervasive today. So the point that the member has raised today needs a broader consensus, not only in India but across the world. We need to have lots of discussion and a broader consensus in our society for this," the minister said.  Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/need-tighter-cybercrime-regulations-for-otts-and-preventing-cyberbullying-says-it-minister-vaishnaw-1058820.html
08-12-2021||National||Concerned ministry to share information on chopper crash at appropriate time: Govt||Union I&B Minister Anurag Thakur on Wednesday said information about the helicopter accident in Coonoor in Tamil Nadu will be shared by the ministry concerned at an appropriate time. “The entire information about the accident that has taken place will be shared by the concerned ministry at an appropriate time,” Thakur told reporters when asked about the helicopter crash involving Chief of Defence Staff Bipin Rawat. An Indian Air Force helicopter with Rawat on board crashed on Wednesday near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu, the IAF said. There was no immediate information on the condition of Rawat. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/concerned-ministry-to-share-information-on-chopper-crash-at-appropriate-time-govt-1058826.html
08-12-2021||National||CDS chopper crash: Some unanswered questions||One of the big questions that is facing the armed forces as well as the nation is -- how a helicopter carrying a very very important person - India's Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat -- crashed resulting in the death of several persons. "Comprehensive checks of the helicopter would have been done. There would have been a standby helicopter as well. The weather condition would have been checked. In this case, if the weather at Wellington was marginal, they may have decided to make an attempt and then call it off," said a former official of the Indian Air Force (IAF). The official said technical snag or weather could have been the factor due to which crash happened. According to him, if all things were normal, the one possibility is that, as the chopper was close to Coonoor, it would have been flying low and or maybe flown into the hill, to duck beneath the clouds. The chopper will have a black box and a study that could throw more light on the cause of the accident. At least four senior military officials were feared dead in an Indian Air Force helicopter crash in Tamil Nadu's Coonoor on Wednesday afternoon. Locals who saw the chopper crash helped in rescue operations. An eyewitness said, it was misty, maybe due to which the chopper hit a tree and went down. He said he reached the spot and saw the chopper was upside down and immediately caught fire. Confirming about General Rawat's presence, Indian Air Force tweeted, "An IAF Mi-17V5 helicopter, with CDS Gen Bipin Rawat on board, met with an accident today near Coonoor, Tamil Nadu." Two passengers were severely injured. Drones are being used to locate the survivors. The force said that an inquiry has been ordered to ascertain the cause of the accident. The chopper took off from the Sulur airbase and was proceeding to Wellington when it crashed. Others who were in the chopper were Brigadier L S Lidder, Lieutenant Colonel Harjinder Singh, Naik Gursewak Singh, Naik Jitender Kumar, Naik Vivek Kumar, Naik B. Sai Teja, Havaldar Satpal and pilots. The rescued suffered serious injuries and have been taken to the Military Hospital in Wellington cantonment. The hospital is surrounded by a strong contingent of police personnel. According to reports, four bodies were recovered from the accident site. A former Wing Commander of the IAF told IANS that 'based on the visuals on the news channels, the helicopter must have crashed with a strong impact and exploded'. According to Tamil Nadu Health Secretary Dr J Radhakrishnan a special medical team has been sent to Coonoor to provide treatment to the injured. TN Chief Minister may visit the injured in the hospital, sources said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cds-chopper-crash-some-unanswered-questions-1058827.html
08-12-2021||National||Received fresh proposal from govt, hopeful of resolution: Farmer leaders after SKM panel meeting||A five-member committee constituted by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) for dialogue with the government on the protesting farmers' pending demands on Wednesday said it has received a fresh draft proposal from the Centre and is hopeful of a resolution. The panel held a meeting in the national capital to discuss the government's fresh proposal. Talking to reporters after the committee's meeting, farmer leader Yudhvir Singh said that they discussed a fresh proposal received from the Centre. "Today, the five-member committee held a meeting. It was in continuation with yesterday's meeting. We had asked some questions to the government. Today we have received a revised draft from the government. We deliberated on the fresh proposal," Singh said. He said discussions and conclusions reached in the panel will be communicated in the SKM's meeting, which was being held on Wednesday evening. "If the SKM approves, then we will move forward. If there are no agreements at the SKM meeting, then we will do further discussions," he said. Asked about the content of the revised draft proposal of the government, Singh said: "We don't have much to say at this moment. We will not tell you anything till we discuss the matter in the SKM meeting." He did not comment on why there was no direct meeting with the government representative. Farmer leader Shiv Kumar Kakka said: "We are hopeful. Things are progressing and moving forward." "A final call on the government's fresh proposal will be taken during the SKM meeting at the Singhu border," another farmer leader, Gurnam Singh Chaduni, said. The SKM meeting at the Singhu border protest site on Wednesday is likely to take a decision on whether protesting farmers should end their agitation following the government's fresh proposal. On Tuesday, the SKM had demanded clarification on certain points in the government's proposal, including on the precondition set for the withdrawal of "fake" cases against farmers.   Farmers from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh have been protesting at the borders of the national capital since November 26 last year to demand repeal of the three farm laws. On November 29, a bill was passed in Parliament to repeal the three contentious farm laws, one of the main demands of the protesting farmers. But the stalemate continues with the protesters demanding that the government fulfil their other demands that include a legal guarantee on MSP, withdrawal of cases against protesting farmers and compensation to families of those farmers who died during the protest.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/received-fresh-proposal-from-govt-hopeful-of-resolution-farmer-leaders-after-skm-panel-meeting-1058844.html
08-12-2021||National||Parliament passes bill to regulate and supervise assisted reproductive technology clinics||Parliament on Wednesday passed a bill to regulate and supervise assisted reproductive technology clinics. The Assisted Reproductive Technology (Regulation) Bill, 2021, which was passed by Lok Sabha on December 1, got the approval of Rajya Sabha with a voice vote. The Upper House also passed The Surrogacy (Regulation) Bill, 2020 with amendments. The proposed bill was earlier passed by Lok Sabha, but Rajya Sabha had referred it to a select committee. It will now go back to Lok Sabha for approval. Replying to a discussion on both the bills taken up together, Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said that most of the recommendations of the select committee have been incorporated in the surrogacy bill. Both the bills seek to curb unethical practices related to issues like sex selection and exploitation of surrogate mothers. The provisions include both monetary penalty as well as jail terms for violations. The minister said these bills are aimed to give respect to women facing problems in giving birth. The bill related to surrogacy aims to constitute a National Surrogacy Board, State Surrogacy Boards and appointment of appropriate authorities for regulation of the practice and process of surrogacy. The Assisted Reproductive Technology (Regulation) Bill, 2021 is for the regulation and supervision of the assisted reproductive technology clinics and the assisted reproductive technology banks, and prevention of misuse. Among other objectives are ensuring safe and ethical practice of assisted reproductive technology services for addressing the issues of reproductive health where the technology is required for becoming a parent or for freezing gametes, embryos, embryonic tissues for further use due to infertility, and other conditions. During the discussion on the bills, as well as their passage, opposition members continued to raise slogans against the suspension of 12 MPs. Some of them were also in the Well of the House carrying placards. Later, the House was adjourned around 4.30 pm for the day. In the normal course, proceedings continue till around 6 pm. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parliament-passes-bill-to-regulate-and-supervise-assisted-reproductive-technology-clinics-1058845.html
08-12-2021||National||CDS Bipin Rawat, wife, 11 others killed in helicopter crash in Tamil Nadu||India’s first Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) Gen Bipin Rawat, his wife Madhulika Rawat, and 11 army officers and personnel were charred to death when an Indian Air Force’s Mi-17V5 helicopter carrying them crashed near Coonoor in the Nilgiris district of Tamil Nadu.  There was only one survivor in the crash – Group Captain Varun Singh – who is being treated at the Military Hospital in Wellington, 16 km from Udhagamandalam or Ooty. The lone survivor’s condition is also critical and he is understood to have suffered over 60 per cent burn injuries.  The tragic crash took place at around 12.15 pm when Gen Rawat and 13 others were on their way to the Defence Services Staff College (DSSC) in Wellington where the Chief of Defence Staff was to address the faculty and student officers of the Staff Course.  Brigadier L S Lidder, Lt. Col. Harjinder Singh, Wing Commander Prithvi Singh Chauhan, Squadron Leader Kuldeep, JWO Pradeep, JWO Das, Naik Gursewak Singh, Naik Jitendra Kumar, Lance Naik Vivek Kumar, Lance Naik B Sai Teja, and Havildar Satpal also lost their lives in the crash. Gen Rawat, who assumed office as the country’s first CDS on January 1, 2020, flew into the IAF Airbase in Sulur on the outskirts of Coimbatore on Wednesday morning. He was accompanied by his wife and eight officers and personnel. Five officers and personnel joined him on his around 40-minute flight from Sulur to Wellington. “Around noon today, an IAF Mi 17 V5 helicopter with a crew of 4 members carrying the CDS and 9 other passengers met with a tragic accident near Coonoor, TN. With deep regret, it has now been ascertained that Gen Bipin Rawat, Mrs Madhulika Rawat and 11 other persons on board have died in the unfortunate accident,” the IAF announced in a tweet a little after 6 pm.  Sources in the know told Deccan Herald that the helicopter crashed just about 10 minutes before it was to land at the Gymkhana Club helipad inside the Army Centre in Wellington. Though the IAF did not give any reason for the crash, people living in the area where the accident took place said the weather was misty at noon, when the chopper came down.  Eye-witnesses who alerted the Nilgiris district police and fire rescue personnel about the crash said the chopper flew dangerously low, quite close to the residential areas before it fell to the ground. The advanced helicopter hit a tree at the reserve forest in Nanjappanchathiram before it caught fire and went in flames, eye-witnesses said.  If the crash had taken place a few hundred metres away, there could have been heavy civilian causalities, the sources added. The operation to pull the bodies out of the charred chopper was difficult, sources said, adding that most of them were charred beyond recognition. “A few bodies are yet to be identified,” a source added.  Army personnel joined the local police and fire service personnel who took several hours to pull the bodies out of the mangled remains of the chopper. Police personnel who were posted on the Mettupalayam-Ooty ghat road as there was a chance of Gen Rawat taking the road to Wellington joined the rescue operations immediately.  Chief Minister M K Stalin, accompanied by Chief Secretary V Irai Anbu, and Director General of Police Sylendra Babu, rushed to Coimbatore by a special aircraft and drove to the Army Centre in Wellington, where they were briefed by officers from the Army.  A formal wreath-laying ceremony is likely to be held on Thursday morning at the Army Centre in which Governor R N Ravi is expected to join Stalin and his ministers. The mortal remains of Gen Rawat and his wife Madhulika are likely to be flown out of the Sulur airbase by Thursday evening. The last rites will take place on Friday. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cds-bipin-rawat-wife-11-others-killed-in-helicopter-crash-in-tamil-nadu-1058821.html
08-12-2021||National||CDS Gen Bipin Rawat: A distinguished Armyman||Rawat held a distinguished career in the Indian Army and was a recipient of several medals and honours, including Param Vishisht Seva Medal, Yudh Seva Medal and Vishisht Seva Medal. Born in 1958 in Uttarakhand, Rawat was educated in the state's Cambrian Hall School in Dehradun and St. Edward's School in Shimla. He went on to join the National Defence Academy and Indian Military Academy. His first operation was in 1978 as a commissioned member of the 5h batallion of 11 Gorkha Rifles. He also commanded a company in Uri and Sopore and was also commander of a multinational brigade in the Democratic Republic of Congo, for which he was awarded the Force Commander’s Commendation. Rawat assumed the post of the General Officer Commanding-in-Chief on January 1, 2016, and was promoted to Vice Chief of Army Staff in September of the same year. Just months after in December, he was promoted to the post of the Chief of Army Staff. Rawat was also inducted into the United States Army Command and General Staff College International Hall of Fame in 2019. Rawat was appointed as the Chief of Defence Staff, the head of the combined tri-services of the Indian Armed Forces, in December 2019. Rawat was married to Madhulika Rawat, who also died in the accident, and is survived by two daughters. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cds-gen-bipin-rawat-a-distinguished-armyman-1058776.html
08-12-2021||National||RIP Gen Bipin Rawat: India’s first CDS who initiated one of the most crucial reforms in defence||On Wednesday Gen Rawat, his wife Madhulika and several of his staff officials were flying in a IAF Mi17v5 chopper to Wellington when the chopper crashed killing 13 of the 14 individuals on the spot. Gen Rawat and his wife are among those who were killed in the crash. The ever smiling soldier who escaped unscathed from a Cheetah crash in Nagaland in 2015, would always be remembered as India’s first Chief of Defence Staff who initiated one of the most crucial reforms in higher defence in independent India. Taking over as the CDS on January 1 last year, he began the process of integrating the existing commands of the army, air force and navy to create theatre commands for better operational needs and more streamlined purchase of expensive military hardware. Instead of 17 commands distributed between the Indian Army (7), Indian Navy (3) and Indian Air Force (7), Gen Rawat planned to have a unified command each for eastern and western fronts besides keeping the existing northern command for its strategic importance due to its proximity to Pakistan and China. In addition, other components of the theatre command plan is to have an integrated command for the navy, an air defence command for the air force and a combined training command. But it's a task easier said than done with the IAF openly expressing their reservations about such a plan and there are fierce critics inside the military. But Gen Rawat, who enjoyed a special rapport with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and National Security Advisor Ajit Doval was doggedly pursuing it as the first unified command by the Indian Navy is likely to materialize by the middle of 2022. His untimely death creates uncertainty on the creation of threatre commands. Commissioned in the fifth battalion of the 11 Gorkha Rifles in December 1978, Gen Rawat served as the Chief of Army Staff since January 1, 2017. Hailing from Pauri-Garhwal in Uttarakhand, Gen Rawat comes from a fauzi family as his father Laxman Singh Rawat was a Lieutenant General in the Army and commanded 10 Corps. Gen Rawat commanded an infantry battalion, along the Line of Actual Control in the eastern sector; a Rashtriya Rifles sector and an infantry division in the Kashmir valley; a Corps in the eastern theater and the Southern Command before being appointed as the Vice Chief in August, 2016. The Indian Army launched its surgical strike when Gen Rawat was the Vice Chief and in charge of the operations in the Army. After playing a key role in planning the cross-border raid, Gen Rawat always made it clear that his men would not hesitate to use force at the border, even though India wanted peace and tranquility at the borders. As the Army Chief, he initiated several reforms in the Indian Army including revamping of the grievance redress system inside the army and doing away with the age-old sahayak (soldiers employed as personal aids of the officers) system in the army. But his appointment as the Army Chief was not free from controversy, as the Modi government ignored the seniority claims of then Eastern Army Commander Lt Gen Praveen Bakshi and Southern Army Commander Lt Gen P M Hariz while picking up Gen Rawat as the Chief of the Army Staff. Known for his friendly and jovial nature, Gen Rawat has studied media and communication and was a favourite among the journalists. He is survived by two daughters. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rip-gen-bipin-rawat-india-s-first-cds-who-initiated-one-of-the-most-crucial-reforms-in-defence-1058852.html
08-12-2021||National||Over 9,800 teaching, 18,500 non-teaching posts vacant in central universities, IITs: Minister||Over 9,800 teaching and 18,500 non-teaching posts are vacant in central universities, IITs and IIMs across the country, Union Minister of State for Education Subhas Sarkar told the Upper House on Wednesday in a written response to a query. According to the statistics shared by Sarkar, a total of 6,229 teaching posts are vacant in central universities. The number of teaching posts vacant in IITs and IIMs are 3,230 and 403, respectively. The non-teaching posts vacant in central universities, IITs and IIMs are 13,782, 4,182 and 543, respectively. "Occurrence of vacancies and filling up of posts is a continuous process and institutions publish rolling and need based advertisements to fill the vacant position following the due process. The Ministry of Education from time to time instructed institutions to follow the provisions of reservation to fill the vacancies, including the vacancies of SC, ST, OBC and EWS," Sarkar said. "All higher educational institutions functioning under the administrative control of the ministry have been instructed to fill faculty positions that are lying vacant, especially in the SC, ST, OBC and EWS category in their institutions, by way of a special drive and in a mission mode manner within a period of one year starting from September 5, 2021 to September 4, 2022," he added. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-9800-teaching-18500-non-teaching-posts-vacant-in-central-universities-iits-minister-1058856.html
08-12-2021||National||Lok Sabha passes bill amending higher judiciary's salary, service conditions||The Lok Sabha on Wednesday passed, by voice vote, the High Court and Supreme Court Judges (Salaries and Conditions of Service) Amendment Bill, 2021, which changes the salary and service conditions of the judges of the higher judiciary and provide an additional quantum of pension or family pension when they attain a certain age in accordance with a specified scale. According to the bill, the additional quantum of pension to retired judges of the High Courts and the Supreme Court is being sanctioned on completing the ages of 80, 85, 90, and 95 years, as the case may be. In his reply to the debate on this bill, Law Minister Kiren Rijiju said that he welcomed the suggestions made by the members during the debate on Tuesday and he will consider incorporating them after due consultation with the other stakeholders. He also said that as of now he cannot assure the Members to add up certain suggestions made by them without holding consultation with the Supreme Court and high courts. Noting that the judiciary is equally important as other pillars of democracy as legislature and executive, the minister also said that many retired judges and the Supreme Court Bar Association have expressed different views on the Collegium system and the National Judicial Appointment Committee, therefore, will make wider consultation on these issues. He also admitted that the staggering number of pending cases in various courts has to be addressed on a priority basis. Initiating the debate on the bill Tuesday, Congress' Shashi Tharoor had raised the issue of the retirement age of judges of the top courts. He also cited the alarming number of pending cases in the courts. Trinamool Congress' Kalyan Banerjee also raised the issue of case pendency, while BJP's PP Chaudhary requested the government to revisit the process of appointment of judges. YSR Congress Party's V Geethaviswanath, Shiv Sena member Arvind Ganpat Sawan, BSP's Shyam Singh Yadav and others also participated in the debate. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lok-sabha-passes-bill-amending-higher-judiciarys-salary-service-conditions-1058858.html
08-12-2021||National||Only one survived Army helicopter crash, says Nilgiris collector||As many as 13 of the 14 occupants of the Indian Air Force helicopter, which was ferrying Chief of Defence Staff Bipin Rawat, among others, died in a crash on Wednesday, a top district official said. There was one survivor, a male, Nilgiris Collector SP Amrith told PTI. "Thirteen of the 14 (occupants) have died. There is one male survivor," he said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/only-one-survived-army-helicopter-crash-says-nilgiris-collector-1058862.html
08-12-2021||National||Nagaland firing incident: Cong alleges party delegation not allowed to visit Mon district||The Congress on Wednesday alleged that a delegation of its leaders was not allowed to visit Nagaland's Mon district where 14 civilians were killed by the Army, with Rahul Gandhi claiming the government was "scared" of the party. The delegation comprising Congress general secretary Jitendra Singh, the party's Nagaland in-charge Ajoy Kumar and MP Gaurav Gogoi protested at Jorhat in Assam claiming that they were not being allowed to visit Mon district and meet the families of the victims.  According to the party, the delegation was supposed to meet the victims' families and submit a report on the incident that occurred earlier this week. "Congress delegation is not allowed to meet the bereaved families in Nagaland. The Government of India is scared of us sharing people's grief. But nothing will stop us," Rahul Gandhi said in a Facebook post using the hashtag 'No Fear'. Congress' chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said, "The illegal detention of Congress delegation comprising Jitendra Singh, Gaurav Gogoi and Ajoy Kumar from visiting Nagaland reflects the fascist mindset of the (Narendra) Modi government." "Civil liberties and life of the people of Northeast is imperilled and we are being prevented from exposing them," he said. Congress President Sonia Gandhi had constituted a committee to visit families of the victims of violence in the Mon district of Nagaland and submit a report within a week. Security forces opened fire on civilians killing 14 and injuring 11 more in Nagaland's Mon district in three consecutive episodes, the first of which was a case of mistaken identity, police said on Sunday. One soldier also died in rioting which followed. In his statement in Parliament on Monday, Shah expressed regret over the Nagaland firing incident and said a probe by a Special Investigation Team will be completed within a month while asserting that all agencies must ensure such happenings do not recur while taking action against insurgents.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nagaland-firing-incident-cong-alleges-party-delegation-not-allowed-to-visit-mon-district-1058874.html
08-12-2021||National||Prominent Indian personalities who died in air crashes||Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat who was on board the Army helicopter that crashed in Coonoor, Tamil Nadu, passed away on Wednesday. His wife Madhulika Rawat and 11 others on board also died in the crash. The latest incident serves as a reminder of several prominent personalities who have perished in air crashes in the past. One of the first instances was freedom fighter Subhas Chandra Bose in 1945 in Taiwan although there has been some controversy over his death. Another air accident was the crash of a helicopter in which then Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y S Rajasekhara Reddy was onboard. The chopper of YSR, crashed in a forest while flying in a Bell 430 to Chitoor district in Andhra Pradesh. His body was traced 27 hours after the helicopter went missing in 2009. Sanjay Gandhi, the younger son of then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi, was killed in 1980 when a glider he was flying crashed after taking off from the Safdarjung airport in Delhi. Senior Congress leader, Madhavrao Scindia was killed in a Cessna aircraft crash on in 2001 while travelling to Kanpur to address a rally. Lok Sabha Speaker and Telugu Desam leader G M C Balayogi also died in a chopper crash in 2002 in Andhra Pradesh. OP Jindal, Haryana's then power minister and a leading industrialist, and state agriculture minister Surendra Singh were killed when the chopper developed a technical snag and went down near Saharanpur in 2005. Punjab governor Surendra Nath and nine members of his family were killed when the government's Super-King aircraft crashed into high mountains in bad weather in 1994 in Himachal Pradesh. Nath was then acting Himachal governor also. Five days after the helicopter that he was using went missing, Arunachal Chief Minister Dorjee Khandu was found dead near the China border in 2011. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/prominent-indian-personalities-who-died-in-air-crashes-1058879.html
08-12-2021||National||Centre approves Ken-Betwa rivers linking project||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved long pending Ken-Betwa Interlinking of Rivers Project. This is the first major centrally driven river interlinking project in the country approved by the Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The project will cost Rs 44,605 crore and is targeted to be completed in 8 years. To implement the project, a Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) called Ken-Betwa Link Project Authority (KBLPA) will be set up, said a statement from the Union Jal Shakti Ministry. "The Project shall provide irrigation to 10.62 lakh hectares in the perennially drought prone area and water starved regions in Chhatarpur, Panna and Tikamgarh of Madhya Pradesh and Banda, Mahoba and Jhansi of Uttar Pradesh. Connecting canal to provide drinking water to 62 lakh people. Project to generate 103 MW Hydro Power plus 27 MW Solar Power," said the statement. The river linking project involves transfer of water from the Ken to the Betwa River through the construction of Daudhan Dam and a canal linking the two rivers, the Lower Orr Project, Kotha Barrage -and Bina Complex Multipurpose Project. "The Project will be of immense benefit to the water starved Bundelkhand region, spread across the states of Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh. This project will provide enormous benefits to the districts of Panna, Tikamgarh, Chhatarpur, Sagar, Damoh, Datia, Vidisha, Shivpuri and Raisen of Madhya Pradesh and Banda, Mahoba, Jhansi & Lalitpur of Uttar Pradesh," said the statement. "This project also comprehensively provides for environment management and safeguards. For this purpose a comprehensive landscape management plan is under finalization by Wildlife Institute of India," the statement added. Union Minister of Jal Shakti Gajendra Singh Shekhawat and the Chief Ministers of Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh signed agreement on March 22, 2021, to implement the first major centrally driven river interlinking project in the country. "The agreement heralds the beginning of inter-state cooperation to implement the vision of Former Prime Minister, late Atal Bihari Vajpayee to carry water from areas that have surpluses to drought prone and water deficit areas, through the interlinking of rivers," said the statement. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-approves-ken-betwa-rivers-linking-project-1058880.html
08-12-2021||National||Opposition 'boycotts' Rajya Sabha for a day, sits on a day-long dharna with suspended MPs||Opposition MPs in Rajya Sabha boycotted the proceedings on Wednesday and sat on a day-long dharna in solidarity with 12 suspended lawmakers at the Gandhi Statue in Parliament calling the action against their colleagues as "undemocratic" and "unconstitutional". The lawmakers raised the issue of revocation of suspension when the House assembled in the morning with Leader of Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge saying that he can prove how the action against 12 MPs was "unconstitutional" and in violation of the rules of Rajya Sabha business. However, the House was adjourned till noon as the Opposition continued their protest and the MPs did not return to the House after that. "We boycotted the House for the day," Kharge said at the protest site while ruling out an apology by suspended MPs. Senior Opposition leaders like Sharad Pawar, Akhilesh Yadav, Anand Sharma, Jairam Ramesh, KC Venugopal and Sanjay Singh participated as lawmakers like Dola Sen, Tiruchi Siva and Sanjay Singh sang protest songs. Twelve MPs, who were suspended on the first day of the Winter Session on November 29 for the entire session, have been sitting at the Gandhi Statue since December 1. As the Opposition intensified the protest, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi said, "Even on Tuesday, I said that we are ready to take back suspension if they are ready to apologise. Once again, I request them to tender an apology because they have committed a grave mistake." Kharge said that the suspension was done "illegally, against the rules and against the Constitution" and the government should revoke the decision. "They have committed a mistake. They don't want to expose themselves. Unfortunately, they have not acted as per rules. It is their duty to revoke, call us and we are ready to cooperate," he said. Congress Rajya Sabha Chief Whip Jairam Ramesh blamed Leader of the House Piyush Goyal for the impasse, claiming that the latter was "taking a completely fundamentalist position which does not leave any room for compromise". "Goyal says individual MPs must apologise on the floor of the House. We have said from day one that the question of apology does not arise because the action taken to suspend the 12 MPs is both unconstitutional and illegal because it violates the Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business of Rajya Sabha," Ramesh told DH. Kharge added, "Why should we apologise, you tell me? The mistake is yours, you have acted against the rules. You are asking us to apologise." He also said the government has not approached the Opposition yet for discussions on resolving the issue. Asked about the way-out, Ramesh claimed there is a "collapse of leadership of the House". There is a refusal to call a meeting of all parties by the Leader of the House and this is "unbridled arrogance" on his part, he added. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/opposition-boycotts-rajya-sabha-for-a-day-sits-on-a-day-long-dharna-with-suspended-mps-1058884.html
08-12-2021||National||All you need to know about the IAF chopper carrying CDS Gen Bipin Rawat, others that crashed||The Mi17V5 helicopter, which crashed with Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) Bipin Rawat and 13 other people on board on Wednesday, is an advanced military transport chopper that has been with the Indian Air Force (IAF) since 2012. Manufactured by Russian Helicopters' subsidiary Kazan, the helicopter has an on-board weather radar and is equipped with the latest generation of night vision devices. However, IAF's Mi17V5 chopper has been involved in quite a few incidents during the last decade. One of these choppers with the IAF crash-landed in eastern Arunachal Pradesh on November 8. However, the two pilots and three crew members survived with just minor injuries. Six people on board IAF's Mi17V5 helicopter escaped unhurt on April 3, 2018, after it crashed near the Himalayan shrine of Kedarnath in Uttarakhand. On October 7, 2017, a Mi17V5 helicopter crashed near Tawang in Arunachal Pradesh while it was heading for the China border, killing all seven armed forces personnel on board. On June 15, 2013, one of these helicopters crashed while returning from Kedarnath on a rescue mission during the Uttarakhand floods. A total of eight people, including five crew members, were killed in the accident. Nine IAF personnel were killed around 10 kilometres from Jamnagar airbase in Gujarat on August 30, 2012, when two of these choppers crashed into each other. Twelve defence personnel were killed on November 19, 2010, when a Mi17V5 helicopter carrying them crashed near Tawang in Arunachal Pradesh.  This helicopter has the new PKV-8 autopilot system and a KNEI-8 avionics suite. It can carry a maximum take-off weight of 13,000 kg and a maximum payload weight of 4,000 kg. India had in 2008 signed a deal with Russia to induct 80 Mi17V5 medium-lift helicopters for strengthening its chopper fleet for humanitarian and disaster relief missions and transport operations. The contract was later expanded for the delivery of 151 Mi17V5 helicopters. The first batch of these helicopters was delivered to India in September 2011. In February 2012, the IAF had formally inducted Mi17V5 helicopters from Russia to enhance its operational capabilities including carrying troops and cargo to high altitude areas. The helicopter is fitted with a self-defence system against heat-seeker missiles, has a heavily-armoured cockpit, vital systems and components. "The Mi-17V-5 military transport helicopter is designed to carry personnel, cargo and equipment inside the cargo cabin or on an external sling, drop tactical air assault forces and reconnaissance and sabotage groups, destroy ground targets and carry the wounded," said Russian government's defence exports company, Rosoboronexport. According to the company, this helicopter can achieve a maximum speed of 250 kilometres per hour. The helicopter is fitted with advanced TV3-117VM engines. It is the most technically advanced helicopter of Mi-8/17 family of helicopters, and incorporates the best engineering solutions from previous generations of helicopters.   Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/all-you-need-to-know-about-the-iaf-chopper-carrying-cds-gen-bipin-rawat-others-that-crashed-1058887.html
08-12-2021||National||Gen Rawat's untimely death irreparable loss to armed forces, country: Rajnath Singh||Expressing deep anguish over Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat's death in a helicopter crash in Tamil Nadu, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Wednesday said his untimely demise is an irreparable loss to the armed forces and the country. Gen Rawat, his wife Madhulika and 11 other people on board an Indian Air Force helicopter died in a crash near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu on Wednesday, the Indian Air Force said. "Deeply anguished by the sudden demise of Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat, his wife and 11 other armed forces personnel in an extremely unfortunate helicopter accident today in Tamil Nadu," Singh tweeted. Deeply anguished by the sudden demise of Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat, his wife and 11 other Armed Forces personnel in an extremely unfortunate helicopter accident today in Tamil Nadu. His untimely death is an irreparable loss to our Armed Forces and the country. "His untimely death is an irreparable loss to our armed forces and the country," the defence minister said. Singh said General Rawat had served the country with exceptional courage and diligence. "As the first Chief of Defence Staff he had prepared plans for jointness of our armed forces," he said. "My heart goes out to the families of those who lost their loved ones in this accident. Praying for the speedy recovery of Gp Capt Varun Singh, who is currently under treatment at the Military Hospital, Wellington," Singh said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gen-rawats-untimely-death-irreparable-loss-to-armed-forces-country-rajnath-singh-1058889.html
08-12-2021||National||Smriti Irani raised doubt over accuracy of Global Hunger Index||Union Minister of Women and Child Development Smriti Zubin Irani on Wednesday raised doubt over the accuracy of the Global Hunger Index saying medical and societal challenges were measured through a Gallup phone call. Global Hunger Index (GHI) 2021 had ranked India 101st out of 116 countries. In 2020, India was ranked 94th out of 107 countries. During the question hour in Rajya Sabha, replying to a question on GHI, she raised doubt about its accuracy and said, "This survey was conducted through a telephone call." She further explained, "I will just give an example..one of the questions posed in the telephone conversation was...have you felt hungry when you did not eat food?.. So, can you imagine that we are talking about a medical and societal challenge which is measured through a Gallup phone call?" She also stated, "..countries like Nepal, Sri Lanka and Afghanistan, it seems from this report, have been unaffected by Covid, which is not true." The union minister also told the House that the number of SAM (severe acute malnutrition) children has reduced to 1.5 million from eight million earlier. "For the first time, under the leadership of the Prime Minister, we have engaged with States to get precise numbers. There was a pronouncement years ago in this very House that we have eight million-plus SAM children in the country. However, with medical assistance and supervision, when States undertook a survey, that number reduced to less than 1.5 million," she said. She also told the House that under Nirbhaya Fund, as many as 1023 (POCSO) courts were set up and there were 1.5 lakh cases were pending and out of these 55,000 have been disposed off as per latest information with her. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/smriti-irani-raised-doubt-over-accuracy-of-global-hunger-index-1058891.html
08-12-2021||National||Serum Institute of India ED Suresh Jadhav, who played key role in Covishield development, passes away||Serum Institute of India’s Executive Director Dr Suresh Jadhav - who played a key role in the development of Covid-19 vaccine Covishield - passed away in Pune on Wednesday after prolonged illness. Dr Jadhav was most instrumental in securing WHO accreditation for various vaccines of SII, which is today one of the largest vaccine manufacturers in the world and caters to more than 140 countries. He was 72. Jadhav, who was suffering from renal issues,  passed away at Sahyadri Hospital and is survived by his wife and two children. SII Chairman Dr Cyrus Poonawalla and his son and CEO Adar Poonawalla condoled the death of Dr Jadhav. “The SII family and the Indian vaccine industry has lost a guiding light, with the passing of Dr. Suresh Jadhav. My prayers are with his family during these trying times and I thank you all, for your condolences,” Adar Poonawalla said. Dr Soumya Swaminathan, chief scientist at WHO, tweeted, “Very Sad news. Exceptional lifetime contributions to vaccine development with huge impact on lives saved.” In its condolence message, the Mahratta Chamber of Commerce, Industries and Agriculture said: “Dr Suresh Jadhav was an internationally acclaimed expert who played a significant role in the development of Covishield.” Top virologist Dr Gagandeep Kang said: “Dr  Suresh Jadhav focused on what SII could bring to the world. Learned, experienced, quiet but open, it was so useful to discuss with him what could be done by India for India, and the world. So many contributions, he will be deeply missed.” Jadhav completed his M.Pharm. Ph.D. from Nagpur University started his career in 1970 with a research fellowship of CSIR. He held a decade of academic career at the Dept. of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Nagpur; S.N.D.T. University/ Mumbai and Haffkine Institute, Mumbai. Jadhav joined SII, Pune in 1979, and has held the position of Executive Director since 1992. He was part of several national and international bodies and associations. He was President of Developing Countries Vaccine Manufacturers Network (DCVMN) for 5 years from 2004 to 2008, a Member of the DCVMN Steering Committee since its inception in 2000 AD and responsible for making DCVMN a globally recognised entity. Prashant Yadav, a globally recognised scholar in the area of healthcare supply chains, too condoled the death of Dr Jadhav. “Suresh Jadhav was a stalwart of vaccine manufacturing in India. He built the technical capabilities of  SII from the ground up. His humility and down-to-earth style always impressed me. His passing away is a sad day for all in the vaccine industry, especially the DCVMN.” Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/serum-institute-of-india-ed-suresh-jadhav-who-played-key-role-in-covishield-development-passes-away-1058896.html
08-12-2021||National||Political leaders pay tributes to departed Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat||President Ram Nath Kovind, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and leaders from across the political spectrum condoled the demise of Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat and hailed his contributions to the armed forces as well as the country. General Bipin Rawat, his wife and 11 others were killed in a helicopter crash near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu on Wednesday, the Indian Air Force said. The helicopter ferrying General Rawat and his entourage crashed in apparently foggy conditions, killing 13 people on board, the IAF and other officials said. One person survived the crash and is being treated at a hospital. President Kovind said it was deeply painful for him to learn of the loss of lives in the helicopter crash in Tamil Nadu. "I join fellow citizens in paying tributes to each of those who died while performing their duty. My heartfelt condolences to the bereaved families," he tweeted.   I am shocked and anguished over the untimely demise of Gen. Bipin Rawat and his wife, Madhulika ji. The nation has lost one of its bravest sons. His four decades of selfless service to the motherland was marked by exceptional gallantry and heroism. My condolences to his family.   "I am shocked and anguished over the untimely demise of General Bipin Rawat and his wife, Madhulika ji. The nation has lost one of its bravest sons. His four decades of selfless service to the motherland was marked by exceptional gallantry and heroism. My condolences to his family," the president said. Vice President Naidu said he was deeply shocked by the tragic death of Rawat, his wife, senior officials of the armed forces and others in the helicopter crash in Coonoor. "I spoke to the Hon'ble Defence Minister Shri Rajnath Singh and conveyed my deep anguish. My thoughts and prayers are with the bereaved family members in this hour of grief," Naidu said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi said he is deeply anguished by the helicopter crash in which "we have lost General Bipin Rawat, his wife and other personnel of the armed forces". "They served India with utmost diligence. My thoughts are with the bereaved families," he said. Hailing Rawat as an "outstanding soldier", Modi said he was a "true patriot" who greatly contributed to modernising the armed forces and security apparatus. "His insights and perspectives on strategic matters were exceptional. His passing away has saddened me deeply. Om Shanti," he said in a series of tweets. "As India’s first CDS, General Rawat worked on diverse aspects relating to our armed forces including defence reforms. He brought with him a rich experience of serving in the Army. India will never forget his exceptional service," Modi said.     Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi offered his condolences over the death of General Rawat, his wife and others in the crash in Tamil Nadu, calling it an unprecedented tragedy. "I extend my condolences to the family of General Bipin Rawat and his wife. This is an unprecedented tragedy and our thoughts are with their family in this difficult time," Gandhi said on Twitter. "Heartfelt condolences also to all others who lost their lives. India stands united in this grief," he said. Expressing deep anguish over General Rawat's death, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said his untimely demise is an irreparable loss to the armed forces and the country. "Deeply anguished by the sudden demise of Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat, his wife and 11 other armed forces personnel in an extremely unfortunate helicopter accident today in Tamil Nadu," Singh tweeted. "His untimely death is an irreparable loss to our armed forces and the country," the defence minister said. Singh said General Rawat had served the country with exceptional courage and diligence. "As the first Chief of Defence Staff he had prepared plans for jointness of our armed forces," he said. Home Minister Amit Shah said it was a "very sad day" for the nation as "we have lost our CDS, General Bipin Rawat Ji" in a very tragic accident. "He was one of the bravest soldiers, who has served the motherland with utmost devotion. His exemplary contributions and commitment cannot be put into words. I am deeply pained," Shah said. "I also express my deepest condolences on the sad demise of Mrs Madhulika Rawat and 11 other armed forces personnel. My thoughts are with the bereaved families. May God give them the strength to bear this tragic loss. Praying for the speedy recovery of Gp Capt Varun Singh," the home minister said. Several politicians, including senior ministers, also expressed their grief at the loss of lives in the chopper crash. Union Minister Nitin Gadkari said India will always remain grateful to General Rawat for his impeccable service to the nation at the most crucial moments. Former Jammu and Kashmir chief ministers -- veteran Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad and National Conference leader Omar Abdullah -- also condoled the death of Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat. "It's very sad & shocking to hear about the demise of Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat, his wife and other Armed Forces personnel in the unfortunate helicopter accident today. It's an irreparable loss to the country. I pray to Almighty that their souls may rest in peace," Azad said in a tweet. Omar Abdullah said, "Condolences to the families of General Rawat and the others killed in the helicopter crash earlier today. May their souls rest in peace." Jammu and Kashmir Lt Governor Manoj Sinha expressed shock over the tragic death of General Rawat. "Deeply shocked at (the) tragic demise of chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat, his wife and 11 other armed forces personnel...The nation has lost one of its bravest sons,” Lt Governor Sinha said in a tweet. Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, his Haryana counterpart Manohar Lal Khattar, SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal, former chief minister Amarinder Singh and Union Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal have expressed deep anguish over the death of General Bipin Rawat, his wife and 11 others in the helicopter crash. Rajasthan Governor Kalraj Mishra, Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and former Chief Minister Vasundhara Raje also condoled the deaths.  Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/political-leaders-pay-tributes-to-departed-chief-of-defence-staff-general-bipin-rawat-1058898.html
08-12-2021||National||Chopper crash: Heard a loud sound, helicopter was in flames, says eyewitness||“I heard a loud sound of a helicopter around my house and when I looked to see what happened, the chopper was already on fire after hitting a tree. It hit another big tree within a few seconds and I saw people falling from the helicopter. Then, the helicopter burst into flames.” These are the words of Krishnaswamy, a resident of Nanjappanchathiram in Upper Coonoor in the picturesque Nilgiris district where an IAF Mi-17V5 helicopter crashed killing Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat, his wife Madhulika, and 11 others.  Krishnaswamy, who was one of the eyewitnesses to the tragic incident, said he was shocked to see people falling from the chopper and rushed to inform his neighbour Kumar, a young man, who in turn alerted the police and fire service personnel on his mobile phone.  Prakash, a resident of Burliyar village, also spoke on the same lines, adding that the weather was misty when the chopper crashed in the hills, which is part of the Western Ghats.  “I saw the helicopter flying low over Burliyar village. The chopper hit a tree and caught fire. The site where the chopper crashed is a farm owned by the Horticulture Department. The area has over 200 houses. The weather was misty,” he said. Prakash also claimed only the pilot was pulled out alive and all others died on the spot.  Nilgiris is surrounded by thick forests and the chopper crashed just 10 minutes before it was to reach its destination in Wellington, where the CDS  was to deliver a lecture at the Defence Services Staff College. As soon as the news trickled in, as many as eight 108 emergency ambulance vans reached the spot over a few hours to join the rescue mission, and six doctors from the Coimbatore Medical College also reached Coonoor. Villagers said civilians escaped miraculously as the distance between the crash site and their houses were just a few hundred metres. Since the majority of the residents of the hamlet work in tea estates, only a few people were in their homes when the crash took place.  “We could see nothing at all after the chopper burst into flames. All that was visible was the raging fire and a cloud of thick smoke. But I saw the helicopter crash. I saw three people falling off the chopper and it was terrible to witness the crash,” Krishnaswamy added.  Other eyewitnesses said they saw heavily charred bodies of the army officers being pulled out from the crash site by police and fire services personnel. Tamil Nadu Forest Minister K Ramachandran said the  Vasugi, a resident of the area, said police and fire services personnel rushed to the spot within minutes and launched the rescue operations. “We could see charred remains of army personnel being pulled out of the helicopter. The fire raged for over two hours, and all we could see from a distance was just plumes of smoke,” she said.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chopper-crash-heard-a-loud-sound-helicopter-was-in-flames-says-eyewitness-1058899.html
08-12-2021||National||Consider setting up appellate tribunals under Motor Vehicles Act: SC to Centre||The Supreme Court on Wednesday asked the Union government to consider setting up appellate tribunals under the Motor Vehicles Act, by amending the law to ensure speedy disposal of road accident claims matters as a large number of such cases remained pending before various High Courts. A bench of Justices S Abdul Nazeer and Krishna Murari asked the Ministry of Law and Justice to examine the matter. "In order to curtail the pendency before the High Courts and for speedy disposal of the appeals concerning payment of compensation to the victims of road accident, it would be just and proper to consider constituting ‘Motor Vehicle Appellate Tribunals’ by amending Section 173 of the Motor Vehicles Act so that the appeals challenging the award of a Tribunal could be filed before the Appellate Tribunal so constituted," the bench said. The court said various benches of such an appellate tribunal could consist of two Senior District Judges. "To ensure access to justice and to avoid pendency, it is also proper to consider setting up benches of the appellate tribunal in various regional cities, in addition to the capital city of each state as may be indicated by the relevant High Court," the bench said. For this purpose, appropriate rules governing the procedure of the appellate tribunal may also be framed. No further appeal against the order of the appellate tribunal need be provided. If any of the party is aggrieved by the order of the appellate tribunal, he can always invoke the writ jurisdiction of the concerned High Court for appropriate reliefs, the bench added. The top court was dealing with a plea by Rashmita Biswal and her two sons against the High Court's order to reduce compensation for death of her husband in a road accident at Talcher district in 2013 from Rs 22.60 lakh to Rs 17 lakh. The bench, which enhanced the compensation to Rs 31.01 lakh, noted that at a large number of claim petitions, under the provisions of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 were being filed before the various claims tribunals throughout the country. Against the awards of the tribunals, appeals are filed under Section 173 of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 before the relevant High Court, either by the claimants or by the insurers and owners of the offending vehicles, it said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/consider-setting-up-appellate-tribunals-under-motor-vehicles-act-sc-to-centre-1058901.html
08-12-2021||National||Better if I was not on bench to deal with sexual harassment cases: Ranjan Gogoi||Former Chief Justice of India Ranjan Gogoi, who suffered ignominy of being the only head of judiciary to have faced sexual harassment charges, on Wednesday admitted he should not have been a part of the bench to deal with the matter. "In hindsight, I should not have been a judge on the bench. It might have been better, if I was not part of the bench. We all make mistakes. No harm in accepting it," he said. Taking up questions on controversy surrounding his tenure at the launch of his autobiography 'Justice for Judge', Justice Gogoi said it all happened because his reputation was being questioned. In April, 2019, a woman employee had accused the then-CJI of sexual harassment. Justice Gogoi headed a three-judge bench to deal with the issue after registering a Suo Motu case. With regard to subsequent clean chit to him by an inhouse committee, he said, "it is only at the discretion of the full court. It has been laid down by a judgment. In house proceeding is not toothless. If found guilty, a judge has to step down and the President approves impeachment." His successor Justice S A Bobde, who headed the inhouse committee could have decided against him and easily got have extra seven months as the CJI, he said. About subsequent reinstatement of the woman employee, Justice Gogoi said it had happened during his tenure. She made an application with Justice Bobde for considering her case on humanitarian ground. He reinstated her along with two other staff dismissed for changing order of the court allegedly to favour Anil Ambani, he pointed out. On his Rajya Sabha nomination, Justice Gogoi, asked, "What would you have me accept, Governorship or NHRC chairman. Financially I would have been better. I have not taken a penny from Rajya Sabha and not even the amount that is due to me to engage office help." The former CJI insisted he continued to maintain his independence, despite being a nominated member of Upper House. Justice Gogoi demitted office on November 17, 2019. He was the first CJI from north-eastern state of Assam. He was elevated to Supreme Court as a judge on April 23, 2012. He headed the five-judge bench which decided the Ayodhya dispute. He also presided over a bench which rejected a plea for probe into Rafale deal. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/better-if-i-was-not-on-bench-to-deal-with-sexual-harassment-cases-ranjan-gogoi-1058908.html
08-12-2021||National||Ex-Army chief pays tribute to his former cadet Bipin Rawat||Describing Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat as a "very good officer from a fine military family", former Army chief General (retd) Shankar Roychowdhury on Wednesday said that Rawat was making "necessary adjustments" among the three forces. Noting that Rawat was one of his cadets when he was the battalion commander in the Indian Military Academy, Roychowdhury said that he is "very sorry" that this has happened. "He was a bright cadet and justified all our expectations by getting the sword of honour in his course," Roychowdhury, who was also the staff officer of Gen Rawat's father Lt Gen (retd) LS Rawat for some time, said. "They were a fine military family," he said, reminiscing his association with them. As the first CDS, Rawat was doing a good job in bringing "necessary adjustments" among the three forces -- Army, Navy and Air Force, he said. "As CDS, his work was to iron out differences among the three forces," Roychowdhury, who was the Chief of Army Staff from November 1994 to September 1997, said. "The next CDS will have to be chosen from among the chiefs of the three forces based on seniority, and he must also be fit for the job," he added. General Bipin Rawat, his wife Madhulika and 11 other defence personnel died in a helicopter crash near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu apparently due to foggy weather conditions. He was on a visit to Defence Services Staff College, Wellington, to address the faculty and student officers of the staff course. Group Captain Varun Singh is currently being treated at a military hospital in Wellington. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ex-army-chief-pays-tribute-to-his-former-cadet-bipin-rawat-1058910.html
08-12-2021||National||Pakistan's top military brass express condolences over 'tragic death' of Gen Rawat, others||Pakistan's top military brass on Wednesday expressed condolences over the "tragic death" of India’s Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat, his wife and 11 others who died in a helicopter crash in Tamil Nadu. Pakistan Army’s spokesman in a short statement posted on Twitter said that Chairman Joint Chiefs of Staff Committee (CJCSC) General Nadeem Raza and Chief of Army Staff (COAS) General Qamar Javed Bajwa expressed condolences. "General Nadeem Raza, CJCSC & General Qamar Javed Bajwa, COAS express condolences on tragic death of #CDS General #BipinRawat, his wife and loss of precious lives in a helicopter crash in India,” Pakistan Armed Forces Spokesperson Major General Babar Iftikhar tweeted. The copter carrying Gen Rawat and his entourage crashed in apparently foggy conditions, killing the 13 people on board, the Indian Air Force said. One person survived the crash and is being treated at a hospital. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistans-top-military-brass-express-condolences-over-tragic-death-of-gen-rawat-others-1058912.html
08-12-2021||National||Farmers’ body accepts Centre's fresh proposal, to call off stir||A final decision on calling off the farmer agitation was delayed by one more day as the Centre gave a fresh draft proposal to the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, which had flagged certain objections to the government’s written proposal on Wednesday that talked about withdrawing cases against farmers after end of the agitation and including non-SKM members in the committee to discuss MSP issue. No final decision could be taken on the second consecutive day of the meeting of SKM at the Singhu border on Wednesday even as farmer leaders claimed that a consensus among farmer leaders has been reached on the governments’ fresh proposal and they are now awaiting a formal communication regarding its acceptance on the letterhead of the central government. “Consensus has been reached on the government’s fresh proposal. Now, a formal communication signed on the government’s letterhead is awaited. SKM will meet again tomorrow at 12 noon at the Singhu Border, to take a formal decision thereafter to lift the morchas,” the SKM said in a statement. Indications emerged that the farmer unions could announce the end of the agitation on Thursday morning even as farmer leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni said no decision has yet been arrived on calling off the agitation. “The ball is now in the government’s court. We will announce the final decision tomorrow,” another farmer leader Yudhvir Singh, who is one among the five farmer leaders named by SMK to participate in the MSP discussion, told reporters after the farmer body meeting on Wednesday. The five-member panel of SKM, which huddled to discuss the government’s fresh proposal, said it was “hopeful of a resolution”. After discussing the draft proposal among themselves, the panel members put forth their views on it in the larger meeting of SKM, an umbrella body of 40 farmer organisations, which had on Tuesday raised objections to the government’s proposals saying they are opposed to the inclusion of “pro farm bill” leaders in the panel on MSP and demanded only members from SKM should be included in the MSP panel. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-body-accepts-centres-fresh-proposal-to-call-off-stir-1058920.html
08-12-2021||National||Jacqueline Fernandez visits ED office||Bollywood actor Jacqueline Fernandez was summoned by the Enforcement Directorate again on Thursday for questioning, in connection with a Prevention of Money Laundering Act case lodged against multimillionaire conman Sukesh Chandrashekhar. On Wednesday, Fernandez appeared before the ED to record her statement as a witness in the case. This was the second round of questioning she had faced. She arrived at the MTNL building in Central Delhi, where the ED has its office, around 11 am. A woman official, along with five others, were present in the room where her statement was recorded. Besides Fernandez, Bollywood actor Nora Fatehi also recorded her statement as a witness recently. Fernandez was briefly stopped at the Mumbai Airport by authorities on Sunday, as there was a look-out notice issued against her. On Monday, the ED sent her summons to join the ongoing probe, following which she appeared before the agency. The ED had on Saturday filed a charge sheet under PMLA naming a few Bollywood actors as witnesses. The court had taken cognisance of the charge sheet soon after it was filed and had asked the agency to supply a copy to all those named. The next hearing in the charge sheet matter is scheduled for December 13. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jacqueline-fernandez-visits-ed-office-1058924.html
08-12-2021||National||Lone survivor of Mi17V5 helicopter crash is decorated IAF pilot who saved an LCA Tejas||The lone survivor of the Mi17V5 helicopter crash is a decorated Indian Air Force fighter pilot, who is now battling for his life at the military hospital at Wellington. Group Captain Varun Singh, injured severely in Wednesday’s military chopper crash, was awarded Shaurya Chakra on this year’s Independence Day for saving his LCA Tejas fighter aircraft during an aerial emergency in 2020. He was a Wing Commander at that point of time. A pilot in a Light Combat Aircraft Squadron, he was flying a system check sortie in the LCA after major rectification of the Flight Control System and pressurisation system (life support environment control system). During the sortie, the cockpit pressurisation failed at high altitude. He correctly identified the failure and initiated a descent to lower altitude for landing. While descending, the Flight Control System failed and led to total loss of control of the aircraft. This was an unprecedented catastrophic failure that had never occurred. There was a rapid loss of altitude with the aircraft pitching up and down viciously going to the extremities of G limits. Despite being in extreme physical and mental stress in an extremely life-threatening situation, he maintained exemplary composure and regained control of the aircraft, thereby exhibiting exceptional flying skills. Soon thereafter, at about 10,000 feet, the aircraft again experienced total loss of control with vicious manoeuvring and uncontrollable pitching. Under such a scenario, even though the pilot was at liberty to abandon the aircraft, Singh displayed extraordinary courage and skill to safely land the fighter aircraft despite the potential threat to his own life. He went beyond the call of duty and landed the aircraft taking calculated risks, the IAF had stated in the citation. As he was able to land the aircraft, it allowed the engineers to carry out an accurate analysis of the fault on the indigenously designed fighter and further institution of preventive measures against recurrence. Due to his high order of professionalism, composure and quick decision making, even at the peril to his life, he not only averted the loss of an LCA, but also safeguarded civilian property and population on ground. For such an exceptional act of gallantry, he was conferred with the Shaurya Chakra. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lone-survivor-of-mi17v5-helicopter-crash-is-decorated-iaf-pilot-who-saved-an-lca-tejas-1058925.html
08-12-2021||National||Subramanian Swamy seeks probe by Supreme Court Judge into helicopter crash that killed CDS Bipin Rawat||Rajya Sabha MP Subramanian Swamy on Wednesday sought a probe by a senior Supreme Court Judge into the helicopter crash near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu that killed India's first Chief of Defence Staff (CDS), General Bipin Rawat, his wife and 11 others. The former Union Minister termed the incident as "shocking" and a big caution to national security. "....final report has not come, so it is very difficult for me to say anything, but the mere fact that a military aircraft in a safe zone like Tamil Nadu, has blown up, it appears to be," Swamy said. Speaking to reporters here, he said, "it is something that requires very very serious investigation....the public has to be taken into confidence, so somebody, a senior Supreme Court Judge, should investigate the matter." The copter carrying General Rawat, appointed as CDS in 2019, and his entourage crashed on Wednesday, in apparently foggy conditions, killing the 13 people on board, the IAF and other officials said. One person survived the crash and is being treated at a hospital. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/subramanian-swamy-seeks-probe-by-supreme-court-judge-into-helicopter-crash-that-killed-cds-bipin-rawat-1058927.html
08-12-2021||National||Condolences pour in from US, Russia, Pakistan, other countries over CDS Bipin Rawat's demise||China and Pakistan joined Russia, the United States and other nations to condole the death of India’s first Chief of Defence Staff, Gen Bipin Rawat, his wife and others in a helicopter crash on Wednesday. The United States Secretary of State Antony Blinken and Secretary of Defence Lloyd Austin condoled the death of the senior-most military official of India. “We'll remember Gen Rawat as an exceptional leader who served his country and contributed to the US-India defence relationship,” tweeted Blinken. “Gen Rawat left an indelible mark on the course of the US-India defence partnership and was at the centre of the Indian Armed Forces’ transformation into a more jointly integrated war-fighting organisation,” Austin said in a statement issued in Washington D.C. “I had the privilege of meeting with him earlier this year and viewed him as a valued partner and friend of the United States,” Austin recalled his meeting with Gen Rawat in Washington D.C. on September 30. The American Embassy in New Delhi also issued a statement, recalling Gen Rawat’s visit to Washington D.C. and his discussion with General Mark Milley, Chair of Joint Chief of Staff of the US. Gen Rawat and Gen Milley discussed military developments and opportunities to enhance defence cooperation. “Russia has lost a very close friend, who played a big role in promotion of our bilateral special and privileged strategic partnership. Grieving together with India. Goodbye, friend! Farewell, Commander!” Nikolay Kudashev, Moscow’s envoy to New Delhi, tweeted. President Gotabaya Rajapaksa of Sri Lanka, President Ibrahim Mohamed Solih of Maldives, Prime Minister Lotay Tshering of Bhutan and Prime Minister Sher Bahadur Deuba of Nepal tweeted to convey condolence to the bereaved families of the deceased as well as the government and the people of India. “Deep condolences on the sad demise of CDS General Bipin Rawat, his wife and other victims in the helicopter crash accident. My sympathy goes to all the family members of General Bipin Rawat,” Beijing’s envoy to New Delhi, Sun Weidong, posted on Twitter. Pakistan’s army chief Gen Qamar Javed Bajwa and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Committee Gen Nadeem Raza also expressed condolences on the tragic death of the CDS of India. The Foreign Minister of Bangladesh, A K Abdul Momen, wrote to his counterpart in New Delhi, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar, conveying the “deepest condolence” on behalf of Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina on the death of Gen Rawat, his wife Madhulika Rawat, and others. The United Kingdom, France, Australia, Israel, Poland, Czech Republic, Japan, Taiwan, Germany and Singapore also condoled the death of the senior-most military official of India. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/condolences-pour-in-from-us-russia-pakistan-other-countries-over-cds-bipin-rawats-demise-1058928.html
08-12-2021||National||Bipin Rawat senior-most military official to die in an air crash||General Bipin Rawat, the first Chief of Defence Staff, has become the senior-most military leader of the country to have died in an air accident so far. The last senior military official to die in an air accident was Lt Gen Jameel Mehmood, who was the General Officer Commanding-in-Chief of the Eastern Command of the Indian Army from October 1992 to May 1993. He and his wife, along with six others, had died when the MI-17 helicopter they were flying in crashed in Bhutan on May 7, 1993. Two senior officers of the Indian Army and another of the Indian Air Force were among six killed in a helicopter crash in Poonch of Jammu and Kashmir on November 23, 1963. Lt Gen Daulat Singh, the General Officer Commanding-in-Chief of the Western Command of the Indian Army, and Lt Gen Bikram Singh, the commander of the XV Corps, were flying in an Aérospatiale Alouette III helicopter of the IAF from a forward post to another along the ceasefire line with the Pakistan Army. The Air Officer Commanding-in-Chief of the IAF’s Western Air Command, Air Vice Marshal Erlic Pinto was also flying with them. The helicopter, piloted by Flight LieutenantSS Sodhi of the IAF, crashed after colliding with telegraph cables, killing all six on board. Another air accident in February 1952 would have dealt a massive blow to the army and the air force and wiped off many future military top brass, but for the presence of mind, skill and courage of the IAF officer piloting it. Lt Gen SM Shrinagesh, then General Officer Commanding-in-Chief of the Indian Army’s Western Command, Quarter Master General Major General KS Thimayya, Chief of General Staff Major General SPP Thorat, Military Secretary Major General Sarda Nand, Major General Mohinder Singh Chopra and Brigadier Ajaib Singh were on board the IAF’s De Havilland Devon aircraft, flown by Flight Lieutenant Suhas Biswas. They were returning to New Delhi after witnessing a military exercise in Lucknow. Soon after the aircraft took off, one of its engines caught fire, separated from the wing and fell off. Flight Lieutenant Biswas, however, managed to belly-land the aircraft at a village near Sandilla Railway Station in Uttar Pradesh, with everyone on board unhurt. Shrinagesh and Thimayya later served as the chief of the Indian Army and Thorat as the General Officer Commanding-in-Chief of the Eastern Command. Flight Lieutenant Biswas was awarded the Ashoka Chakra for saving the lives of senior military officials. He, however, could not beat death the second time, dying on September 1, 1957, when the IAF Dakota aircraft he was flying crashed in the Nilgiri Mountains. General Rawat too survived a minor air accident once earlier. He was then a Lieutenant General and commander of the Indian Army’s III Corps in Dimapur of Nagaland. The helicopter he was flying in crashed just seconds after it took off from a helipad on February 3, 2015. He and others on board suffered minor injuries. He, however, was not lucky on Wednesday. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bipin-rawat-senior-most-military-official-to-die-in-an-air-crash-1058931.html
08-12-2021||National||Mi17V5 reliable platform that the IAF has been using since 2012||The Mi17V5 helicopter that crashed in the Nilgiri hills of Tamil Nadu on Wednesday with Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat as one of the passengers, is a workhorse that the Indian Air Force is using for more than eight years after their induction in 2012. Despite five accidents including three fatal ones, the Russian origin choppers, an upgrade of Mi-17 in the medium-lift category, are considered extremely reliable. “For the past six decades, the Mi series helicopters were the mainstay of the IAF. The latest version (Mi17V5) is a very reliable one and the pilots swear by its ruggedness. Because of its extremely good safety records, it is used by the IAF Communication Squadron, which ferries the President and the prime minister,” Air Vice Marshal Manmohan Bahadur (rtd), a former helicopter pilot, told DH. In 2008, India signed an agreement with Russia to induct 80 Mi-17 V5 helicopters at a cost of $1,345 million for strengthening IAF’s helicopter fleet for high altitude air maintenance, humanitarian assistance and disaster relief mission and transport operations. The Mi17V5 has a glass cockpit variant; the first of its kind to get inducted into the IAF. It has onboard weather radar, state of the art autopilot and is compatible with the Gen-III night vision goggles because of which it can undertake all-weather day and night operations in any kind of terrain. The helicopter in which General Rawat and his team were flying was a part of the first 2008 contract for 80 Mi-17V-5 medium-lift helicopters. Experts tracking military aviation said there were five Mi17V5 accidents in the last nine years including two fatal ones in June 2013 near north of Gaurikund in Uttarakhand and in October, 2017 at Tawang in Arunachal Pradesh. In both cases, weather played a crucial role in the crash. The third fatal incident was the infamous friendly fire episode in February 2019. The remaining two were hard landings with no fatality. A detailed investigation would now be carried out to ascertain the root cause behind the Coonoor crash. “Till then it’s better not to speculate,” added Air Vice Marshal Bahadur. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mi17v5-reliable-platform-that-the-iaf-has-been-using-since-2012-1058932.html
08-12-2021||National||Tearful uncle recalls General Rawat's last visit to native village||General Bipin Rawat had last visited his native village here in 2018 and had plans to build a house there after his retirement, his uncle recalled, hours after a helicopter crash killed India’s first Chief of Defence Staff near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu on Wednesday. His uncle Bharat Singh Rawat (70) had gone to Kotdwar for some work but returned home as soon as he heard about the accident. It is only the general's family that lives at Saina village of Dwarikhal block. The general's uncle said people from nearby villages offered condolences to the family with tears in their eyes. He said Bipin Rawat had offered prayers to their "kuldevata" during his last visit to the village in 2018. He left on the same day and had said he would build a house in the village after his retirement, the general's uncle said. Bharat Singh Rawat said the general was attached to his village and had told people that he would do something for the area after retirement as he was pained at migration from here. He used to talk over the phone to him and had plans to visit the village in April next year, the general’s uncle said wiping his tears, adding that little did he know that his nephew's wish would remain unfulfilled.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tearful-uncle-recalls-general-rawats-last-visit-to-native-village-1058937.html
08-12-2021||National||Covid-19: Centre issues 10-point action plan on Omicron variant||As concerns over the Covid-19 Omicron variant continue to rise, Centre on Wednesday gave a 10-point action plan to states and Union Territories, asking them to follow "mission mode" keeping in view of multiple cases reported from states in the past week. In a letter, also marked to DG ICMR, NITI and NCDC, besides top officials of states and UTs, Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan has asked for a prompt sampling of positive cases from international travellers and their contacts to INSACOG labs for genome sequencing. Also, Omicron cases are to be treated at designated Covid facilities "with separate isolation areas marked for Omicron positive cases" to prevent cross-infections. "It has to be ensured that adequate precautions are taken by healthcare workers in these facilities to prevent transmission among other patients and healthcare workers," the letter underlined. States have also been asked to detect with enhanced surveillance the emergence of new clusters of Covid-positive cases, incidents of vaccination breakthroughs and re-infection, and ensure their prompt investigation through Rapid Response Teams. Asking states to maintain adequate testing, particularly in districts with more than 5 per cent positivity, the Central government said that in the absence of a sufficient number of tests, it will be difficult to determine the true level of infection spread. "All international travellers who have arrived in the community need also to be monitored by the district surveillance team and their testing on the 8th day needs to be ensured if they have come from at-risk countries. The states must follow a focused approach of quickly tracking the primary and secondary contacts of the positive cases and facilitate testing for them," Bhushan said. The government also directed for close monitoring of the prevalence of ILI/SARI and respiratory distress symptoms in people due to the onset of winter and increased pollution in some states. In its earlier communication to states on November 25, November 27 and November 29, the health ministry had advised the states to undertake enhanced surveillance of international travellers and constant monitoring of emerging Covid-19 hotspots.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-centre-issues-10-point-action-plan-on-omicron-variant-1058961.html
08-12-2021||National||Country lost a great security strategist, patriot: RSS on demise of Gen Bipin Rawat||The RSS on Wednesday expressed anguish over the death of Chief of Defense Staff General Bipin Rawat in a helicopter crash and said the country has lost "a great security strategist and a true patriot" in his passing away. The Indian Army had set "new paradigms of valour" under the leadership of Gen Rawat, RSS Sarkaryavah (general secretary) Dattatreya Hosabale said. "The sudden demise of Chief of Defense Staff General Bipin Rawat in a helicopter crash is shocking and a great loss for the nation. Under his leadership, the Indian Army set new paradigms of valour," Hosabale said in a statement, which was tweeted by the RSS. "In his passing, the country has lost a great security strategist, a true patriot and an able leader. RSS pays heartfelt tributes to General Rawat, his wife and the soldiers who lost their lives in this unfortunate incident," the RSS leader said. India's first Chief of Defence Staff (CDS), General Bipin Rawat, his wife and 11 others were killed in a helicopter crash in Tamil Nadu on Wednesday. The copter carrying General Rawat, appointed as CDS in 2019, and his entourage crashed in apparently foggy conditions, killing the 13 people on board, the IAF and other officials said. One person survived the crash and is being treated at a hospital Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/country-lost-a-great-security-strategist-patriot-rss-on-demise-of-gen-bipin-rawat-1058962.html
08-12-2021||National||Cabinet approves continuation of Pradhan Mantri Awaas Yojana – Gramin (PMAY-G) for another 3 years||The Centre on Wednesday gave nod to continuation of Pradhan Mantri Awaas Yojana – Gramin (PMAY-G) another three years. "The Union Cabinet, chaired by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi, has approved the proposal of the Department of Rural Development for continuation of Pradhan Mantri Awaas Yojana – Gramin (PMAY-G) beyond March 2021," said a statement from the Union Ministry of Rural Development. The Centre will provide financial assistance for the construction of the remaining 155.75 lakh houses, as on 31st March, 2021 under the scheme within total target of 2.95 crore houses.  "The total financial implication for construction of the remaining 155.75 lakh houses will be Rs. 2.17 lakh crore. The continuation of scheme till March, 2024 ensures that the remaining 155.75 lakh households within overall target of 2.95 crore houses under PMAY-G would be provided assistance for construction of Pucca houses with basic amenities to achieve the objective of “Housing for All” in rural areas," said the statement. "As on 29th November, 2021, 1.65 crore PMAY-G houses have been constructed out of the total target of 2.95 crore. It is estimated that 2.02 crore houses, which is almost equal to SECC 2011 database based Permanent Wait List will be completed by the deadline of 15th August, 2022. Therefore, to achieve the total target of 2.95 crore houses, the scheme need to be continued till March, 2024," the statement added. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cabinet-approves-continuation-of-pradhan-mantri-awaas-yojana-gramin-pmay-g-for-another-3-years-1058964.html
08-12-2021||National Politics||Speak Out: December 8, 2021||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday launched a scathing attack on the Samajwadi Party (SP) and cautioned the people of Uttar Pradesh against supporting them saying that those wearing red caps were dangerous for the state. He also said that the Centre and the BJP government in the state continued to work for the development of UP even during the Covid-19 pandemic. "This is the benefit of the double engine government," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/speak-out-december-8-2021-1058701.html
08-12-2021||National Politics||Government 'regret' over Nagaland incident not enough: Sonia Gandhi at CPP meeting||Congress President Sonia Gandhi on Wednesday hit out at the Modi government over issue of price rise, farmers' demands and tension at the borders, and said her party will insist on a discussion in Parliament on challenges facing the agri sector and the border situation. Addressing party MPs at the meeting of the Congress Parliamentary Party (CPP), Gandhi also expressed deep anguish over the killing of 14 civilians in Nagaland, and said justice for families should be ensured at the earliest. She also raised the issue of suspension of 12 Rajya Sabha MPs, terming the move as "outrageous", and said it is unprecedented that they have been suspended for the remaining period of the Winter session. "It violates both the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in the Council of States, as Mallikarjun Kharge ji has explained in his letter to the Chairman of the Rajya Sabha," she said, adding that they all stand in solidarity with them. Congress MPs of both houses of Parliament and former Congress president Rahul Gandhi were present during the meeting in the central hall of Parliament. The Congress president said it was extraordinary that Parliament has not been given an opportunity so far to have a discussion on the challenges the country continues to face on its borders. "Such a discussion would have also been an opportunity to demonstrate a collective will and resolve. The government may not want to answer difficult questions but it is the right and duty of the Opposition to seek clarifications and explanations. "The Modi Government steadfastly refuses to allocate time for a debate. I would once again urge for a full-fledged discussion on the border situation and relations with our neighbours," Gandhi told the meeting. The Congress chief said the Government has finally repealed the three farm laws, even it was done "undemocratically just as their passage last year was pushed through without discussion". She said it is the solidarity and tenacity of the farmers, their discipline and dedication that has forced an "arrogant Government to climbdown". Saluting the farmers for their achievement, Gandhi remembered the sacrifice of over 700 farmers in the past 12 months and called for honouring their sacrifice. "We are firm in our commitment to stand by the farmers in their demands for a legally guaranteed MSP, remunerative prices that meet the costs of cultivation, and compensation to the bereaved families," she said. Raising the issue of price rise, she said, "I cannot understand how and why the Modi Government is so insensitive and continues to deny the seriousness of the problem. It seems impervious to the suffering of the people." She also termed the steps taken to reduce petrol, diesel, and cooking gas prices as totally insufficient and inadequate and said government has passed on the responsibility for duty cuts to financially strapped state governments instead. "And all this while, the Centre persists with huge public expenditure on vain glorious projects," she said, while making a veiled reference to the central vista project. She also accused the Modi government of selling off precious national assets like banks, insurance companies, public sector enterprises, railways and airports. "First, the prime minister destroyed the economy with his demonetisation move of November 2016. He is continuing on that disastrous path, but calling it monetisation. Now, he is dismantling the public sector built up over the past seventy years with strategic, economic and social objectives in mind," she said. Hitting out at the government for claiming economic recovery, Gandhi said, "Recovery for whom is the real question? It means nothing to those millions who have lost their livelihoods, and to those MSMEs whose businesses have been crippled not just by the COVID-19 pandemic but also by the combined effects of 'notebandi' and the hasty implementation of a flawed GST." She said a few big companies making profits or the stock market rising to new heights does not mean that the economy is recovering. "And if profits are being made by shedding labour, what social value do these profits have," she asked. On the Covid situation, she said, the sad reality is that the country is nowhere close to reaching the level of double-dose vaccination announced by the Government for the end of the year. Efforts must clearly be intensified and the daily vaccination dose has to increase four-fold so that 60 per cent of the population is covered with both doses, she said, hoping the Government has learnt a lesson from the previous waves of Covid and is preparing itself to dealing effectively with the new variant. "There are many other issues that we want to raise. Important amongst them, are a discussion on the various challenges confronting Indian agriculture and the urgent need to have direct income support to families who have lost their livelihoods. We must insist on it," she said. On the Nagaland firing incident, she said, "The Government expressing regret is not enough! Justice for the families of the victims has to be ensured at the earliest. Credible steps must be taken to prevent the recurrence of such ghastly tragedies". Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/government-regret-over-nagaland-incident-not-enough-sonia-gandhi-at-cpp-meeting-1058743.html
08-12-2021||National Politics||'BJP will be wiped out from the state,' says Akhilesh on upcoming elections||Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Wednesday hit back at Prime Minister Narendra Modi's "lal topi" comment, saying that the colour of the cap has reached Delhi, engulfing BJP's ranks in panic. Akhilesh Yadav spoke to IANS on an array of issues, including the Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls. Prime Minister Modi has said that you people yearn for only power. What is your reaction? Red colour symbolises revolution, a change. This is also the colour of emotions. BJP does not understand sentiments. Red colour is the most vibrant colour and warns the party in power to be careful. The people of Uttar Pradesh want a change. The brightness of lal topi has reached Delhi, so the language of the BJP has also changed as they are panicky. Changes are bound to happen in the state. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has been taking a dig at the red colour cap and now the Prime Minister has also targeted you. This must be the first time that the Prime Minister has spoken the language of the chief minister by rote. You are continuously claiming that you will win the upcoming elections, but the BJP is saying that they have defeated you three times in a row, in 2014, 2017 and 2019. Circumstances have changed now. This time, BJP is nervous -- farmers, youth, traders and people of the state will show them their real power. The PM is constantly laying foundation stones and inaugurating events in Uttar Pradesh. Do you have anything to say about it? The advertisements they are putting out are false, their development claims are false. They stole a picture of Bengal, of America and of China. Their development claims are hollow. How many seats are you going to win? The BJP will be wiped out from the state. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-will-be-wiped-out-from-the-state-says-akhilesh-on-upcoming-elections-1058792.html
08-12-2021||National Politics||In land of Krishna, UP CM Yogi Adityanath likens rivals to 'Kansa', once again rakes up 'kabristan'||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday sought to compare the regimes of his rivals in Uttar Pradesh to that of 'Kansa', the mythical tyrant ruler of Mathura, who had imprisoned his sister Devki and killed her six children before being killed by Lord Krishna, and said that the construction of Ram Temple could start only as there was a BJP government at the Centre and the state. Addressing a public meeting at Mathura, known as the 'Braj Bhoomi' (land of Krishna), Adityanath also once again raked up kabristan and said that the previous spent the public money on building boundary walls around graveyards. "This government is spending the same money on development of places of religious importance," he added. "It then seemed as if Kansa was ruling Mathura....criminal elements enjoyed patronage then," the chief minister remarked. "The construction of the Ram Temple was on in Ayodhya.....did you expect the Congress or BSP to build the same.....as far as babua (Akhilesh Yadav) is concerned, he would have ordered firing on those constructing the Ram Temple," Adityanath said. Earlier also Adityanath had compared Akhilesh with Jinnah and called SP patron Mulayam Singh Yadav as Akhilesh's 'abbajaan'. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/in-land-of-krishna-up-cm-yogi-adityanath-likens-rivals-to-kansa-once-again-rakes-up-kabristan-1058800.html
08-12-2021||National Politics||Information on farmer deaths maintained by state governments: Centre in Parliament||The government on Wednesday told Parliament that information related to number of farmers who died during the protest at Delhi borders since last year is maintained by "respective state governments". Minister of state for home affairs Nityanand Rai told the Rajya Sabha in a written reply that "police and public order are state subjects as per the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution of India. The information in this regard is maintained by the respective state governments." He was asked a question on the number of farmers who died during protests on the borders of Delhi from 2020. The reply of the minister added that the "respective state governments deal with matters relating to compensation in such cases (death of farmers)." The reply stated that the "Delhi Police has informed that an amount of Rs 7,38,42,914 (up to 20.11.2021) has been spent to provide security at various sites of the farmers protest." Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/information-on-farmer-deaths-maintained-by-state-governments-centre-in-parliament-1058817.html
08-12-2021||National Politics||AFSPA has done nothing good but brought animosity, repeal it: Nagaland MP||Nagaland MP KG Kenye on Wednesday raised the demand for the repeal of the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act or AFSPA in Rajya Sabha arguing that the controversial legislation has done "nothing" good but something that has brought "animosity" to all regions in the country. Making his demand during the Zero Hour days after 14 civilians were killed by security forces in Nagaland's Mon district, the Naga People's Front MP said the apprehensions about "misuse and abuse of special powers" raised by MPs 63 years ago when the Bill was passed has come true. He reminded the House that there was a marathon debate in Parliament when the Bill was brought in 63 years ago and the MPs from different parts of the country expressed their "serious apprehensions about the misuse and abuse of this special power". The MPs argued that if it was to be used by the armed forces against "innocent civilians with impunity", still they will go scot free without any prosecution from any court of law, without the previous sanction of the Centre. "So, it was this grave danger in visioning the grave consequences that would bear on this country, they had vehemently and stiffly opposed the enactment of the AFSPA," he said. "In the light of what has transpired in the last 63 years up to December 4 this year, it turned out that they were prophetic and they have been proven to be correct. The AFSPA has done nothing good for this country, except animosity on all the people of this region, the north-eastern region, and the mainland. So, all the efforts, which have been put in by wise men, by leaders, by right-thinking citizens of this country from all walks of life, have just been destroyed in a matter of a few hours," he said. As long as AFSPA continues to remain in the Constitution of the country, he said, "these will be used with impunity again" while appealing for the withdrawal of AFSPA. Congress Rajya Sabha Chief Whip Jairam Ramesh tweeted, "thanks entirely to the Opposition parties, the lone Nagaland MP KG Kenye was able to speak for three minutes during Zero Hour in the Rajya Sabha. Sadly his mike was turned off thereafter, and he could not complete it. But he made his point forcefully." Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/afspa-has-done-nothing-good-but-brought-animosity-repeal-it-nagaland-mp-1058829.html
08-12-2021||National Politics||Congress war-weary, torn apart by infighting: TMC mouthpiece||The TMC on Wednesday claimed that it is now the "real Congress", given the fact that the "war-weary" grand old party has failed to perform its role as the main opposition. The Mamata Banerjee-led party, engaged in a war of words with the Congress over the issue of opposition front leadership, iterated in its mouthpiece 'Jago Bangla' that it was committed to fighting the BJP. "The Congress is incapable of carrying forward the baton of principal opposition," the article said, while sharing details of TMC national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee's meeting with party MPs in New Delhi, where he spoke about the camp's intention to expand in other states. "The Congress was supposed to stop the BJP juggernaut. It is the main opposition party at the Centre. It is, however, indifferent, war-weary, burdened, torn apart by infighting and factionalism. But time doesn't wait for anybody; someone has to come forward. The TMC will fulfil that responsibility. It is the real Congress," it said. The editorial piece, however, maintained that the TMC wants to take along everybody as it marches ahead. According to leaders of Bengal’s ruling camp, Abhishek Banerjee, during his meeting with party MPs on Tuesday, rubbished allegations that his party was trying to drive a wedge in opposition as "baseless". "Our leader Abhishek Banerjee has said that the party would continue to expand in other states. The Congress and the CPI(M), too, had fought against the TMC in the last assembly polls and indirectly helped the BJP. So if that wasn't a spanner in opposition unity, how come the TMC expanding in other states is a problem?" a senior TMC MP sought to know. The TMC, which is trying to make inroads in the political landscapes of other states, has been up in arms against the grand old party over its alleged failure to counter the BJP. In its bid to enter Tripura's political arena in a big way, the TMC recently engaged in a bitter battle with the BJP during the municipal elections there. It is also gearing up to contest the assembly elections in Goa to pitch Mamata Banerjee firmly as the foremost anti-BJP opposition voice. In a massive jolt to the Congress in Meghalaya, 12 of its 17 MLAs, led by former chief minister Mukul Sangma, recently joined the TMC. The party also said it is "disinterested" in coordinating with the Congress during the winter session of Parliament and doesn't want to play second fiddle to the grand old party. In October, Banerjee's party had taken a dig at Rahul Gandhi's defeat at Amethi in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, wondering whether the Congress would erase it through a Twitter trend. The ties between the Congress and the TMC got further strained after 'Jago Bangla', in one of its articles, asserted that Banerjee, and not Rahul Gandhi, has emerged as the face of the opposition against Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-war-weary-torn-apart-by-infighting-tmc-mouthpiece-1058837.html
08-12-2021||National Politics||Sena MP Priyanka Chaturvedi sends legal notice over Savarkar comments||Shiv Sena MP Priyanka Chaturvedi on Wednesday said she has sent a legal notice to BJP leaders Ashish Shelar and Atul Bhatkalkar and a singer for “spreading lies” about her comments on Veer Savarkar, in a bid to “defame” her and the party. Chaturvedi has also sought an apology from the MLAs and singer Bharat Balvalli, failing which she said she will initiate criminal and civil defamation proceedings against them. Taking to Twitter, the Sena leader said on December 2, Shelar in a press conference, claimed that she had insulted Savarkar. Chaturvedi said she did not make any comment against Savarkar and that Shelar's “false accusations” have led to her loss of reputation. “I have sent a legal notice for defamation through my lawyers to @ShelarAshish @BhatkhalkarA and Bharat Balvalli for spreading deliberate lies in a bid to defame me, malign me and my party @ShivSena. They must unconditionally apologise for this shameless attempt at maligning,” Chaturvedi tweeted. Reacting to the development, BJP MLA Atul Bhatkhalkar said he is ready to face 10 more legal notices by people like Chaturvedi, as he reveres Savarkar. “She has sent a legal notice to my party colleagues and me because we criticised her. We will respond to her notice with our legal representation. We are ready to face 10 more legal notices as we revere late Savarkar,” the BJP leader said. The party will continue to stress her alleged statements against Savarkar on various platforms as well, he said.  Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sena-mp-priyanka-chaturvedi-sends-legal-notice-over-savarkar-comments-1058841.html
08-12-2021||National Politics||Farmers' protest set to be withdrawn after Centre reaches out||The year-long agitation of farmers against the three contentious farm laws, that were withdrawn last week, seems on way to end very soon with the government having met “nearly all demands” raised by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha. However, some points of divergence still remain - on the issue of timing of withdrawal of cases against farmers and the constitution of the panel on MSP. While the government offered to withdraw cases after the agitation is called off, the SKM, an umbrella body of over 40 farmers' unions, is insisting quashing of FIR as a prerequisite for withdrawing the agitation. The agitation could be called off as early but a final decision on it would be taken on Wednesday afternoon after another round of meeting by the protesting Unions, who seem to have reached a consensus on the final course of the agitation, which has kept the political pot boiling in the country since November 26 last year. The decision has been taken after Centre gave the proposal in writing to the farm leaders on Tuesday regarding withdrawing the cases lodged against farmers in the course of the year-long protest and set up a committee for a law on MSP. “SKM confirms to have received a written draft proposal from the Home Ministry of Government of India—SKM will seek further clarifications on a few points from the government’s proposal and will re-convene tomorrow for further discussion,” it said in a statement after discussing the proposal “constructively”. “We have replied to the letter of the government. The government is saying that it will withdraw cases once the farmers withdraw the agitation. They are asking farmers to go back on this promise. But who will trust them like this? We will discuss in meeting over this,” SKM leader Rakesh Tikait said. The protesting farmer unions are opposed to the inclusion of “pro-farm bill” leaders in the panel on MSP and in their reply to the government demanded only members from SKM should be included in the MSP panel and the government should quash all FIRs against the farmers before the agitation is called off. The government has proposed that it will form a committee to look into the demand for a legal guarantee on minimum support price (MSP) and the panel will include farmer organisations outside the SKM as well besides scientists and representatives from the Central and the state governments. SKM had earlier named five members, Balbir Singh Rajewal, Ashok Dhawle, Shiv Kumar Kakka, Gurnam Singh Chaduni and Yudhvir Singh for the panel on December 4. Home Minister Amit Shah is reported to have asked a leader of the SKM on the setting up of the MSP panel after which some forward movement began. SKM leader Balbir Singh Rajewal categorically said that the farmer unions will not accept the government’s condition that cases against farmers will be withdrawn after the agitation is called off. Another farmer leader Kulwant Singh Sandhu claimed “nearly all demands raised by us have been met” referring to the government’s letter regarding assurances on farmers' demands. While he claimed that a “consensus” has been reached, the farmer union leaders from Haryana appeared adamant on withdrawal for FIR first. The central government in its proposal to SKM said, “The governments of UP and Haryana (both BJP-ruled) have given full consent that cases lodged during the agitation against farmers will be withdrawn soon after the agitation is ended. The departments related to Government of India (Railways) and the Union Territory (Chandigarh) have also agreed to withdraw the cases after the agitation is ended. Even for compensation, UP and Haryana governments have given their in-principle consent. Even the government of Punjab has made public announcement on these two subjects.” Referring to all the five demands of SKM including objections to electricity bill and removing criminal liability clause from the electricity bill, the Central government said, “in this way, all five demands have been appropriately addressed. Now there is no justification for continuing the farmer agitation.” Three days after 1st anniversary of the farmer agitation on November 26, the government on the first day of the winter session of Parliament on November 29, repealed the three contentious laws--- Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 – in September 2020. The withdrawal happened 10 days after Modi on November 19 in a televised address to the nation, announced with an “apology” that the government will repeal the laws as it could not convince a section of farmers about the benefits of the new farm laws. The move coming just months before elections in agrarian states of Punjab and UP, two epicenters of protest along with Haryana, was criticised the Opposition as a delayed decision taken due to electoral considerations. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/farmers-protest-set-to-be-withdrawn-after-centre-reaches-out-1058846.html
08-12-2021||National Politics||Disobeying the Chair is undemocratic: Naidu tells Opposition MPs||Disobeying the Chair and disturbing the House are "undemocratic", Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu said on Wednesday as Opposition continued its protest inside the House on the suspension of 12 MPs, leading to a brief adjournment and boycott of the proceedings by the protesting lawmakers, who held a day-long dharna. As soon as the House assembled in the morning, Naidu announced the rejection of notices to suspend business and discuss issues like Minimum Support Price for crops and repeal of Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act. The Opposition MPs were up in arms demanding the revocation of suspension. Naidu disallowed their submission but first called Leader of Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge to put his views. Kharge said, "We are repeatedly requesting that our 12 MPs have been suspended from this House. They should be called back and suspension should be revoked. This (suspension) is illegal, undemocratic and unconstitutional. I can prove it is wrong. We are ready to cooperate, Sir." "This action was not taken by the Chair. The action was taken by the House on a resolution moved by the Leader of the House," Naidu said. When Trinamool's Sushmita Dev said that the suspended MPs were sitting outside, Naidu asked what can he do as he had not asked them to sit outside. He said, "disobeying the chair is undemocratic. Disturbing the House is undemocratic. You cannot be having this every day. This is not the way. You are compounding the offence. What is this?  You are not letting the House function for the last 10 days. This is not allowed." He went on to say that the protesting MPs are not allowing MPs to raise issues like MSP, Omicron, Covid-19 and other issues during the Zero Hour. "What is your interest, I am not able to understand. Do not test the patience of the country. Some Members do not want Zero Hour. They do not want members to raise public issues... They are creating a situation in the House that is very awkward." Naidu said he has already suggested that the Leader of the Opposition, other leaders, the Minister of Parliamentary Affairs and the Leader of the House sit together, discuss the issue and see to it that the House is allowed to function in an orderly manner. "Creating disorder, defending something which is not defendable and then trying to force me for an action is not reasonable at all. You are not understanding it in spite of my telling. The action was taken because the papers were torn, files were taken away, mikes were broken, people came onto the Table, the entry was blocked to the Chairman's room and marshals were attacked. You say that it was right and the action of suspension was wrong. This is wrong," he said, adjourning the House till 12 noon. Opposition MPs did not attend the House after this and attended a dharna at the Gandhi Statue in Parliament House in solidarity with the suspended MPs. In the absence of Opposition MPs, the Question Hour was held while in the afternoon session, the government passed The Assisted Reproductive Technology (Regulation) Bill, 2021 and The Surrogacy (Regulation) Bill, 2020 with amendments. The Surrogacy Bill was earlier passed by Lok Sabha but Rajya Sabha had referred it to a Select Committee. It will now go back to Lok Sabha for approval.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/disobeying-the-chair-is-undemocratic-naidu-tells-opposition-mps-1058863.html
08-12-2021||National Politics||Shiv Sena's Raut follows up Rahul meeting with Priyanka talks||Senior Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Wednesday followed up his meeting with Rahul Gandhi by holding discussions with Congress' General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi, making it clear that the Uddhav Thackeray-led party sees the "grand old party" as the fulcrum of the Opposition, albeit seeking a stronger grouping. After his meeting with Priyanka, the Sena leader described the discussions as "positive" and that they were thinking of working together in Uttar Pradesh and Goa. Priyanka is the party in-charge for Uttar Pradesh. With this, Sena has once again made it clear that it is not in favour of the Trinamool Congress' latest efforts of taking the lead of an opposition front. Sources earlier said that Sena, which, otherwise, plans to contest 22 of the 40 seats, is also exploring the possibility of an alliance with Congress in poll-bound Goa. Congress is also in talks with NCP. Raut is learnt to have told Rahul that an alliance will pool in anti-BJP forces that could blunt the Trinamool Congress-led efforts. Though unrelated to the meeting with Raut, Rahul also had a meeting with party observer P Chidambaram and party in-charge Dinesh Gundu Rao on poll strategy in Goa on Tuesday. Sources said Raut has conveyed to Rahul during Tuesday's meeting that he needs to take the lead in reaching out to non-BJP parties and strengthen the existing United Progressive Alliance (UPA). He is learnt to have told the former Congress president that the UPA is in "no doubt weak" or virtually non-existent but Congress has to take the lead in creating a grouping of anti-BJP forces. Sena's view is that without Congress, there could not be a credible opposition to the BJP, sources said. Sena was critical of Trinamool Congress' aggressive approach against the Congress and feared that it would be counter-productive in the fight against the BJP. Raut is learnt to have shared this perception with Rahul as well as Priyanka. Sources said there was no decision on Sena formally joining the UPA but the Congress leadership could make a formal request for the same. A senior Congress leader said that for all practical purposes, Sena is in the UPA and it is only a formality. Sena leaders are also expecting Rahul to meet Uddhav Thackeray in Mumbai later this month. Rahul is likely to be in Mumbai on December 28 to attend a party event. Senior leaders are appreciative of the "clear-cut support" given by Sena at a time when perception is growing that regional parties are drifting away from the Congress.  Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/shiv-senas-raut-follows-up-rahul-meeting-with-priyanka-talks-1058919.html
