09-12-2021||First Edit||World needs quick waiver on vaccine IPR||It is disappointing that the 12th Ministerial Conference of the World Trade Organisation (WTO), which was to be held in Geneva last week, had to be indefinitely postponed because of the travel restrictions imposed by some countries in the wake of the discovery of the new Covid-19 virus variant Omicron. Delegations from 164 member countries were expected to discuss some important issues, including the need for wider access to Covid-19 vaccines and drugs for developing countries. It is ironic that a meeting to discuss improved vaccine supplies and specifically a call for a waiver of Intellectual Property Rights (IPRs) relating to vaccines and other Covid-19 treatments had to be postponed citing the threat of yet another new variant. Had the developed countries agreed and the WTO decided early enough to India and South Africa’s proposal to waive IPR restrictions and enabled speedier vaccination all over the world, the danger of new variants arising would be far less now.  A waiver will enable countries to use compulsory licences without the consent of the patent-holder to produce vaccines and medicines cheaply and to send them to countries that are unable to make them. Many low-income countries have no manufacturing facilities and cannot afford vaccines and drugs at their current prices. Covax, the international initiative to deliver vaccines cheaply to needy countries, has been able to deliver only 30 per cent of the requirements. In some countries, only about 5% of people have got even one vaccine dose till now. It is estimated that at the present pace of production and distribution, the required quantity of vaccines will be available to poor countries only by the end of 2022 or early 2023. It is unfortunate that a large part of the world's population has to wait till then for the vaccines. It is risky also because there is the possibility of more variants of the virus emerging if the virus keeps actively circulating among people. Even countries that are providing a vaccine booster dose to their populations will not be safe when other countries are under-vaccinated. That makes the case for an urgent IPR waiver strong.  The proposal made by India and South Africa has received support from as many as 100 countries. Developed countries in the EU, the UK and Switzerland have opposed it, but it got a major boost when US President Joe Biden announced last Friday that he supported it. Countries with a large manufacturing capacity, such as India, can produce enough vaccines cheaply and supply them if there is an IPO waiver. The waiver can be withdrawn when it is no longer needed. The WTO should take an early and positive decision on the matter. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/world-needs-quick-waiver-on-vaccine-ipr-1059247.html
09-12-2021||In Perspective||Natural experiments won Nobel for 3||When the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences awarded the Nobel Prize in Economics for 2021, officially called the Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences, to three economists from the United States — David Card, Joshua Angrist and Guido Imbens, the response from the economist fraternity was bittersweet. This was since much of the work done by David Card was co-written by the late Alan Kreuger. Kreuger belonged to the new breed of economists who use hard data to tackle many of the problems of society. He was arguably one of the greatest labour economists and taught at the University of Princeton till he took his own life in 2019. Unfortunately, the Nobel prize is not given posthumously. His seminal work with David Card in 1992 on the effects of minimum wages on employment changed the way economics was perceived - from a theory or ideology-driven subject to an evidence-based one. Alan Kreuger and David Card used empirical research extensively just like experiments or clinical trials are done in the medical field on a target group before drawing conclusions. They collected data from companies like Burger King, Wendy’s & Roy Rogers in the fast-food industry in New Jersey and Pennsylvania and presented a paper titled “Minimum wages & employment: A case study of the Fast-Food Industry in New Jersey & Pennsylvania”. The findings were pathbreaking. They did not find any adverse impact on employment in New Jersey and Pennsylvania before and after New Jersey raised its minimum wage from $4.25 to $5.05. What their research did was to challenge the orthodoxy or the conventional wisdom that had dominated the field of economics for decades. Till then, economists had assumed that raising the minimum wages would increase unemployment. Cut to the Nobel Prize. The Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences awarded one half of the prize to David Card from the University of California, Berkeley for his empirical contributions to labour economics and the other half jointly to Joshua D Angrist from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Guido W Imbens from Stanford University for their methodological contributions to the analysis of causal relationships. Due to the pioneering work and the empirical studies of all the three Nobel laureates, we have a better understanding of the impact of minimum wage, immigration and education on labour markets today. Their studies have also provided us with insights on the following questions: How does immigration affect wages and employment in an economy? How do more years of education help in increasing someone’s future income? What is the impact of raising minimum wages on employment? Labour market To understand the impact of immigration on the labour market and employment a major event in 1980 provided a golden opportunity for David Card to use natural experiments. In April of that year, Cuban leader Fidel Castro surprisingly gave Cubans an option to leave the country. In the following few months, 1,25,000 Cubans migrated to the US. Many of them settled in Miami, which increased the labour force of the city by nearly 7%. Card compared the wage and employment trends in Miami with the level of wages and employment in four different cities to examine how this huge influx of workers affected the labour market in Miami. The findings were startling. Card found no negative effects for Miami residents with lower education levels despite the huge increase in labour supply. Compared to other cities which did not experience the influx of immigrants, wages did not decrease, and unemployment did not increase in Miami. This influx of Cuban refugees is shown in the movie Scarface, a 1983 Hollywood thriller. Israel-born Joshua Angrist studied veterans who had joined the US army during the Vietnam war. He wanted to find out if there was any correlation between years of education and future income. Angrist was trying to find out whether joining the army at a young age robbed the teens of education and affected their future earnings. Back then, teens with fewer opportunities during their young age were more likely to join the army. These individuals would have gone to earn less in any other job even if they didn’t join the army. And this is what the economists of the day inferred without doing any randomisation or a natural experiment. The war provided a golden opportunity to Angrist to find a causal relationship between education and income. Angrist found as per records, long after their service in Vietnam was ended, the earnings of white veterans were about 15% less than the earnings of comparable nonveterans. Angrist and Imbens demonstrated how precise conclusions about cause and effect can be drawn from natural experiments. We can now understand why parents everywhere keep telling their children to work hard and focus on their studies since higher education is a passport to better jobs and better jobs would mean more earnings. (The writer is a CFA and a former banker. He currently teaches at Manipal Academy of BFSI, Bengaluru) Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/natural-experiments-won-nobel-for-3-1059245.html
09-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Case against engineer for not rescuing cobra||Following the death of a cobra during the demolition of the unauthorised Aanjaneya Temple near Sagar Road in the City carried out by a team of officials of Smart City Limited recently, the Forest Department has booked a case against three persons including engineer K V Vijay Kumar under The Wild Life (Protection) Act, 1972. Sources in the Shankara Forest Range stated that the officials of the Smart City Limited carried out the demolition drive for the execution of development works in the City. A cobra was spotted near the temple. Instead of informing the Forest Department officials or taking steps to rescue it, they carried on the demolition drive and thereby killed the cobra. Speaking to DH, Shankar Range Forest Officer Girish said, the authorities concerned should have informed snake catchers or forest department officials when they noticed a snake during the demolition drive. People recorded the demolition drive on their cell phones and submitted it along with the complaint. "So we had to book a case against the officials concerned. An inquiry would be conducted," he said.  Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/case-against-engineer-for-not-rescuing-cobra-1059011.html
09-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Congress leader, former minister S R More passes away||Senior Congress leader and former minister S R More breathed his last at a private hospital in Dharwad early Thursday. He was 82 years. More was a strong Maratha leader and a four-time MLA. He was also cooperation minister and Municipal Administration minister in the Bangarappa and Dharam Singh government. During his term as Dharwad district in-charge minister, More had taken up several developmental works and was a popular leader. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/congress-leader-former-minister-s-r-more-passes-away-1059028.html
09-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Money distribution during elections common: MLA||Acknowledging distribution of money to voters during the elections, MLA Shamanur Shivashankarappa stated that it is not just Congress or BJP, but  all political parties distribute money to voters during the elections. Speaking to media persons, on Thursday, after paying tribute to those who died in chopper crash in Tamil Nadu, he said, "They (BJP) have distributed money, these people (Congress) have also done the same. It is a common phenomenon during the elections". On alliance between BJP and JD(S), he said, "We had not asked for support from any party in the legislative council polls." He also exuded confidence that Congress would emerge victorious in the elections to Chitradurga local authorities constituency that comprises Davangere, Harihar and Jagalur taluks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/money-distribution-during-elections-common-mla-1059274.html
09-12-2021||Karnataka Politics||M B Patil sees no difference between JD(S) & AIMIM||There is no difference between the JD(S) and AIMIM parties. H D Deve Gowda-led regional outfit, like Asaduddin Owaisi's party, is without a doubt the BJP's B team, Congress leader M B Patil charged on Wednesday. Speaking to reporters here, Patil said, "The JD(S) had fielded Muslim candidates in bypolls to Basavakalyan, Sindagi and Hangal to help the BJP. Why are they (JD-S) not fielding minorities in Hassan, Mandya and Mysuru, the former minister questioned. The ruling BJP is putting off Zilla and taluk panchayat elections due to fear of losing, Patil alleged. He exuded confidence that the Congress will win more than 15 seats in the December 10 Legislative Council polls. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/m-b-patil-sees-no-difference-between-jds-aimim-1058998.html
09-12-2021||Main Article||Some cheer, some gloom||The latest National Family Health Survey (NFHS-5) Factsheets for India and all States and Union Territories are now out and the full report should also be in the public domain shortly.  At a glance, one can see that it is a mixed bag — much to cheer about but also some spots of gloom.   The good news is that there seems to be some change in our demographic trends, particularly the sex ratio. For the first time since the first NFHS in 1992-93, the sex ratio of females to males is slightly higher among the adult population. It is also for the first time in 15 years that the sex ratio at birth has reached 929 (it was 919 for 1000 males in NFHS-4 of 2015-16).  We are also happy that the Total Fertility Rate has dropped from 2.2% to a replacement rate of 2.00%, albeit with not much change in the huge fertility divide between the high and low fertility states. It appears that the states which were already experiencing a decline in fertility rates have continued to do so, without much change in the trends in the higher fertility states. This fertility divide can have several socio-economic and political repercussions in any society, and one presumes that adequate attention will be given to this at policy-making and social levels after the detailed report is out.  Clearly, our advocacy, policies and programmes for the girl child and women’s empowerment throughout the country have borne positive results, and a direct correlation between higher female literacy, improvement in the sex ratio and decrease in the total fertility rate can very easily be drawn.  There has been appreciable improvement in general literacy levels and in the percentage of women and men who have completed 10 years or more of schooling, which has reached 41% and 50.2%, respectively. Of course, there is a long way to go since these figures imply that around half of our workforce or demographic dividend still does not have the qualifications and skills to achieve upward mobility from casual labour or lowly paid blue-collar jobs and escape poverty trap.  The health sector deserves credit for achieving significant improvement in an increased percentage of institutional births, antenatal care and children’s immunisation rates (around 2% increase per year). There has also been a consistent drop in neonatal, infant and child mortality rates - around 1% decrease per year for neonatal and infant mortality and a 1.6% decrease per year for under-five mortality rate.  Now, turning to the areas of gloom - they continue to be nutrition or nutrition related-indicators, our constant Achilles heel. To begin with, India has become a more anaemic country since the NFHS-4 survey (2015-16), with anaemia rates rising significantly across age groups, ranging from children below six years, adolescent girls and boys, pregnant women and women between 15 to 49 years. Almost half our human capital lacks iron power.  The insidious, adverse effects of anaemia affect all age groups – lower physical and cognitive growth and alertness among children and adolescents and lesser capacity to learn and play, directly impacting their future potential as productive citizens; lower capacity to work and quick fatigue for adolescents and adults, translating into lower work output and lesser earnings. Further, anemia among adolescent girls (59.1%) advances into maternal anemia and is a major cause of maternal and infant mortality and general morbidity and ill health in a community. Though improved from the previous survey, a disappointing area of the report is the poor consumption of IFA (iron-folic acid) tablets by pregnant women (44.1% took it for 100 days plus and 26% took it for 180 days plus). Perhaps the detailed NFHS-5 report will explain why a dedicated programme like Anemia Mukt Bharat which focused on IFA consumption failed to gain impetus.  Underweight, stunted  Equally worrisome is the exceedingly slow pace of improvement, (approximately 0.5% per year) in nutritional indicators across all age groups. Between NFHS-4 and NFHS-5, the percentage of children below five years who are moderately underweight has reduced from 35.8% to 32.1%,  moderately stunted children from 38.4% to 35.5%,  moderately wasted children from 21.0% to 19.3% and severely wasted have increased slightly from 7.5% to 7.7 %. Details regarding severely stunted and underweight children will be published in the detailed report.  Undoubtedly, the most proximate and root cause for this, being documented for the second time since NFHS-4, is the fact that the percentage of children below two years receiving adequate diet is a mere 11.3%, having increased from 9.6% in NFHS-4. This foundational nutritional deficit which ought to be considered an indicator of great concern, is generally ignored by policymakers,  experts or custodians of the subject. Unless this indicator of concern is substantially addressed, rapid improvement of our nutritional indicators cannot happen.    A look at some development indicators of our neighbours might chasten us – China has 100% literacy, both male and female; 16% women between 15-49 years suffer from anaemia and stunting and wasting of children is at 5% and 2%, respectively.  Bangladesh which was far behind us in all indicators has now caught up with us and surpassed many of our indicators.  India’s nutrition programmes must undergo periodic review, just as our health programmes did right from the Reproductive and Child Health programme in 1997 until the present National Health Mission, addressing several gaps such as institutional delivery, ambulance services, adolescent anemia, and additional health volunteers. The Integrated Child Development Services, which is perceived as the guardian of the nation’s nutritional well-being must reassess itself and address the critical intervention gaps, both conceptually and programmatically, and produce rapid outcomes. Ad hoc add-ons are just not enough, and smartphones, tweets and webinars cannot substitute hard action on the ground.   (The writer is a retired Secretary to Government of India) Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/some-cheer-some-gloom-1059240.html
09-12-2021||Mysuru||Mysuru region gets ready for MLC polls on December 10||All necessary arrangements have been made for the Legislative Council elections for the Local Authorities’ Constituencies in the Mysuru region, comprising Mysuru, Mandya, Hassan and Chamarajanagar districts. The elections are scheduled to be held on December 10 from 8 am to 4 pm and the counting of votes will be held on December 14. The respective district administrations have taken measures to ensure that Covid-19 protocols will be followed in all the centres. Voters are not allowed to carry mobile phones inside the polling stations and the voting process will be video graphed as per the guidelines of the Election Commission. Mysuru-Chamarajanagar is a dual member constituency and has a total of 6,771 voters. While Mysuru district has 4,502 voters, Chamarajanagar has 2,269. Mysuru district administration has established 259 polling stations and deputed 1,192 staff on poll duty. Likewise, the Chamarajanagar district administration has deputed 617 staff on poll duty in 134 polling stations. Deputy Commissioner Charulata Somal, who inspected the mustering process, said all necessary measures are in place to conduct the elections. Covid-19 guidelines will be followed in all the polling stations, she said. Hassan Deputy Commissioner R Girish said the district administration is all prepared to conduct free and fair MLC elections. As many as 257 polling stations have been established across the constituency for a total of 3,578 voters. The district administration has appointed 570 staff for election duty and 285 micro observers will be on duty in the polling stations. In Mandya district, there are a total of 4,034 voters and the district administration has established 240 polling stations. The district administration has identified 39 polling stations as hypersensitive, 90 as sensitive and 111 as normal polling stations. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/mysuru-region-gets-ready-for-mlc-polls-on-december-10-1059283.html
09-12-2021||National||'General Bipin Rawat was a visionary, called a spade a spade'||Bengaluru-based Major General (Retired) KS Venugopal, who was GOC of Kerala and Karnataka Sub Area, and General Bipin Rawat, the late Chief of Defence Staff, served in North Kashmir together as sector commanders in Rashtriya Rifles.  In a tribute to his former colleague, Venugopal talks about the soldier and the gentleman, the braveheart who would always call a spade a spade, the colleague who owned a fertile mind and was loved immensely by his men. "General Bipin Rawat was a great soldier and a die-hard infantryman. We served together in North Kashmir in 2007. I was commanding 10 Sector Rashtriya Rifles(RR) at Pattan Baramulla and he was commanding 5 SectorRR near Bandipore. Both sectors were adjacent to one another and therefore a lot of coordination and planning was required in counterterrorism operations. I found Brigadier Rawat always very keen and active in the conduct of operations and he was readily available with his units and the men loved him immensely. "He was very quick to understand the ground situation and outwit the terrorist resulting in a high level of success with very minimum casualties to the troops under his command. He had a very fertile mind and he could logically and systematically find solutions to tricky situations and problems. One knew that he would rise to become a higher commander in our great Army.  "Bipin Rawat always called a spade a spade and spoke out his mind even if he had to become unpopular in the bargain. But before making any statement, he studied the subject in detail, weighed the pros and cons, and gave his views with confidence and clarity. He was liked by the jawans and officers immensely. As a commander, he inspired them to attempt the impossible and come out with flying colours. I continued to meet him on a number of occasions, till I retired in 2013. He was always warm and affectionate. The most important asset that he possessed was humility. And he was always grounded. I will miss General Bipin Rawat, a visionary who could have done much more for our armed forces and our country in the years ahead."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/general-bipin-rawat-was-a-visionary-called-a-spade-a-spade-1058987.html
09-12-2021||National||Kohli’s tweet announcing daughter’s birth most liked in 2021, finds survey||Cricketer Virat Kohli Tweet announcing the birth of his daughter was the most liked tweet of 2021, says the annual India trends released by micro-blogging platform Twitter. Kohli had topped the list last year too, with his tweet announcing wife Anushka Sharma’s pregnancy. In 2021, connection was more important than ever. “Whether it was people connecting with strangers on Twitter during the Covid-19 second wave in India and turning the service into a real-time helpline, or forging friendships and announcing them to the world through hashtags like #WeMetOnTwitter.” The ‘Most Retweeted Tweet’ of the year was by Australian cricketer Pat Cummins about his donation for Covid relief in India. He had taken to Twitter to encourage others to do the same. Among those in the government, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s tweet sharing a picture of him getting his first Covid-19 vaccine was the most retweeted. It expressed gratitude to doctors, scientists and medical workers for their undeterred contribution towardsthe Covid battle. The most retweeted tweet in business was by Ratan Tata celebrating Tata Son’s Air India win. The Chairman Emeritus of Tata Sons had tweeted: “Welcome back, Air India”, with an iconic picture of the early Air India planes. In the entertainment sector, the most retweeted tweet was the one by Tamil actor Vijay, unveiling the first look of his film #Beast. In sports, the most retweeted was Kohli’s appreciation tweet for M S Dhoni’s match-winning play during the IPL. Among the most tweeted hashtags of the year were #Covid19, #FarmersProtest, #TeamIndia, #Tokyo2020, #IPL2021, #IndVEng, #Diwali, #Master, #Bitcoin and #PermissionToDance. Conversations around the #FarmersProtest continued from 2020 into 2021. Politicians, celebrities, citizens and protesting farmers took to Twitter alike to share and exchange opinions, making it one of the most tweeted hashtags in India. A conversation that gained momentum on Twitter this year was around cryptocurrency and digital assets. “Twitter has become the home for crypto conversation and #Bitcoin made it to the list of most popular conversations of the year.” Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kohli-s-tweet-announcing-daughter-s-birth-most-liked-in-2021-finds-survey-1059000.html
09-12-2021||National||DH Toon | Centre to suspend cases against farmers, abuses hurdled at them stay||The year-long agitation of farmers against the three contentious farm laws, which were withdrawn last week, is likely to end soon with the government having met “nearly all demands” raised by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM). While the government offered to withdraw cases after the agitation is called off, SKM, an umbrella body of over 40 farmers' unions, is insisting on the quashing of FIRs as a pre-requisite for withdrawing the agitation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-centre-to-suspend-cases-against-farmers-abuses-hurdled-at-them-stay-1059005.html
09-12-2021||National||Speak Out: December 9, 2021||Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Wednesday hit back at Prime Minister Narendra Modi's "lal topi" comment, saying that the colour of the cap has reached Delhi, engulfing BJP's ranks in panic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/speak-out-december-9-2021-1059006.html
09-12-2021||National||Chinese boats spotted illegally hauling tuna in Indian Ocean||Chinese squid vessels were documented using wide nets to illegally catch already overfished tuna as part of a surge in unregulated activity in the Indian Ocean, according to a new report by Norway-based watchdog group that highlights growing concerns about the lack of international cooperation to protect marine species on the high seas. The report, published Wednesday by Trygg Mat Tracking, found that the number of squid vessels in the high seas of the Indian Ocean — where fishing of the species is not regulated — has exploded six-fold since 2016. The vast majority of the vessels sailing in the high seas off the coast of Oman and Yemen were flagged to China, whose overseas fleet, the world's largest, has been dogged by accusations of illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing around the world. Behind the surge is a lack of oversight and decades of overfishing that has pushed China's overseas fleet — officially capped at 3,000 vessels but possibly consisting of thousands more — ever farther from home. Unlike in other parts of the high seas, where countries come together to jointly manage fishing grounds beyond any country's territorial waters, there's no such organization regulating the squid caught in the Indian Ocean. TMT, relying on ship tracking data and an at-sea survey by Greenpeace International, found that all of the squid vessels were fishing with large nets — a practice considered far more harmful than using lures known as jigs because it generates bycatch of non-targeted species. Among the other fish tangled in the vessels' nets and spotted on board by drones were large species of tuna — a slow-maturing, top predator whose disappearance can indicate a dying ocean. None of the 341 vessels detected operating in the area this season was authorised to fish for tuna by the Indian Ocean Tuna Commission, or IOTC, which regulates the catch on the international waters. Adding to the concerns, TMT said five vessels active in the area later called into a port in Pakistan with 30 metric tons of skipjack and yellowfin tuna, whose population the IOTC is trying to rebuild after years of overfishing. Another indication of illegal fishing: a significant number of vessels were sailing dark,' with their mandatory tracking device that gives a ship's position either switched off, transmitting intermittently, or providing false identifiers. Some of the same Chinese vessels highlighted by TMT had a history of illegal activity in other parts of the world and were spotted on satellite drifting close to the boundaries of Oman and Yemen, where they did not have permission to fish. They are also known to fish for squid in the Pacific Ocean off the west coast of South America, where The Associated Press this summer observed similar tracking device discrepancies. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chinese-boats-spotted-illegally-hauling-tuna-in-indian-ocean-1059017.html
09-12-2021||National||India adds 9,419 new Covid-19 cases, 159 deaths||With 9,419 more people testing positive for Covid in a day, India's infection tally rose to 3,46,66,241, while the active cases increased to 94,742, according to the Union Health Ministry's data updated on Thursday. The death toll climbed to 4,74,111 after 159 fresh fatalities were reported, the data updated at 8 am showed. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been recorded below 10,000 for 13 straight days and less than 50,000 for 165 consecutive days now. The active cases have increased to 94,742 comprising 0.27 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.36 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the Health Ministry said. An increase of 1,009 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 0.73 per cent. It has been less than two per cent for the last 66 days. The weekly positivity rate was also recorded at 0.74 per cent. It has been below one per cent for the last 25 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,40,97,388, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.37 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 130.39 crore. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20 lakh-mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India had crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 125 new fatalities include 112 from Kerala, 11 from Tamil Nadu and 10 from Maharashtra. Of the 112 deaths, 35 were logged over the last few days and 77 were designated as Covid-19 deaths after receiving appeals based on the new guidelines of the Centre and the directions of the Supreme Court, a statement from the Kerala government said on Wednesday. A total of 4,74,111 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,41,204 from Maharashtra, 42,014 from Kerala, 38,249 from Karnataka, 36,560 from Tamil Nadu, 25,100 from Delhi, 22,911 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,568 from West Bengal. The Health Ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-adds-9419-new-covid-19-cases-159-deaths-1059024.html
09-12-2021||National||Rajnath Singh likely to brief Parliament on chopper crash||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh is likely to brief the Lok Sabha about the chopper crash in Tamil Nadu in which Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) Bipin Rawat, his wife and 11 other defence personnel died. Singh is also likely to brief the Rajya Sabha. Sources said that the Defence Minister will brief the Lok Sabha at 11:15 am and Rajya Sabha later on. The CDS was going to the Defence Services Staff College in Wellington to deliver a lecture when the crash happened. The chopper, with 14 persons on board including CDS Rawat, his wife and other defence personnel, crashed a few minutes before landing. Under rule 193, further discussion in the Lok Sabha will take place on climate change which was started by Kanimozhi Karunanidhi on Wednesday. Union Minister Dr Jitendra Singh will move Bills further to amend the Central Vigilance Commission Act, 2003, and the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act, 1946, for consideration in the Lok Sabha. He will also move that the Bill be passed. Opposing this, the opposition members will move a resolution that this House (Lok Sabha) disapproves of the Central Vigilance Commission (Amendment) Ordinance, 2021 and The Delhi Special Police Establishment (Amendment) Bill, 2021. Union Minister Krishan Pal will make a statement regarding the status of implementation of the recommendations contained in the Standing Committee on Energy on 'Measures To Check Commercial Losses' pertaining to the Ministry of Power. Union Minister V.K. Singh is to make statements on the status of implementation of the recommendations contained in the Standing Committee report on Transport, Tourism and Culture on Demands for Grants for 2017-18, 2018-19 and 2020-21 pertaining to the Ministry of Civil Aviation. Members Heena Gavit and Riti Pathak will present the fifth report of the 'Committee on Empowerment of Women' (2021-22) on the subject "Empowerment of Women through Education with Special Reference to 'Beti Bachao - Beti Padhao' Scheme". Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajnath-singh-likely-to-brief-parliament-on-chopper-crash-1059027.html
09-12-2021||National||Gen Rawat was strong proponent of India-US defence partnership: US||General Bipin Rawat, India’s first Chief of Defence Staff who died in a helicopter crash in Tamil Nadu, was a strong proponent of India-US defence ties and helped deepen the strategic partnership between the two countries, a senior US official has said. General Rawat, his wife Madhulika and 11 other people on board an Indian Air Force helicopter died in a crash near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu on Wednesday, the Air Force said. The copter carrying General Rawat and his entourage crashed in apparently foggy conditions, killing the 13 people on board, the IAF and other officials said. One person survived the crash and is being treated at a hospital. "We are deeply saddened to hear of the death of Indian Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat, his wife, and 11 others in that tragic helicopter crash in India today. General Rawat was a valued partner,” State Department Spokesperson Ned Price said at his daily news conference on Wednesday. "He was a strong proponent of the US-India defence partnership. He helped to deepen the strategic partnership between our two countries. He was pivotal to that relationship, and that's why our thoughts go out to the general's family, to the families of all those on board this flight, and, of course, to the people of India on the loss that they have suffered today,” Price said. Pentagon Press Secretary John Kirby, at a separate news conference said that on behalf of the entire Department of Defense, Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin extends their deepest condolences to the Rawat family, the Indian military and the people of India after the tragic death of General Rawat in helicopter crash. "He left an indelible mark on the course of the U.S.-India defence partnership and was at the center of the Indian Armed Forces' transformation into a more jointly integrated warfighting organisation,” Kirby said. 'The secretary had the privilege of meeting with him earlier this year and really came to view him as a valued partner and a friend to the United States. Our thoughts and prayers are with the entire Rawat family, as they lost other family members in this crash, and of course the families of all the other victims of this terrible, terrible incident,” he told reporters. Several top American lawmakers expressed their condolences at the demise of the Indian general in a tragic incident. “I send my deepest condolences to Narendra Modi & the people of India as they mourn the tragic deaths of General Bipin Rawat, his wife, Madhulika Rawat, & the 11 other crew members & passengers lost,” said Senator Rick Scott. “India is strong and during this time of grief the United States stands with you,” he tweeted. “My deepest condolences to the people of India after the tragic death of General Bipin Rawat, head of India’s armed forces, his wife & 12 others today. My thoughts & prayers are with their families,” tweeted Senator Bill Hagerty. “My most sincere condolences to the people of India and their armed forces for the lives lost in today’s tragic aviation incident. I will continue to do all I can to help our partnership grow into an enduring force for overcoming this and future adversities," Congressman Michael McCaul said in a tweet. “Please join me in praying for India today after this staggering loss,” Congressman Mark Green said in a tweet. General Rawat is survived by two daughters. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gen-rawat-was-strong-proponent-of-india-us-defence-partnership-us-1059030.html
09-12-2021||National||PM Modi wishes Sonia Gandhi on birthday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday greeted Congress president Sonia Gandhi on her birthday. Gandhi, the longest serving president of her party, turned 75 on Thursday. Modi tweeted, "Best wishes to Smt. Sonia Gandhi Ji on her birthday. Praying for her long life and good health." Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-wishes-sonia-gandhi-on-birthday-1059036.html
09-12-2021||National||Chopper crash: Shaurya Chakra awardee Varun Singh survives one night, next 48 hours critical||Group Captain Varun Singh, the Directing Staff at the Defence Services Staff College (DSSC) in Wellington, Tamil Nadu, and the lone survivor of the ill-fated Mi-17V5 helicopter crash near Coonoor on Wednesday is battling for life with 80-85 per cent burn injuries, said a senior Tamil Nadu government official. The recipient of the Shaurya Chakra gallantry award Singh survived the Wednesday night and prayers are there for his recovery at the DSSC. The team of doctors that is treating Singh are not saying anything and the next 48 hours will be critical. Singh was recently promoted from Wing Commander to Group Captain and was a recent joinee at the DSSC. All the other 13 persons, including the Chief of Defence Staff Bipin Rawat and his wife Madhulika Rawat and other officials on the ill-fated chopper died in the accident. The post-mortem was performed by the military doctors at the Military Hospital in Coonoor in the presence of a state government doctor and police officials as per the procedure. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chopper-crash-shaurya-chakra-awardee-varun-singh-survives-one-night-next-48-hours-critical-1059051.html
09-12-2021||National||PM Modi congratulates Olaf Scholz on being elected Germany's Chancellor||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday congratulated Olaf Scholz on being elected Germany's Chancellor and said he looks forward to working closely with him to further strengthen the India-Germany strategic partnership. Germany's parliament elected Scholz as the country's ninth post-World War II chancellor on Wednesday, opening a new era for the European Union nation after Angela Merkel's 16-year tenure. "My heartiest congratulations to @OlafScholz on being elected as the Federal Chancellor of Germany," Modi tweeted.  "I look forward to working closely to further strengthen the Strategic Partnership between India and Germany" he said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-congratulates-olaf-scholz-on-being-elected-germanys-chancellor-1059055.html
09-12-2021||National||Would urge youngsters to know more about Constituent Assembly proceedings: PM||Noting that the Constituent Assembly met for the first time on this day 75 years ago, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday urged youngsters to know more about this gathering's proceedings and the eminent stalwarts who were a part of it, saying doing so would be an intellectually enriching experience. The Constituent Assembly met for the first time on December 9, 1946, reassembling on August 14, 1947 as a sovereign body. "Today, 75 years ago our Constituent Assembly met for the first time. Distinguished people from different parts of India, different backgrounds and even differing ideologies came together with one aim -- to give the people of India a worthy Constitution. Tributes to these greats," Modi tweeted. The first sitting of the Constituent Assembly was presided over by Dr. Sachchidananda Sinha, who was the eldest member of the Assembly, he said. Sinha was introduced and conducted to the Chair by Acharya Kripalani, the prime minister noted. "Today, as we mark 75 years of the historic sitting of our Constituent Assembly, I would urge my young friends to know more about this august gathering's proceedings and about the eminent stalwarts who were a part of it," Modi said. Doing so would be an intellectually enriching experience, he added.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/would-urge-youngsters-to-know-more-about-constituent-assembly-proceedings-pm-1059075.html
09-12-2021||National||Dalai Lama mourns demise of General Rawat||Tibetan spiritual leader the Dalai Lama on Thursday mourned the demise of Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat and others travelling with him in a fatal helicopter crash. "I pray for the General and his companions and offer my heartfelt condolences to the members of the families of all those who perished in this unfortunate accident. "I salute General Rawat's long-standing contribution in the service of the nation," the spiritual leader said in a statement. General Rawat, his wife Madhulika Rawat and 12 defence personnel were killed after the Mi-17V5 helicopter of the Indian Air Force crashed at Kattery in Nilgiris on Wednesday. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dalai-lama-mourns-demise-of-general-rawat-1059077.html
09-12-2021||National||Floral tributes paid to Rawat, others||Floral tributes were on Thursday paid to Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat and 12 others killed in an Indian Air Force (IAF) helicopter crash here earlier. Senior Army officials, Tamil Nadu Ministers and Army veterans laid wreaths and paid floral tributes to the mortal remains of the deceased persons at the Madras Regimental Centre at Wellington. The mortal remains of the crash victims in caskets wrapped in the Indian tricolour were brought to the venue in decorated army trucks. Tamil Nadu Ministers K N Nehru, MP Saminathan and K Ramachandran, senior state government and police officials and Army personnel among others paid tributes to the departed persons. General Rawat, India's first CDS, his wife Madhulika Rawat and 11 others were killed in the helicopter crash near here on Wednesday.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/floral-tributes-paid-to-rawat-others-1059082.html
09-12-2021||National||New Chief of Defence Staff to be named soon; General Naravane frontrunner||After General Bipin Rawat’s death in a helicopter crash, General M M Naravane, the Chief of Army Staff, has emerged as the frontrunner for the post of Chief of Defence Staff whom the government will expect to carry forward military reforms taking all service chiefs on board. General Rawat’s successor is likely to be appointed soon to carry on the military reforms initiated by him to create theatre commands and bring about jointness in the functioning of the Army, Navy and Air Force. The Ministry of Defence, of late, advanced the deadline for the Army, Navy and the Air Force to conclude internal studies and submit their reports and views on the proposal of creation of theatre commands from September 2022 to April 2022. The differences within the military establishment over the basic structure of the theatre commands came to public domain earlier this year when the Chief of Defence Staff General Rawat said that the Indian Air Force remained a supporting arm of the ground forces just like the artillery or the engineers support the combatant arm in the Army. The then Indian Air Force chief Air Chief Marshal (ACM) R K S Bhadauria, however, publicly argued that the Air Force had a greater role to play in any integrated theatre. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh recently stressed that inputs of all stakeholders must be taken into consideration to bring about reforms and enhance jointness in the military structure. The government is also likely to take a call on appointing the new Chief of Defence Staff soon in view of China’s belligerence along its disputed boundary with India. Pakistan also, of late, restarted flouting the ceasefire along its Line of Control (LoC) with India after a lull for a few months in addition to facilitating infiltration of terrorists into Jammu and Kashmir. General Rawat, who had taken over as the first CDS of the country on January 1, 2020, died in a helicopter crash at Coonoor in Tamil Nadu on Wednesday. General Naravane succeeded General Rawat to take over as the Army Chief on December 31, 2019 and, as the government starts looking for his successor, he again appears to be the frontrunner, if the appointment is made in accordance with the recommendation of the committee headed by Lt Gen (retd.) D B Shekatkar. The panel had recommended that the CDS should be appointed from among the service chiefs of the Army, Navy and Air Force. General Naravane is senior to both Chief of the Air Staff Air Chief Marshal V R Chaudhary, and Chief of the Naval Staff Admiral R Hari Kumar who had taken over their respective offices on September 30 and November 30, respectively. Though General Naravane, now 61, is due to retire in April 2022 on attaining the age of superannuation, he will continue to be in the top echelon of the defence establishment for three more years if the government selects him to be the successor of General Rawat in the office of the CDS. A CDS can continue in office till the age of 65. The three service chiefs retire at the age of 62 or after completing three years in office, whichever is earlier. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-chief-of-defence-staff-to-be-named-soon-general-naravane-frontrunner-1059087.html
09-12-2021||National||Farmers finally end year-long agitation, to vacate protest sites by December 11||Agitating farmers called on Thursday off their nearly 380-days long protest against the three contentious farm laws that were passed 15 months ago and repealed 10 days ago after the central government gave signed written assurance on an official letterhead to the protesting unions to meet their demands on issues including withdrawal of cases lodged against them during agitation and MSP. Announcing the suspension of the ongoing agitation, which it called "historic" Samyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella group of 40 farmer unions said that farmers will begin vacating the protest sites from December 11 with a "victory march" but threatened to resume the agitation after January 15 if the government did not fulfil its promises. Shiromani Akali Dal, which had walked out of NDA last year in solidarity with protesting farmers against the three contentious farm laws, said, "Though the farmers have suspended agitation, their wounds will take time to heal. Over 700 farmers died during the protest, aged people were forced to sit on protest in chilling cold and scorching summer. And then, they were tagged as Khalistanis. These wounds will take time to heal." Congress leader Rahul Gandhi hailed the "victory of truth" in a short video on Twitter that captured moments of the year-long farm protest, which had seen events like tractor march and protest at Red Fort at the Republic Day. "Farmers will start vacating Delhi border points from December 11 and this may take some time. I will go to my home on December 14 after going to Harmandir Sahib (Golden Temple) on December 13," said the face of the farmer protest Rakesh Tikait. "We are suspending the agitation for now. It is not over yet. It can be resumed if promises are not fulfilled," said farmer leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni at a press conference at Singhu border where the SKM announced to withdraw from the protest sites after the central government made a fresh reach out to them. The missive on the official letterhead of the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmer Welfare signed by its Secretary Sanjay Agarwal addressed to SKM informed them of the government having agreed to their demands through the proposal and said, "with this proposal, all the five demands stand addressed. And hence there is no justification for continuing the farmer agitation. Hence you are requested to end the farmer protest." Centre told the protesting farmers that the government of Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Haryana have given full consent regarding withdrawing all cases lodged during farmer protest "with immediate effect". It said that even the departments and agencies of the central government and union territories like Delhi have also given consent to withdrawal of such cases against protestors with immediate effect. "The Government of India will also appeal to other states to withdraw cases related to farmer agitation," it said. This was two days after farmers had objected to the conditionality of withdrawal of agitation for withdrawing the cases put forth by the government initially. "As far as compensation is concerned the governments of UP and Haryana have given their in principle consent while regarding the Parali law, the government has freed the farmers from criminal liability under its sections 14 and 15, " it said. On MSP, the government reiterated its decision about the committee with representatives from farmer unions, agriculture scientists and others to go into their demand for legal guarantee for MSP while continuing the existing format of MSP.   Calling it a "historic win for farmers, farmer leader Shiv Kumar Kakka said, "We apologise to people who faced problems due to protests while another farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal thanked people for "standing with the farmers during the  agitation." Rajewal said that the fight for the rights of farmers will continue even in future even as the agitation has been suspended for the time being. "Farmers will take out victory marches on Dec 11 to their homes," Rajewal said. "A review meeting will be convened on January 15 to see if the government met all the demands. If they do not, we can take a call on resuming the protest,” said Gurnam Singh Chaduni. The farmer agitation had begun on November 26 against the three contentious farm laws--Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 – in September 2020. A week before the anniversary of farmer protest this year, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on November 19 announced the decision of his government to repeal the law and the government got repealed on the very first day of Parliament's winter session on November 29. But the agitation continued with farmers coming out with demands like legal guarantees for MSP and others after which Centre set up a committee in which SKM's five representatives were included. The SKM panel had a discussion with the government on pending demands even on December 8. On November 9, the government sent its third and final communication on official letterhead on the agreements reached with farmer unions, paving the way for calling off the strike. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-finally-end-year-long-agitation-to-vacate-protest-sites-by-december-11-1059098.html
09-12-2021||National||India's space aspirations limited by lack of participation in projects||Even though India is among the six top space-faring nations of the world in technological capability and budget, it is the only one that has not yet allowed its private sector to participate in all aspects of space activities, in order to leverage its advanced technological capabilities. India’s national space sector currently accounts for a minuscule two per cent of the $440 billion global industry, according to published figures. Although the emergence of space start-ups -- India’s New Space -- which is creating IPR and offering end-to-end solutions to customers, a new space think-tank noted that this private sector is hobbled by the restricted scope of opportunities in India.  This is quite unlike the clear policies to encourage and facilitate robust participation of the private sector in developed space economies, including the United States and France. According to Dr Ranjana Kaul, member of the Board of the International Institute of Space Law (IISL) and Secretary-General of Spaceport SARABHAI (S2), a space-centric think-tank that was launched on December 1, little has changed on the ground despite the Indian government having announced the formation of the Indian National Space Promotion and Authorization Center (IN-SPACe) in June 2020. IN-SPACe is proposed to serve as a link between the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) and private sector companies to leverage local technologies and resources to increase space-based activities. India’s space sector currently accounts for a minuscule two per cent of the $440 billion global industry according to published figures. “While the 2020 announcement by Prime Minister (Narendra Modi) had raised expectations in the private sector that it would be allowed participation in all aspects of space activities, there is also scepticism. We have not seen a policy framework document telling us how the government proposes to develop a national space economy through private sector participation and how it all unfolds for us,” she said. During the launch of the think-tank last week, Dr Kaul said that currently, the conversation in India is dominated by regulatory frameworks for rolling out 5G satellite communications services.  “Already, India is the second-largest market for telecommunications and there are Indian companies with global footprints, all of whom are looking now to deliver this magic called 5G to the underserved and unserved across India. And it is in that context that space is being mentioned. However, conversation about space activities as a dedicated vertical of private sector participation, as the Prime Minister had announced, has stopped in other spaces,” she said. She added that the first generation space start-ups have already reached a point where they want to do test flights. Indeed, the first space technology start-up Skyroot has already successfully test-fired the first privately developed fully cryogenic rocket engine called Dhawan 1. Already, Pixxel is waiting to launch its first satellite. In fact, each generation of start-ups is separated by a gap of five years, the next generation is already waiting in queue to get to space. For Awais Ahmed, CEO of Pixxel, a space technology start-up in Bengaluru building a constellation of hyperspectral earth imaging satellites, there is a marked difference in how space technology entrepreneurs navigate the red tape of government in India while applying for licences and developing products, compared to how the system is set up in the United States.  Speaking during the think-tank’s Conversations without Borders debut episode on December 1, Awais said that while participating in the Techstars Space Accelerator in Los Angeles, he found that while there were bureaucratic processes in the US, the regulatory and licensing regimes were, nevertheless, transparent and straightforward.  “On websites, you can clearly download documents that say these are the steps that an organisation has to go through for licenses and send a spacecraft up into space, as well as the timelines that the government agencies are to get back with, as well as the costs that it will actually take; that kind of transparency just helps organisations plan out their activities as well,” he said. He said that this is something that has not yet been seen in India. “The second thing that puts the US ecosystem ahead of everyone else is the availability of the funding from almost every government organisation that they work with; whether that's NASA, or the defense agencies, every one of them has certain parts of funding earmarked under the Small Business Innovation Research Grants that could be anywhere between half a million dollars to $2 million in the first two years of existence for a start-up,” he said, adding that this kind of budget is vital to fund the early stages of prototype development, to drive innovation. A third factor helping the US ecosystem is that the government is the largest buyer of all technologies, even those which have not yet been developed. The think-tank’s mandate is to give “India an international voice, grow the body of knowledge that informs critical areas of space policy, provide policy guidance to the government and transform India into a developed space economy by 2030". Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-space-aspirations-limited-by-lack-of-participation-in-projects-1059101.html
09-12-2021||National||Demand still strong for India-made AstraZeneca vaccine doses in COVAX, says GAVI||Global vaccine-sharing network COVAX is still seeing strong demand for India-made doses of the AstraZeneca Covid-19 shot, its co-lead GAVI said, following comments from its producer Serum Institute of India (SII) that uptake had slowed sharply. The SII, the world's biggest vaccine maker, told India's CNBC-TV18 this week it would temporarily halve the vaccine's production as it had no fresh orders from the Indian government and COVAX was taking fewer doses than the company could offer. SII CEO Adar Poonawalla, whose company brands the shot Covishield, said COVAX was placing orders but "that's very slow and the uptake will pick up in the next quarter". Covishield production is currently at 250 million doses a month. GAVI said COVAX had allocated 40 million Covishield doses to countries after New Delhi last month let the SII resume such supplies for the first time since April, and that it had the option to buy vaccines keeping a "flexible approach as the pandemic and countries' needs continue to evolve". "We are still experiencing robust country demand for SII-Covishield ..." a GAVI spokesperson said in an email. "Covishield will continue to play an important role within COVAX’s diverse portfolio of vaccines... to achieve higher coverage rates in lower-income countries." Asked about the speed of vaccine orders and uptake, GAVI said the process takes time as doses need to be allocated to beneficiaries, plans put in place to administer them, approvals secured and shipment delivered. "COVAX's goal is to protect populations as quickly as possible but every care must be taken to ensure recipient countries are able to deploy the doses we send them," GAVI said. "And this is why it is so important that all manufacturers provide as much transparency as possible as to when and in what quantity volumes will be supplied." The SII has a deal to supply up to 550 million Covishield doses to COVAX but has sent only about 37 million so far. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/demand-still-strong-for-india-made-astrazeneca-vaccine-doses-in-covax-says-gavi-1059103.html
09-12-2021||National||Ahead of UP polls, BJP MP raises Sri Krishna Janmabhoomi issue in Rajya Sabha||With Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh just a couple of months away, BJP MP Harnath Singh Yadav raised the Sri Krishna Janmabhoomi land dispute issue of Mathura in Rajya Sabha on Thursday and demanded that a law providing for status quo to be maintained be repealed. Yadav's demand during the Zero Hour immediately attracted objections from the Opposition with MPs like Congress's Anand Sharma and RJD's Manoj K Jha asking how such subjects that had the potential to damage the social fabric were allowed to be raised in the House. Jha told DH that the Opposition would "collectively" write to the Rajya Sabha Chairman that such issues, which have the "potential to damage the social fabric further", should not be allowed. Yadav's submission in Rajya Sabha comes a week after Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya tweeted that preparations were under way for the construction of a grand temple in Mathura as in Ayodhya and Varanasi. Inside the House, Jha raised a point of order after Yadav concluded his speech and said, Parliament had passed the Places of Worship (Special Provisions) Act of 1991 that prohibits conversion of any place of worship and provides for the maintenance of the religious character of any place of worship as it existed on August 15, 1947, to "protect the idea" of cordiality and harmony. "Now, my learned friend has opened Pandora's box. The nation has suffered in the name of religious conflict," Jha said even as Deputy Chairman Harivansh disallowed his point of order and noted that the Zero Hour submissions were cleared by the Chairman. Raising the issue, Yadav said that the Act was "unconstitutional" and pointed out that the Act makes an exception to the legal case around the Ram Janmabhoomi in Ayodhya while all legal disputes in courts over any other religious places are considered closed. He alleged that the law gives "legal sanctity" to the "forceful occupation of the Krishna Janmabhoomi and other religious places by foreign invaders". He also claimed that the 1991 Act "discriminates" between Lord Ram and Lord Krishna as both are 'avatars' of Lord Vishnu. He said the law not only violates the Constitutional provision of the right of equality but also secularism. "It is strange that this law provides that no citizen can go against it to the courts. Nor can this law be challenged," he said. This law is "not just unconstitutional but also cruelty against religious sentiments of Hindus, Jains, Sikhs and Buddhists. I demand this law be repealed immediately", he added.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ahead-of-up-polls-bjp-mp-raises-sri-krishna-janmabhoomi-issue-in-rajya-sabha-1059109.html
09-12-2021||National||Hearse vehicle ferrying mortal remains of IAF chopper crash victims meets with accident||A hearse service vehicle, ferrying the body of one of the 13 victims of Wednesday’s Mi-17V5 helicopter crash near Coonoor, met with an accident near Mettupalayam on Thursday on its way to the Indian Air Force’s airbase in Sulur near Coimbatore.  Police said the free hearse service vehicle hit another ambulance. Immediately, the mortal remains were shifted to another ambulance without much delay.  Another vehicle, which was part of the police convoy that accompanied the vans ferrying mortal remains of the army officers and personnel, also met with an accident near Coonoor. Five policemen suffered minor injuries in the incident.  The bodies were shifted from the Madras Regimental Centre in Wellington to the IAF’s airbase in Sulur near Coimbatore. The distance between the two places is 90 kilometres and the journey takes over two-and-a-half hours.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hearse-vehicle-ferrying-mortal-remains-of-iaf-chopper-crash-victims-meets-with-accident-1059126.html
09-12-2021||National||Sole survivor of IAF chopper crash Group Captain Varun Singh moved to Sulur||Group Captain Varun Singh, the lone survivor of the chopper crash near Coonoor, was on Thursday moved from Wellington to Sulur to further take him to Bengaluru for better treatment, officials said. His condition is still critical, they said. The Group Captain was admitted to a hospital in Wellington with severe burn injuries on Wednesday following the crash. Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat, his wife Madhulika and 11 armed forces personnel were killed in the Mi-17V5 helicopter crash. Group Captain Singh was onboard the Russian-made chopper as the liaison officer for the visit of Gen Rawat, India's senior-most military officer, to the Defence Services Staff College in Wellington. He is currently serving as an instructor at the prestigious institute. "Group Capt Varun Singh is still critical and has been moved by a vehicle ambulance to Sulur for further move to the Command hospital in Bengaluru," said an official. He had received Gen Rawat at the Sulur airbase from where the entourage was heading towards Wellington in the chopper. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sole-survivor-of-iaf-chopper-crash-group-captain-varun-singh-moved-to-sulur-1059127.html
09-12-2021||National||CDS Bipin Rawat will always be remembered for his patriotism: Om Birla||Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla on Thursday mourned the demise of Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat, his wife Madhulika Rawat and 11 other military officials in a helicopter crash in Tamil Nadu. "CDS General Bipin Rawat will always be remembered for his patriotism and his service to the nation. In this hour of grief, the entire House offers deep condolences to the bereaved families." He also prayed for the speedy recovery of lone survivor Group Captain Varun Singh who is under treatment at Wellington hospital. The House observed a two-minute silence as mark of respect to the departed souls. Earlier, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh made a statement in the House about the unfortunate incident of helicopter crash. "With profound grief and heavy heart, I stand to convey the unfortunate news of the crash of the military helicopter in the noon of December 8, 2021, with India's first Chief of Defence Staff, General Bipin Rawat onboard," he said. He also said that General Rawat was on a scheduled visit to Defence Services Staff College, Wellington to interact with the student Officers. The Air Force Mi-17V5 helicopter took off from Sulur Air Base at 11.48 a.m. on Wednesday and was expected to land at Wellington by 12.15 p.m. Air Traffic Control at Sulur Air Base lost contact with the helicopter at approximately 12.08 p.m. Singh further said that a few locals spotted a fire in the forest near Coonoor and rushed to the spot where they observed the wreckage of military helicopter engulfed in flames. "Rescue teams from the local administration in the vicinity reached the site and attempted to recover the survivors from the crash site". All those recovered from the wreckage were rushed to the Military Hospital, Wellington. Latest reports have confirmed that of the total 14 persons onboard the ill-fated helicopter, 13 have succumbed to their injuries. The dead include the spouse of the CDS Madhulika Rawat, his Defence Adviser Brigadier ALakhbinder Singh Lidder, Staff Officer Lt Col Harjinder Singh and nine other Armed Forces personnel including the Air Force helicopter crew. The others were Wing Commander Prithvi Singh Chauhan, Squadron Leader Kuldeep Singh, Junior Warrant Officer Rana Pratap Das, Junior Warrant Officer Arakkal Pradeep, Havildar Satpal Rai, Naik Gursewak Singh, Naik Jitendra Kumar, Lance Naik Vivek Kumar, Lance Naik B Sai Teja while Group Captain Varun Singh is on life support in the Military Hospital at Wellington and all efforts are being made to save his life, the Minister added. The mortal remains of all military personnel will be brought by the IAF plane by this evening. Singh also informed that a "tri Service enquiry" into the incident has been ordered by Indian Air Force, headed by Air Marshal Manvendra Singh, Air Officer Commanding-in-Chief Training Command. General Rawat would be cremated with full military honours in the national capital, while the rest of the defence personnel will also be cremated with military honours according to their ranks, Singh said. "I, on behalf of the august House, pay homage to the deceased and express condolences to the bereaved families." the Defence Minister said in the Lower House. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cds-bipin-rawat-will-always-be-remembered-for-his-patriotism-om-birla-1059132.html
09-12-2021||National||BJP youth leader stabbed in Jamshedpur, succumbs in hospital||A BJP youth leader died at a hospital in Jharkhand's East Singhbhum district on Thursday morning after being stabbed with a dagger, police said. Suraj Kumar Singh (26), the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) general secretary of the district, succumbed to his injuries at the Tata Main Hospital here, they said. He was allegedly stabbed with a dagger by one Sonu Singh and his accomplices on Tuesday in Harharguttu in Bagbera police station area when he was returning home, police said. Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) M Tamil Vanan said that Suraj and Sonu were involved in a dispute over a piece of land. Police said they have arrested Sonu and two others, including a juvenile. During interrogation, the accused told police that Suraj was creating problems ever since he became the district general secretary of BJYM, the officer said. Two of the accused were remanded to judicial custody by a court, while the minor was lodged at a juvenile home, police said. Further investigations are underway, they said. The BJP alleged that attacks on party leaders have been increasing in the state.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-youth-leader-stabbed-in-jamshedpur-succumbs-in-hospital-1059134.html
09-12-2021||National||Jacqueline Fernandez reaches ED office, will be quizzed again||Bollywood actress Jacqueline Fernandez has reached ED office to record her statement in a PMLA case for the third time. Earlier, it was said that she won't be able to join the probe on Thursday. Her counsel came alone, who said Jacqueline might not come. Later, Jacqueline came and joined the probe. This is Enforcement Directorate (ED)'s Prevention of Money Laundering case lodged against multimillionaire conman Sukesh Chandrashekhar in which she is recording her statement. On Wednesday, Jacqueline was grilled by an elite team of ED officials for more than six hours at MTNL building in Central Delhi. A woman official along with five others were present in the room where her statement was recorded. Apart from Jacqueline, another Bollywood actress Nora Fatehi has also recorded her statement as witness recently. Jacqueline was earlier stopped at the Mumbai Airport by the concerned authorities. She was quizzed there for hours and then set free. She was then summoned by the agency. Recently LOC (look out circular) was issued against the actress by the concerned authorities at the request of the ED. The agency had doubts that she might flee abroad and hence they had written to the authorities. On Sunday evening she was about to catch a flight to come to Delhi when she was stopped at the Mumbai airport. The Enforcement Directorate had on Saturday filed a charge sheet under PMLA naming few Bollywood actresses as witnesses including Jacqueline. The court had taken cognisance of the charge sheet soon after it was filed and had asked the agency to supply the charge sheet copy to all the accused. The next date in the charge sheet matter is December 13. The ED officials were tight lipped over the matter. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jacqueline-fernandez-reaches-ed-office-will-be-quizzed-again-1059136.html
09-12-2021||National||General Bipin Rawat was a true leader, true friend of Israel, says Prime Minister Bennett||Describing General Bipin Rawat as a "true leader and true friend" of Israel, the country's top leadership has expressed condolences to the government and people of India at the "tragic and shocking loss" of its first Chief of Defence Staff who died in a helicopter crash. The Mi-17V5 helicopter of the Indian Air Force (IAF) carrying the 63-year-old tri-services chief crashed near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu on Wednesday, killing 13 of the 14 people on board, including his wife and 11 other armed forces personnel. Israeli Prime Minister Naftali Bennett in a tweet said, "My thoughts & prayers are with the families of those who perished in the tragic helicopter crash in India. May their souls rest in peace". "General Bipin Rawat was a true leader & true friend of Israel. Much strength to @narendramodi & the Indian people at this difficult time", Bennett added. My thoughts & prayers are with the families of those who perished in the tragic helicopter crash in India.May their souls rest in peace. General Bipin Rawat was a true leader & true friend of Israel. Defence Minister Benny Gantz, who in the past has served as the Israel Defence Forces' Chief of Staff, expressed condolences on behalf of the defence establishment and also "personal grief" on Twitter. "I would like to extend condolences on behalf of Israel's defence establishment & to express my personal grief to the people of India & to the Indian defense establishment on the loss of Chief of Defence Staff Bipin Rawat, his wife & others who perished in the tragic accident", Gantz wrote. General Rawat was a true partner of the IDF and Israel's defense establishment, and contributed greatly to the strengthening of security relations between the two countries. He was expected to visit Israel soon. May his memory and the memory of all the lives lost be a blessing. Foreign Minister Yair Lapid used the same social media platform posting messages in Hindi and English. "On behalf of the people of Israel, I extend my deepest condolences to the people and government of India on the loss of Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat, his wife, and the 11 other military personnel lost in today's tragic accident," Lapid tweeted. On behalf of the people of Israel, I extend my deepest condolences to the people and government of India on the loss of Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat, his wife, and the 11 other military personnel lost in today's tragic accident. Israeli Knesset's (Parliament) Speaker, Mickey Levy, also mourned the tragic loss. "On behalf of the Knesset and the citizens of Israel, I extend my heartfelt condolences to the Indian people on the shocking and tragic loss of Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat, his wife and 11 other military personnel," Levy wrote. According to Israel's former Ambassador to India, Daniel Carmon, Rawat was likely to visit Israel soon. Carmon knew Rawat personally and also shared on Twitter pictures of the CDS leading the Haifa Day ceremony in Jaipur in 2018 to celebrate the centenary year of the liberation of the Israeli northern coastal city from the Ottomans during World War I by Indian cavalry regiments. "Mourning the loss of India’s CDS General #BipinRawat, remembering his leadership at the head of the Nation’s military. A great partner & friend @Israel’s Defence establishment, he contributed to the strengthening of relations & was supposed to visit our country soon. Condolences," the former Israeli Ambassador to India wrote. "General #BipinRawat led the #HaifaDay ceremony in Jaipur, in 2018. Tribute to the Indian forces who fought the 1st WW, liberating the city from the Ottomans and a sign of friendship to Israel too. I Was privileged to have known him. Om Shanti," Carmon tweeted. General Rawat, along with his wife Madhulika Rawat who served as the President of Army Wives Welfare Association (AWWA), were on their way to Wellington, Tamil Nadu, on Wednesday when their helicopter crashed a few minutes before it was supposed to land.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/general-bipin-rawat-was-a-true-leader-true-friend-of-israel-says-prime-minister-bennett-1059139.html
09-12-2021||National||Two unmanned missions to be launched before flying Gaganyaan by end of 2022: Minister||India will launch two unmanned missions next year before the human spaceflight programme 'Gaganyaan' by the end of 2022, Union Minister Jitendra Singh said on Thursday.       Sharing the status of other space projects, Singh -- during the Question Hour in the Rajya Sabha -- said the Venus mission is planned for 2022, while the Solar Mission for 2022-23 and that of the Space Station by 2030. Singh, the Minister of State in the Department of Space, said space projects have been delayed due to the Covid-19 pandemic. "In the next year, we are going to have two unmanned missions before flying the Gaganyaan. That is also in the planning. That is usually the SoP (Standard Operating Procedure) which is followed. Because of the Covid-19 pandemic, it got delayed," he said. In the beginning of next year possibly, India will first launch unmanned missions ahead of Gaganyaan towards the end of 2022, he said, adding that it would be accompanied with robots that have been named as 'Vayumitra'. "Following that, we will possibly in 2023 have Gaganyaan which will undoubtedly place India in the elite club of nations being the fourth one after the US, China and Russia," he added.   The minister further said the Gaganyaan programme will be different from other human missions undertaken by other countries in the sense that this will be more cost effective and inclusive. This programme will place India as a frontline nation and will also improve the country's capabilities as far as its robotic missions are concerned, he said and added that this will also inspire youngsters and start-ups. Besides the Gaganyaan programme, the minister said, "We are going to have a number of other missions. We will have a Venus mission by 2023. Soon, we will have solar missions called 'Aditya Solar mission' planned for 2022-23." Chandrayana got delayed due to the pandemic and maybe it will be launched by next year, he said. "By 2030, we will possibly be able to set up a space station, which will be unique of its kind," he noted, adding that the journey of India's ascent to the top has already begun through the space route. Replying to a supplementary query if ISRO has identified 17 technologies at lower cost from start-ups for use in Gaganyaan mission, the minister said, "There are going to be several research modules accompanying the Gaganyaan and it will involve start-ups and more than 500 industries". For the first time since the country's Independence, private industry will be involved in space technology, he said. "As a result of which, we now are going to have a number of partnerships for nano satellites trying to put in their mission in collaboration with ISRO," he said. Host technologies can be innovated in a wide range of areas involving the industry, which pave the way for the newer economy getting generated through the medium of space technology, he added. The minister also informed the Upper House that India has so far launched 42 foreign satellites from 34 countries and generated a revenue of USD 56 million (one million is equal to 10 lakhs).  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-unmanned-missions-to-be-launched-before-flying-gaganyaan-by-end-of-2022-minister-1059140.html
09-12-2021||National||Row in Madhya Pradesh after Katni SP puts Sikhs, Muslims at par with terrorists||A controversy erupted in BJP-ruled Madhya Pradesh after Katni's police superintendent issued a circular equating Sikh and Muslim community with terrorist groups like JKLF, LTTE, ULFA and SIMI. "Keep a strict vigil on Sikhs, Muslims, JKLF, ULFA, SIMI & LTTE terrorists," read a security circular, dated December 6, 2021, signed by Katni district SP Sunil Jain.  Madhya Pradesh: A security circular, signed by Katni SP relating to VIP movement, reads, "Keep a strict vigil on Sikhs, Muslims, JKLF, ULFA, SIMI & LTTE terrorists" The two-page order pertained to security-related arrangements for state's Governor Mangubhai C Patel's visit to Katni district on December 7. Senior Congress leader and party's state general secretary K K Mishra slammed the SP for putting Sikhs and Muslims at par with terrorists. "Thanks to SP Katni, till now it was the BJP, which treated country's farmers and Muslims as terrorists. But you (SP Katni) and your police have officially termed Sikhs and Muslims as terrorists for the Governor's visit. Are you a police superintendent or BJP spokesperson? This government will definitely felicitate you with Padma Shri," he tweeted. SP Sunil Jain on Thursday clarified that it was a "clerical error" and said that a show-cause notice has been issued to the concerned clerk. Jain added that a strict disciplinary action will be taken against the clerk. "I express regret over this error. We had no intentions to hurt the sentiments of any community," Jain told ANI. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/row-in-madhya-pradesh-after-katni-sp-puts-sikhs-muslims-at-par-with-terrorists-1059147.html
09-12-2021||National||Both Houses pay tributes to Gen Rawat, 12 others who died in chopper crash||Bouth Houses on Thursday mourned the death of Gen Bipin Rawat, his wife and 11 others in a helicopter crash, with the Deputy Chairman describing India's first Chief of Defence Staff as an exceptional and distinguished military leader. Lok Sabha members stood in silence for a brief while as a mark of respect for the departed souls. As soon as the House met for the day, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh made a statement on the crash, and said that an inquiry has started into the incident. He also paid tributes to the deceased. Paying tributes, Speaker Om Birla said that Rawat had worked a lot towards bringing in reforms in the system and would be remembered for his dedication. Thirteen of the 14 people on board the helicopter died in the crash near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu on Wednesday. Group Captain Varun Singh, who survived the crash, is on life support at a Wellington hospital. When the Rajya Sabha met for the day, Deputy Chairman Harivansh informed the house about the tragic accident in Nilgiri district of Tamil Nadu on Wednesday afternoon. Reading out Rawat's obituary, Harivansh said the CDS had an illustrious military career spanning over four decades during which he held several important staff positions and went on to become the Chief of Army Staff on December 31, 2016. "In the last two years, Gen Rawat tried to bring transformative reforms in the security architecture of our country," Harivansh said. As an individual, he will always be remembered for his commitment to the nation as well as troops, he said. "In the passing away of Gen Rawat, the country has lost an outstanding soldier and an exceptional and distinguished military leader," he said. The House, he said, deeply mourns the passing away of Gen Rawat, his wife, and 11 others. "The loss of precious lives is indeed painful and unfortunate," he said after which members stood in silence as a mark of respect to the memory of the departed. Thereafter, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh made a statement about the incident, which was identical to the one made in the Lok Sabha earlier. Leader of the Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge wanted that floor leaders of all parties to be allowed to pay tributes but Harivansh said the House has collectivity mourned the deaths and there was no precedent to allow such a thing. Congress leader Anand Sharma backed Kharge but the deputy chairman disallowed it. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/both-houses-pay-tributes-to-gen-rawat-12-others-who-died-in-chopper-crash-1059150.html
09-12-2021||National||Akhilesh Yadav and Samajwadi Party's history with 'lal topi'||After a recent tweet by PM Narendra Modi warning people 'not to trust lal topi (red cap) wearers' in the run-up to the UP Polls caused a stir, Samajwadi Party leader Akhilesh Yadav turned up at the Parliament sporting a red cap. The red cap, derived from the SP's party flag colours of red and green, serves to distinguish the party leaders amid UP's crowded political melting pot. Party leaders say that this also makes a bold statement. “The red cap was adopted by socialist leaders in their first convention in 1934 in Patna. The leaders subsequently went their separate ways, but they and the members of their organisations and parties continued to wear the red cap. One example is that of the Praja Socialist Party, whose leaders too wore red caps,” Chaudhary told the publication. Although Mulayam Singh Yadav, the party founder, was not overly fond of wearing caps of any colour, he did suggest the Yuvjan Sabha, a front organisation of his party, to wear red caps in 1998. However, unlike his father, Akhilesh has been a proponent of the red cap since his entry into politics. At the SP's eighth national conference in Argra in June 2011, Akhilesh made his first appearance with the trademark red cap, with his entourage also sporting the caps. After becoming the party chief in 2016-17, Akhilesh encouraged party workers and leaders to wear the cap, and took to distinguish himself with the cap since losing the 2017 Assembly elections to the BJP. In a statement on December 8, Akhilesh said, “BJP leaders are scared of the red cap… BJP ki lal batti gul hone wali hai (BJP's sun is set to disappear).” Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/akhilesh-yadav-and-samajwadi-partys-history-with-lal-topi-1059152.html
09-12-2021||National||Chopper crash: Wing commander Prithvi Chauhan's father recalls journey||A pall of gloom descended on Agra, the native of Wing Commander Prithvi Singh Chauhan (42), who was killed along with several others, including Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat, in the chopper crash in Tamil Nadu on Wednesday.  Soon after the news broke, his relatives and neighbours rushed to console the bereaved family at Saran Nagar in Dayal Bagh here.   Prithvi's family had migrated to Agra from Gwalior in Madhya Pradesh in 2006 and his father Surendra Singh (74) set up a bakery here. Singh told PTI, "We received information about our son's untimely death through news channels. However, we did not receive an official confirmation either from the Air Force officials or the Agra administration on Wednesday." Singh said his eldest daughter, who stays in Mumbai, followed the news an tried to contact Prithvi over phone. "However, she said his phone was switched off. She then called his wife Kamini Singh, who had accepted the tragic news by then," a teary-eyed Singh said.    He said Prithvi was cooperative and well-mannered. "He used to talk about our wellbeing. After 31 years, he had celebrated Raksha Bandhan with his three sisters last time. His eldest sister, however, couldn't make it as she lives in Mumbai," Singh recalled. He was the youngest among the five siblings. Singh said Prithvi was to arrive home in January. "I last spoke to him some three-four days ago. His mother has some problems with her vision. So he had fixed an appointment at the military hospital." According to his parents, Prithvi studied at the Sainik School in Madhya Pradesh's Rewa and got selected at the National Defence Academy. He joined the Indian Air Force in Hyderabad in 2000 and was currently posted at the Indian Airforce station in Coimbatore, Tamil Nadu. He married Kamini in 2007 and the couple has a daughter Aaradhya (12) and son Aviraj (7).  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chopper-crash-wing-commander-prithvi-chauhans-father-recalls-journey-1059158.html
09-12-2021||National||Nepal's PM Deuba saddened by General Bipin Rawat’s demise; Army Chief calls him ‘true friend of Nepal Army’||Nepal Prime Minister Sher Bahadur Deuba has expressed anguish over the tragic demise of General Bipin Rawat, the first Chief of the Defence Staff, who died in a helicopter crash, and extended his heartfelt condolences to the Indian government and the bereaved families. “Deeply saddened by the tragic demise of Gen. Bipin Rawat, his wife and several defence officials in a helicopter crash. My heartfelt condolences to the bereaved families and the Indian Armed Forces,” Deuba said in a tweet. The Mi-17V5 helicopter of the Indian Air Force (IAF) carrying the 63-year-old tri-services chief crashed near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu on Wednesday, killing 13 of the 14 people on board, including his wife and 11 other armed forces personnel. Describing Gen. Rawat as a “true friend of the Nepal Army,” the Chief of the Army Staff in the Nepal Army, General Prabhu Ram Sharma said he was shocked by the tragic accident, and called up General Rawat’s family over phone on Wednesday evening to offer condolences, a statement issued by the Nepal Army said. General Rawat enjoyed close and cordial ties with the Himalayan nation. On March 29, 2017, he was conferred with the title of honorary general of the Nepal Army by President Bidya Devi Bhandari. The following year, he visited Kathmandu as Chief Guest for Nepal Army Day. Senior Nepal Army General Bal Krishna Karki will be attending Gen. Rawat's funeral ceremony in New Delhi. Gen. Rawat took charge as India’s first Chief of Defence Staff on December 31, 2019, after serving as the Army Chief for a full three-year term. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nepals-pm-deuba-saddened-by-general-bipin-rawat-s-demise-army-chief-calls-him-true-friend-of-nepal-army-1059160.html
09-12-2021||National||Opposition suspends protest, disruption for a day in honour of Gen Bipin Rawat||Opposition on Thursday suspended their protest demanding the revocation of suspension of 12 MPs for a day and did not disrupt the proceedings in Rajya Sabha "out of their profound respect and anguish at the sudden death" of Chief of Defence Staff Bipin Rawat, his wife and soldiers who were killed in a chopper crash in Tamil Nadu. However, the Opposition made its displeasure clear against Deputy Chairman Harivansh's decision not to allow Opposition leaders to pay tributes to Gen Rawat inside Rajya Sabha after Defence Minister Rajnath Singh made a statement on the tragic incident with Leader of Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge saying it showed how the government was running Parliament. The decision to suspend the protest inside and outside Parliament was taken at a meeting of Opposition parties at Kharge in the morning. All parties, including Trinamool Congress that has not been attending meetings called by Congress, had informally consulted about the course of action on Wednesday night itself and agreed on this. The protest inside and outside Rajya Sabha will resume on Friday morning. The Opposition MPs, including the suspended lawmakers, gathered at the Gandhi Statue in the morning and observed silence at Gandhi Statue in memory of Gen Rawat. Inside the House, the Opposition did not disrupt the proceedings throughout the day, as a mark of respect to the first Chief of Defence Staff. Soon after Defence Minister Rajnath Singh made a statement, Kharge appealed to Harivansh to allow him and other Opposition floor leaders to pay tributes to Gen Rawat. However, Harivansh declined saying the rules did not allow it, leading to protests from Opposition MPs like Sushmita Dev, Nadimuk Haque and Vaiko among others. Trinamool Congress MPs insisted on allowing the leaders to speak and later, they walked out of the House in protest against not allowing them to speak on Gen Rawat and suspension of MPs. When his turn to raise an issue came up during the Zero Hour, MDMK's Vaiko requested that he be allowed to pay tributes to Gen Rawat and when the Deputy Chairman disallowed, he urged him to give him a chance to raise his admitted notice on Friday. Kharge said the Opposition condemned the decision not to allow leaders to speak on Gen Rawat. "What kind of democracy is this? You are not even allowing Opposition leaders to pay tributes to an accomplished General, who was the first Chief of Defence Staff. You saw how Parliament is run, To pay tributes to someone who died, we need to take the government's permission," he told reporters. Trinamool's Sushmita Dev targeted the government saying, "even mourning is also monopolised by the Narendra Modi regime." Asked about the future of the protest, a senior Opposition leader said none of the 12 MPs is "not going to sign any apology letter". He alleged that the government is "deliberately confusing" the public by "leaking wrong news" that they were individually trying to persuade parties to resolve the impasse. RJD's Manoj Jha said normally the floor leaders make references and tributes when such a national tragedy has happened. "Obituary unites the House. But if obituaries are seen from partisan perspectives, then things are certainly not good," he told DH. The opposition decided not to suspend the dharna because they wanted to convey their condolences, he said adding that the government could have utilised this opportunity to convey a collective message on such an unfortunate incident. "I feel the government has committed a big mistake. It is working with a 'my way or highway' attitude. Please do not see politics on such occasions," he said. DMK's T K Elangovan said, "this government thinks that the Parliament is only for their use and not for opposition parties. This is sad."  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/opposition-suspends-protest-disruption-for-a-day-in-honour-of-gen-bipin-rawat-1059163.html
09-12-2021||National||Nearly 48,000 people died in accidents on national highways in 2020||A total of 47,984 people died due to road accidents on National Highways, including on expressways, during calendar year 2020, Parliament was informed on Thursday. In a written reply to the Lok Sabha, Minister of Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari said as many as 53,872 persons died due to road accidents on National Highways, including on expressways, in 2019. Gadkari said the major causes of accidents on the National Highways (NHs) are vehicle design and condition, road engineering, over-speeding, drunken driving/ consumption of alcohol & drug, driving on wrong side, jumping the red light, use of mobile phone, etc. He also said the ministry has issued guidelines for improving the road safety through road safety audits at all stages (design stage, construction stage and O&M stage) by engaging independent road safety experts. Replying to a separate question, Gadkari said during the oxygen crisis in March-April 2021, shortage of technically qualified trained drivers to handle Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO) Tankers was reported. "Taking into account the continuous rise in requirement for transportation of liquid oxygen (LOX), extended period of oxygen management, addition to the inventory of cryogenic tankers and high fatigue/ attrition rate due to 24X7 operations, the Ministry issued advisory to states to create a pool of trained drivers for transporting hazardous cargo," he said.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nearly-48000-people-died-in-accidents-on-national-highways-in-2020-1059164.html
09-12-2021||National||Travel bans on African countries likely to affect Covid supplies, says CDC||Travel bans imposed on African countries are likely to affect supplies of materials needed for the fight against Covid-19 to the continent, the head of the Africa Centres for Disease Control John Nkengasong said on Thursday. Nkengasong also said during an online media briefing that his organisation was not recommending blanket booster shots in Africa, but anyone who was offered a booster should be elderly or immunocompromised.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/travel-bans-on-african-countries-likely-to-affect-covid-supplies-says-cdc-1059168.html
09-12-2021||National||'Victory of democracy', says Harsimrat Badal after farmers suspend agitation||Shiromani Akali Dal leader Harsimrat Kaur Badal on Thursday welcomed the farmers' decision to suspend their year-long agitation and termed it a "victory of democracy". "When the government does not listen, people are forced to protest," Badal, who had resigned from the Modi cabinet after opposing the contentious farm laws, said. "Though the farmers have suspended agitation, their wounds will take time to heal," she added. "Over 700 farmers died during the protest, aged people were forced to sit on protest in chilling cold and scorching summer. And then, they were tagged as Khalistanis. These wounds will take time to heal," Badal told reporters. On asked whether her party will now return to the BJP-led NDA, Badal said the Akali Dal moved out of the ruling alliance over people's issues and its values. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of 40 farm unions, on Thursday decided to suspend over a year-long movement against three contentious farm laws and announced that farmers will go back home on December 11 from the protest sites on Delhi's borders.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/victory-of-democracy-says-harsimrat-badal-after-farmers-suspend-agitation-1059170.html
09-12-2021||National||Happy that farmer brothers returning home satisfied, says Union minister Sanjeev Balyan||Welcoming the farmer unions' decision to suspend their protest, Union Minister Sanjeev Balyan on Thursday said it will allow the BJP to set its agenda for the Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls around the works done by the party's governments both at the Centre and the state. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha on Thursday announced the suspension of the farmers' protest. Farmer leader Gurnam Singh Chudani, however, warned that if their demands are not fulfilled till January 15, they can take a call on resuming the protest. Balyan, the BJP's prominent Jat face from western Uttar Pradesh, said the party's situation will further improve as the farmers are returning home "satisfied with the actions of the Narendra Modi government". "It is a matter of happiness not only for me but for all of us and that they (farmers) are going home satisfied with the actions of the government," Balyan told reporters outside Parliament. Asked if the Centre's decision to repeal the three contentious farm laws was influenced by poll considerations, Balyan said political parties are always concerned about polls, but what is more important is that "our farmer brothers are returning home satisfied". "The BJP was in a good position and it will improve now. People in villages used to ask us about the farmers' agitation. Now we can talk about our issues and the work done by the BJP government both at the Centre and in Uttar Pradesh," he said. Besides Punjab and Haryana, the ripples of farmers' agitation were felt most in the Jat-dominated western Uttar Pradesh with the agrarian community there lending its support to the protest. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/happy-that-farmer-brothers-returning-home-satisfied-says-union-minister-sanjeev-balyan-1059175.html
09-12-2021||National||Speaker gives priority to woman MPs to raise issues in Zero Hour, draws praise||Speaker Om Birla on Thursday drew praise from Lok Sabha members for identifying potential of members and encouraging them to speak on the floor of the House after a first-time woman MP, known for spearheading self-help groups, raised the issue of women unemployment. BJD MP Pramila Bisoyi (73), who speaks only her mother tongue Odia, raised the issue of women employment following the Covid-19 outbreak. She said many women who lost employment were unable to get jobs back and were confined to working at their homes or farms while men have been reemployed. She spoke in Odia and her party colleague Bhartruhari Mahtab shared the crux of the matter she raised during the Zero Hour. Asked about her educational qualification, Mahtab said it is not much but noted that she is spearheading many self-helf groups. The Lok Sabha website says the Aska MP has studied till primary classes. This is India's democracy, Birla said, noting that he personally urged her to speak in the House. She told him that she only speaks Odia, he said, adding that her secretariat then helped her. "Now she makes request for speaking in the House regularly. This is India's democracy," the Speaker said, noting she has given employment to a large number of women. Union minister Arjun Ram Meghwal rose to praise the Chair for identifying her potential. Many other members also thumped their desks to laud it. Birla on Thursday also allowed all woman members who wanted to speak during the Zero Hour to raise their issues. "There is a matter of 33 per cent reservation (for women). Therefore today is an opportunity for woman members to speak," he said light-heartedly. Earlier, DMK member Kanimozhi raised the issue of reservation for women in Parliament, noting that the issue has been discussed for long but in vain so far. Birla has taken measures to ensure that maximum MPs raise their issues in every session. His office said 402 members have so far spoken during the six spells of Zero Hour during the ongoing Winter session. Lok Sabha has the strength of 543 members. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/speaker-gives-priority-to-woman-mps-to-raise-issues-in-zero-hour-draws-praise-1059179.html
09-12-2021||National||General Rawat was alive, asked for water, says villager||A villager who was among the group of people to first reach the site of the IAF chopper crash at Kattari Park in Tamil Nadu's Coonoor, on Thursday said that Chief of Defence Staff, General Bipin Rawat, was alive when they found him and was asking for water. Talking to mediapersons at Coonoor, the villager, Sivakumar, said, "We reached the spot immediately after the crash and found three people alive and of them, one was asking for water. We didn't have water but we immediately put the three of them on separate blankets and took them to the Wellington Army hospital." He, however, said that he did not know that it was General Rawat and could only identify him when he saw his photographs later. Sivakumar said that besides himself, two others, identified as Krishna Moorthy and M Ravikumar, were the first people to reach the spot on hearing the crash. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/general-rawat-was-alive-asked-for-water-says-villager-1059183.html
09-12-2021||National||Centre extends suspension of international flights till Jan 31||India will keep scheduled international passenger flights suspended till January 31 next year, aviation regulator DGCA said on Thursday. Amid rising concerns over the coronavirus variant Omicron, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) had on December 1 decided not to resume scheduled international flights from December 15, less than a week after announcing that it would restart the services.  The DGCA issued a circular on Thursday, saying, "The competent authority has decided to extend the suspension of scheduled international commercial passenger services to and from India till 2359 hours of January 31, 2022." This suspension won't apply to international all cargo operations and flights specifically approved by DGCA, it mentioned. "International scheduled flights may be allowed on selected routes by the competent authority on case to case basis," the regulator added. In another tweet, it clarified that all international flights under the existing bubble agreements shall continue to operate till January 31. Scheduled international passenger services have been suspended in India since March 23, 2020, due to the coronavirus pandemic. But special international flights have been operating under the Vande Bharat Mission since May 2020 and under bilateral "air bubble" arrangements with selected countries since July 2020. India has formed air bubble pacts with around 32 countries including the US, the UK, the UAE, Kenya, Bhutan and France. Under an air bubble pact between two countries, special international flights can be operated by their airlines between their territories.  The DGCA had on November 26 announced that India will resume scheduled international passenger flights from December 15. Just a day later, Prime Minister Narendra Modi asked the Civil Aviation Ministry and the DGCA to review its decision in wake of the rising concerns of the Covid-19 variant Omicron. Therefore, on December 1, the DGCA revoked its November 26 decision without saying how long will the suspension of scheduled international flights continue.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-extends-suspension-of-international-flights-till-jan-31-1059191.html
09-12-2021||National||WB govt decides to withdraw FIRs against OpIndia Editor, SC told ||The West Bengal government on Thursday told the Supreme Court that it had decided to withdraw the FIRs lodged against OpIndia Editor Nupur Sharma and journalist Ajeet Bharti for their articles published on their website. The top court appreciated the stand taken by West Bengal government and hoped that other states also follow the decision taken by the state government as journalists had to suffer consequences for their reports. A bench presided over by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul expressed hope it may be a new beginning and other state governments also refrain from initiating criminal proceedings against people having divergent views.  The court also expressed concern over diminishing tolerance among people and added that it is time for people including the political class to introspect. Senior advocate Siddhartha Dave, representing the state government, submitted that the state has decided to withdraw the FIRs registered against Sharma, Bharti and others. The petitioners, for their part, claimed that the FIRs were registered in connection with different stories carried by the OpIndia platform.  They further contended that various other mainstream news outlets had also carried articles and news pieces on the concerned subjects. However, the police registered FIRs only against the petitioners.  The court had subsequently stayed the FIRs lodged in June 2020 and in September 2021. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/wb-govt-decides-to-withdraw-firs-against-opindia-editor-sc-told-1059197.html
09-12-2021||National||Omicron scare: Maintain adequate stock of critical drugs, Centre to states||The Centre on Thursday asked the states and Union Territories to maintain adequate buffer stock of the eight critical drugs identified for treatment of new Covid-19 variant Omicron. The states have been asked to ensure that funds released by Centre under ECRP-II are being utilised for creating and strengthening health infrastructure, and 100 per cent matching funds are promptly released by states to the state health societies. "As the progress of the funds utilisation at the field level is being reviewed by the Health Ministry, information on progress of funds utilisation needs to be filled in the portal created for the purpose. It needs to be ensured that all health facilities at the field level have functional ventilators, PSA plants, oxygen concentrators etc", said health ministry in a review meeting with states. Raising the issue of many ventilators supplied by the Centre lying unpacked and unused at some field hospitals, the Centre has asked the states to review immediately and ensure that all PSA oxygen plants, oxygen concentrators and ventilators are installed and functioning. It has asked the five-fold strategy of Test-Track-Treat-Vaccinate-adherence to Covid Appropriate Behaviour (CAB) to maintain as the mainstay of public health response strategy for effective and timely control and management of Covid and its variants. The states have also been advised to closely monitor the prevalence of influenza-like illness (ILI)/severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) and respiratory distress symptoms in view of Winter Season. Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan in the review meeting on Omicron urged the states and UTs to enhance testing and focus on surveillance to ensure early identification of the suspected cases for their prompt isolation and further clinical management. The districts reporting higher case positivity were alerted to monitor the case trajectory on a regular basis, and to promptly dispatch positive samples to the mapped INSACOG labs for whole genome sequencing. Underscoring the critical importance of vaccination drive, states were also advised to continue increasing the pace and coverage of Covid-19 nationwide vaccination drive with focus on the ongoing 'Har Ghar Dastak' campaign for ensuring full vaccination of all eligible population. Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/omicron-scare-maintain-adequate-stock-of-critical-drugs-centre-to-states-1059204.html
09-12-2021||National||'He promised to take us on vacation,' says slain IAF man's wife||A pall of gloom descended on Takdah, a sleepy hamlet in West Bengal Darjeeling district, on Thursday as locals learnt about the death of Havaldar Satpal Rai who was among the 13 people killed in the helicopter crash in Tamil Nadu's Coonoor. Rai, who was a native of Takdah, is survived by wife, a daughter and a son who is also in the Army. The helicopter crash on Wednesday killed India's first Chief of Defence Staff Bipin Rawat, and 12 others. Rai's distraught widow said that he had last come home during Diwali. "He was supposed to come home in April again and had promised us a vacation to someplace," she said. His body is likely to arrive home on Friday, a neighbour of the Rai family home said. Darjeeling MP Raju Bista expressed his condolences on the demise of Rai. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/he-promised-to-take-us-on-vacation-says-slain-iaf-mans-wife-1059208.html
09-12-2021||National||Godhra riots: Supreme Court reserves judgement on plea against Modi clean chit||The Supreme Court on Thursday reserved its judgement on a plea by Zakia Jafri — wife of former Congress leader Ehsan Jafri who was killed during the violence at Gulberg Society — against a clean chit to then Gujarat Chief Minister Narendra Modi and others in connection with the 2002 riots. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for the special investigation team (SIT), told the bench headed by Justice AM Khanwilkar that the top court should endorse the decisions taken by the Gujarat High Court and the trial court with regard to Jafri's plea.  It would become an endless exercise, being pushed by social activist Teesta Setalvad, the second petitioner in the petition, he said. Rohatgi also claimed before the bench, also comprising justices Dinesh Maheshwari and CT Ravikumar, that nobody had “raised a finger” against the SIT on the probe in the 2002 Gujarat riots.  After hearing detailed arguments in the matter, the bench reserved its verdict on Jafri's petition against the Gujarat High Court's order of 2017, which had rejected her plea against the SIT decision.  Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, representing the petitioners, cited work done by Setalvad's organisations. To paint somebody anti-Gujarat is unfair, he said. Sibal said that this was yet another occasion when the majesty of the law is being tested and he is not keen on targeting anybody. He emphasised that it was the SIT’s task to find out who the offenders were and if any offence had been committed. He said the matter can be closed if nobody had done it and if the incident had happened without anybody doing it, in the backdrop of the material before the court. “But if you feel that offences have been committed then who is responsible is a matter of investigation,” Sibal said. The petitioner questioned the SIT's clean chit to 64 people, including Modi. The SIT report had ruled out any "larger conspiracy" by high state functionaries in instigating the communal riots post Godhra massacre. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/godhra-riots-supreme-court-reserves-judgement-on-plea-against-modi-clean-chit-1059210.html
09-12-2021||National||Good for India if Congress, Mamata's paths converge: Chidambaram||Former Union Minister P Chidambaram on Thursday backed Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut's call to the Congress to take the lead in uniting all partners in the UPA to take on the BJP, even as he also said that it would be good for India, if the paths taken by the Congress and West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee converge. "I read Sanjay Raut's statement. I think he has made a very responsible statement. What he says is, we need a non-BJP opposition in the country and the Congress party must take the lead and bring together all the UPA parties. I think that is a very sensible statement. I fully agree with Sanjay Raut," Chidambaram, who is the Congress' senior observer in-charge of the 2022 Assembly polls in Goa, told a press conference here. He also lauded Raut's outreach to the Congress, urging the latter to take the initiative in bringing the UPA parties together. "UPA is not led by Congress. The old UPA is still there. CPI, CPI-M, DMK, NCP, RJD... UPA is still there. Raut's suggestion is, all the erstwhile UPA parties must come together again and Congress should take initiative, which I think is the correct statement," Chidambaram said. Asked if the Congress would use the 2022 Goa Assembly polls to put Raut's suggestion into action, he said: "We are ready to try (but) two hands must clap." About the emergence of the Trinamool Congress, led by Banerjee, Chidambaram said: "I have known her for over 20-25 years now. She has got a particular approach, we have an approach, it would be good for the country if the two approaches can converge." Chidambaram also called the current anti-defection law as a defective legislation, adding that if the Congress comes to power in the 2024 general elections, the party would plug the existing loopholes in the law. "The bane of politics has been defection. It's a shame. Goan people should not forgive those who get elected on one party ticket and shamelessly defect to another party. That is the bane of Goan politics. We must put an end to that disease in 2022. If you are elected on one party ticket, you must remain with that party for the term of five years," he said. "I have said in several meetings that the defection law is a defective law. This law has several loopholes which people are using. If a Congress government is formed in 2024, certainly those loopholes would be removed," he added. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/good-for-india-if-congress-mamatas-paths-converge-chidambaram-1059222.html
09-12-2021||National||Dr Reddy's Laboratories seeks DCGI nod for Phase-3 trial of Sputnik Light as booster dose||Dr Reddy's Laboratories has sought permission from India's drug regulator to conduct a phase-3 clinical trial to evaluate the efficacy and safety of Sputnik Light vaccine as a booster dose against Covid-19 in India, sources said on Thursday. Stating the Sputnik Light is the Component 1 of the Gam-COVID-Vac Combined Vector Vaccine (Sputnik V), P Madhavi, the Director-Regulatory Affairs at Dr Reddy's Laboratories, proposed to use batches of the vaccine manufactured at Hetero Biopharma Limited, Telangana, and at its loan license facility at Shilpa Biologicals Private Limited in Karnataka for the phase-3 trial. Sputnik Light has not yet received emergency use authorisation from the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI). "Seeking your permission to conduct 'a phase-3 randomized, open-label three-arm, multi-centre, clinical study in parallel assignment to evaluate immunogenicity and safety of a booster dose of Sputnik Light vector vaccine against Covid-19 in healthy Indian subjects," a source quoted Madhavi as having said in the application. Recently, the Serum Institute of India sought from DCGI approval for Covishield as a booster dose citing adequate stock of the vaccine in the country and a demand for a booster shot due to the emergence of new coronavirus variants. In an application to the DCGI, Prakash Kumar Singh, the Director, Government and Regulatory Affairs at Serum Institute cited that the UK's Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency has already approved the booster dose of AstraZeneca ChAdOx1 nCoV-19 vaccine. The INSACOG, in its bulletin dated November 29, recommended a booster dose of COVID-19 vaccines for those above 40 years with preference to high-risk and high-exposure populations. However, later it said their recommendation was not for the national immunisation programme as many more scientific experiments are required to assess its impact. Justifying the need for a booster dose six months after the second dose for all adult population instead of the high-risk population, Madhavi in the application said, "After getting vaccinated against COVID-19, protection against the virus may decrease over time and be less effective against the Delta variant."  "Declining VNA titers may herald significant declines in effectiveness against severe disease. The recent emergence of highly transmissible variants of SARS-CoV-2 has led to considerations for booster doses to enhance immunity and provide sustained protection from Covid-19. Emerging evidence shows that among healthcare and other frontline workers, vaccine effectiveness against Covid-19 decreases rapidly due to the combination of waning immunity and the greater exposure to virus including variants," the source quoted Madhavi as having stated in the application. A booster dose of Covid-19 vaccines administered months after primary vaccination is expected to augment immunity against the virus, including neutralizing capacity against the variants of concern, she said. The benefits of booster dose are expected to be seen in the entire adult population and not just elderly or high-risk cases. Both Pfizer and Moderna had conducted their booster dose studies in the overall adult population demonstrating an increase in immunogenicity titres post-administration of the booster dose, Madhavi said. "We intend to assess the safety and immunogenicity of a booster dose of Sputnik Light vector vaccine when administered at least six months after primary vaccination with Covaxin or Covishield," she said in the application. Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya had recently informed the Lok Sabha that the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunization and the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 are deliberating and considering scientific evidence for administering booster doses. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dr-reddys-laboratories-seeks-dcgi-nod-for-phase-3-trial-of-sputnik-light-as-booster-dose-1059224.html
09-12-2021||National||Mortal remains of only four who died in IAF chopper crash identified||The Indian Army on Thursday said only four bodies of the Mi17V5 crash victims, including that of Gen Bipin Rawat, were positively identified, while mortal remains of others could not be identified because of the “severity” of the crash. “Positive identification of only three mortal remains has been possible as of now (Gen Bipin Rawat, Mrs Madhulika Rawat and Brig LS Lidder) and their mortal remains will be released to the next of kin, for final religious rites as desired by respective families,” said an official. Later a fourth victim, Lance Naik Vivek Kumar, has also been identified. For others, the mortal remains would be kept at the mortuary of Army Base Hospital in Delhi till the completion of positive identification formalities, he said. Sources said DNA fingerprinting would be used to identify the victims for which blood samples of their close relatives – parents or children or siblings – would be taken. The close relatives of all the diseased individuals have been brought to Delhi as their help would be needed for “positive identification” using “scientific measures”, officials said, adding mortal remains would be released to the relatives only after positive identification. In one of the country’s worst military tragedies, the IAF chopper ferrying Gen Rawat, India’s first Chief of Defence Staff, his wife, seven Indian Army and five IAF personnel (all are CDS staff) crashed in the Nilgiri forest near Ooty minutes before its scheduled touch-down at the Defence Services Staff College, Wellington, killing 13 of the 14 individuals. The lone survivor, Group Captain Varun Singh, is being treated for burn injuries at the Command Hospital in Bengaluru. “He is critical but stable at the moment,” said an official. While four victims have been identified, officials said the process for positive identification of remaining bodies was continuing and appropriate military funerals of all deceased were being planned in close consultation with close family members. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mortal-remains-of-only-four-who-died-in-iaf-chopper-crash-identified-1059228.html
09-12-2021||National||DoT to rollout 5G testbed early January for trials||The government is planning to roll out a 5G testbed in early January to enable small and medium enterprises and other industry players to test their solutions on a working platform, a top Department of Telecom official said Thursday. For the promotion of 5G indigenous technology, DoT in March 2018 had approved a multi-institute collaborative project to set up an indigenous 5G Test Bed at a total cost of Rs 224 crore. A testbed consists of a specific environment including hardware, software, operating system, and network configuration to test a product or service. "One more effort that we have taken in the recent past is setting up a 5G testbed. We hope to roll out this 5G testbed in early January which will enable SMEs and other parts of industries to come and test their solution on a working platform," DoT secretary K Rajaraman said at India Mobile Congress. The collaborating institutes include IIT Madras, IIT Delhi, IIT Hyderabad, IIT Bombay, IIT Kanpur, IISc Bangalore, Society for Applied Microwave Electronics Engineering & Research (SAMEER) and Centre of Excellence in Wireless Technology (CEWiT). At present, the DoT has allocated spectrum to Bharti Airtel, Reliance Jio, Vodafone Idea and MTNL for 5G trials. Foreign companies Ericsson, Nokia, Samsung and Mavenir are engaged with telecom operators in 5G trials. Apart from this, indigenous 5G products are being developed by C-DoT and other domestic firms. The DoT has an extended trial period up to the upcoming May 26 or till the date of assignment of spectrum for commercial use post auction, whichever is earlier.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dot-to-rollout-5g-testbed-early-january-for-trials-1059230.html
09-12-2021||National||Bill on pharma institutes in RS: Oppn flags loss of autonomy, suggests criteria for board members||The Rajya Sabha on Thursday passed a Bill that seeks to accord the status of institute of national importance to six more institutes of pharmaceutical education and research, and also set up an advisory council for them. The National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research (Amendment) Bill, 2021 was introduced in the Upper House by Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya. It was passed by a voice vote. While introducing Bill, Mandaviya said the NIPERs would be governed on the lines of the IITs. The Bill, cleared by Lok Sabha on December 6, seeks to accord institute of national importance status to six more institutes of pharmaceutical education and research, start new courses and set up an advisory council. It was introduced in the Lower House in March this year and referred, thereafter, to the Standing Committee on Chemicals and Fertilizers. It seeks to amend the National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research Act, 1998, which established the National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research (NIPER) at Mohali in Punjab and declared it as an Institution of National Importance. With the amendment, six more institutes of pharmaceutical education and research will be declared as institutions of national importance. These are located in Ahmedabad, Guwahati, Hajipur, Hyderabad, Kolkata and Raebareli. It also proposes to bring down the membership of the board of governors mandated to manage the affairs at each NIPER from the current 23 to 12. Participating in the debate, Neeraj Dangi of the Congress said state governments should also get a place in the council of board of governors of the NIPERs. Dangi also sought the revocation of suspension of 12 opposition members of the House. Fellow Congress MP L Hanumanthaiah said an "over-centralisation of power and lack of autonomy" is seen in the Bill. "The proposed council has been empowered with excessive powers with regard to financial, administrative and managerial matters of these institutes, which has to be looked into very carefully," he said. Hanumanthaiah also said the Bill potentially compromises the institutes' autonomy as the council will mostly be composed of central government bureaucrats and some MPs, wherein it may take decisions that may not be in a particular institute's best interest. Sushil Kumar Gupta of the AAP suggested that there should be a minimum educational qualification criteria for MPs who are to be a part of the NIPER board, while RJD's Manoj Kumar Jha said they should have medical and pharma background. Taking part in the discussion, Abdul Wahab of the IUML, while "wholeheartedly" supporting the Bill, said, "All the Bills from the government should be like this so that you can pass hundreds of Bills...The problem is they are getting some Bills which nobody can accept. So this Bill we are all accepting." Supporting the Bill, Ram Nath Thakur of the JD(U) called for setting up of more NIPERs, while M Thambidurai of the AIADMK questioned the role of the AICTE in the NIPERs. Jharna Das Baidya of the CPI(M) welcomed the increase in the number of courses proposed to be offered at the NIPER. Similarly, Ayodhya Rami Reddy of the YSRCP said the amendments were in the right direction, and that the NIPER should work on the right kind of model which the pharma industry demands. Supporting the Bill, Sujeet Kumar of the BJD called for increasing the budget on pharmaceutical research so as to reduce import dependence of active pharmaceutical ingredients (API) from China. Ram Gopal Yadav of the SP sought clarity on whether the national importance status would lead to the end of OBC and SC/ST reservation at the NIPERs. He sought the inclusion of one member each from OBC and ST/SC in the board. Anil Jain of the BJP noted that the council for the NIPERs would look into various measures like growth of pharma education and other related activities ahead. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bill-on-pharma-institutes-in-rs-oppn-flags-loss-of-autonomy-suggests-criteria-for-board-members-1059234.html
09-12-2021||National||Duty of insurers to inform on change in policy: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Thursday said it is the duty of the insurer to inform policyholders about any important changes, including limitations on the renewal of the mediclaim, which would affect her or his choice of product. A bench of Justices KM Joseph and S Ravindra Bhat set aside an order passed by the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission (NCDRC), which said the policyholders were presumed to be known about the terms and conditions and that it was not open to them to claim ignorance of the terms under the fresh policy, which had placed percentage and monetary cap on certain types of surgical procedures. In his judgement, Justice Bhat said, “The insurer was clearly under a duty to inform the appellant policyholders about the limitations which it was imposing in the policy renewed for 2008-2009. Its failure to inform the policyholders resulted in deficiency of service. The impugned order of the NCDRC, as well as the order of the State Commission, are hereby set aside”.  Justice KM Joseph, in a separate judgment, agreed with the relief proposed by Justice Bhat.  He said, “The insurer brought about a change in the policy. This change introduced a cumbersome limitation. It kept the insured in the dark about the limitation at the time when the renewal notice was issued, and what is more, the premium was accepted”. Justice Joseph said the insurer had a duty to inform the appellants that a change regarding the limitation on its liability was being introduced and this duty to take the insured into confidence was breached in the present case.  A couple along with their son obtained an insurance policy in 2006 with certain conditions attached. They obtained the policy in question for 2008, however, wherein the son was not included and there was also a change in the amount of the insurance.  The period of insurance was operative from March 28, 2008 to March 27, 2009.  One of the petitioners underwent angioplasty in June 2008 and a claim for Rs 3,82,705.27 was submitted. The insurer paid a sum of Rs Two Lakhs only and the reduction in the claim was based on the express provisions which were in force in the policy in issue.  Under the earlier policy for previous year, such a clause was conspicuous by its absence. The district forum directed the insurer, United India Insurance Co Ltd, to pay the appellants, Rs 1,75,000 as the balance amount and also awarded 5,000 as compensation. The insurer approached the state consumer commission, which held that the terms of the policy were known to the appellants who were bound by it. The couple moved the NCDRC with a revision petition, which upheld insurer’s contention. They then challenged its order before the top court.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/duty-of-insurers-to-inform-on-change-in-policy-supreme-court-1059238.html
09-12-2021||National||Tejashwi gets married in Delhi, RJD celebrates in Patna||Celebrations were back at the RJD state headquarters here on Thursday when news broke that the party’s de facto leader Tejashwi Yadav has tied the knot with a childhood friend. The eligible bachelor said 'I-do' at a farm house in Delhi, in the presence of his parents Lalu Prasad Yadav and Rabri Devi, his eight siblings and their families, Samajwadi Party leader Akhilesh Yadav with whom the first family of Bihar politics shares family ties besides close relatives. The 32 years old got hitched to Rachel Iris about whom not much is known barring the fact that the couple have known each other since childhood and the bride's father is a Haryana-based businessman. The wedding, pictures of which are floating on social media, took place within minutes of a ring ceremony, reminding people of the Hindi adage "chat mangni pat byah". "Our leader has set an example by abjuring pomp and show at his wedding", state RJD president Jagadanand Singh said, catching his breath in the midst of frantic sweet distribution. When he was teased by reporters that he did not share details of the wedding till the eleventh hour, Singh quipped "why should I have done otherwise? By just getting a whiff, you scribes raised a storm yesterday. Disclosing everything would have caused a stampede at the function. Tejashwi certainly did not want that". There has been palpable excitement among the RJD camp since the previous day when word spread that the heir apparent of the party’s founding chief was going to start a family. Tejashwi is eighth of the nine children of Lalu-Rabri and the last one to tie the nuptial knot. The subdued manner in which he did so, however, marked a stark contrast with the ostentatious weddings of other less politically fancied siblings of the former Deputy CM who is now the leader of the opposition.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tejashwi-gets-married-in-delhi-rjd-celebrates-in-patna-1059256.html
09-12-2021||National||CJI Ramana expresses concern on diminishing students' activities in social causes ||Chief Justice of India N V Ramana on Thursday expressed concern over diminishing students' activities in social causes after liberalisation, saying in the past few decades no big leader has emerged from the students' community. “Any keen observer of Indian society would notice that in the past few decades no big leader has emerged from the student community. This appears to be correlated with diminished participation of students in social causes after liberalisation. The importance of students’ participation in modern democracy cannot be played down," he said. The CJI was speaking at the eighth convocation at National Law University, Delhi.   He said students cannot remain self-centred and it is essential that more and more well-meaning, forward-looking, and upright students enter public life.  “You must emerge as leaders. After all, political consciousness and well-informed debates can steer the nation into a glorious future as envisioned by our Constitution. A responsive youth is vital for strengthening democracy," Justice Ramana told the students and faculty members. He said students are an integral part of the society and cannot live in isolation, and they are also guardians of freedom, justice, equality, ethics, and social equilibrium.  Voicing his concern, he pointed out unfortunately, the focus nowadays is on professional courses to the total neglect of equally important subjects such as humanities and natural sciences. In anxiety to secure highly remunerative and profitable job opportunities, children are sent to exile in privately run residential schools and coaching centres, he said. “The formative years of budding talents are spent in a suffocating atmosphere which unfortunately resembles prisons," he said.  He said holistic development of a child cannot be achieved in such a restrictive environment and the harsh reality is that even after the students enter professional universities, the focus is on classroom learning, and not on the world beyond the classroom.  Highlighting the fact that the primary object behind the establishment of national law universities in the country was to improve the quality of legal education in the country to produce better trained legal professionals, he said, however, no authoritative study has been conducted to determine whether this has taken place.  Additionally, due to various considerations, most students from these universities end up in corporate law firms, he added. "It is unfortunate that a comparable addition is not being made to the ranks of lawyers practising in Courts from the National Law Universities. This is perhaps one of the reasons why National Law Universities are perceived as elitist and detached from social realities,” he pointed out. He stressed at enrichment of courtroom advocacy as the need of the hour. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cji-ramana-expresses-concern-on-diminishing-students-activities-in-social-causes-1059266.html
09-12-2021||National||ED raids former NSIC, UBI officials in money laundering case||The ED has raided some former West Bengal-based officials of the National Small Industries Corporation and the United Bank of India in a money laundering probe linked to purported loss of over Rs 173 crore to the corporation by allegedly invoking fake bank guarantees, the agency said on Thursday. The raids were conducted on November 7 at the residential premises of the then NSIC zonal deputy general manager (DGM) Manik Lal Das, another DGM Gopinath Bhattacharya, former NSIC marketing manager Jayanta Das, former United Bank of India (UBI) managers Manik Mohan Mishra and Pradeep Kumar Gangopadhyay, it said in a statement. Fixed deposit receipts worth Rs 1.04 crore and some "incriminating" documents were seized during the raids, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) said. The ED case is based on an FIR filed by the West Bengal Police’s CID and it is alleged that "a loss of Rs 173.50 crore (was made to) to NSIC (that) lent under its raw material assistance (RMA) scheme" to the accused. The alleged fraud was perpetrated "through criminal conspiracy by submitting bank guarantees (BGs) of other unconnected entities and also fake guarantees (purported to be issued by various branches of the erstwhile the United Bank of India, Kolkata)." The UBI is now merged with the Punjab National Bank (PNB). The alleged fraud came to light, the ED said, when these BGs were enforced by the NSIC. The NSIC is an organisation under the ministry of micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) and it works to promote enterprises in this sector. The RMA scheme has been devised to provide credit facilities to needy MSME firms. The ED described the modus operandi of the alleged fraud in the statement. "Funds of NSIC obtained under its RMA scheme were laundered/diverted through accounts of various fictitious supplier firms with the active connivance of Debabrata Halder (a middleman), Utpal Sarkar and Rahul Paul (beneficial owner of fictitious MSME and supplier firms) along with the then officials of NSIC and UBI," it stated. While a special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) has issued non-bailable warrants against Sarkar and Paul, Halder was arrested by the ED on the November 17. He is in judicial custody at present. The ED had also raided at least six places in West Bengal and it froze cash and jewellery worth Rs 18.4 lakh, Rs 3.95 crore deposits kept in the bank accounts of some "fictitious" MSME firms and two SUVs (Toyota Fortuner and Toyota Corolla Altis) worth Rs 50 lakh.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ed-raids-former-nsic-ubi-officials-in-money-laundering-case-1059269.html
09-12-2021||National||Covid-19: States pulled up for not installing ventilators sent by Centre during second wave||Amidst the ongoing concerns over the Covid-19 Omicron variant, the Union Health Ministry on Thursday pulled up the states for failing to unpack ventilators — that were sent by the Centre during the second wave — for equipping state hospitals. “Many ventilators supplied by the Centre are still lying unpacked and unused at some field hospitals, with consumables not being procured and made available by the states. This needs to be reviewed immediately,” Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan told the states while reviewing their preparedness. The health secretary also urged states to maintain an adequate buffer stock of eight critical drugs identified in the clinical treatment of Covid-19. The guidelines for these were shared with states in July 2021. On health infrastructure, Bhusan asked the states to immediately ensure that all PSA oxygen plants, oxygen concentrators and ventilators are installed and functioning. Keeping the winter season in mind, they were advised to closely monitor the prevalence of influenza-like illness, severe acute respiratory infection and respiratory distress symptoms. States and Union Territories were urged to enhance testing and focus on surveillance to ensure early identification of suspected cases for their prompt isolation and further clinical management. The districts reporting higher case positivity were alerted to monitor the case trajectory on a regular basis, and to promptly dispatch positive samples to the mapped INSACOG (Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium) labs for whole-genome sequencing. Close monitoring of new emerging hotspots/clusters, breakthrough and re-infection cases, and prompt investigation of such events by the Rapid Response Teams was also stressed upon. India has so far vaccinated more than 50 per cent of its 94.47 crore adult population with two doses of Covid-19 vaccines, whereas 85 per cent of the adults have received a single dose. Notwithstanding the vaccines, the experts have advised continued mask discipline, Covid-appropriate behaviour and avoiding crowds to reduce the chances of a third wave. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-states-pulled-up-for-not-installing-ventilators-sent-by-centre-during-second-wave-1059271.html
09-12-2021||National Politics||Shiv Sena may form alliance with Congress in Goa and UP, says Sanjay Raut||Following up his meeting with Rahul Gandhi, senior Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Wednesday held a meeting with Congress General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi making it clear that the Uddhav Thackeray-led party sees the Grand Old Party as the fulcrum of the Opposition though it wants the grouping to be stronger. After his meeting with Priyanka, the Sena leader described the discussions as “positive” and that they were thinking of working together in Uttar Pradesh and Goa. Priyanka is the party in-charge of Uttar Pradesh. With this, Sena has once again made it clear that it is not in favour of the TMC’s latest efforts in taking the lead of the Opposition. Sources said Sena, which otherwise plans to contest in 22 of the 40 seats, is also exploring the possibility of an alliance with Congress in poll-bound Goa. Congress is also in talks with NCP. Raut is learnt to have told Rahul that an alliance will pool in anti-BJP forces that could blunt the TMC-led efforts. Though unrelated to the meeting with Raut, Rahul also had a meeting with party observer P Chidambaram and party in-charge Dinesh Gundu Rao on poll strategy in Goa on Tuesday. Sources said Raut has conveyed to Rahul during Tuesday’s meeting that he needs to take the lead in reaching out to non-BJP parties and strengthen the existing United Progressive Alliance. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/shiv-sena-may-form-alliance-with-congress-in-goa-and-up-says-sanjay-raut-1059032.html
09-12-2021||National Politics||Goyal taking fundamentalist position, leaving no room for compromise on MPs' suspension: Jairam Ramesh||The suspension of 12 MPs had made the Opposition rise in protest inside and outside Parliament during the ongoing Winter Session of Parliament. Opposition wants revocation of the "illegal" and "undemocratic" suspension while the government says sans an apology, it is not possible. Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu has urged both sides to sit together and resolve the issue. Opposition blames Leader of the House Piyush Goyal for the stalemate. Congress Rajya Sabha Chief Whip Jairam Ramesh spoke to DH's Shemin Joy. It has been over a week since the suspended MPs are sitting on dharna at Gandhi Statue in Parliament House. Is resolution in sight? The Chairman (M Venkaiah Naidu) has asked the Leader of the House (Piyush Goyal), Leader of Opposition (Mallikarjun Kharge) and leaders of all political parties to find a way forward. I have met the Chairman myself twice. I have met the Leader of the House on two different occasions as also the Deputy Chairman (Harivansh). We have discussed various options. The Chairman is flexible and I find his position to be not unreasonable. However, the Leader of the House is taking a completely fundamentalist position which does not leave any room for compromise. He says individual MPs must apologise on the floor of the House. We have said from day one that the question of apology does not arise because the action taken to suspend the 12 MPs, as Kharge has explained in a detailed letter to the Chairman dated November 30, is both unconstitutional and illegal because it violates the Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business of Rajya Sabha. So, the impasse is continuing? The Opposition wants to break the present impasse. To give the Chairman credit and to be absolutely fair, he wants the impasse to be broken. However, the Leader of the House is simply inflexible. I have talked to others in the BJP and they are willing to sit down and talk. The Leader of the House has not even called leaders of parties for a meeting. When Bhairon Singh Shekhawat and Hamid Ansari were Chairmen, when they did not take the meeting, they would ask the Leader of the House to convene a meeting. I have requested the Leader of the House to call leaders, hear them out and find a way out. He talks to them casually in Parliament but you need to call a formal meeting. The Chairman also has not called but as I said, I am willing to admit that the Chairman on three occasions has made public calls. I have personally given to the Chairman some alternatives after having a discussion with various party leaders. I have visited many Opposition floor leaders at their homes. But it is not my duty, it is the duty of the Leader of the House to find a way out, a way forward. Is there a difference of opinion among Opposition parties on how the protest is going? Is it that the Congress wants to wrap up the protest while others are opposed to it? That's not true. Several Opposition parties have said that we don't want to boycott. The boycott of the whole session was ruled out from day one. The DMK wanted to be in the House raising issues like floods, GST, Dam Safety Bill etc. It is not true to say that only Congress wants to wrap up the protest. Since we are the largest party and since six out of the 12 suspended MPs belong to the Congress, I took the initiative to talk to other Opposition parties to find a way forward. This was prompted by the Chairman's observations made to me privately as well as publicly that leaders should sit together and find a way out. Boycott is not an option. We participated in the debate on the Dam Safety Bill last week. It is not that we don't want to participate. Zero Hour, Question Hour have functioned. I was anguished and pained that our MPs could not participate in the Assisted Reproductive Technology (Regulation) Bill and Surrogacy Bill on Wednesday. But we decided collectively that we should at least one day sit in protest. Basic point is the Chairman wants to find a way out. Opposition wants to find a way out. But the Leader of the House is simply not interested. Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi is simply not interested. Is the Congress and Opposition thinking of collectively expressing regret and getting the suspension revoked? I can't tell you what shape the final formula will take. We are looking at various options. But the question of an unqualified apology does not arise. That has been rejected by all parties. It does not arise. Is expressing regret an option? Let's see. There are some options. I have discussed it with the Chairman. I have discussed it with Opposition parties. This is not my decision. It is not the Congress decision. The decision has to be taken by all. We are discussing with AAP, SP etc. Though the Trinamool Congress is sitting with us at present, it has declared itself autonomous of the Opposition. I cannot speak on behalf of Trinamool. I find the Chairman flexible, I find all the Opposition parties wanting to participate in the proceedings. But the Leader of the House is taking a fundamentalist position. In a compromise, all parties have to move a little. What is the way out? To me, the first step is that the Leader of the House should call the leaders of all parties. Let him call an all party meeting. If he does not want to call, let (Defence Minister) Rajnath Singh, who heads the Cabinet Committee on Parliamentary Affairs (CCPA) call it. That is the first step. It is not my job to talk to parties. It is the job of the Leader of the House. This is the collapse of the leadership of the House. This is not a collapse of the leadership of Opposition. This is unbridled arrogance on the part of the Leader of the House. He has to call because if we call a meeting, the Trinamool Congress will not come. That is the reality. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/goyal-taking-fundamentalist-position-leaving-no-room-for-compromise-on-mps-suspension-jairam-ramesh-1059071.html
09-12-2021||National Politics||Food unites protesting Opposition outside of Parliament||The Opposition has been agitating against the suspension of 12 Rajya Sabha MPs in front of the Gandhi statue in the Parliament premises since December 1. But pictures from the protest site resemble a picnic spot, with MPs sitting on mattresses surrounded by food baskets. Delicacies from Kerala to West Bengal have made it to the protest site. While DMK’s Tiruchi Siva brought idlis, sambar and chutney not just for the MPs but also the media covering the protest, Samajwadi Party’s Jaya Bachchan brought dry fruits and sweets last week and on Wednesday, she brought paneer rolls for MPs. TMC MP Derek O’Brien and Nadimul Haque brought Bengali dishes from Bijoli Grill restaurant and Congress Gujarat Rajya Sabha MP Shaktisinh Gohil brought rotis and vegetable curries. LoP Mallikarjun Kharge also got food from his residence for the protestors. None of this is random as Congress’s Priyanka Chaturvedi and TMC’s Dola Sen have worked out a timetable for who would get which food on what days. AAP MP Sanjay Singh is supposed to bring food on Thursday while Chhaya Verma of Congress will get food on Friday. “It sends a message that we are not alone. Each of us represents 34-36 MLAs. Now we are asking for food from every region. We will all be friends for life as we are struggling here together. In fact, all 12 of us share the same views and thoughts on most issues,” Chaturvedi told the publication. The protesting MPs also get tea twice a day delivered from Chaturvedi’s residence in Lodhi Garden. The 12 Opposition MPs -- six from the Congress, two each from the Trinamool Congress and the Shiv Sena, and one each from the CPI and the CPI(M) -- were suspended from the Rajya Sabha last week for the entire Winter Session of Parliament for their "unruly" conduct in the previous session in August. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/food-unites-protesting-opposition-outside-of-parliament-report-1059108.html
09-12-2021||National Politics||BJP MP in Rajya Sabha makes case for Uniform Civil Code||BJP Rajya Sabha member K C Ramamurthy on Thursday urged the Centre to bring in uniform civil code. “The Supreme Court observed in the Shah Bano case that, a common civil code will help the cause of national integration by removing disparate loyalties to laws which have conflicting ideologies,” Ramamurthy said in Rajya Sabha. "The US, UK and many European countries have a uniform civil code. Even Goa is implementing the uniform civil code. There are misconceptions about a uniform civil code, which needs to be explained to all religions. The Centre should analyse the best features from all religions, compile and adopt them in the form of a code called the Uniform Civil Code, in the interest of public," he said during special mention. “The objective of a uniform civil code is to unify fragmented personal laws for marriage, divorce, custody, adoption, inheritance, etc., and cover civil and human rights issues, because personal laws of different religions are dissimilar and hence violate article 14 of the Constitution which guarantees equality before law,” he said. “A uniform civil code is needed because age of marriage is not uniform and is not religion-neutral and gender-neutral, divorce is not uniform even though it is a civil and human rights issue, alimony is not religion and gender-neutral, inheritance of property is not equal among all religions and adoption is also different in different religions,” he said. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-mp-in-rajya-sabha-makes-case-for-uniform-civil-code-1059118.html
09-12-2021||National Politics||UP women line up for Congress tickets after Priyanka announces 40% reservations for polls||Following Congress General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra's announcement to give 40 per cent reservation to women in ticket allotments for the upcoming Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls, over 400 women have approached seeking nominations for 121 Assembly seats in the western region, Congress sources said. "We are getting scores of applications from women every day, seeking party tickets," a senior UP Congress leader told DH. The leader said that a majority of the applicants had political backgrounds, and came from families of politicians. "They also include spouses, daughters and relatives of senior party leaders," the leader said. "More than a dozen women have sought tickets for six assembly seats in Moradabad district alone." The source said that besides the western region, a large number of applications have been received from women for seats from other parts of the state. ''We will be screening all the applicants...winnability will be the main criteria behind selection of the candidates,'' the leader said. A second senior state Congress leader said that the party leadership had completed the task of screening women candidates in Meerut and Saharanpur divisions. ''We will announce the names of the candidates well in advance this time to enable them to start preparations for the polls,'' the second source said. Party leaders said that the final decision would be taken by Priyanka.  Sources said that the party leadership were elated by the "positive" indication of a large contingent of women applicants.  On Wednesday, Priyanka had released a separate manifesto for women and promised 40 per cent reservation for women in government jobs if the party came to power.  Priyanka, who is the party in-charge of the state, has been focussing on the women voters in her speeches at public meetings. She has been appealing to them to vote on the issue of development and not on the basis of caste or religion. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/up-women-line-up-for-congress-tickets-after-priyanka-announces-40-reservations-for-polls-1059194.html
09-12-2021||National Politics||Sharjeel Imam gets bail in Jamia Millia Islamia violence case||A Delhi court on Thursday granted bail to Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) student Sharjeel Imam in a case related to violence at Jamia Millia Islamia University in December 2019. Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Dinesh Kumar set bail on furnishing a bond of Rs 25,000, with one surety of like amount. "Considering the nature of the offence, and the fact that he was not arrested during the investigation, the [bail] application is allowed," the judge ordered. The incident of violence in the varsity had taken place during student protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) in December 2019. The FIR under which he is an accused involves offences such as rioting, conspiracy, attempt to commit culpable homicide, voluntarily obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions, and assault, under the Indian Penal Code. Imam will, however, remain in jail as he is accused in three other cases related to violence in Delhi. In October, the court had denied bail to Imam bail in connection with allegedly delivering an inflammatory speech and inciting violence during the CAA-NRC protests in 2019, saying free speech cannot be exercised at the cost of communal peace and harmony. Besides this case, Imam is also accused of being one of the "masterminds" of the February 2020 riots, which had left 53 people dead and over 700 injured. He has been booked under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). He was also arrested in another case under UAPA and sedition for his speeches at two universities in 2019, where he allegedly threatened to “cut off” Assam and the rest of the Northeast from India. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sharjeel-imam-gets-bail-in-jamia-millia-islamia-violence-case-1059217.html
09-12-2021||National Politics||Chidambaram backs Sanjay Raut's call urging Congress to lead UPA revival||All India Congress Committee's senior observer for the 2022 Goa Assembly polls P Chidambaram on Thursday backed Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut's call urging the Congress party to take the lead in uniting all United Progressive Alliance partners with the objective of defeating the BJP in the 2024 general elections. Speaking at a press conference in Panaji on Thursday, Chidambaram also said that if Congress comes to power in the 2024 general elections, the party would plug the existing loopholes in the anti-defection law, which the former Union Finance Minister described as "defective" legislation. "I read Sanjay Raut's statement. I think he has made a very responsible statement. What he says is, we need a non-BJP opposition in the country and the Congress party must take the lead and bring together all the UPA parties. I think that is a very sensible statement. I fully agree with Sanjay Raut," Chidambaram said. "We are running a mini-UPA in Maharashtra under Uddhav Thackeray's leadership. So we should have a similar arrangement at the central level... I told Rahul Gandhi - invite everybody. People won't just come and join. If there is a wedding or function, we have to send invitations," Raut told a private news channel earlier on Thursday. Chidambaram also said lauded Raut's outreach to the Congress party, urging the latter to take the initiative in bringing the UPA parties together.   "UPA is not led by Congress. The old UPA is still there. CPI, CPI M, DMK, NCP, RJD. UPA is still there. Raut's suggestion is all the erstwhile UPA parties must come together again and Congress should take initiative, which I think is the correct statement," Chidambaram said. When asked if Congress would use the 2022 Goa assembly polls to put Raut's suggestion into action, Chidambaram said: "We are ready to try (but) two hands must clap".  Chidambaram also called political defection a scourge, adding that Congress would look to plugging the loopholes in the existing anti-defection law if it comes to power in 2024. "I have said in several meetings that the defection law is a defective law. This law has several loopholes which people are using. If a Congress government is formed in 2024, certainly those loopholes would be removed," Chidambaram said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/chidambaram-backs-sanjay-rauts-call-urging-congress-to-lead-upa-revival-1059275.html
09-12-2021||North and Central||Pall of gloom over South Block, CDS residence||A pall of gloom descended upon the South Block and the residence of Gen Bipin Rawat in New Delhi as soon as the news started trickling a little after 12 noon about the MI17V5 chopper, which crashed near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu with the Chief of Defence Staff, his wife, Madhulika Rawat, and others. The Chief of Army Staff Gen M M Naravane briefed Defence Minister Rajnath Singh soon after preliminary reports about the mishap reached New Delhi. Singh had a series of meetings with senior officials of the Ministry of Defence. He also instructed Indian Air Force chief Air Chief Marshal Vivek Ram Chaudhary to fly to the IAF station at Sulur in Tamil Nadu and visit the scene of the crash. The senior officials of the Ministry of Defence as well as the Indian Army and the IAF were in touch with the State Government of Tamil Nadu and the local administration in Nilgiris to coordinate the rescue operation. Though all at the Ministry of Defence in the South Block was hoping for a miracle, they soon received the confirmation that Gen Rawat, his wife and 11 others had died in the crash and the IAF’s Group Captain Varun Singh, the lone survivor, was battling for life in the hospital. The Defence Minister, who had already briefed Prime Minister Narendra Modi about the mishap, spoke to him again and broke the sad news. The Defence Minister then drove to Gen Rawat’s official residence, which was already cordoned off to keep the media persons away. He spent a few minutes with the family and friends of the Chief of Defence Staff and officially confirmed the tragic news about the death of the couple. Soon after he left Gen Rawat’s residence, the IAF tweeted confirming that the CDS, his wife and 11 others died in the crash. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pall-of-gloom-over-south-block-cds-residence-1059012.html
09-12-2021||North and Central||Study reveals hazardous indoor PM2.5 levels in both rich and poor households in Delhi||A new research shows that both low-income and high-income households in Delhi record very high indoor PM2.5 levels during winter, with mean concentrations being 23 and 29 times the WHO's safe limit of 10 microgram per cubic metre, respectively. The findings by the Energy Policy Institute at the University of Chicago suggested that high-income households were 13 times more likely to own air purifiers than low-income households. Still, the indoor air pollution levels in those homes were only 10 per cent lower than those living in disadvantaged settings.  "In Delhi, the bottom line is, whether someone is rich or poor, no one gets to breathe clean air," says Kenneth Lee, the lead author of the study.  The study that surveyed thousands of Delhi households between 2018 and 2020 across varying socioeconomic strata also found the indoor PM2.5 levels to be substantially higher than the corresponding value reported by the nearest government monitor. Also, it noted that indoor PM2.5 levels tend to spike in the mornings and evenings when households are most likely to be cooking. Researchers also found that the demand for air pollution information and defensive technologies among residents in Delhi is low. Even when offered a free trial of indoor air quality monitors to track pollution levels inside their homes, the take-up rates were low. Fifty-six per cent of the households surveyed showed no interest, while 15 per cent of them accepted the offer. Households with access to real-time indoor air pollution data recorded an over eight per cent decline in indoor PM2.5 concentrations, and researchers observed modest changes in inexpensive defensive practices and ventilation behaviours in these houses. "It's critical to address the information gaps related to indoor air pollution urgently. High-frequency accurate PM2.5 information communicated through either government monitor or by indoor air quality monitors is the first step but only when it is complemented with an increase in literacy around health consequences of air pollution and the benefits of adopting various defensive actions, can we expect more favourable outcomes," Lee said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/study-reveals-hazardous-indoor-pm25-levels-in-both-rich-and-poor-households-in-delhi-1059013.html
09-12-2021||North and Central||Cold morning in Delhi, air quality remains in poor category||The national capital's air quality on Thursday continued to remain in the poor category due to favourable winds, even as the city witnessed the lowest minimum temperature of the month so far at 8.4 degrees Celsius, weather office said. The air quality index (AQI) in the city stood at 261 at 8 am. Neighbouring Faridabad (237), Ghaziabad (266), Greater Noida (264), Gurgaon (241) and Noida (235) also recorded air quality in poor category. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe. The city's 24-hour average AQI on Wednesday was 237 at 4 pm. The Ministry of Earth Sciences' air quality forecast agency SAFAR said the improvement in the air quality was "higher than expected, implying that (air pollution) control measures are yielding results".  Moderate wind speed is likely to increase ventilation over the next four days, it said. Delhi's minimum temperature was recorded at 8.4 degrees Celsius, one notch below the normal, which is lowest in the month so far, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. The weather office predicted shallow fog in the day and it said that the maximum temperature of the day is likely to hover around 24 degrees Celsius. The relative humidity at 8.30 am was 92 per cent, the weather office said.  The minimum temperature on Wednesday was recorded at 10.1 degrees Celsius, a notch above the normal. The maximum temperature on Wednesday settled at 24 degrees Celsius, weather office said.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cold-morning-in-delhi-air-quality-remains-in-poor-category-1059042.html
09-12-2021||North and Central||1 injured in explosion in Delhi's Rohini court, proceedings suspended||At least one person was injured in a blast that was reported at the Rohini Court in Delhi on Thursday, a Fire Department official said. According to the official, a call was received at 10.40 am regarding the mysterious explosion inside Chamber no 102 after which the Fire Department rushed at least 7 fire tenders to the spot. "The blast was of low intensity and the injured person was rushed to a nearby hospital even before the fire tenders reached the spot," the official said, adding there were no casualties in the incident. Meanwhile, a lawyer told IANS that all proceedings have been stopped at the court following the incident. Sources said that the blast was possibly in a laptop, however, officials are yet to confirm about its nature. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Rohini) Pranav Tayal could also be seen at the spot assessing the situation. There was fear and panic among the people, however, sources said the situation is now under control. The incident has refreshed memories of the dramatic Rohini Courtroom firing incident in which a top Delhi gangster, Jitender Singh Mann, alias Gogi, was shot dead in a courtroom on September 24 by two assailants dressed in lawyers' garb. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/1-injured-in-explosion-in-delhis-rohini-court-proceedings-suspended-1059043.html
09-12-2021||North and Central||Tri-service inquiry ordered into chopper crash that killed CDS Bipin Rawat: Rajnath Singh in Lok Sabha||The Indian Air Force has instituted a tri-service inquiry into the tragic crash of the Mi17V5 helicopter that killed India’s first Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat, his wife and 11 other armed forces personnel. “A tri-service enquiry regarding the incident has been ordered by Indian Air Force, headed by Air Marshal Manvendra Singh, Air Officer Commanding-in-Chief Training Command,” Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said in a statement made in both Houses of the Parliament on Thursday. Narrating the sequence of events, Singh said, “Gen Bipin Rawat was on a scheduled visit to Defence Services Staff College, Wellington to interact with the student Officers. The Air Force Mi17V5 helicopter took off from SulurAir Base at 11:48 am yesterday and was expected to land at Wellington by 12:15 pm.” “The Air Traffic Control at Sulur Air Base lost contact with the helicopter at approximately 12:08 pm. Subsequently, few locals spotted a fire in the forest near Coonoor and rushed to the spot where they observed the wreckage of the military helicopter engulfed in flames. Rescue teams from the local administration in the vicinity reached the site and attempted to recover the survivors from the crash site.” “All those recovered from the wreckage were rushed to the Military Hospital, Wellington. Latest reports have confirmed that out of the total 14 persons onboard the ill-fated helicopter, 13 have succumbed to their injuries,” he said. The dead include the spouse of the CDS, Madhulika Rawat, his Defence Adviser Brig Lakhbinder Singh Lidder, Staff Officer Lt Col Harjinder Singh and nine other Armed Forces personnel including the Air Force helicopter crew. Their names are Wing Commander Prithvi Singh Chauhan, Squadron Leader Kuldeep Singh, Junior Warrant Officer Rana Pratap Das, Junior Warrant Officer Arakkal Pradeep, Havildar Satpal Rai, Naik Gursewak Singh, Naik Jitendra Kumar, Lance Naik Vivek Kumar, Lance Naik B Sai Teja. The lone survivor Group Captain Varun Singh is on life support in the Military Hospital at Wellington and all efforts are being made to save his life, Singh said. The defence Minister also said that the Chief of Defence Staff would be cremated with full military honours. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/tri-service-inquiry-ordered-into-chopper-crash-that-killed-cds-bipin-rawat-rajnath-singh-in-lok-sabha-1059048.html
09-12-2021||North and Central||Gujarat riots: Supreme Court reserves verdict on Zakia Jafri's plea||The Supreme Court on Thursday reserved the verdict on Zakia Jafri's petition seeking fresh probe into 2002 Gujarat riots.  More to follow... Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/gujarat-riots-supreme-court-reserves-verdict-on-zakia-jafris-plea-1059070.html
09-12-2021||North and Central||UP govt suspends official on allegations of burying alive 50 cows, other cattle||The Uttar Pradesh government has suspended an official in connection with the alleged burying alive of 50 cows and other cattle from a 'gaushala' in Naraini here. The action against Amar Bahadur, the executive officer of Naraini Nagar Panchayat was taken on Wednesday night after chief development officer Ved Prakash Maurya, who was asked to investigate the case, submitted his report to the district magistrate. Rajkaran Kabir, the BJP MLA from Naraini constituency, who had alleged that 50 cows and other cattle from the gaushala were buried alive in Madhya Pradesh's Panna district, said the probe report was "misleading". He said the executive officer was made a scapegoat and alleged the involvement of the sub-divisional magistrate. Banda District Magistrate Anurag Patel had earlier said 134 cows and other cattle were taken from the temporary gaushala in Naraini and shifted to four other temporary gaushalas on Saturday. On Monday, a report of these animals being buried alive in the forest of Madhya Pradesh was published in a newspaper. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-govt-suspends-official-on-allegations-of-burying-alive-50-cows-other-cattle-1059149.html
09-12-2021||North and Central||At 94, Parkash Singh Badal may not be done with politics just yet||At 94, Parkash Singh Badal, the patriarch of Shiromani Akali Dal, appears not to be done with politics just yet. Ahead of the Punjab Assembly elections, the party is likely to heavily bank on the popular and charismatic leader to woo voters.  While his son, Sukhbir Singh Badal, has largely been the face of the party in the upcoming elections, Badal, the five-time CM, is still crucial for SAD's chances in the high-octane poll season. The party had parted ways with the BJP ostensibly due to controversial farm laws, which are now repealed by the Centre. Some reports have suggested that the alliance is maybe back on the table.  Sukhbir, the son, is too seen naming his father in public, suggesting that Punjab and Badal can't be seen independent of each other. “In his nineties and he still amazes me with his childlike enthusiasm and energy. His wisdom is unmatched and his experience unparalleled. I see the whole of Punjab in him whereas he sees Punjab in all of us. He is not just mine - Parkash Punjab Da!!’’ Sukhbir wrote on Twitter. SAD, which is contesting polls in alliance with Bahujan Samaj Party, is yet to announce a candidate for Lambi, where Badal has contested from since 1997. Insiders have reportedly said that it can be ruled out that he will repeat his candidature. He will also be one of the oldest persons to contest elections.  While Badal has largely refrained from public appearances due to the pandemic, he recently addressed a rally. A leader told the publication that the big crowds at the rally was indicative of the reach and influence of the leader.  Badal was largely absent from politics after SAD was ousted out of power in 2017, but he was seen campaigning for Harsimrat Kaur Badal from Bathinda parliamentary seat in 2019 general elections. He is also reportedly active in his area and attends local functions and rituals even though he is not seen in the state Assembly.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/at-94-parkash-singh-badal-may-not-be-done-with-politics-just-yet-1059154.html
09-12-2021||North and Central||Delhi court rejects suit seeking restoration of deities inside Qutub Minar complex, refers to Ayodhya judgment||A Delhi court has rejected a civil suit seeking restoration of Hindu and Jain deities within the Qutub Minar complex and right to worship over there, saying that past wrongs cannot be the basis for disturbing the peace in present and future. The lawsuit, filed on behalf of Jain deity Tirthankar Lord Rishabh Dev and Hindu deity Lord Vishnu, claimed that 27 temples were partly demolished by Qutubdin Aibak, a general in the Army of Mohamad Gauri, and Quwwat-ul-Islam Mosque was raised inside the complex by reusing the material. Rejecting the suit, Civil Judge Neha Sharma said, “India had a culturally rich history. It has been ruled over by numerous dynasties. During arguments, the counsel for the plaintiff has vehemently argued on the point of national shame. However, nobody has denied that wrongs were committed in the past, but such wrongs cannot be the basis for disturbing the peace of our present and future.” The judge added, “Our country had a rich history and has seen challenging times. Nevertheless, history has to be accepted as a whole. Can the good be retained and bad be deleted from our history?” The court also referred to the Ayodhya judgment delivered by the Supreme Court in November, 2019 and highlighted a portion of it in the order, which stated, “Cognizant as we are of our history and of the need for the nation to confront it, Independence was a watershed moment to heal the wounds of the past. Historical wrongs cannot be remedied by the people taking the law into their own hands.” The suit, filed by advocate Vishnu Shankar Jain, sought a mandatory injunction against the central government to create a trust, according to Trust Act 1882, and to hand over the management and administration of the temple complex situated within the area of Qutub Complex. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-court-rejects-suit-seeking-restoration-of-deities-inside-qutub-minar-complex-refers-to-ayodhya-judgment-1059156.html
09-12-2021||North and Central||Delhi resident doctors suspend protest for a week||The Federation of Resident Doctors Association (FORDA) Thursday decided to suspend their agitation for a week after Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya assured them of an early hearing of the NEET-PG matter in the Supreme Court. RDAs have been protesting since November 27 against the multiple postponements of the NEET-PG Counseling 2021 and the subsequent admission of the fresh batch of resident doctors in medical colleges. The RDAs had boycotted the emergency and the routine services in hospitals from December 6. However, the FORDA said in a statement, "A plea has been issued by the health ministry for fast track hearing and we were assured by the health minister that PMO is also looking for the matter and the process will be completed within a week". "Considering the above and looking at the security situation of the nation owing to untimely demise of Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat and other senior officials, the FORDA has decided to hold the agitation for one week", it said. However, the federation has warned of a complete shutdown of all health services, except the Covid care facilities, in the hospitals if the issue is not addressed by December 16. The admissions for NEET-PG have been delayed due to the dispute over revising the income criteria for the Economically Weaker Sections (EWS) quota from the current upper limit of Rs. 8 lakh a year. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-resident-doctors-suspend-protest-for-a-week-1059181.html
09-12-2021||North and Central||Haiderpur wetland in Uttar Pradesh recognised as Ramsar Site||The Haiderpur Wetland abutting the Madhya Ganga barrage, about 10 km from Bijnor in western Uttar Pradesh, has been recognised under the 1971 Ramsar Convention on Wetlands, bringing the total number of such designated areas in the country to 47, Ministry of Environment and Forests posted on Twitter on Thursday. The Ramsar Site status was notified late on Wednesday night. The aim of the Ramsar list is "to develop and maintain an international network of wetlands which are important for the conservation of global biological diversity and for sustaining human life through the maintenance of their ecosystem components, processes and benefits." Located within the boundaries of Hastinapur Wildlife Sanctuary, this Wetland of International Importance (no. 2463 on the 'Ramsar List') is human-made wetland covering an area of 6,908 hectares and was formed in 1984 after the construction of the Madhya Ganga Barrage on the floodplains of Ganga. Wetlands provide a wide range of important resources and ecosystem services such as food, water, fibre, groundwater recharge, water purification, flood moderation, erosion control and climate regulation. They are, in fact, are a major source of water and our main supply of freshwater comes from an array of wetlands which help soak rainfall and recharge groundwater. Haiderpur Wetland provides habitat for numerous animal and plant species, including more than 30 species of plants, over 300 species of birds, including 102 waterbirds, more than 40 fish and more than 10 mammal species. This diverse habitat supports more than 15 globally threatened species, such as the critically endangered gharial (Gavialis gangeticus) and the endangered hog deer (Axis porcinus), black-bellied tern (Sterna acuticauda), steppe eagle (Aquila nipalensis), Indian skimmer (Rynchops albicollis) and gold mahseer (Tor putitora). The Site supports more than 25,000 waterbirds, serves as a breeding site for the near-threatened Indian grassbird (Graminicola bengalensis) and provides refuge to the northern subspecies population of the vulnerable swamp deer (Rucervus duvaucelii) during its seasonal flood-driven migration. The site also regularly supports more than one per cent of the population of greylag goose (Anser anser) and bar-headed goose (Anser indicus). "Haiderpur Wetland also helps to support the livelihoods of the local communities and contributes to the maintenance of hydrological regimes and to hazard reduction. It is used for recreation and tourism, and scientific and educational activities are also associated with the Site," the authorities noted on the Ramsar website after designating Haiderpur as Ramsar Site. Birder and environmental activist Ashish Loya, who has been working for improving the conditions around the wetland along with the Uttar Pradesh Forest Department, said, "Now the actual work of conserving and wise management of the wetland will begin. The tag will help get proper resources, focus and attention in order to make wise use of the wetland, and for the conservation and preservation of biodiversity here and for creating eco-tourism facilities. This is a commitment India is making by declaring it as Ramsar Site. Hopefully we will all live up to our promise." Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haiderpur-wetland-in-uttar-pradesh-recognised-as-ramsar-site-1059184.html
09-12-2021||North and Central||NCR commuters heave sigh of relief as farmers end protests||With farmers set to vacate protest sites at Delhi's borders, commuters will heave a huge sigh of relief as roads that have been closed for over a year will reopen, ending their traffic woes. After farmers agitating against the Centre's now-repealed farm laws occupied the three border points, Tikri, Singhu and Ghazipur, in November last year, those travelling from Delhi to Ghaziabad, Noida and parts of Haryana and vice versa had a tough time due to road closures and traffic diversions. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of 40 farm unions, on Thursday decided to suspend the movement against the farm laws and announced that farmers will return home on December 11 from the protest sites at Delhi's borders. The announcement came after the SKM, which is spearheading the movement, received a Central government-signed letter of its agreement to farmers' pending demands, including the withdrawal of cases against protesters and constitution of a committee on minimum support price (MSP) for crops. "After the government's announcement of the repeal of the three farm laws, I had thought that the farmers would end their protest but they continued it. Their announcement today will bring a huge relief to many commuters like me who have been facing severe issues," said Suman Rathore, who travels frequently from Delhi to Rewari in Haryana. Neeti Rastogi, a resident of Noida Extension, who travels to Lutyens' Delhi daily for work, said, "I used to take the Delhi-Meerut Expressway to reach my office before the protests began. After the protesters occupied the border, I started taking the Metro to reach my office, which meant a longer commuting time, more hassle and the fear of contracting coronavirus." Viplav Tripathi, also a regular commuter to Delhi from Noida, takes his car to office every day. Due to road closures, his commuting time was extended by 45 minutes. "Using the Noida-Meerut Expressway, I can reach my office in an hour but passing through Noida and the early morning traffic meant a longer commute to my office," he said. Commuters said the traffic police issued advisories suggesting alternative routes whenever farmers had any events planned and that further added to their difficulties. Farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, started protesting at Delhi's border points on November 26 last year against the three farm laws. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ncr-commuters-heave-sigh-of-relief-as-farmers-end-protests-1059199.html
09-12-2021||North and Central||Naxals thrash labourers in Madhya Pradesh, torch construction equipment in Chhattisgarh||Naxals allegedly beat up labourers at a road construction site in Madhya Pradesh's Balaghat district, and also set ablaze some machines and a vehicle in Gariaband district of neighbouring Chhattisgarh, police said on Thursday. Both the incidents took place on Wednesday evening and Naxals also forced the labourers in Balaghat to torch machines at the road construction site, they said. At least 30 to 35 ultras reached the Harra Nala camp of a company, which is constructing Bithali-Pathri road in Balaghat, and threatened labourers, forcing them to torch machines like a hot-mix plant, a JCB machine, a roller and a motorcycle, sub-divisional officer of police, Baihar, Aditya Pratap Mishra said. The rebels, before fleeing the spot, also snatched mobile phones of the labourers and then forced them to leave, he said. This is the third such incident of Naxals attacking labourers in the district, an official said. Similar incidents took place on December 3 and 6 in Koraka and Bodaljhola areas of the district to create hurdles in the road construction projects, the official said. The ultras also left behind pamphlets calling for a bandh in Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Chhattisgarh on December 10 to protest the killing of rebels in Gadchiroli encounter, he said. A search operation has been launched to nab the Naxals involved in the incident, he added. According to the police, the pamphlets mentioned about the killing of 26 Naxals, including prominent Maoist leader Milind Teltumbde (57), who was carrying a bounty of Rs 50 lakh, in the police encounter in Gadchiroli district of Maharashtra on November 13. Balaghat's Superintendent of Police Abhishek Tiwari said search parties were continuously combing the area to trace the Naxals involved in the attack. Meanwhile, in Chhattisgarh, the violence took place in the remote Pipalkhuta village under Amlipadar police station limits where an anicut (structure built across a stream or river to supply water to fields) of the irrigation department was being built by a private contractor, another official said. As per preliminary information, a group of four-five ultras reached the construction site, located over 200 km from the state capital Raipur, and set ablaze a tractor, a JCB machine and two concrete mixer machines parked there, he said. After being alerted, police rushed to the spot, located deep inside a forest bordering Odisha, he said. The construction contractors in the area had been asked to stop their works for sometime in view of the Peoples' Liberation Guerilla Army (PLGA) week observed by ultras from December 2 to 8 every year, during which they step up their activities, the official said. The rebels often pass through the dense forest of Amlipadar area to enter Kalahandi and Nuapada districts of Odisha from Chhattisgarh. The area has witnessed such an incident of torching by Naxals after a long time, the official said. In July this year, a man was killed by Naxals in Mainpur area of the district on suspicion of being a police informer. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/naxals-thrash-labourers-in-madhya-pradesh-torch-construction-equipment-in-chhattisgarh-1059200.html
09-12-2021||North and Central||Mixed reactions from Singhu locals as farmers suspend protest||As farmer unions announced suspension of their agitation, local residents and traders at the Singhu border protest site expressed mixed emotions, with small traders fearing loss of customers and others hoping for a smoother road connectivity. Thousands of farmers, prominently from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, had been protesting at the borders of the national capital since November 26 last year demanding repeal of the three farm laws. Vijay Hooda (28), who lives in Haryana's Sonipat district, said his mother suffered due to the road closure as she had to commute a longer distance for work. "My mother works in Haiderpur (in Delhi) and travels around 50 kilometres to her workplace everyday. Her morning travel is convenient as she takes the train. However, there is no train service to Sonipat when she leaves her office at 2 pm. Because of this, she is compelled to change four vehicles in three hours and travel back those 50 kilometres. The public transport fares have also been doubled," he said. On Thursday, the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of 40 farm unions, announced that farmers will go back home on December 11. Farmer leaders said they will meet on January 15 to see if the government has fulfilled their demands. Ravinder Kumar, a tea seller at the Singhu border protest site, said his business increased since farmers began camping here. "It is a highway and not many people stop here. Earlier, my business was limited. I run a small tea stall near the service lane and my business increased when the farmers arrived here. "People come here and buy tea and other products. Sometimes, we also get food from the protesters,” he told PTI. Sandeep Rathi, who lives in Singhu village and is pursuing graduation, said the local residents had no issues with the protesting farmers, but wanted to see a smooth commute. "We have no issues with the farmers. But the road closure is a big concern. The villagers are taking alternate routes causing traffic snarls on service roads. Relatives, too, avoid visiting our homes...” Rathi said. Amardeep Singh, who owns an auto spare parts shop, is hopeful that his business will be back to normal when the stir ends. Sewa Singh, who opened a saloon on the roadside, said his business totally depended on the protesting farmers. “I opened this saloon around three months ago and my business depended on these protesters. I will have to vacate when they do," he said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mixed-reactions-from-singhu-locals-as-farmers-suspend-protest-1059203.html
09-12-2021||North and Central||'How can you decide what I eat outside': Gujarat HC to civic body on non-veg stalls row||Civil rights activists on Friday lauded the Gujarat High Court for pulling up the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation over its recent drive against stalls selling non-vegetarian food, while a civic body functionary ruled out discrimination in the removal of the food carts.  The court on Thursday questioned how people could be stopped from "eating what they want" outside their house and slammed the civic body for its drive against handcarts selling non-vegetarian food items on the streets.  Civil rights activist and lawyer K R Koshti welcomed the court's observation saying no one has the right to infringe upon the fundamental right to personal liberty. "Even the Gujarat government had earlier clarified that people are free to eat whatever they want. Article 21 of the Constitution guarantees people's fundamental right to personal liberty, such as what to eat and what to wear. No government has the right to infringe upon people's rights," Koshti said. While asking the APP to call the commissioner, Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation before the court, justice Vaishnav posted the case for further hearing in the second half of the day, also directing the corporation's standing counsel Satyam Chhaya for appearance. Mujahid Nafees, the convener of the Minority Coordination Committee, said the drive of removing handcarts selling only non-veg food items was another tactic by the BJP-led government to divide the society based on the food they eat. “I am glad that the court made some scathing remarks on it. Eventually, the AMC had to announce that there was no discrimination," he added. Devang Dani, chairman of AMC's a town planning and estate committee, last month said carts selling non-veg and egg dishes along the major roads and in a 100-metre radius from schools, colleges, gardens and religious places will be removed. However, after Chief Minister Bhupendra Patel intervened, Dani clarified that veg food vendors will also face action. "That was an anti-encroachment drive only. There is no question of discrimination. We have removed carts irrespective of the food they were selling,” Dani said on Friday. He said the anti-encroachment drive was stopped after a couple of days and the municipal body is at present not carrying out any such drive against street food carts. The court made the remarks while disposing of a petition filed by nearly 20 street vendors claiming the AMC's recent anti-encroachment drive was targeted at handcarts selling non-vegetarian food items, an allegation denied by the civic body.  At one point, Justice Biren Vaishnav, who was hearing the petition, got agitated and asked the AMC "What is your problem? How can you decide what I should eat outside my house? How can you stop people from eating what they want? Suddenly because someone in power thinks that this is what they want to do?" Street vendors from Ahmedabad, whose handcarts were seized by the BJP-ruled civic body, alleged the drive against vendors selling egg and non-veg food items was launched in the city after an elected representative in Rajkot city gave a negative opinion about such food being sold on roads. Advocate Ronith Joy, appearing for petitioners, termed the move as an act of "bigotry" and claimed the civic body has removed the handcarts selling non-veg food on the ground they are not maintaining hygiene. Non-veg vendors were singled out for eviction on the ground that the food they were serving is not vegetarian food, he added. Justice Vaishnav said, "Will the Municipal Commissioner decide what I will eat? Tomorrow they will tell me not to drink sugarcane juice because it will cause diabetes. Or tell me that coffee is bad for health." Civic bodies of Rajkot, Vadodara and Ahmedabad had earlier announced to remove non-veg food carts from city roads. However, after the chief minister overruled such a move by local civic bodies, saying the state government has no problem with what people want to eat, the drive against non-veg food carts was converted into an "anti-encroachment" campaign. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/how-can-you-decide-what-i-eat-outside-gujarat-hc-to-civic-body-on-non-veg-stalls-row-1059220.html
09-12-2021||North and Central||Mortal remains of General Bipin Rawat, others brought to Delhi||The mortal remains of Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat, his wife Madhulika Rawat and Brig LS Lidder and some others killed in the tragic helicopter crash near Coonoor were brought to the national capital on Thursday. The bodies were brought to Delhi in an Indian Air Force C-130J aircraft that landed at the Palam air base at around 7:35 pm. Officials said bodies of only Gen Rawat, Madhulika Rawat and Brig LS Lidder could be identified so far. They said the mortal remains of only those identified will be released to the next of kin of those killed in the tragic helicopter crash on Wednesday. Besides Gen Rawat, his wife and Brig Lidder, 10 armed forces personnel were killed in the Mi-17V5 helicopter crash which is one of the biggest air accidents in India in decades involving senior military officers. The other personnel killed in the accident are Lt Col Harjinder Singh, Wing Commander PS Chauhan, Squadron Leader K Singh, JWO Das, JWO Pradeep A, Havildar Satpal, Naik Gursewak Singh, Naik Jitender Kumar, Lance Naik Vivek Kumar and Lance Naik Sai Teja.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mortal-remains-of-general-bipin-rawat-others-brought-to-delhi-1059237.html
09-12-2021||North and Central||Had Justice Katju expressed ‘little regret’, we would not have proceeded against him, says Ranjan Gogoi||Former Chief Justice of India (CJI) and Rajya Sabha MP Ranjan Gogoi, expressing his mind on his unprecedented order of initiating contempt proceedings against former apex court judge Justice Markandey Katju for his ‘contemptuous blog’, has said “we would not have pursued the matter” if he had expressed a “little regret”. Justice Katju, who was a Supreme Court judge between 2006 and 2011, had criticised a judgement in a rape and murder case in his blogs and had given comments on the judges which were prima facie found to be contemptuous. For the first time in the country’s judicial history, the bench headed by Justice Gogoi had issued a suo motu contempt notice, against former judge Katju, which was later closed after his written apology. “Markandey Katju, retired judge of the Supreme Court, posted a blog stating that the judgment was legally flawed (he is entitled to say that). But he went on say more: that the ‘intellectual level’ of Supreme Court judges, barring justices Nariman and J Chelameswar, was extremely low. The language used by Katju in his blog was extremely undignified. Individual judges were named and derogatory statements were made...,” the 46th CJI wrote in his autobiography, ‘Justice for the Judge’, about the case. “Had he even expressed a little regret about it or even in respect of the language used in the blog, perhaps we would not have pursued the matter. But he accused the bench of misleading him to come to court and of laying a trap to initiate contempt proceedings against him. "He was insulting in his language and disposition; his conduct in court together with the language of the blog left us with no choice but to proceed and issue a contempt notice to him,” Justice Gogoi writes. He has chronicled the events that had unfolded when Justice Katju had appeared in the case to argue that the judgement of the apex court was flawed. He writes in the book that after the dismissal of the review petitions pertaining to the case, Justice Katju was given the copy of his blog and was asked to read. “I also gave the copy of the same to Mukul Rohatgi, the then Attorney General and asked him what he thought of it. Rohatgi, who was present in the court...instantly and spontaneously said, ‘My Lord, this is contemptuous’. When he came to know that the blog was written was by Katju, Rohatgi looked worried and tried to find a way out by offering alternate views..,” the former CJI writes on the one of unprecedented cases of Indian legal history where a former judge was in the dock. The autobiography said that the remarks of the bench made Justice Katju furious and he alleged that he was not being given the respect from sitting judges and a trap was laid to initiate contempt proceedings against him. Justice Gogoi further writes that he was surprised when a senior advocate called him to convey that Justice Katju wanted to apologize and later the bench accepted the apology and closed the case. Justice Gogoi, however, rued that Justice Katju later became more vocal against him after his retirement. “I do not think I needed a greater vindication of my view than the press report that had appeared a few months earlier to the effect that Katju had tendered evidence denigrating India and its judiciary in a Magistrate’s court in the UK in the matter of the extradition of Nirav Modi,” he writes. “Do I need to say anything more?,” Gogoi asks in his last line on the issue. Justice Katju had been critical of a 2016 judgment that had set aside the death penalty for the convict in Kerala’s Soumya rape-murder case. The autobiography of Justice Gogoi, the first CJI from northeast states, was launched by his successor and former CJI S A Bobde in a function here on Wednesday.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/had-justice-katju-expressed-little-regret-we-would-not-have-proceeded-against-him-says-ranjan-gogoi-1059249.html
09-12-2021||North and Central||If father supports education, daughter will have to play her role too: SC||The Supreme Court, hearing a matrimonial dispute, observed that a daughter must also appreciate that if she is expecting the father to support her education, then she will also have to play a role as a daughter. A bench of Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul and M M Sundresh was hearing an appeal filed by the man challenging the Punjab and Haryana High Court order, which set aside the decree passed by the matrimonial court allowing a petition filed under Section 13 of the Hindu Marriage Act for dissolution of marriage by a decree of divorce. Noting that mediation between the couple was not successful, it said: "Learned counsel for the parties submit that another effort may be made to mediate with the physical presence of the parties." Senior advocate Nidhesh Gupta, representing the husband, submitted before the bench that the daughter had declined to meet his client. He added that if the daughter expects her father to take care of her education and marriage expenses, then it cannot be a one-way street. At this, the top court said: "The daughter must also appreciate that if she is expecting the father/appellant to support her education, she will also have to play a role as a daughter. The matter is again placed before the Supreme Court mediation Centre." The top court had earlier directed the father to pay the education expenses of the 20-year-old daughter. It has listed the matter for further directions on February 22. "The mediator will make arrangements for exclusive interaction between the father and the daughter," said the bench in its order. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/if-father-supports-education-daughter-will-have-to-play-her-role-too-sc-1059253.html
09-12-2021||North and Central||Lok Sabha passes bill to fix tenures of CBI, ED chief||Lok Sabha on Thursday passed two bills to fix the tenures of directors of the Central Bureau of Investigation and the Enforcement Directorate to a maximum of five years, with the government rejecting the opposition charge that the move will rob the investigative agencies of their "autonomy". The fixed tenure granted to the head of investigative agencies would help in speedy disposal of cases and bring down pendency, Minister of Personnel Jitendra Singh said in his reply to a debate on the Central Vigilance Commission (Amendment) Bill, 2021, and the Delhi Special Police Establishment (Amendment) Bill, 2021. The two bills, which seek to replace the ordinances issued last month, were later passed separately by voice vote in Lok Sabha. The amendments moved by opposition members were rejected. During the course of the debate, opposition members demanded that the bills be withdrawn, contending that the move would make the two agencies "sub-ordinate" to the government. Singh said the term of the CBI and the ED directors has not been extended but fixed for a maximum five years and minimum two years to ensure that the position is not misused, he said. He added that the changes have been made to ensure that investigation of the cases remains "stable" under their leadership. "There will be continuity, stability. Certain information which is confidential with the head of an investigation agency will remain with him till the conclusion of the cases. This is going to address this (pendency of cases) issue," Singh said. The minister said the Federal Criminal Police Office of Germany had an average tenure of 6-10 years but no fixed term, the Australian Federal Police has a tenure of seven years with a clause for extension, the Royal Canadian Mounted Police has no fixed term but the average is 4-10 years. Responding to questions on bringing ordinances, Singh said there were uncertainties about the functioning of Parliament as the last session was a washout. "We had to move on. We could not wait for the protest to settle down because this is the provision that is going to reflect India's image at the international forum. So that is the urgency for the country," he said. He said the change in the two laws were necessary as India needed to meet global standards. The Financial Action Task Force (FATF) has suggested that some of the countries should look into upgrading their capabilities, and law enforcement authorities maintain high professional standards, Singh said. "If we have to meet the global standard and reach the global pedestal which India is already at the threshold of, we have to be more progressive and forward-looking," he said. He also rejected the opposition's charge that the move will reduce transparency in the functioning of the investigative agencies, saying that the head of the CBI is appointed by a high-level committee comprising the Prime Minister, Leader of Opposition (or leader of the largest opposition party in Lok Sabha) and the Chief Justice of India. The opposition protested the government's move, alleging it was "arbitrary" and without any logic. "We have taken one small step to address all these issues and we will be taking more and expect support on those also," Singh said while addressing concerns raised by Supriya Sule of the NCP. Earlier, moving a statutory resolution for disapproval of the ordinances, Congress member Manish Tewari said those were "arbitrary, capricious", and an "exercise of power". "Any democracy is as strong or as weak as the institutions that support it... Unfortunately, over the last seven-and-half years, this government has made every attempt to dismantle the system of checks and balances which are intrinsic to our constitutional scheme," he alleged. Before the two ordinances were promulgated, the directors of the CBI and the ED enjoyed a fixed tenure of two years from the date of their appointment in the wake of directives of the Supreme Court in the famous Vineet Narain case. The ED director is appointed by the central government on the recommendation of a committee chaired by the Central Vigilance Commissioner and members comprising of Vigilance Commissioners, Home Secretary, Secretary DoPT and Revenue Secretary. The fixed term of two years was aimed at ensuring the chiefs of CBI and ED work free from government interference without worrying about any adverse action for the probes carried out by them. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lok-sabha-passes-bill-to-fix-tenures-of-cbi-ed-chief-1059276.html
09-12-2021||Oasis||Do all the good you can ||Ever so often these days, when I come across some people, I cannot help wondering – just how much bad karma will they accumulate by cheating, shortchanging, harming, and betraying? Do they ever pause to stop and think of what the consequences of their actions might be? Or do they think that they are so clever that they will never get found out or that they are so powerful that no one can touch them, God included?  The Supreme or Higher power does not exist in their scheme of things. I am sure we have all had grandmothers who said “Back in those days it was said you will pay back in the next incarnation but in kali yuga you will pay for it in this lifetime itself”. We are lucky to have heard these pithy reminders in the course of our daily life because it is like a gentle reminder to apply the brakes when we are mindlessly going astray. Life is a golden opportunity given to us to gain the right knowledge, follow the right conduct, do good and make a difference. Whether it is timely lending of a hand or pointing someone to the right source or by being present and participating and sharing in a person’s joys and sorrows, we can better the lives of others by such simple acts of kindness. When "good" people go through a bad phase and there is no respite, they usually wonder about the probable payback for sins committed in a previous birth. Bhagavan Mahavira was once given the severest punishment by a shepherd who was hunting for the animals left in the former’s care. Mahavira was deep in meditation and didn’t respond to the anxious queries. Driven to frustration, the shepherd asked, "Of what use are those ears if you cannot hear me?" He physically plugged Mahavira’s ears from end to end with a poisonous root. Bhagavan Mahavira stoically accepted this. Later a skilled physician removed the root with great difficulty. Mahavira told his worried disciples that this was a punishment for him for pouring molten lead into the ears of a guard long years ago. So, karma does not even spare divine souls. By constantly doing good in this life one can actually erase some of the bad karma from a previous birth. Else the accounts have to be squared. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/do-all-the-good-you-can-1059244.html
09-12-2021||Opinion||Cash is dying, but are we ready to bury it?||By Andy Mukherjee The demise of cash is near. As consumers, though, we should hope that the end doesn’t arrive too soon. It isn’t the pandemic that’s putting this popular means of payment out of existence. All that Covid-19 has done is to accelerate a trend that was already with us. When Steve Jobs unveiled the first iPhone in 2007, he began killing the need for banknotes. Autonomous cars, self-ordering refrigerators and our digital avatars in the metaverse will put the final nails in King Cash’s coffin. Covid-19 shifted $5 trillion in global retail sales from offline to online. To the extent that a big chunk of this value was transacted in cash (47 per cent in the euro area), the idea that central-bank-issued currency was a must for purchasing daily essentials took a knock. After an initial bump in precautionary cash hoarding, curbs on mobility and the fear of catching germs from handling paper money forced a change in habits. Where governments gave out vouchers to perk up spending — like in Hong Kong — millions of consumers and thousands of merchants became new users of online payment systems just to utilize the handouts. Many will likely continue using these new ways to settle bills. But just how crucial were these changes in the overall scheme of things? The different trajectory of banknotes in China and India provides a natural experiment to gauge the relative importance of temporary shocks and steady technological change. Cash use plummeted in India after Prime Minister Narendra Modi cancelled 86 per cent of the existing legal tender overnight as part of a botched economic experiment. That was five years ago. Nowadays, digital payments are booming, but cash is once again 14 per cent of the broad money circulating in the economy — the same as before demonetization. In China, where physical currency was made irrelevant by the growing ubiquity of Alipay and WeChat Pay, the central bank’s IOUs to the public account for only 4 per cent of money. Technological progress lacks the drama of a behavioral shock, but it’s no less stunning. As JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Jeremy Balkin and Neha Wattas remind us, the fastest way to move money from New York to London as recently as 2010 was to catch a flight from JFK to Heathrow and deliver it in person. Their report, provocatively titled “Payments Are Eating the World,” notes several shifts taking place in unison. In China, super-app platforms transformed money; elsewhere, the rise of a creator and gig economy is doing it. Globally, 50 million people are blogging, making short videos or telling people what to buy on the internet — and getting paid online as well.     Digital wallets are mushrooming everywhere, but what gets stored on them is changing because of another technological revolution: blockchain. Fintech firm Circle has teamed with Visa Inc. to enable business customers to spend USD Coin — a currency on the Ethereum blockchain that pegs its value to the dollar — with 70 million merchants. An equally important phenomenon is “buy now, pay later,” which is embedding finance (and cashless payments) even into low-value transactions: like buying lipstick in three installments. Wait until each of our 15 internet-of-things devices does its own shopping, using central bank-issued programmable digital cash to pay only when they get the right stuff. While all this is happening in the real world, an entirely new parallel stream of consumption in the alternate reality of the metaverse could be as substantial as $390 billion by 2025. Innovation in payments is an even bigger phenomenon in emerging markets than in developed economies. Last month, smartphone-based apps running on a shared public utility cleared the equivalent of $100 billion in domestic Indian payments, rising from less than $15 million five years earlier. And this is just the beginning. Alphabet Inc.’s Google, which alone handled $38 billion of these instantaneous transfers, has now developed an Android-based sub-$100 phone. The idea is to bring mobile internet to the bottom of India’s consumption pyramid. Cash is still coveted, especially in a highly informal economy like India’s. But its importance as a means of payment is declining. In 2003, about 35 per cent of cash in the euro area was used in domestic transactions; that number fell to an estimated 20 per cent in 2019. Anywhere between 30 per cent to half of banknotes have ended up overseas, while the rest are being hoarded in the euro zone: To some investors, a safe sovereign liability that pays zero is better than negative-yielding government bonds. As cash vanishes into vaults — without a central bank digital currency, or CBDC, replacing it — the public’s trust in the convertibility of deposits into official money may become “more of a theoretical construct than a daily experience,” according to a recent research paper by the European Central Bank’s Ulrich Bindseil and others. That can destabilize entire financial systems. If all the money in circulation is private, controlled by e-commerce and social media platforms, authorities won’t be able to protect consumers from being exploited. Which is why even in countries where technology has turned it into an anachronistic appendage, cash can’t be allowed to die. Not before CBDCs are ready.   Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/cash-is-dying-but-are-we-ready-to-bury-it-1059026.html
09-12-2021||Opinion||Tesla's Elon Musk has it all wrong on subsidies||Elon Musk doesn’t want subsidies. “Just delete them all,” he said Monday at the Wall Street Journal’s CEO Council Summit, referring to state backing for the electric vehicle market. But that doesn’t mean that Tesla Inc. hasn’t benefited from incentives, or that other companies have no need for them — they do.  This is the second time Musk has come out swinging against government help in recent months. A few weeks ago, the company withdrew its application for state aid for a planned battery factory in Germany, where it was expected to get over 1 billion euros ($1.2 billion) in support. “It has always been Tesla’s view that all subsidies should be eliminated,” he posted on Twitter. It’s unclear what his exact rationale is, especially because Tesla — now valued at close to $1 trillion — is no stranger to preferential treatment from the state, including the US and China. Musk’s company is built on the foundation of (mostly) good ideas that have been backed by public largesse. Government incentives have boosted sales in locations from Denmark to Hong Kong, while manufacturing operations in China have gone relatively smoothly thanks to state aid. In Europe, Tesla was looking to tap subsidies to get set up in Germany. For new markets, such as India, the firm is actively looking for an entry with exemptions. Few other automakers have been able to use global subsidies as effectively. In the US, aid came in various forms, including loans, credits and tax breaks. In 2010, the firm got a $465 million loan from the Energy Department under a special program, which it repaid three year later. The state of Nevada gave the company $1.3 billion in incentives to build a battery factory near Reno. Other states have given Musk millions of dollars, too. Tax credits for consumers, meanwhile, helped make Teslas more affordable, until the company sold enough vehicles to render it ineligible for aid. Under Biden’s “Build Back Better” spending bill, the automaker could re-qualify because the cap on cars sold will be removed. Tesla continues to benefit from pollution credits that it can sell to other manufacturers, too. When the US market was rocky, though, Musk looked to China – a growing consumer base with supportive policies, where he was welcomed with open arms. Tesla has benefited from loans on loose terms, low-cost land, an investment agreement with the government, support for the speedy build-out of its manufacturing facility, a deep supply chain of suppliers, including for batteries — you name it. All that has allowed the company to churn out thousands of vehicles for sale in the world’s largest market and now exports them to other parts of the world. With its market heft and record sales in some places, it’s easy for Musk to brush off the hand-holding. At the WSJ summit, when asked whether state support for charging networks is needed, Musk replied, “Unnecessary — do we need support for gas stations?” But here’s the thing: History shows that electric vehicles got left behind internal-combustion-engine vehicles because of insufficient investment in electricity grids and infrastructure, such as charging facilities. In fact, one study has shown that when performance was taken into account, EVs were cheaper or on par with gasoline-driven cars. The “most important factor in settling the race between gasoline and electric vehicles,” it found, was that “a 15–20 year earlier diffusion of electricity would have tipped the balance” in favor of EVs. Even today, that cost barrier remains. By some estimates, it’s close to $6 trillion, around half of which is money that needs to be spent on electricity grids. The industry is capital intensive, as Musk knows well. The only way to cross the hurdle before uptake rises exponentially is public aid. Sure, there’s a case for better policy design, more focused subsidies, and ways to drive more investment by companies alongside government aid. Without this, the EV market won't take off. Private investment alone, or a laissez-faire approach, isn’t an option. Perhaps Musk can test out his theory by sharing some of the generosity he’s enjoyed, or better yet, refusing all the preferential treatment he gets around the world. His troubles in Germany may be an early taste of what could happen. Then we’ll see where shares and sales end up, and how far policy support can go. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/teslas-elon-musk-has-it-all-wrong-on-subsidies-1059052.html
09-12-2021||Panorama||Gold smuggling was rampant even during pandemic peak||The Covid-related restrictions may have impacted the movement of many goods but not gold. India’s gold imports not just went on unabated but increased manifold. Imagine, in a single month this year, a little ahead of the beginning of the festive season, the gold-hungry country imported as much gold as it had shipped in the full six months of last year — a whopping 120 tonne of gold in August alone. And it that was through official channel alone.  The story of bringing in gold through non-official channels and the modus operandi, that too when the country grappled with the pandemic, is breathtaking. An official report suggests that restrictions put on the movement of people across our borders caused smuggling syndicates to graduate to ingenious concealment methods of not only gold but also narcotics. Official agencies seized gold and narcotics even from ingeniously created cavities in vehicles and from fuel tanks of trucks. The gold had to be carefully extracted from the tanks after cutting them open. Narcotics were seized from the buttons sewed on the garments.  Pandemic was the time when gold also changed its route from air and sea to land, an uncommon travel path for the yellow metal brought from across the borders. In a shift in the trend from 2019-20, when the biggest gold originating region was West Asia, the largest chunk in 2020-21 was sourced from Myanmar. Data shows nearly 70 per cent of total seizures made in 2020-21 were of Myanmarese-origin gold. Only about 13 per cent came from the United Arab Emirates.  India and Myanmar share a 1,643 km border along with four states – Manipur, Mizoram, Nagaland and Arunachal Pradesh. The strategic importance of Myanmar is that it lies between two regional giants – China and India – right in the middle of supply and demand of contraband ranging from cheap cigarettes and exotic animals to gold.  The two routes that cut through the Myanmar border to connect with India are the old Tamu-Moreh-Imphal trajectory in Manipur and the Zokhatwar route in Mizoram. The two are popular from the point of view of trade and transit of both legal and illegal gold. The first stop of gold, smuggled through this route is, Imphal is, followed by Guwahati for aggregation and subsequent distribution to all parts of the country, predominantly by road. Official agencies seized a massive 240 kg of gold of Myanmarese origin in the North-East region last year. The restrictions on air travel throughout the pandemic saw a shift in the modus operandi of smugglers from air to land route through the Indo-Myanmar border. Since the restrictions were also put on rail travel, the yellow metal reached its consumption centres mainly through road – in trucks, passenger vehicles and even two-wheelers.  The resumption of air traffic when the Covid wave ebbed saw a new class of smugglers, the carriers hired specifically for smuggling gold into India. They would make visits ranging from a few days to a couple of weeks to the Gulf countries and return with gold. This was the period when Indians stuck abroad were also used by criminal masterminds to smuggle gold – these were the regular blue-collar workers there who had lost jobs. Conversion of gold to paste and powder and concealing that in the rectum of passengers became a popular method. Each passenger could conceal up to 900 grams of paste or powder wrapped in the capsule of which solid gold extracted could be 90 per cent of the weight of the capsule, the official report suggested. Tax evasion  So, while India, the globe’s second-largest gold consumer after China, imported nearly 633 tonnes of gold, unofficial estimates suggest yet nearly 400 tonnes were added to the market. Tax evasion is one of the main factors due to which illegally trafficked gold lands into India. Higher taxes on gold have hardly yielded any desired revenue to the government. Import duty on gold in India was 2 per cent in 2004. It was raised to as high as 12.5 per cent in 2019. Though it was cut to 7.5 per cent in the last year’s budget, the effective import duty remained 10.75 per cent after imposition of various cesses, surcharges and a 3 per cent GST. Experts opine that minor tax cuts do not help reduce gold smuggling because gold is used in the unofficial mode of transferring money into India from overseas, especially Gulf countries. India normally imports up to 1,000 tonnes of gold every year, another 200 tonnes are added through unofficial channels. In the pandemic year, it was more. The 240 tonnes of Myanmarese origin gold seized by officials was only 69 per cent of the total gold seized in 2020-21. This is a huge dent on taxes in India. The 3 per cent GST on gold has become the major reason for the yellow metal’s unabated smuggling. The World Gold Council expects the demand for gold in India to remain high. With higher demand, smuggling is also expected to be higher each year. India does not produce gold and almost all of its consumption is taken care of through imports. This, in turn, implies a huge outgo of foreign exchange from the country. This also means a rise in trade and current account deficits. Official data shows India’s trade deficit has been rising continuously since July. With the reopening of the economy and the rise in demand for oil and gold, the trade and current account deficits are expected to rise further. After gold, the second-biggest imported commodity is oil for India, meeting close to 85 per cent of its demands Since amassing currency notes is not a viable option after demonetisation, gold has emerged even more as a safe haven. As the Union budget nears, the only desired way to reduce gold trafficking appears to be a further cut in duty. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/gold-smuggling-was-rampant-even-during-pandemic-peak-1059242.html
09-12-2021||Panorama||What a Bollywood megastar means for women in India||By Ruth Pollard Tens of millions of women have disappeared from the workforce in India over the last decade. That’s before Covid-19 worsened female employment prospects by displacing another 6.7 million from their jobs. So how did India — which until the pandemic hit was one of the world’s fastest-growing large economies — fail to increase women’s participation in line with that expansion?  In a new book, economist Shrayana Bhattacharya has used the career of Bollywood leading-man Shah Rukh Khan to emphasize the barriers that prevent women from stepping outside the home and into the workplace. They include safety concerns, family pressures, the burden of housework and inter-generational care, and chronic underinvestment in child care. Khan, whose fame extends far beyond India to South Asia’s vast diaspora and into the Middle East and North Africa — he even has an orchid named for him in Singapore — exhibits freedom of choice and movement that women can only dream of. As Bhattacharya writes in “Desperately Seeking Shah Rukh,” women don’t want to marry Khan. They want to be him. A Bollywood fixture for 30 years, Khan mostly plays the outsider in love stories — taking on fragile, vulnerable characters worried about finding happiness and avoiding the standard hyper-masculine tropes of Indian cinema. In real life, he’s been married to his high school sweetheart — a Hindu — for three decades. As a Muslim, he’s repeatedly spoken out about “extreme intolerance” in India and received an award at the World Economic Forum in Davos in 2018 for his work on women’s and children’s rights.  Even expressing love for his films is a form of protest for poor and working-class women, Bhattacharya notes. This is a country where the entire conversation about the economy, how it will grow and in which direction, is still largely dictated — and dominated — by men. The focus is on the market, and the market is outside the home. “The economy isn’t just a bunch of us trading money; it is a whole range of interactions and if women aren’t allowed to leave home, how can they participate in that market?” she said.  There is, she says, shocking inequality between men and women in today’s India. Despite rapidly increasing educational attainment for girls along with declining fertility, a 2020 World Economic Forum report placed the nation in the bottom five countries, with Pakistan, Syria, Yemen and Iraq on gender gaps in economic participation. In 2021, the WEF further laid bare the disparities. Just 22.3 per cent of Indian women participate in the labour market, translating to a gender gap of 72 per cent. That compares with Turkey (38.5 per cent women’s participation, 50 per cent gap), Mexico (49.1 per cent and 40 per cent), Indonesia (56 per cent and 33 per cent).  Men cornered most of the employment gains in post-liberalization India, where households that managed to move into higher income brackets took on more conservative values, forcing women to leave their jobs and return to the home full time, Bhattacharya said. For all of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s programs to foster women’s empowerment, including a financial inclusion scheme encouraging them to open bank accounts and the provision of cooking gas and toilets in rural areas, the reality is that not much has changed under his seven years in power. Until women can safely commute to work and then do their jobs without fear of harassment, they’ll remain shut out from large parts of the economy. Their place outside the home must be as valued as inside of it. Women’s physical movements are constantly policed in India, particularly in the more conservative and densely populated north, home to the capital, New Delhi. It’s not unusual to visit a village in the populous, Hindi-heartland state of Uttar Pradesh and struggle to find a woman to speak to, and certainly not without a man present. Instead, women are cloistered in the home, where 66 per cent of their labour goes unpaid. This work contributes 19 trillion rupees ($252 billion) to the economy, which, Bhattacharya writes, is “built by the money men make and trade held together by the invisible love and unpaid care women offer.” Even as India’s economy grew at an annual average of 7 per cent between 2004 and 2011, the share of women in the labour force fell to 32.6 per cent before hitting a historic low of 23.3 per cent between 2011 and 2017. All this comes at a cost. As Bloomberg previously reported, India could increase its gross domestic product by $770 billion by 2025 by getting more women to work and increasing equality, according to data from McKinsey Global Institute. So Modi’s big message to global investors — that India is open for business — should be treated with caution. Yes, there are tax incentives for manufacturers and other opportunities, but firms should be aware: If they employ locally, they will mostly be employing men. Any woman on staff will likely have to navigate a complex web of family permissions and other restrictions to make it onto the payroll. Chances are the company will have to provide a special bus or taxi service to ensure a safe commute to work, and there is no established culture of workplace-based child care to help parents manage their family responsibilities.  India’s state-run enterprises are already way behind global counterparts when it comes to environment, social and governance scores, which now play an increasingly important role in guiding investment decisions. According to S&P Global, companies are under pressure to increase the representation of women on corporate boards and in leadership positions and to provide equal compensation and career mobility for women and people of colour.  Through that lens, it’s difficult to see how investing in India is an attractive prospect for firms that care what their shareholders think. There may well be a post-pandemic economic recovery underway and India could play a larger part in global value chains, but it’s clear women won’t benefit from this shift. They were badly affected by pandemic job losses and, unlike their male counterparts who’ve mostly gone back to work, women account for half of all those forced out, and kept out. That’s despite the fact that they were less than a quarter of the pre-pandemic workforce, according to the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy.  We should look at these numbers and weep, Bhattacharya said, and yet there are no protests in the street pressing for change. Yes, the percentage of women turning out to vote in state and federal elections has increased and is now on par with men’s, but it hasn’t moved the needle either inside or outside the home. So where does Shah Rukh Khan fit in? Our economic lives and romantic lives are closely intertwined, Bhattacharya notes, and Khan’s films provide women with a different life to aspire to: one where they are free to do what they want and where men will treat them with respect, share the load of caring for a large, multi-generational household, and acknowledge that they, too, need to go out and have fun. To buy their own movie ticket and go to the cinema in a country where a significant percentage of women aren’t allowed to leave the house and visit the local market alone.  That means having some economic power and the independence to spend it. Most women, especially those in the vast hinterland where 65% of people live, are still a long way from Khan’s Bollywood fantasy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/what-a-bollywood-megastar-means-for-women-in-india-1059243.html
09-12-2021||Panorama||Access to online education can lead to better future||While travelling across the country by road, the extent to which we benefit from investment in infrastructure becomes apparent. Road travel has become a pleasant experience because of the vast network of well-maintained highways, connecting the country. This feat has enabled trade, encouraged tourism, boosted the automotive market, and created livelihood opportunities in remote villages by way of toll booths or highway restaurants. The infrastructure provided a conducive environment to realise India’s potential.      Efforts and investments are ongoing to build the infrastructure that creates the potential for growth and development including roads, ports and airports, utilities like power, water and internet. India’s 5.98 million kilometres of roadways make it the second-largest road network in the world. In the last year alone, 13,298 km of highways were added. The government has also fast-tracked reforms in the telecom sector, enabling widespread internet penetration. The world’s second-largest telecommunications market, India is on track to reach 900 million internet users by 2025. The true potential of the nation, however, is in empowering its youth through access to education. When people benefit from infrastructure investments to build financial security, pursue learning and career opportunities, and raise the standard of living, they achieve progress. The education sector is ready for reforms and investments. The pandemic has demonstrated a critical need to prioritise the digitalisation of education and learning. The low cost of smartphone devices and internet penetration present an opportunity that policymakers and educationists cannot afford to ignore. In 2020, when schools were closed, the digital divide only peaked; a very small minority of students were able to benefit from online classes, as it required additional spending from parents and schools.    What does it take to enable access to education digitally? A smartphone or device in every student’s hand, affordable internet connection and customised content and learning delivery. While this seems simple, the  NCERT survey showed that at least 27% of students do not have access to smartphones or laptops to attend online classes, while 28% of students and parents believe that lack of electricity is one of the major concerns. For children who are from poor or disadvantaged circumstances, a device and internet connection can include them in mainstream education. Online education can also streamline the quality of education, with access to standardised or diverse content in various languages.   The National Education Policy (NEP) envisions technology integration in online and digital education to ensure equitable use of technology. This will play out in the coming years. It is time for government, educationists and corporates to collaborate in creating the new digital order of education for all. Basic enablers such as the internet and devices can attract CSR funding. Re-inventing the method of instruction to make it suitable for online learning delivery needs thoughts on skills and curriculum. Teachers need to adapt and evolve new instructional methods, as well as acquire new skills and content creation capabilities. Schools will need the ability to invest in new systems and apps that are secure and designed for education, as well as capacity building for teachers. Evaluation criteria and exams will need to be re-imagined as well, with a collaboration between technology experts, industry, educationists, policymakers, teachers and parents. For now, the simplest way to start is often the best — find a way to get smart devices and the internet to every student, so that no one is left behind.  Just as the highway network had an exponential effect on livelihood and economy, the infrastructure and investments made in enabling digital education will allow India to extract the maximum potential from the large young population. India’s hope to be a world superpower is in its young population. The ‘demographic dividend’ window opened in 2018. Purported to be a 37-year period where India will have more working population than dependent population, investments in digital education will have the same exponential effect on the nation’s economy.    Imagine the impact we can create if kids across the country could learn at their pace from free content available all across the internet. Some of these self-taught kids may end up building the next Google and Apple of the world!  (The writer is the founder of an online learning platform) Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/access-to-online-education-can-lead-to-better-future-1059250.html
09-12-2021||Right in the Middle||The five wars||I was born in 1958. There is nothing great about it, but I have seen five major wars that India fought. Wars that were won or lost, led to glory or despair. My involvement was that of being a responsible citizen encouraging our soldiers or sharing their sadness. There is nothing much I can say about the 1962 Indo–China war, as I was only four years old. The movie Haqueeqat portrays all the hardships we faced. The 1965 Indo-Pak war was a war India won at a cost. I lived in Dharwad at that time. All India Radio kept us informed about the exploits of Abdul Hamid and his comrades. The patriotic fervour was everywhere. The first time I felt the real effects of the war was in 1971. In those days, Bangalore was a hub of defence-related industries like HAL, ITI, BEL, DRDO, LRDE etc. Defending the city from a possible air attack was important for the government. There were blackouts in the night for a prolonged time. All windows were to be blackened. At the sound of the siren, all lights were to be put off and we had to come out onto the streets. If it was life and death for our forces, the blackouts were fun for children. Radio and newspapers were the only sources of war news. We all cheered when Dhaka fell. Pakistan surrendered and a new nation, Bangladesh, was born. Of course, we would never miss the newsreel at the beginning of a movie to watch our forces in action. In 1991, it was the Kargil war where our forces fought the enemy while we fought it in our drawing rooms. The war was brought live by many TV channels. The names Vikram Batra, Yogendra Yadav, Manoj Pandey and many more became household. We mourned silently as the coffins draped in tricolour were brought home. Unfortunately, we all became experts in war games too. We criticised or lauded those involved, according to our views and affiliations. It led to conflicts in the family and among friends.  These four wars spread over five decades had their own effect on me. My respect for our forces increased. I felt that their victories and losses were my own. I could have been a part of one of these wars if not for vehement opposition by my grandfather, which I deeply regret.  Then came 2020, when we began our war against an invisible enemy. The battlefields were our hospitals and homes. Doctors, nurses and paramedics became our Covid-19 ‘warriors’, though they were woefully ill-equipped against the enemy. Sanitation workers, cremation workers, municipal workers joined ranks for the battle. I too was wounded by the enemy though not in active war. We will have to fight this war for long with the firm belief that we will win. Perhaps we, the people, have a larger role to play here in combating the enemy than all the previous wars. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/the-five-wars-1059248.html
09-12-2021||Second Edit||Don’t lose sight of inflation||The RBI’s Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) has stuck to the expected line by maintaining status quo on policy rates and continuing an accommodative monetary policy. It decided to keep the benchmark policy repo rate unchanged at 4 per cent and to maintain its policy stance “as long as necessary” to revive growth. The committee seems to have seen an immediate threat to growth in the new Covid-19 variant Omicron, which has created some uncertainty. As a result, it has revised the Q3 2021-22 growth forecast to 6.56 per cent from 6.8 per cent, though the full-year target has been retained at 9.5 per cent. The MPC thinks that the economy needs continued policy support. Private consumption, which is the main driver of growth, is below par and private capital expenditure is yet to attain pre-pandemic levels. There is volatility in global markets and supply networks still face impediments.  The MPC thinks that domestic economic activities are gaining momentum, and it has noted that “recovery is turning increasingly broad-based”. The Governors’ comments have expectations of “a durable, strong and inclusive recovery” but there are also concerns over its likely uneven nature. The MPC has retained its full-year forecast of inflation at 5.3 per cent in 2021-22, though it expects some changes in the third and fourth quarters. It thinks that the reduction in the excise duty and VAT on petrol and diesel, which have eased retail prices, is a positive factor. It has noted that this will also “have second-round effects over a period of time”. But inflation should not be dismissed as a factor of no serious consequence.  While there are strong arguments that demand persistence of the policy that supports growth, the primary mandate of the MPC, which is to keep inflation within its defined limits, should not be lost sight of. The committee’s forecast of 5.3 per cent is based on a likely decline in vegetable prices due to a good rabi crop and measures taken by the government to bring down edible oil prices, apart from the recent fall in crude oil prices. But the uncomfortable fact is that inflation has been near the higher end of its tolerance range for long and cannot be considered as transitory. Core inflation will likely remain at elevated levels globally, and other central banks have also recognised this. The RBI may be in a position to wait and watch now but it may have to drop its present stance soon and resort to monetary tightening to rein in prices. It cannot allow inflation to reach a stage when it can threaten the nascent economic recovery. The greater responsibility to push growth, in any case, rests with the government.  Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/don-t-lose-sight-of-inflation-1059246.html
09-12-2021||South||Kerala officer killed in chopper crash recently visited home||Junior warrant officer Arakkal Pradeep, who was among those killed in the helicopter crash that claimed the lives of 13 including CDS Bipin Rawat, was a native of Thrissur district in Kerala. Just a few weeks ago Arakkal had visited his family for his father's medical treatment. Pradeep, 37, even rang up his mother on Tuesday evening and informed her that he would be accompanying senior officers as flight gunner and was quite excited about it. Kerala is remembering the active involvement of Pradeep in the rescue operations of Air Force during the 2018 natural calamities. Pictures of Pradeep involved in the rescue operations have now become viral on the social media. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan also hailed the efforts of Pradeep in the rescue and relief operations. Pradeep's father Radhakrishnan is bed-ridden and on ventilator support in his house at Ponnukara near Thrissur city. He was not yet informed about his son's ill fate while Pradeep's mother Kumari came to know about the incident by late on Wednesday night. Pradeep is survived by his wife Sreelekshmi and their two children — seven year old Dakshindev and two year old Devprayag. Pradeep also leaves behind a brother and sister. Kerala Revenue Minister K Rajan visited the family on Thursday morning. He said that Pradeep came down to Thrissur about two weeks back in connection with a medical treatment of his father. One of his son's birthday was also celebrated here. Pradeep joined the Air Force in 2004 and served in various places. Pradeep had also participated in the anti-naxal operations in Chhattisgarh and flood relief operations in Uttarakhand. Two relatives of Pradeep left for Coimbatore by Wednesday evening. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-officer-killed-in-chopper-crash-recently-visited-home-1059031.html
09-12-2021||South||Black box of IAF chopper that crashed with CDS Bipin Rawat on board recovered||The Flight Data Recorder or the Black Box of the Mi-17V5 helicopter, which could contain crucial information about the events that led to the crash on Wednesday, was recovered Thursday morning from the wreckage of the chopper near Coonoor in Nilgiris district of Tamil Nadu. The chopper crash killed the country’s first Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat, his wife Madhulika, and 11 army officers and personnel. The lone survivor of the crash -- Group Captain Varun Singh –is being treated at the Military Hospital in Wellington, 16 km from Udhagamandalam or Ooty. The Black Box was recovered from the crash site by the Army rescue unit on Thursday morning. Wrapped in a cloth, the Black Box was transported in an army vehicle to the Centre in Wellington from where it will be sent to New Delhi or Bengaluru for analysis. The FDR could hold crucial details on the moments leading up to the crash. The tragic crash took place at around 12.15 pm on Wednesday when the when Gen Rawat and 13 others were on their way to the Defence Services Staff College (DSSC) in Wellington where the Chief of Defence Staff was to address the faculty and student officers of the Staff Course. The mortal remains of the CDS, and others were brought from the Military Hospital to the Madras Regimental Centre in Wellington where Chief Minister M K Stalin and senior army officers paid their last respects. The mortal remains of the CDS, his wife, and others are likely to be flown out of the IAF’s airbase in Sulur near Coimbatore by Thursday afternoon. Air Chief Marshal VR Chaudhari and Tamil Nadu Director General of Police Sylendra Babu visited the crash site in the morning. Meanwhile, a video shot by locals capturing the last few moments of the chopper went viral on social media. The video shows the chopper flying in a thick blanket of fog and suddenly disappears from the sky. A few seconds later, a huge sound is heard prompting those recording the video to ask, “is it gone?” Brigadier L S Lidder, Lt. Col. Harjinder Singh, Wing Commander Prithvi Singh Chauhan, Squadron Leader Kuldeep, JWO Pradeep, JWO Das, Naik Gursewak Singh, Naik Jitendra Kumar, Lance Naik Vivek Kumar, Lance Naik B Sai Teja, and Havildar Satpal also lost their lives in the crash. Sources in the know told Deccan Herald that the helicopter crashed just about 10 minutes before it was to land at the Gymkhana Club helipad inside the Army Centre in Wellington. Though the IAF did not give any reason for the crash, people living in the area where the accident took place said the weather was misty at noon, when the chopper came down. Eye-witnesses who alerted the Nilgiris district police and fire rescue personnel about the crash said the chopper flew dangerously low, quite close to the residential areas before it fell to the ground. The advanced helicopter hit a tree at the reserve forest in Nanjappanchathiram before it caught fire and went in flames, eye-witnesses said. If the crash had taken place a few hundred metres away, there could have been heavy civilian causalities, the sources added. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/black-box-of-iaf-chopper-that-crashed-with-cds-bipin-rawat-on-board-recovered-1059041.html
09-12-2021||South||Lone chopper crash survivor Varun Singh to be shifted to Bengaluru for treatment||The lone survivor in the IAF helicopter crash that killed Chief of Defence Staff, General Bipin Rawat and 12 others, and admitted to a hospital at Wellington in the Nilgiris district in Tamil Nadu, was being shifted to Bengaluru for higher treatment, his family and official sources said on Thursday. IAF Group Captain Varun Singh was being shifted to Bengaluru from the Army hospital at Wellington in Tamil Nadu, his father said. Official sources in Coimbatore also maintained the officer will be shifted to Bengaluru. His condition is said to be critical but stable and Singh had undergone three operations so far, they added. Meanwhile, talking to PTI over phone, the Group Captain's father Colonel K P Singh (retired), who is a resident of Bhopal, said, "he is being shifted to Bengaluru. I have reached Wellington." Asked about his son's condition, he said, "I can't say anything about that...I am not sure." Lt Colonel Ishan R (retired), who lives next door to Col K P Singh's residence at Sun City on the Airport Road in the Madhya Pradesh capital, said he was hopeful the injured officer will recover. He said Col K P Singh and his wife Uma were in Mumbai at the place of their younger son Tanuj, who is a Lt Commander in the Navy, when they received information about the unfortunate incident on Wednesday. "I spoke to Colonel K P Singh this morning. He said his son was a fighter and will come out victorious (from the tragedy)," he said. He recalled that Group Captain Varun Singh had earlier survived a life-threatening emergency while flying a Tejas aircraft during a test sortie last year. For his bravery, he was awarded the Shaurya Chakra this year. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday told Parliament that a tri-services inquiry led by Air Marshal Manavendra Singh has started investigation into the helicopter crash that killed India's first Chief of Defence Staff Gen Rawat, his wife and 11 others. Singh said in a statement in the Lok Sabha that all efforts were being made to save Group Captain Varun Singh, who was on life support at the military hospital in Wellington.   Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/lone-chopper-crash-survivor-varun-singh-to-be-shifted-to-bengaluru-for-treatment-1059078.html
09-12-2021||South||Before suffering heart attack, Tamil Nadu bus driver saves lives of 30 passengers||A Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) bus driver saved 30 lives on Thursday morning before dying of heart attack at Madurai. Arumugam, 44 was driving a TNSTC bus from Arappalayam to Kodaikanal with 30 passengers on board. As the bus departed from Arappalayam at 6.20 am, the driver complained of intense chest pain to conductor Bhagiyaraj and somehow parked the vehicle on the roadside before collapsing. The conductor immediately called an ambulance but by the time it arrived, Arumugam had died. TNSTC Deputy Commercial manager, Madurai, Yuvaraj told IANS, "Arumugam had 12 years of experience as a driver with TNSTC and his exemplary action of parking the bus on roadside thus saving 30 lives will always be remembered. He has left behind two daughters." The body was transferred to Government Rajaji Hospital for post-mortem and Karimedu police registered a case and an investigation has commenced. Police said that Arumugam's family was informed before the body was shifted to GRH hospital. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/before-suffering-heart-attack-tamil-nadu-bus-driver-saves-lives-of-30-passengers-1059133.html
09-12-2021||South||Chopper crash: TN Governor criticised for not travelling to Ooty ||Tamil Nadu Governor R N Ravi was in for criticism on Thursday for continuing with his scheduled programmes in Tiruchirappalli instead of travelling to Wellington in Nilgiris district to pay last respects to Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) Gen Bipin Rawat and 12 others who died in a helicopter crash.  Ravi, who is on a two-day visit to Tiruchirappalli for participating in various events organised by the Bharathidasan University, offered prayers at the famous Sri Ranganatha Swamy Temple in Srirangam on Thursday morning.  Pictures of the Governor with his wife offering prayers at the temple triggered a controversy on social media with netizens criticising Ravi for not visiting Wellington to lay a wreath on the mortal remains of the CDS and other army officers and personnel.  However, the Governor paid his tributes to the late Gen Rawat by showering floral petals at a portrait of the CDS at the University premises.  “Shocked and deeply grieved at the loss of General Bipin Rawat, Chief of Defence Staff, his spouse Smt. Madhulika Rawat and Officials of the Armed Forces, Hon'ble Governor Thiru R N Ravi expressed heartfelt condolences to the bereaved families,” Raj Bhavan said in a statement. The netizens, while criticising the state Governor, pointed to Telangana Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan, who holds additional charge as Lt Governor of Puducherry, making it to the Madras Regimental Centre in Wellington to pay her last respects to the army officers.  They also noted that the Governor should have joined Chief Minister M K Stalin, who rushed to Nilgiris on Wednesday after hearing about the crash, at the Army Centre in Wellington. The Raj Bhavan did not react to why the Governor chose to attend his scheduled events despite a tragedy involving CDS in the state.   Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/chopper-crash-tn-governor-criticised-for-not-travelling-to-ooty-1059141.html
09-12-2021||South||Bird flu in Kerala, massive culling being initiated||Bird flu has been confirmed among ducks in Alappuzha district of Kerala and around 20,000 ducks were  being culled. Kerala Animal Husbandry director A Kowsigan said that the disease was confirmed by Wednesday evening and culling activities were swiftly initiated in the region. Migratory birds frequenting the locality due to its wetlands has been a suspected source of infection. No cases were reported from any other parts of the state. Alappuzha district animal husbandry officer Dr A G Geo said that the disease was found in samples tested from a batch of around 13,000 ducks and all the ducks were culled. Around 10,000 more birds, mainly ducks, in a radius of one kilometre were also being culled as a precaution. Earlier, when bird flu was reported in the district among ducks large scale culling had to be initiated. With Christmas and New Year festivals right around the corner, farmers are concerned about the sales of duck that are usually high this time of the year. The government will pay compensations, to the farmers. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bird-flu-in-kerala-massive-culling-being-initiated-1059219.html
09-12-2021||South||Madras HC dismisses plea by IPS officer seeking to knock down defamation case filed by MS Dhoni||The Madras High Court on Thursday rejected a plea from IPS officer G Sampath Kumar to set aside the defamation proceedings initiated against him by cricketer MS Dhoni.  Any order at this stage would certainly affect the progress of the main case pending from 2014, Justice N Seshasayee said while dismissing the petition. Originally, Dhoni had filed a defamation suit claiming Rs 100 crore towards damages from a TV media firm and others for allegedly telecasting malicious news that he was involved in betting, spot and match-fixing of IPL matches, in 2014. He sought to restrain the defendants, including Kumar, who initially probed the IPL betting scam from issuing statements and publishing them. Dhoni, the captain of the Chennai Super Kings IPL franchise, had submitted the defendants had been carrying highly defamatory, scandalous and libellous false reports and statements since February 11, 2014. The sole agenda of the defendants was somehow to malign and destroy his reputation in the eyes of the millions of his fans and cricket lovers all over the world. He sought a direction to the defendants to pay Rs 100 crore towards damages, following which Justice S Tamilvanan (now retired) granted the interim injunction earlier restraining the defendants from doing so. Aggrieved, Sampath Kumar filed a petition challenging the defamation suit in 2014. In his additional counter-affidavit filed recently, he contended that the suit was to gag him. That was the reason behind filing the suit here at the Madras High Court, whereas none of the other three defendants of the suit were based in Tamil Nadu.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/madras-hc-dismisses-plea-by-ips-officer-seeking-to-knock-down-defamation-case-filed-by-ms-dhoni-1059251.html
09-12-2021||South||YouTuber arrested over ‘Is Tamil Nadu turning into Kashmir?’ comment||Controversial YouTuber Maridhas was on Thursday arrested by the Madurai Police for his tweet about whether Tamil Nadu was “turning into another Kashmir” under the DMK rule.  In a tweet, which was deleted later, Maridhas, who supports the BJP and opposes the DMK, said anything is possible in a place where people are encouraged to do “anything against the nation.” He also questioned whether the state was turning into another Kashmir.  Police said Maridhas was booked under sections 153 (wantonly giving provocation with intent to cause riot) and 505(2) (making statements with intent to cause public mischief, or which is likely to cause, fear or alarm to the public) of the Indian Penal Code.  Maridhas posted the tweet in the backdrop of the helicopter crash in Coonoor that killed Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) Gen Bipin Rawat, his wife Madhulika and 11 other army officers and personnel on Wednesday.  BJP chief K Annamalai condemned Maridhas’ arrest and accused the DMK of stifling free speech. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/youtuber-arrested-over-is-tamil-nadu-turning-into-kashmir-comment-1059268.html
09-12-2021||South||In Kerala, youth ends life for being unable to bear sister's wedding costs||A youth ended his life in Kerala after failing to raise money for sister's marriage. Now, help is pouring in for the family. Vipin, 25, was found hanging in his house at Gandhi Nagar in Thrissur on Monday. He dropped his mother and sister at a jewellery shop to buy gold for the marriage and assured them that he would come back with money. But later, he was found hanging in the house. It was learnt that he approached many banks and private financial institutions for a loan by pledging the 2.5 cent family property, but the banks refused to lend him money. It is suspected that this is what prompted him to end his life. Following the incident, individuals, business groups and voluntary organisations have offered assistance in the form of cash and gold to the bride Vidya. Bridegroom Nithin had said that he did not demand any dowry and would not backtrack from the marriage. Nithin and Vidya were in a relationship for about an year and the wedding that was scheduled for December 12 has been postponed to the end of the month. With Vipin's father having died five years ago, the family was surviving with the low income jobs of Vipin, Vidya and their mother. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/in-kerala-youth-ends-life-for-being-unable-to-bear-sisters-wedding-costs-1059273.html
09-12-2021||South||Placement season: Record high offers, packages at IIT Hyderabad||Even as a new Covid-19 variant worries the economy, IIT Hyderabad students have received a record-high number of offers this placement season. The peak package offered is Rs 65.46 lakh per annum, “highest in the history of the institute” established in 2008. The average package came to be about Rs 23 lakh. 466 offers (including 34 international offers from Japan, Taiwan) were made by 104 companies during phase-1 of campus placements held online in the first week of December. 210 companies came scouting for talent, compared with 116 companies last year. In a sign of bounce-back after the Covid-19 caused slump in the job market, 427 students are already placed during Phase-1. The overall students placed in the entire previous academic year (2020-21) was 305. The top recruiters include Flipkart, Indeed, Infurnia, JP Morgan, Meesho, Microsoft NTT AT, Newzera, Silicon Labs, Suzuki Motor Corp, TSMC and Zomato. The first graduating batch of interdisciplinary MTech programs at IITH like MTech in Smart Mobility has registered 100 per cent placement within the first week of placement process. The number of students opting for semester-long internships has also more than doubled to 33 in 2021-22 as compared to 12 in 2020-21. “Various initiatives in the last two years like semester-long Internship for B.Tech., Interdisciplinary M.Tech., industry lectures, industry-defined M.Tech., projects have started yielding results and we will continuously improvise on it,” said Prof B S Murty, Director, IITH. Officials said that the 2021-22 placement season started on a positive note with 82 Pre-Placement Offers (PPO), as opposed to 49 PPOs in the previous academic year. Over 650 students across the departments have registered for placements this year. Phase-2 placements would be conducted in January 2022. Prof C Krishna Mohan, Dean (Public and Corporate Relations) said, “We had revamped our placement office into the Office of Career Services two years back with the objective of overall career development of students including counselling to help them decide an appropriate career.” Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/placement-season-record-high-offers-packages-at-iit-hyderabad-1059277.html
09-12-2021||South||Lance Naik Sai Teja: The call that never came||Lance Naik Sai Teja (27) missed a leisurely video chat with his kids on Wednesday morning as he had to go prepare for the tour with Gen Bipin Rawat while his five-year-old son was getting late for school. So, the doting father promised to call his wife Shyamala in the evening for a hearty chatter with the tiny tots -- Mokshagna and Darshini (3). Shyamala never received that call and instead got the news of the biggest catastrophe in her life. Teja, a personal security officer of the Chief of Defence Staff, is among the 13 killed in the chopper crash in the Nilgiris including Gen Rawat and his wife Madhulika. “He was feeling homesick and was planning to come home in January,” Shyamala, unable to hold back tears, said. The last time Teja was with them was during Vinayaka Chavithi, three months back, and Sankranti, the harvest and biggest festival in the region, would have been the right occasion for a happy reunion. But now Teja's family – wife, his parents are grief-stricken while his two little kids still eagerly await the return of their dad to their home in Madanapalle in Chittoor district. Teja hails from a farming family in Eguva-Regada village and close relatives say that he nurtured a passion to join the army since childhood. He did succeed and was recruited into the Indian army as a jawan in 2013. Teja later made his way into the para special forces. He was appointed as PSO to the CDS based on his gallant performance. Teja's younger brother is also in the armed forces now reportedly serving in Sikkim. Teja had shifted his wife and children to Madanapalle last year. Andhra Pradesh chief minister Jaganmohan Reddy expressed shock over the tragic loss of lives and described Teja as “AP's brave son.” Various politicians, celebrities are offering their support to his family. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/lance-naik-sai-teja-the-call-that-never-came-1059279.html
09-12-2021||State||CDS Bipin Rawat shared special bond with Kodagu in Karnataka||The country's first Chief of Defence Staff Late General Bipin Rawat, who died in an IAF helicopter crash, shared a special bond with the Kodagu district of Karnataka, which is regarded as the land of army generals. Retired Major General Biddanda Aiyappa Nanjappa, Convener of Field Marshal Cariappa and General Thimmaiah Forum, speaking to IANS recalled that Late CDS Rawat had great respect for Field Marshal K.M. Cariappa and General Thimmaiah. "CDS Rawat visited Kodagu four times. He was instrumental in getting the General Thimmaiah Museum inaugurated by President Ram Nath Kovind, who is Commander-in-Chief of Indian Armed Forces on February 6, 2021," he remembered. "2016 he came for the Southern Command Golf tournament when he was an army commander. While having lunch, he assured that he would bring the army chief to Kodagu. In 2017, being a Southern Army Commander he came along with Dalbir Singh Suhag, then Chief of the Army staff as promised. Then, he visited the late General Thimmaiah Museum and extended financial assistance also," Nanjappa explained. "Later, we requested Rawat that Delhi Parade Ground in New Delhi be named after Field Marshal Cariyappa and also install and unveil a statue there. It was done by August 30. His role was instrumental. Afterwards he went on to become the CDS," he remembered. "We again invited CDS Rawat to unveil statues of Cariayappa and Thimmaiah in Gonikoppal town of Kodagu. He came down with all happiness and unveiled the statues as per the request of the Forum," he said. Rawat was again requested to invite the President of India, who is Commander-in-Chief of Indian Armed Forces, for the inauguration of the General Thimmaiah museum. "Late Rawat had asked us to write a letter when everything was ready. When we wrote a letter to him in this regard, within 24 hours he got back to us and with confirmation from the President of India," he stated. He came along with President Ram Nath Kovind. When he came he had a gift for us. "It was a copy of the letter from Lord Mountbatten to Lieutenant General Chibbar. It was written in the letter that General Thimmaiah should be made CDS in the year 1961," he said. "Rawat shared a special love and bond with Kodagu. His father served in the Gorkha regiment. Lieutenant General Somanna from Kodagu also served in that regiment. Rawat visited Somanna's house in Kodagu. His father and General B.C. Nanda (who also hails from Kodagu) were good friends. Rawat was close to Nanda also," Nanjappa said. "Late Rawat had passed out of the academy, three years later I passed out. He was very affectionate towards me, he helped us," he remembered. Kodagu is a land of brave Indian army soldiers. All Chiefs of the Indian Army have responded positively, but Rawat had special bonding with the place. "We think it is a conspiracy by two countries. The Taiwan army chief was also killed in a helicopter crash. A high-level investigation should be conducted by the Special Investigating Team (SIT). The politicians from our country go to our enemy country and sign a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with them, these things are bound to happen. We feel it is a conspiracy," he reiterated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/cds-bipin-rawat-shared-special-bond-with-kodagu-in-karnataka-1059107.html
09-12-2021||State||Legislative Council polls: Karnataka Congress chief seeks bar on nominated members votes||Karnataka Congress President DK Shivakumar wrote to the Election Commission on Thursday seeking a bar on nominated members from voting in Friday’s Legislative Council election.  “Under Article 243R of the Constitution, the government has the power to nominate members. They can take part in proceedings, but can’t vote,” Shivakumar told reporters.  Nearly one lakh elected representatives from local bodies in Karnataka will vote Friday to pick 25 members to the Legislative Council in an election that is widely expected to set the political tone in the state. Karnataka has 219 urban local bodies and each one has five nominated members, the Congress leader said. That works out to 1,095 members. “They can only advise the local bodies,” Shivakumar said.  The Congress moved the High Court seeking a direction that the votes of the nominated members should not be recorded in the Bengaluru Urban Local Authorities’ seat election.  “...the court was pleased to order not to declare the results of the election and to keep the polled votes of the nominated persons in their respective municipalities/ULBs in a separate sealed box/cover,” Shivakumar stated in his letter to the Election Commission.  FIR against Cong candidate The Yelahanka police have registered a first information report (FIR) against Congress’ Bangalore Urban local authorities’ seat candidate Yusuf Sharif aka KGF Babu for allegedly violating the model code of conduct. Separately, the Attibele police have also filed an FIR against Babu.  In both cases, Babu has been accused of offering monetary incentives to voters in exchange for his victory in the December 10 polls. For example, Babu reportedly offered to spend Rs 500 crore on various development initiatives if he wins.  A BJP delegation led by general secretary N Ravi Kumar met Chief Electoral Officer Manoj Kumar Meena and petitioned the Election Commission to disqualify Babu.  Last month, Babu made headlines for his election affidavit in which he declared assets worth Rs 1,744 crore, making him one of Karnataka’s richest politicians.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/legislative-council-polls-karnataka-congress-chief-seeks-bar-on-nominated-members-votes-1059236.html
09-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid cases in children rise amid after-school violations in Karnataka||Since the start of October, 4,145 children have been officially diagnosed with Covid-19 across Karnataka, with older children seeing sharper increases in infections since the reopening of all classrooms, as per state government data. The rise is symbolised by the emergence of Covid-19 clusters in the last few weeks at schools and colleges. In the last 10 days, 679 child cases (0-19 age group) were found in the state, 88 per cent of whom were students aged 10 and above, according to the State Covid War Room. Altogether, more child cases have been recorded since November 28 than any other age group. In comparison, 656 cases were found among those aged between 20 and 29, and 623 among those aged between 30 and 39. The other age groups recorded smaller numbers. Cases have risen even though school managements insisted that they are following all Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) issued by the Department of Primary and Secondary Education. The first classes (6-8) were started on September 6. DH, which visited several schools and colleges on Wednesday, found that a majority of students were completely disregarding safety measures after leaving campuses. “We check the temperature of all students and provide hand sanitisers at the school entrance. Inside the classrooms, we are trying our best to ensure social distancing. What worries us is what children do after school hours,” said D Shashi Kumar, general secretary of associated management of primary and secondary schools in Karnataka. A number of children were found to be gathering at parks, eateries, bus stops, and crowding footpaths across the city without following Covid appropriate behaviour. Though schools and colleges end their day between 3 and 3.30 pm, DH found students loitering for at least an hour afterwards. For educators of private schools, the cause of the problem is clear: poor oversight by civic bodies and parents. Reflecting the low infectivity rate among children aged 12 and below, school authorities said that children below grade 8 are not a problem as they are largely collected by parents. The problem demographic is grade 9 and above, a teacher said, singling out PUC students. “In classrooms, we ensure two children per desk but you should see how they sit inside the eateries. Every parent knows the school timings. They should question their children if they reach home late,” said Supreeth B R, principal, Oxford Group of institutions, Nagarbhavi, Bengaluru. Lokesh Talikatte, president of the Recognised Unaided Private Schools Association, Karnataka, said that civic bodies should monitor school and college students at public transit locations. “If such behaviour outside campus is not controlled, the situation will worsen,” he said. Asymptomatic spread A member of the third wave committee noted that cases among children could be higher than official figures. “The number of cases with Covid-19 being received at the Indira Gandhi Institute Of Child Health has been roughly the same as before but one important distinction is that few children are coming to the hospital with a specific complaint of Covid-19. It is only when they are tested at the hospital that we find they have the disease,” said Professor of Paediatrics Dr Basavaraj G V, adding that this meant that a large number of children with Covid-19 are likely going by undetected because they are asymptomatic. “Up to 70 per cent of paediatric child cases are asymptomatic,” he added. This has implications because according to noted virologist Dr Shaheed Jameel, Director of the Trivedi School of Biosciences at Ashoka University, "both asymptomatic and pre-symptomatic people spread the virus". Four unconnected studies noted that "between 0 per cent and 2.2 per cent of people with asymptomatic infection infected anyone else, compared to 0.8 per cent-15.4 per cent of people with symptoms". Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-cases-in-children-rise-amid-after-school-violations-in-karnataka-1058988.html
09-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Family suicide pact in Mangaluru: death note blames conversion attempt||Four members of a family, including two children, were found dead in a house at Morgans Gate in a suspected suicide pact on Wednesday. While Nagesh Sheriguppi (30) was found hanging, his wife Vijayalakshmi (26), children Sapna (8) and Samarth (4) were found lying on the bed.  The police have suspected that Vijayalakshmi and her children have died by consuming poison. The bodies were shifted to the mortuary in the District Wenlock Hospital. City police commissioner N Shashi Kumar said Nagesh, in a death note recovered from the house, has blamed one Noor Jahan, for forcing his wife to convert to Islam and sowing seeds of discord in the family. He has also held her responsible for their death. The police have taken Noor Jahan to custody, Shashi Kumar said. Vijayalakshmi was working at Noor Jahan’s house, the police commissioner added.  The family, hailing from Sunag in Bilagi taluk of Bagalkot district, had taken the house on rent a few days ago. Nagesh was working as a driver and Vijayalakshmi was working as a security guard at a flat, neighbours said.  A case has been registered under IPC Section 306 at Mangaluru south police station.    Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/family-suicide-pact-in-mangaluru-death-note-blames-conversion-attempt-1058993.html
09-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Kidney transplant is safe, be an organ donor, say doctors||A kidney transplant can help you live a longer, healthier life, say doctors. People who have had a kidney transplant live longer than dialysis patients because dialysis can only do a fraction of what healthy kidneys do for your body. “If you closely follow your doctor’s advice after the transplant surgery, your health may be nearly as good as that of a person with healthy kidneys,” said doctors at Manipal Hospital, Sarjapur Road, on Wednesday.  They were speaking at a panel discussion curated by DH Brandspot on ‘Preparing for Renal Transplant'. Doctors from the hospital educated viewers on how a transplant is done, who can donate, and also talked on the donor’s health.  Dr Pallavi Patri, consultant-chief of nephrology at the hospital, advised getting a health check-up done regularly to pick any underlying issues early, especially if there are familial members with kidney issues and other risk factors for chronic kidney disease (CKD).  “Kidneys don’t just clean the blood of toxins, they maintain the right acid-base balance and help you with blood count. Diabetes is the common reason for kidneys to get damaged. There are underlying genetic reasons for it as well. Kidney disease can be silent and many patients may not even know that they’re developing kidney problems,” she said. There are both reversible and irreversible forms of kidney disease. When scarring sets in because of CKD, it becomes irreversible. Transplants can be done from living donors or cadaveric donors.  “If you have diabetes or high blood pressure, check for high creatinine levels, and get a urine test done for abnormalities. In certain cases, one may have to undergo a biopsy. Ultrasound scans and CT scans can also give us a fair idea,” she added.     “Kidney transplantation is safe surgery, be an organ donor. For any person who reaches end-stage kidney disease, we recommend them a transplant. Kids, spouses, grandparents come under first degree donors. There should not be any financial exchanges between the donor and the recipient. Once the government committee approves, we can go ahead with the transplant,” said Dr Manohar Bhadrappa, consultant - urology and renal transplant surgeon, at the hospital.  Anyone who is below 65 years of age and is devoid of any chronic illness or cancer, he/she can donate. Also, donors should not be involved in substance abuse. They also should not be on any regular lifetime medication and should be healthy.     Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kidney-transplant-is-safe-be-an-organ-donor-say-doctors-1058994.html
09-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Unnecessary scare on Omicron, says Shivakumar||Karnataka Congress president D K Shivakumar on Wednesday said "unnecessary scare" is being created on the Omicron variant of Covid-19, and accused the government of derailing the state’s economy.  “Where is Omicron? How many cases are there? There's an unnecessary scare being spread just because someone ran away from the airport and things like that," Shivakumar told reporters.  The Congress leader also asked the Basavaraj Bommai government to tread cautiously while considering fresh curbs.  "Bengaluru is home to IT companies, hotels and so many other businesses. Almost all of them function under air-conditioning. Should they shut shop? What does it mean to say people have to show certificates before entering? Why aren’t such rules there in other parts of the country? Why only in Karnataka? The government is derailing the economy," he said.  Shivakumar said Karnataka cannot have guidelines that are not in line with the country’s situation. "First, the government should compensate those who died due to Covid-19 in the past,' he said.  Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/unnecessary-scare-on-omicron-says-shivakumar-1058996.html
09-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||23 test Covid positive at Tibetan settlement camp in Karnataka||As many as 23 persons have tested positive for Covid-19 at the Tibetan Lama Camp in Bylakuppe in Mysuru district in the last 24 hours. The residential camp has been sealed and all the Covid positive patients have been isolated. Health Officer Dr Sharath visited the Tibetan camp to take stock of the situation. Directions have been given for the officers at the settlement to initiate further precautions to contain the spread of the Coronavirus in the camp. Bylakuppe is the second largest Tibetan settlement in the world outside Tibet after Dharamshala. It is located 80 kilometers away from Mysuru city. The settlement has a number of monasteries and temples in all the major Tibetan Buddhist traditions which attract a large number of tourists across India. Authorities are on high alert following the outbreak of Covid. Further to avoid the risk of Covid infection, instructions have been given to health officers to conduct RT-PCR tests on those who return from Sabarimala trip in Kerala, especially in villages of Mysuru district. The officers are also directed to monitor those persons for 10 days as the Covid infection rate is still high in Kerala. Meanwhile, the Karnataka government issued another circular on Wednesday making it mandatory for international arrivals from high risk countries to get the RT-PCR test done in the premises of the KempeGowda International Airport (KIAL), Mangaluru International Airport and and other airports of the state. It had been announced earlier and strict vigilance is being monitored at all airports in the wake of detection of the Omicron variant. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/23-test-covid-positive-at-tibetan-settlement-camp-in-karnataka-1059035.html
09-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||TAC chairman says nothing to worry about: Karnataka CM Basavaraj Bommai on Omicron||In the wake of new Covid-19 clusters emerging and the threats of the new Omicron variant of coronavirus, the Karnataka government on Thursday decided to focus on cluster management and to issue fresh guidelines to hostels, aimed at controlling spread of the infection. Not wanting to take any "hasty decision" regarding imposing curbs, it said, a decision regarding such measures like night curfew and restrictions on Christmas and New Year celebrations will be taken after analysing the situation for a week. "Regarding Covid, our Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) head Dr M K Sudarshan has informed about the current situation, he has shared details about the Omicron variant. According to him, looking at the current figures and the positivity rate, there is no need for any major concern or worry," Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said. Speaking to reporters after the cabinet meeting, he said, still the government felt it is necessary to take certain precautionary measures, like issuing new guidelines for hostels and their management like- sanitising, letting people for food in a staggered way, restricting visitors, double dose vaccination for all staff working there, and setting up a separate isolation room. "We have already given similar guidelines for cluster management and have said that if there are more than three positive cases in a place it will be declared clusters, and such measures will continue," he said, adding that on the advice of the Ministers special vaccination drive will also be held, like it was held earlier this year. The Chief Minister on Wednesday had received an 'informal' briefing by senior officials regarding the current Covid-19 situation in the state and had held discussions regarding managing the clusters that have emerged, the Omicron situation, and about the government's preparedness. Covid-19 clusters have emerged mostly at educational institutions and hostels in several places of the state like Bengaluru, Dharwad, Mysuru, Hassan, Mangaluru, among others; while at least two cases of Omicron were detected in Bengaluru. Bommai, in response to a question said that the strict vigilance and measures in the border areas, specifically for students from Kerala like- mandatory vaccination and RT-PCR tests for entering the state, will continue. Regarding curbs on Christmas and New Year celebrations, the government will take a decision after analysing the situation for a week, he said, adding that, "regarding any special curbs like night curfew also, a decision we will decide after watching the situation for a week. We did not want to take any hasty decision."  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/tac-chairman-says-nothing-to-worry-about-karnataka-cm-basavaraj-bommai-on-omicron-1059092.html
09-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||No hasty decision on Covid curbs as there’s no need for panic, says CM Bommai||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Thursday said the government will take a call on restrictions for Christmas and New Year celebrations in a week’s time, specifying that the Covid-19 situation is under control for now.  Bommai was speaking after chairing a meeting of his Cabinet, where Covid-19 Technical Advisory Committee chief Dr MK Sudarshan was invited for a briefing on the pandemic situation in Karnataka.  “We were given details on the current status and on the Omicron variant. Looking at the positivity rate at present, there’s no need to panic. Still, we have been advised to take precautions,” Bommai said.  “Measures such as night curfew ahead of Christmas and New Year, we will wait for a week and decide based on how the situation evolves. We don’t want to make any hasty decisions,” Bommai said. Much of the government’s focus remains on Covid-19 clusters in educational institutions and hostels.  “Special guidelines or standard operating procedures (SOP) for cluster management and hostels will be issued soon,” Bommai said. Steps to reduce visitors, regular sanitisation of the premises, ensuring double-dose vaccination for hotel canteen staff and preparing isolation rooms are required, he added.  At the Cabinet meeting, Bommai said several ministers suggested a special vaccination drive like the one that was done in May-June this year. “Based on this, a special drive will be carried out in the coming days," he said. A strict vigil will continue in border areas of the state. "Restrictions for students from Kerala, such as double dose vaccines or RT-PCR tests after arriving in Karnataka will remain," he said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/no-hasty-decision-on-covid-curbs-as-there-s-no-need-for-panic-says-cm-bommai-1059113.html
09-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Dedicated hospitals in Bengaluru, Mangaluru for Omicron treatment||The health and family welfare department has officially notified two dedicated hospitals to treat Omicron cases if more international passengers test positive for the infection. As per a circular issued by Health Commissioner D Randeep, Bowring and Lady Curzon Hospital in Bengaluru and Wenlock Hospital in Mangaluru will serve as dedicated Covid-19 hospitals (including Omicron cases) if international returnees from 'at risk' countries test positive on arrival at the respective airports. A separate block with a sufficient number of beds and other facilities shall be earmarked for isolation, treatment and management of Covid positive cases detected among international arrivals. The treatment protocol as notified by the Government of India and the Government of Karnataka shall be followed in such cases. As and when there is information that the Covid-19 positive sample of international passengers detected and confirmed as Omicron VoC, such passengers shall be shifted to separate isolated treatment block or ward within the same facility with due precautions in place. These cases should remain isolated from other non-Omicron Covid patients under treatment in the same healthcare facility. All the norms of dedicated Covid hospitals shall be strictly complied with. Revised guidelines / SoPs issued by GoI or the State for treatment and management of such cases, from time to time shall be complied with. The district surgeon, district health officer, and district surveillance officer have been instructed to provide daily updates on the health status of such cases to the state surveillance unit. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/dedicated-hospitals-in-bengaluru-mangaluru-for-omicron-treatment-1059193.html
09-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||24 nursing students test Covid positive in Karnataka's Bhadravathi||Fear gripped Bhadravathi town after 24 nursing students of a private college tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. Following this, the college hostel has been sealed and the Out Patient Department (OPD) services in the private hospital were suspended to contain the spread of the pandemic. The students had gone to Shivamogga to write examinations.    Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/24-nursing-students-test-covid-positive-in-karnatakas-bhadravathi-1059207.html
09-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Separate property tax for industries in Karnataka soon||The Karnataka Cabinet on Thursday decided to amend municipal laws to create a separate slab of property tax for industries and industrial areas, sources said. Taxing industries separately was a demand from various industry bodies as they argued that the property tax currently being levied at commercial rates is very high. Industries Minister Murugesh Nirani is said to have pushed for this. Section 108 of the Karnataka Municipal Corporations Act, 1976 and Section 94 of Karnataka Municipalities Act, 1964 will be amended to insert a separate property tax slab for industries and industrial areas developed by the Karnataka Industrial Areas Development Board (KIADB) and the Karnataka State Small Industries Development Corporation (KSSIDC) coming under municipal limits. The separate slab will not be applicable to Bengaluru. In the 2021-22 Budget, the then Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa had promised a new property tax slab in urban local bodies (ULB) "to encourage the establishment of industries in the state". At present, civic bodies levy property tax on industries based on rates fixed for commercial buildings. The proposed tax slab for industries will have rates lesser than what is levied on commercial buildings, sources said. Though ULBs will suffer financial losses due to lower taxes, it would also translate to better tax collection due to improved compliance and lesser default by industries, sources said. The amendments will also offer property tax concession to buildings and lands owned by state and central governments being used for industrial purposes. A separate slab of property tax for industries at lesser rate than commercial category shall encourage establishment of more industries leading to the creation of more employment opportunities for locals, sources said. Inam Abolition The Cabinet also cleared a Bill providing one year extension for re-grant of Inam land. The Karnataka Certain Inam Abolition and Certain Other Laws (Amendment) Bill will help several farmers who had not applied for regularization of their cultivated land since 1975. Due to the delay in regularization, farmers are facing problems in availing bank loans. They are also not eligible for compensation in case the land is acquired for various projects, sources said. Inam lands are those that were gifted to persons and organizations by the erstwhile rulers. An amendment to the Karnataka Land Revenue Act was also approved by the Cabinet, allowing government surveyors to issue 11E sketches. "Earlier, only licensed surveyors were allowed to issue 11E sketches," a source said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/separate-property-tax-for-industries-in-karnataka-soon-1059214.html
09-12-2021||West||Sudha Bharadwaj, accused in Bhima Koregaon violence case, released after 3 years in jail||Activist Sudha Bharadwaj, an accused in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case, was on Thursday released from a prison in Mumbai on bail, after spending three years in jail. Bharadwaj was granted default bail by the Bombay High Court on December 1. The HC had then directed a special NIA court to decide on the conditions to be imposed on her. On Wednesday, the special NIA court directed Bharadwaj to be released on bail on a bond of Rs 50,000. Following the completion of formalities, Bharadwaj walked out of the Byculla women's prison on Thursday afternoon. As she sat in a waiting car, Bharadwaj waved out at media persons waiting outside the jail. Bharadwaj was arrested in August 2018 under provisions of the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sudha-bharadwaj-accused-in-bhima-koregaon-violence-case-released-after-3-years-in-jail-1059076.html
09-12-2021||West||Man kills neighbour in Mumbai for playing loud music||A man allegedly killed his 40-year-old neighbour after the latter played loud music outside his house and refused to lower its volume, a police official said on Thursday. The incident took place on Wednesday night in Ambujwadi locality of Malwani area, he said. The deceased, identified as Surendra Kumar Gunnar, was listening to some songs on a recorder while sitting outside his shanty, the official said. His neighbour Saif Ali Chand Ali Sheikh (25) asked him to lower the volume, but Gunnar refused to do so. Sheikh then allegedly hit him and banged him on the floor. The victim fell unconscious following excessive bleeding. He was rushed to a nearby hospital where doctors declared him dead before admission, the official said. The accused was later arrested under Indian Penal Code Section 302 (murder) and other relevant provisions, he said.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/man-kills-neighbour-in-mumbai-for-playing-loud-music-1059111.html
09-12-2021||West||MVA firm on having local body polls across all seats on Dec 21 or postponing them altogether, says Ajit Pawar||Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar on Thursday said the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) is firm on its position that the December 21 elections to local bodies should either be held for all seats, including those reserved for OBCs, or be postponed altogether. Speaking to reporters here, Pawar said it “will not be fair” if the elections are held in seats reserved for SC, ST and general categories, but not in those meant for the Other Backward Classes (OBCs). The Supreme Court on Monday stayed till further orders the local body elections in Maharashtra on seats where there is the reservation of up to 27 per cent for the OBCs. The apex court had made it clear that the election process for the other seats would continue. The top court passed the order while hearing two pleas, including the one assailing the provisions inserted/amended through an ordinance permitting reservation for the category of backward class of citizens up to 27 per cent uniformly throughout Maharashtra in the concerned local bodies. “The MVA government is firm on its view that either the elections should be held across all seats or postponed altogether,” Pawar said. Without naming any party, the senior NCP leader accused the opposition of “creating confusion for no reason” on the issue of political reservation for the OBCs. “Let any party be in power, it takes all the sections along. Hence, the government is not of the view that injustice is inflicted on anyone,” he said. In the light of the Supreme Court order, the Maharashtra State Election Commission on Tuesday said the elections to ZPs and panchayat samitis on all seats except for those reserved for OBCs will be held as per the schedule on December 21. Over 400 out of 1,200 seats reserved for the OBCs will now have to wait for the next orders of the apex court. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mva-firm-on-having-local-body-polls-across-all-seats-on-dec-21-or-postponing-them-altogether-says-ajit-pawar-1059182.html
09-12-2021||West||Fire in Maharashtra SHG unit, leaves 60 tribal women jobless||A fire that gutted a unit run by a women's self help group (SHG) in Wada in Maharashtra's Palghar district two days ago has left the tribal workforce there jobless, an official said on Thursday. Though no one was injured in the fire, the unit, which housed sewing machines as well as stocks of finished products, was destroyed completely, Wada tehsildar Uddhav Kadam told PTI. The unit, which was operated by Om Gagangiri Maharaj Ashirwadit Trust, had tribal women as its workforce and the goods destroyed comprised a big order for Christmas, a SHG functionary said. She said the unit, which was seven to eight years old, produced materials from waste as well carpets and gift items. "More than 60 tribal women are now jobless. However, compensation from the government is reserved for damage caused by natural calamity and not an incident like this," Kadam said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fire-in-maharashtra-shg-unit-leaves-60-tribal-women-jobless-1059198.html
09-12-2021||West||Omicron shadow looms on Rahul Gandhi's Mumbai rally||Ahead of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi's December 28 rally in Mumbai, Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar on Thursday said the authorities will have to “think about it” if the newly discovered Omicron variant of coronavirus spreads. Pawar made the remark when a reporter asked whether permission should be given to the Congress leader's rally in view of the situation caused by Omicron, the variant of the SARS-CoV-2 virus found in Africa last month that is causing worries worldwide. “We are taking information about it (Omicron situation) every day. In case it (the variant) spreads and if there is a doubt that huge crowds can lead to some different (undesirable) situation, then (authorities) will have to think about it,” he told media persons here. Congress' Maharashtra in-charge H K Patil had last month said the Wayanad MP will address a rally at the Shivaji Park here on December 28. So far, Maharashtra has reported 10 cases of Omicron, classified as a 'variant of concern' by the World Health Organisation (WHO). Three of these cases have been reported in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/omicron-shadow-looms-on-rahul-gandhis-mumbai-rally-1059272.html
