10-12-2021||First Edit||Develop democratic instincts, habits||Most of those who were involved in the year-long farmers’ agitation or had a stake in it are pleased with its outcome in different ways and may draw different lessons from it. The farmers who had set up camp on Delhi’s borders demanding withdrawal of the three controversial farm laws the government enacted last year have suspended their agitation and started dispersing. Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the withdrawal of the laws last month and the government has given assurances to the farmers on all their demands. These include institution of guarantees for the minimum support price, withdrawal of cases against protesters, compensation for the kin of those who died during the agitation, discussions with the farmers on the proposed electricity bill and suspension of penal action against stubble burning. Some of these are not decisions but promises but the farmers’ organisations will review the government’s actions on them next month before deciding whether the agitation should be formally called off.   The most important lesson to be drawn from the agitation and its outcome is that big executive decisions or legislative measures that affect the people or even some sections of people should be taken only on basis of the widest consultations, if not consensus. The government rammed the farm laws through on the strength of its numbers in parliament and even resorted to wrong practices to get them passed. This reflected an authoritarian mindset and an attitude that the government knew best what is good for the people, which should have no place in a democracy. The government has insisted even after the withdrawal of the laws that they were good for the people. It is known that it decided to withdraw them because the farmers’ agitation would hurt the BJP’s prospects in the coming Assembly elections in five states, especially UP and Punjab. If it only draws the lesson that it should be careful in dealing with some sections of people or taking decisions on some matters before elections, that would be a wrong and inadequate lesson.  The government may be relieved that an immediate electoral problem may be out of the way. The farmers may be happy that their demands have been addressed. The Opposition may be pleased that the government has been humbled on a major issue. But the agriculture sector in India needs reforms. An unfortunate consequence of the government’s misadventure and its mishandling of the agitation is that they may have given a setback to any plans to introduce genuine reforms in the sector. Decisions and actions on any issue become difficult in an atmosphere of distrust and confrontation. Democratic governance is not about confrontation but about consensus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/develop-democratic-instincts-habits-1059593.html
10-12-2021||In Perspective||Olympic heroes, herculean challenges||A few months ago, we celebrated the wins of a handful of young Indian men and women at the Tokyo Olympics. What was extraordinary about these young men and women was that they all came from humble backgrounds and small villages across the country with poor infrastructure and they had to battle significant odds to achieve success. When Ravi Dahiya won his Olympic medal, his father said that finally “development might come to our village”. Ravi Dahiya is from Nahri village, Sonepat, Haryana. He is the third Olympian from this village after Mahavir Singh (1980 Moscow, 1984 Los Angeles) and Amit Dahiya (London 2012). And yet, this village of 15,000 people has no potable drinking water, has two-hours of electricity, no sewage lines, and one veterinary hospital (Mahavir Singh fought for it). To catch Ravi’s matches live, the local administration made special arrangements for uninterrupted power supply to the village. Similarly, the Baro Mukhia village in upper Assam’s Golaghat district had its 3.5-km muddy access road made motorable by the state government only after Lovlina Borgohain won her medal for boxing and returned home. Lovlina’s village has no piped water supply, runs entirely on water from tubewells and nearby ponds, has a small primary healthcare facility and the nearest hospital is 45 km away on poor roads. The Indian hockey team captain Manpreet Singh and players Mandeep Singh and Varun Kumar are from Mithapur, Jalandhar, Punjab. Javelinist Neeraj Chopra lives in village Khandra in Haryana’s Panipat district; weightlifter Mirabai Chanu in Nongpok Kakching village at the foothills of Imphal East district in Manipur, with the Khuman Lampak Sports Complex training centre 25 km away; wrestler Bajrang Punia is from Khuddan village in Jhajjar, Sonepat; hockey player Vandana Katariya belongs to Roshnabad, Haridwar, Uttarakhand. Deep Grace Ekka is from Lulkidhi in Odisha’s Sundergarh district, and Lalremsiami is from Kolasib, a small town 80 km from Aizawl, Mizoram. None of these top athletes have had access to decent sports infrastructure, but their families supported them whilst dealing with the lack of  potable water, sewage and sanitation, electricity, motorable roads, hospitals and schools. With almost 70% of India’s population still living in villages, providing them basic infrastructure would make such a difference to the lives of so many. The reverse migration caused by Covid-19 has shown the need for substantial development in many rural and potential secondary cities so that new centres of economic growth are established. As Mahatma Gandhi said, “The future of India lies in its villages”. Maybe it is truly time to embrace this idea of India, not merely to produce better athletes but to improve the lives of millions without them having to wait for an Olympic medallist to rise among them to be able to ask for electricity to watch the Olympics. Spending on rural infrastructure has increased tremendously since 2000–01, particularly after 2005. Village-level connectivity has improved, especially roads, electricity and telecommunications. Yet, the results are not commensurate with government expenditure. Household-level access is poor, especially for the most vulnerable, and infrastructure assets are often of poor quality, incomplete, unusable or badly maintained. Almost all villages are connected to the grid, but 45% of rural households lack power connections. Power supply is often unreliable, water supply unavailable or polluted. Almost 70% rural households lack sanitation facilities. Also, in education, nutrition and health, service delivery is marred by widespread absenteeism among government healthcare providers and teachers, leading to poor outcomes. Technically, the 73rd Amendment to the Constitution mandates that all rural communities should have powers to govern themselves through elected Panchayats, to identify the basic needs of the village (housing, water, sanitation, electricity, education, safety, roads, transportation, communication, livelihoods, and health) and to plan for social and economic justice by the community. However, much of the decision-making power lies not in the hands of the locals/villagers themselves but in the local administration, which is dependent on schemes that the central and state governments dole out. Villagers are often ignorant of the opportunities available to them and have neither the political access nor financial clout to define the infrastructure requirements for their villagers. Caste equations and cultural hegemonies also play a huge role in disallowing Gram Sabhas to perform their mandated functions. Graft is also a large issue. Perhaps with the Olympics bringing focus to the villages of India, the government will pay more attention to the needs of the 70% and strengthen the 73rd Amendment (especially the capacity building and funding components) and villagers will demand better public services from their government and elected officials and hold them accountable. Change in rural India is not happening fast enough. It is essential to develop rural infrastructure and basic amenities to improve their quality of life. (The writer is an urban planner based in Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/olympic-heroes-herculean-challenges-1059591.html
10-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||‘25-Tulu Singara’ to be held on December 12||‘25- Tulu Singara’, 25 Tulu programmes, will be jointly organised by Amantrana, Samskrita Siri, Team Gayana and Karnataka Tulu Sahitya Academy at Chavadi auditorium in Tulu Bhavana in Urwa Store on December 12. Event organiser Vijay Kumar Jain Aladangadi told media persons at Patrika Bhavan on Thursday that child artiste of the movie Sa.Hi.Pra.Shale Kasaragodu - Koduge Ramanna Rai’ Sapta Pavooru will inaugurate the event on Sunday (9 am). Karnataka Tulu Sahitya Academy Chairman Dayananda G Kattalsar, Karnataka Janapada Parishat, district president Pravin Kodialbail, Amrita Prakasha editor Malati Shetty Manuru and others will be present. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/25-tulu-singara-to-be-held-on-december-12-1059299.html
10-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||‘B A Viveka Rai Pustaka Habba’ to be held on December 12||'B A Viveka Rai Pustaka Habba', a book festival featuring the works of the well-known writer and former vice-chancellor of Kannada University Prof B A Viveka Rai, will be organised at Karnataka Bank Auditorium in Kodialbail on December 12 (10 am), according to a press release. Four books authored by Vivek Rai, ‘Hotthagegala Hosthilalli’ (a compilation of forewords), ‘Slawomir Mrozek Kathegalu’ (translated work), ‘Camera Kanninalli Germany' (a compilation of photos of Germany) and ‘A Handbook of Kannada Prosody’ and one more book by Prof C N Ramachandran ‘B A Viveka Rai Odanatada Nenapugalu’, will be released on the occasion, the press release stated. Prof M Abdul Rahaman, former vice-chancellor Kannur and Calicut varsities, will preside over the programme. Central Tribal University of Andhra Pradesh Chancellor Prof Tejaswi Kattimani, Folklore University-Haveri former vice-chancellor Prof K Chinnappa Gowda, Bhandarkar’s College-Kundapur Head of Kannada department Dr Rekha Bannadi will be the guests. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/b-a-viveka-rai-pustaka-habba-to-be-held-on-december-12-1059300.html
10-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||MLC polls: Fate of candidates to be sealed today||As many as 2,505 voters in Udupi district will exercise their franchise in Legislative Council election to local authorities’ constituency of Dakshina Kannada and Udupi on Friday. Deputy Commissioner Kurma Rao supervised arrangements at taluk offices in the district. As many as 158 polling stations have been set up in the district and micro observers have been appointed to each polling station. Mustering process took place on Thursday morning. Three candidates in the fray are Kota Srinivas Poojary (BJP), Manjunath Bhandari (Congress) and Shafi K (SDPI). In Dakshina Kannada district, there are 3,397 voters. They will exercise their franchise at 230 polling booths in the district. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mlc-polls-fate-of-candidates-to-be-sealed-today-1059301.html
10-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||4 held for thefts in 13 temples, 7 houses in Chikkamagaluru||City Crime Branch and Surathkal police arrested four notorious thieves involved in burgling 13 shrines and seven houses from 2018 to 2021 and recovered valuables worth over Rs 40 lakh. Mangaluru Commissioner of Police N Shashi Kumar told media persons at Commissioners hall on Thursday that Naga Naik from Tarikere in Chikkamagaluru district had burgled 13 shrines and two houses. One Maruthi C V from Channagiri in Davangere district, who used to dispose of the stolen gold and silver jewellery, was also arrested. He said that gold and silver jewellery worth over Rs 28 lakh were recovered from the accused men. As many as 13 cases had been filed against Naga Nayak in Urwa, Bajpe, Surathkal, Mulki, Panambur, Kavoor and Ullal police stations. “Naik’s fingerprints matched with the fingerprints recovered from the temples burgled by him,” he said. Surathkal police arrested Rajan Chinna Thambi (57) and P B Pramod from Coimbatore and recovered 366.632 grams of gold jewellery worth Rs 16.50 lakh. Rajan was a notorious inter-state burglar and had cases registered against him in Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Karnataka. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/4-held-for-thefts-in-13-temples-7-houses-in-chikkamagaluru-1059302.html
10-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Tributes paid to CDS Bipin Rawat, other victims of copter crash||Ambika Degree College, in association with Amar Jawan Jyothi Memorial  Committee, offered tributes to Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat and others, who perished in a copter crash, at Amar Jawan Jyothi Memorial in Kille Maidan in Puttur on Thursday. Ambika Group of Educational Institutions secretary Subramanya Nattoja said the entire country was in shock due to the sudden death of Rawat and others, who were travelling with him. “It is the duty of people to pay tributes to their heroes, who sacrificed their personal lives to save civilized society. Those who do not pay homage to soldiers should introspect themselves,” he stressed. Warrant Officer (Retd) Vasanth, addressing the gathering on behalf of Ex-servicemen Association, said Rawat had led many operations, including surgical strikes. He had planned to improvise military infrastructure. Assistant Commissioner of Puttur Dr Yathish Kumar Ullal, Ambika Group of Educational Institutions Administrative Officer Ganesh Prasad A, Principal Dr Vinayaka Bhat Galimane, members of Ex-servicemen association, students and other members paid floral tributes to the departed souls. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/tributes-paid-to-cds-bipin-rawat-other-victims-of-copter-crash-1059303.html
10-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Set up Areca Development Board, KRRS urges government||Karnataka Rajya Raith Sangha (KRRS) urged the government to set up Areca Development Board in order to protect the interests of areca growers. KRRS State General Secretary Ravikiran Punacha told media persons at Patrika Bhavan on Thursday that their demands, including the areca nut board, will be raised during the farmers’ convention planned in Maruti Mandira in Belagavi on December 12, on the eve of the Karnataka Legislative session in the city. Pressure will be mounted on the government to take up farmers’ issues during the Legislative session. He said that if the Legislative session does not take up farmers’ issues for discussion, a huge protest will be organised in front of DC’s office in Mangaluru. A memorandum urging the government to implement steps aiming at farmers’ welfare will also be submitted to the chief minister, leader of opposition in the legislative assembly, district in-charge minister, MLAs and MLCs, he added. Punacha said that the farmers in Dakshina Kannada district had incurred huge losses due to untimely rains this year. Areca crop in 6,300 hectares across the district was affected by yellow leaf disease. The import price of the white ‘gotadike’ variety of areca should be provided with a minimum import price of Rs 350 per kilo. Centre should submit research findings to Supreme Court that areca does not cause cancer and is good for health, he added. Permission should not be given for the installation of electricity towers on government land. The towers were proposed as part of the Udupi-Kasaragod 400 kv electricity line. No discussions were carried out with the farmers before the implementation of the project, he added. KRRS District President Oswald Prakash Fernandes, District unit General Secretary K Premanatha Shetty Baltila, District unit Vice President Alwyn Menezes and District organising secretary Ronnie Mendonca were present. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/set-up-areca-development-board-krrs-urges-government-1059304.html
10-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Forest department defies MoEF order on transfers in tiger reserves||The forest department has defied the Union environment ministry’s instructions not to effect transfers in the tiger reserves by shifting out a range forest officer (RFO) from Kali Tiger Reserve, a move which will affect the ongoing tiger census as well as rehabilitation efforts. In an order issued on Wednesday, the department transferred RFO Prasanna Bellad from the Kumbarwada range in the Anshi subdivision of Kali Tiger Reserve (KTR) to the newly created Hukkeri range in Belagavi district. The department’s move is in direct violation of instruction given by Minister for Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEF&CC) Bhupender Yadav, who wrote to Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on August 2 in this regard. Seeking Bommai’s “personal intervention” to ensure that the fifth cycle of tiger census happens without a hitch, Yadav wrote: “It is prudent to ensure participation of officials and forest frontline force units across tiger bearing areas in the state. Transfer and posting in tiger reserves/protected areas during the period may also be avoided at all levels.” Principal Chief Conservator of Forest (PCCF) Sanjai Mohan, who signed the transfer order, was not available for comment. However, sources said that over the last few years, the ministers have taken over the PCCF’s power to make transfers.  Forest Minister Umesh Katti told DH that he will look into the issue. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/forest-department-defies-moef-order-on-transfers-in-tiger-reserves-1059311.html
10-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Pelicans die of worm infection at Kokkare Bellur||Three pelicans have died of worm infection in a span of one month at Kokkare Bellur Bird Sanctuary near Maddur. According to Lingegowda of Hejjarle (Pelican) Balaga, one bird, among the three, was subjected to a medical test at the veterinary hospital in Shivapur and the samples of the remaining two have been sent to a laboratory in Institute of Animal Health and Veterinary Biologicals, Hebbal, Bengaluru. Animal Husbandry department assistant department Hanumegowda said, as per the report, the birds died of worm infection. Nearly 70 birds have arrived in the sanctuary in October for breeding, he added. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/pelicans-die-of-worm-infection-at-kokkare-bellur-1059316.html
10-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||KSLU students’ stir against offline exams enters 4th day||Ongoing protest by law students over the issues of examination and classes intensified on Thursday with agitating students, under the banner of Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP), attempting to picket the Karnataka State Law University (KSLU) at Navanagar. Students, led by the National Students’ Union of India (NSUI), were staging protests in front of the KSLU in the last four days, seeking commencement of odd semester classes and cancellation of offline examinations. The ABVP joined the struggle on Thursday, and a massive protest rally was taken out. Police had a tough time preventing the protesters from entering the varsity campus. ABVP leaders urged the KSLU to adopt a student-friendly method of examination as per the options given by the Bar Council of India and to start the academic year.  Examinations should be conducted for repeaters also, and the academic calendar should be released immediately, they demanded. Meanwhile, the indefinite protest by students, under the banner of the NSUI, completed its fourth day on Thursday. KSLU students are already one semester behind compared to other university students, they lamented. ‘Decision in two days’ Speaking to students’ representatives, KSLU Vice Chancellor Ishwar Bhat said that offline examinations from December 15 are fixed as per Bar Council of India guidelines and High Court direction, he said. A decision on whether to hold an online or assignment-model examination would be taken in two days. Till then, the process related to the examinations would be withheld, Dr Bhat added. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/kslu-students-stir-against-offline-exams-enters-4th-day-1059317.html
10-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Polling for Legislative Council begins in Belagavi||Polling for the election for the Legislative Council from the twin-member Belgaum Local Authorities Constituency began at about 8 am on Friday. Early birds to cast their votes included MLAs Abhay Patil and Anil Benake and MP Mangala Angadi. The winter chill also resulted in voters who were also local body members preferring to cast votes late. It's a triangular contest in Belgaum with six candidates in fray. BJP has fielded sitting MLC Mahantesh Kavatgimath. Congress has fielded MLA Laxmi Hebbalkar's brother Channaraj Hattiholi. Independent Lakhan Jarkiholi with three others is in the fray. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/polling-for-legislative-council-begins-in-belagavi-1059368.html
10-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||BSY, MP BY Raghavendra cast vote in Shikaripur||Former chief minister B S Yediyurappa, his son and Shivamogga MP B Y Raghavendra voted in the elections to Shivamogga local authority constituency comprising three taluks of neighbouring Davangere, in town municipal council office in Shikaripur town. The polling started at 8 am on Friday. Before voting, BSY performed a special puja at Huchcharayaswamy temple. BJP candidate D S Arun, son of legislative council former chairman D H Shankaramurthy, was also present on the occasion. Four candidates including D S Arun of BJP,  R Prasanna Kumar of Congress, Shashikumar BK of JD (U) and independent candidate P Y Raju are in the fray. As many as 4,164 candidates are eligible to cast their votes in the constituency. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/bsy-mp-by-raghavendra-cast-vote-in-shikaripur-1059415.html
10-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||MLC polls prove Congress lost hold in rural Karnataka: BSY||Former chief minister B S Yediyurappa stated that the results of legislative council polls will prove that Congress has lost its hold in rural Karnataka. Speaking to media persons in Shikaripur after casting vote in the town municipal council office in the town on Friday, he exuded confidence that BJP would win 15 seats out of 25 in the polls and thus gain a majority in the upper house. It would be an answer to all remarks made by leaders of opposition parties. He also said that BJP would win more than 140 seats in the next Assembly polls.  He made it clear that his son and State BJP Vice-President B Y Vijayendra is not expecting a ministerial berth.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mlc-polls-prove-congress-lost-hold-in-rural-karnataka-bsy-1059442.html
10-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka: Video of students bullying teacher in classroom goes viral||A video showing a group of five SSLC students of government high school at Nallur in Channagiri taluk of the district misbehaving with a teacher during class hour has gone viral on Friday. The act of the students has come under severe criticism from the villagers. They have demanded stringent action against the students.  The video shows the students misbehaving with one Hindi teacher Praksh when he entered the classroom. One of the students tried to assault him with a dustbin. Later, he puts it on the head of the teacher when he started teaching in the class.  Speaking on the incident, the teacher said that gutka packets were found littered in the classroom on December 3. He told students not to litter them in the classroom and maintain discipline. But some students created nuisance when he started teaching.  Fearing that they may cause trouble if he lodges a police complaint, the teacher remained silent. But the incident came to light after the video went viral on social media. Learning about this, MLA Madal Virupakshappa, Deputy Director of Public Instruction Department G R Thippeswwamy rushed to the school and interacted with the staff. They decided to take in writing from students that they would not indulge in such activities in the future. Considering the future of the students, teachers decided not to lodge a complaint with police.  Meanwhile, villagers have demanded that the students involved in the act be handed over transfer certificates. They also demanded to lodge a complaint with police seeking action against them.  Reacting to the incident, Deputy Commissioner Mahantesh Bilagi said he would collect a report from the deputy director of the public instruction department. Based on the report, he would take suitable steps. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-video-of-students-bullying-teacher-in-classroom-goes-viral-1059448.html
10-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||More students test positive for Covid in Mangaluru, NR Pura||One more containment zone has been declared in Dakshina Kannada district with a nursing college reporting 10 Covid-19 cases. On Thursday, two tested positive and on Friday, eight tested positive in the college. Arrangements have been made to collect swab samples in the college by the health department. Classes have been suspended for seven days, said Covid-19 nodal officer Dr Ashok. All the students, who tested positive, have been isolated at their institution and the health department is monitoring the situation, he added. Earlier, a paramedical college in the city was declared a containment zone on December 6 after nine students were tested positive.  Tally up in school Meanwhile, A total of 10 students and a teacher of Jeevan Jyothi School in N R Pura in Chikkamagaluru district have been tested positive for Covid-19. The school has been sealed. "A student of the school was infected with Covid-19 three days ago. The health department later collected 470 swab samples of the teachers, staff and students of the school. Among them, virus infection has been confirmed in 10 students and a teacher," district surveillance officer Dr H K Manjunath told DH.  All the infected are asymptomatic and are in home isolation. All are undergoing treatment, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/more-students-test-positive-for-covid-in-mangaluru-nr-pura-1059580.html
10-12-2021||Karnataka Politics||Ramamurthy seeks uniform civil code||BJP Rajya Sabha member K C Ramamurthy, on Thursday, urged the Centre to bring in a law for uniform civil code. “The SC observed in the Shah Bano case that a common civil code will help the cause of national integration by removing disparate loyalties to laws which have conflicting ideologies,” he said. “The US, UK and many European countries have a uniform civil code. Even Goa is implementing it. There are misconceptions about the code, which needs to be explained to all religions. The Centre should analyse the best features of all religions, compile and adopt them in the form of a code called the uniform civil code.” he said. “It’s objective is to unify personal laws for marriage, divorce, custody, adoption, inheritance, etc., and cover civil and human rights issues, because personal laws of different religions are dissimilar and hence, violate Article 14 of the Constitution,” he said. “It is needed because age of marriage is not uniform and is not religion-neutral and gender-neutral, divorce is not uniform even though it is a civil and human rights issue, alimony is not religionand gender-neutral, inheritance of property is not equal among all religions and adoptionis also different in different religions,” he said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/ramamurthy-seeks-uniform-civil-code-1059318.html
10-12-2021||Karnataka Politics||Stakes high for BJP, Congress in Karnataka Council polls||Nearly one lakh elected representatives in the state will vote on Friday to pick 25 members to the Legislative Council in an election that is widely expected to set the political tone in the state. Results of the secret ballot will be out on December 14. Voters mostly comprise elected representatives of local bodies, especially gram panchayats. The elected MLCs will occupy the local authorities’ seats.  Of the 25 seats, the ruling BJP needs to win at least 13 to secure a majority in the 75-member upper house. Doing so will give Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai a booster dose after the BJP lost the assembly bypoll last month in Hangal, a seat located in his home district Haveri.  The BJP and the Congress are both contesting in 20 seats whereas the JD(S) has fielded candidates in just six.  The high-octane campaign saw the BJP and Congress slug it out while the JD(S) seemed indecisive on entering a pre-poll alliance with either BJP or Congress in 19 seats where it is not contesting. Even after the issue reached Prime Minister Narendra Modi through JD(S) supremo H D Deve Gowda, former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy said the party’s district leaders would take a call on supporting BJP or Congress candidates keeping the 2023 polls inmind.  Both Congress and BJP are confident of winning five seats each - one each in five constituencies that have twin seats. “So, the real fight is in 15 seats,” a senior BJP leader said.  The JD(S) is looking to retain at least four of the 25 seats, whereas the Congress is determined to win enough seats to keep the BJP from gaining control of the upper house. Also, the Congress’ performance in these polls will reflect on the much-debated camaraderie between its party president D K Shivakumar and Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/stakes-high-for-bjp-congress-in-karnataka-council-polls-1059350.html
10-12-2021||Karnataka Politics||Discussion on North Karnataka issues most likely in Belagavi session, says CM Bommai||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Friday said issues related to North Karnataka development including irrigation projects are most likely to be discussed in the Winter Session of the State Legislature to be held in Belagavi. "The session is called to discuss development issues and people's problems. Mahadayi issue has already been discussed in the session, and suitable steps are being taken with regard to the legal aspects," he said. Compensation for crop loss is being disbursed so fast for the first time. More than Rs 600 crore compensation has already been disbursed for the crop loss caused by heavy rains in November. Compensation is being given daily, immediately after the details of joint survey are uploaded on Parihar app, Bommai noted. He also said efforts were made to win all 20 seats in which the BJP has fielded candidates in the Legislative Council elections being held on Friday. Bommai is exercising his franchise in Council polls at Shiggaon in Haveri district. Flight landing delayed Landing of the Indigo flight in which Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, Large and Medium Scale Industries Minister Murugesh Nirani, Union Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi and others were travelling was delayed by over 20 minutes due to heavy fog. The aircraft took several go-arounds before landing at Hubballi airport. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/discussion-on-north-karnataka-issues-most-likely-in-belagavi-session-says-cm-bommai-1059418.html
10-12-2021||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka MLC polls: Over 99% voter turnout, results to have bearing on power equation in Legislative Council||An estimated over 99 per cent voter turnout has been recorded during the biennial election to the Karnataka Legislative Council's 25 seats from 20 Local Authorities' Constituencies on Friday, the results of which will have a bearing on the power equation in the Upper House of the State Legislature. The polling that began at 8 am on Friday ended at 4 pm. The results will be declared on December 14. "The polling process concluded peacefully," the office of the Chief Electoral Officer, Karnataka, said in a statement. According to the tentative poll turnout data shared by it, all the constituencies recorded over 99 per cent turnout till 4 pm. Out of the total 90 candidates in the fray, 20 each were from BJP and Congress, six from JD(S), 33 independents, and rest were all from smaller parties. There was only one woman candidate in the fray, contesting from Chickmagalur constituency. The electorate for this election comprises legislators, elected members of urban and rural local bodies. Unlike legislative assembly or Lok Sabha polls, the council contests are decided by preferential votes. The election was necessitated as the term of 25 incumbent MLCs — 14 Congress, seven BJP and four JD(S) — ends on January 5. The poll outcome will have a bearing on the power equation in the 75-member Upper House, where the ruling BJP wants to gain a majority. The BJP that has expressed confidence about winning maximum seats needs to win at least 13 seats to secure a majority. The good performance in this election will also be a morale booster for the party after losing Hangal seat in the Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai's home district of Haveri during the recent Assembly bypolls. The Congress too is determined to win maximum seats to keep the BJP away from gaining control of the upper house; while JD(S) has expressed confidence about winning all the six seats it is contesting in. With the aim to get a majority in the Council, State BJP strongman and former Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, ahead of the polls, openly sought JD(S)' support for BJP candidates in the seats where the regional party was not contesting. However, amid buzz about a possible pact with the ruling BJP, JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy had recently said local leaders have been authorised to take a decision on whom to support in the seats where his party is not contesting, keeping in mind the prospects for the 2023 Assembly election. Speaking to reporters after casting vote in Shiggaon, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said BJP will win all the States it is contesting in, and has put efforts for it. While the State Congress President D K Shivakumar said his party expects to win more seats than it expected, and termed Yediyurappa seeking JD(S)' support as a sign of BJP losing strength. JD(S)' H D Kumaraswamy, too, expressing confidence about winning six seats that the party is contesting in, said this council polls will strengthen the party's base for 2023 Assembly polls and set a tone for a new politics in the state. The elections were held for two seats each from the local authorities constituencies of Bijapur, Belgaum, Dharwad, Dakshina Kannada and Mysuru; and one each from Bidar, Gulbarga, Uttara Kannada, Raichur, Bellary, Chitradurga, Shivamogga, Chikmagalur, Hassan, Tumakuru, Mandya, Bangalore, Bangalore Rural, Kolar and Kodagu.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-mlc-polls-over-99-voter-turnout-results-to-have-bearing-on-power-equation-in-legislative-council-1059574.html
10-12-2021||Mysuru||Mysuru-Chamarajanagar registers 68.70 % turnout till 2 pm||The Legislative Council elections from Mysuru-Chamarajanagar local authorities’ constituency recorded an impressive turnout with 68.70 % of voters casting their vote till 2 pm. Of 6787 voters, 4,663 voters exercised their franchise. While Mysuru district recorded 65.65%, Chamarajanagar registered 74.77% till 2 pm. Mysuru district has a total of 4,512 voters and Chamarajanagar has 2,275.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/mysuru-chamarajanagar-registers-6870-turnout-till-2-pm-1059459.html
10-12-2021||National||Tech companies should help preserve open societies, says Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said that tech companies should contribute to preserving open and democratic societies. The Prime Minister took part in the virtual Summit for Democracy convened by the United States President Joe Biden. Though Modi will deliver India’s national statement at the summit on Friday, he was among the select few who were invited to participate in the main Leaders’ Plenary Session hosted by Biden on Thursday. The closed-door session saw interventions from 12 select countries, including India. The Prime Minister emphasized the need for democratic countries to deliver on values enshrined in their constitutions. He also outlined sensitivity, accountability, participation and reform orientation as four pillars of democratic governance in India. He stressed that principles of democracy should also guide global governance. He also underlined that given the ability of the technology to impact democracy positively or negatively, tech companies should contribute to preserving open and democratic societies. The summit, according to the US State Department, is intended to focus on challenges and opportunities facing democracies and to provide a platform for the participating leaders to make both individual and collective commitments to defend democracy and human rights at home and abroad.  The US will also host a second “Summit for Democracy” next year to review the progress achieved against the commitments that would be made in the first summit. The Biden Administration has been tacitly conveying to the Modi Government concerns in the US over the perception that India was backsliding on human rights and freedom of speech and religion. The US President, as well as Vice President Kamala Harris, subtly nudged the Prime Minister to protect the democratic principles of India, when they had hosted him in Washington DC on September 24. The issue came up for discussion when External Affairs Minister, S Jaishankar, hosted his counterpart the US Secretary of State, Antony Blinken, in New Delhi in July. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tech-companies-should-help-preserve-open-societies-says-modi-1059329.html
10-12-2021||National||Centre to ask next CDS to take all on board, avoid controversy||The next Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) will have to pick up the threads and carry on the task his predecessor General Bipin Rawat left unfinished when he died in the helicopter crash in Tamil Nadu – 'theaterization' of the military commands to enhance 'jointness' among the army, navy and air force. The government will expect the new CDS to go full steam ahead to implement the proposed military reforms, taking all stakeholders, especially the three service chiefs, on board and avoiding any controversy.  General Rawat, who also held the office of the Secretary of Department of Military Affairs, had a meeting with the three service chiefs a few weeks back and advanced the deadline from September 2022 to April 2022 for the army, navy and air force to conclude internal studies and submit their reports and views on the proposal of creation of the theatre commands. A source said that the Ministry of Defence expected the theatre commands to be in place in two or three years and would like to stick to the timeline. General Rawat's death in the helicopter crash created a void in the top echelon of the military establishment, but the government would fill it up soon and would not allow the reform initiatives spearheaded by him to lose momentum, the source told the DH in New Delhi. The differences within the military establishment over basic structure of the theatre commands came to public domain earlier this year when General Rawat said that the Indian Air Force (IAF) remained a supporting arm of the ground forces just like the artillery or the engineers support the combatant arm in the army. The then IAF chief, Air Chief Marshal R K S Bhadauria, however, publicly argued that the air force had a greater role to play in any integrated theatre. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh recently stressed that inputs of all stakeholders must be taken into consideration to bring about reforms in the military structure and enhance jointness among the armed forces. The proposed 'theaterization' of the armed forces will integrate all the 17 single-service commands into at least five Theatre Commands – an Air Defence Command led by the IAF, a Maritime Theatre Command led by the Indian Navy and three land theatre commands led by the Indian Army. The Eastern Theatre Command and Northern Theatre Command led by the Indian Army will be tasked to respond to any threat from across the disputed India-China boundary. The Western Theatre Command, which will also be led by the Indian Army, will defend the disputed and undisputed stretches of India-Pakistan border. A training command and a logistics command have also been proposed. The number and nature of the commands have not yet been finalized though. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-to-ask-next-cds-to-take-all-on-board-avoid-controversy-1059330.html
10-12-2021||National||Speak Out: December 10, 2021||With Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh just a couple of months away, BJP MP Harnath Singh Yadav raised the Sri Krishna Janmabhoomi land dispute issue of Mathura in Rajya Sabha on Thursday and demanded that a law providing for status quo to be maintained be repealed. He alleged that the law gives "legal sanctity" to the "forceful occupation of the Krishna Janmabhoomi and other religious places by foreign invaders". He also claimed that the 1991 Act "discriminates" between Lord Ram and Lord Krishna as both are 'avatars' of Lord Vishnu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/speak-out-december-10-2021-1059335.html
10-12-2021||National||DH Toon | Farmers sow seeds of humility, end year-long agitation||Agitating farmers called off their 380-day-long protest against the three contentious farm laws on Thursday after the Central government gave signed written assurances, on an official letterhead, regarding five key demands of the protesting unions, including the withdrawal of cases lodged against protesters and minimum support price (MSP) for crops.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-farmers-sow-seeds-of-humility-end-year-long-agitation-1059336.html
10-12-2021||National||IAF helicopter crash: All possible angles being probed||The tri-services team investigating the tragic chopper crash near Coonoor that killed CDS Gen Bipin Rawat and 12 others is focusing on all possible reasons including whether a human error caused the accident, people familiar with the development said on Thursday. The black box, comprising the flight data recorder (FDR) and the cockpit voice recorder (CVR), of the ill-fated Mi-17V5 helicopter of the Indian Air Force was recovered from the crash site on Thursday. While the CVR will provide details about the communication between the pilots and the air traffic control, the FDR will provide information like altitude, speed and other technical data of the chopper. The Chief of Defence Staff had left the Palam airbase in an IAF Embraer aircraft at 8:47 am and landed at Sulur airbase at 11:34 am. He took off from Sulur in a Mi-17V5 chopper at around 1148 am for Wellington, official sources said. The chopper crashed at around 12:22 pm, they said, adding it was to land at Wellington at around 12:15 pm. "All angles including possible human error will be investigated," a senior military offcial said. In a statement in Parliament, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh announced ordering a tri-services enquiry into the accident. Air Marshal Manavendra Singh, who is heading the tri-services team investigating the tragic chopper crash near Coonoor, is a helicopter pilot and oversaw probes into various air accidents involving IAF platforms. Several former and serving military commanders described Air Marshal Singh, currently heading the Bengaluru-headquartered Training Command of the IAF, as the "best" available air crash investigator in the country. Before taking the reins of the Training Command, the Air Marshal was the Director General (Inspection and Safety) at the Air headquarters and developed various protocols for flight safety while serving in the post. In a distinguished career spanning over 38 years, the Air Officer has flown a wide variety of helicopters and trainer aircraft. He is a qualified flying instructor with vast instructional experience and over 6600 hours of accident-free flying in various challenging sectors like the Siachen, the Northeast, Uttarakhand, the Western desert and the Democratic Republic of Congo. The Air Marshal has also served in tri-service joint institutions and was Assistant Chief of Integrated Defence Staff (Joint Operations) at the headquarters of Integrated Defence Staff. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iaf-helicopter-crash-all-possible-angles-being-probed-1059337.html
10-12-2021||National||India reports 8,503 new Covid-19 cases, 624 deaths||With 8,503 people testing positive for the coronavirus in a day, India's Covid-19 tally climbed to 3,46,74,744, while the number of active cases roses to 94,943, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. The death toll mounted to 4,74,735 with the addition of 624 new fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been recorded below 15,000 for the last 43 days now. The number of active cases has increased to 94,943, comprising 0.27 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.36 per cent, the highest since March 2020,the Health Ministry said. An increase of 201 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 case count in a span of 24 hours. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 0.66 per cent. It has been less than 2 per cent for the last 67 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 0.72 per cent. It has been below 1 per cent for the last 26 days, according to the Health Ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,41,05,066, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.37 per cent.  The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 131.18 crore. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23; 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28; 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29; 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore Covid-19 cases on May 4 and three crore on June 23. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-8503-new-covid-19-cases-624-deaths-1059358.html
10-12-2021||National||Lok Sabha likely to pass Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (Amendment) Bill, 2021||The Lok Sabha on Friday is likely to discuss and pass the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (Amendment) Bill, 2021. The government had introduced the Bill in the Lok Sabha on December 6. Union Minister Nirmala Sitharaman will move the Bill to further amend the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985. She will also move the Bill for passing by the House. The opposition members will move a statutory resolution that this House (Lok Sabha) disapproves of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (Amendment) Ordinance, 2021 promulgated by the President on September 30, 2021. Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya to move a motion for election of one member of Lok Sabha as a member of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Bilaspur (Himachal Pradesh). Lok Sabha secretary general will report two messages from the Rajya Sabha that the Assisted Reproductive Technology (Regulation) Bill, 2021 and the National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research (Amendment) Bill, 2021 has passed by the Upper House. Under rule 193, further discussion in the Lok Sabha will take place on climate change which was started by Kanimozhi Karunanidhi on Wednesday. On Friday, several private members Bills will also be taken up in the Lok Sabha. Lok Sabha member from Bihar Janardhan Singh Sigriwal is to move a private member Bill for inclusion of 'Bhojpuri' language in the Eighth Schedule of the Constitution. Congress member Shashi Tharoor to move a private member bill for 'Steps to mitigate the impact of climate change'. Dr Gaddam Ranjith Reddy to move a private member Bill for formulation of a comprehensive national policy for procurement of foodgrains. The Lok Sabha is likely to hold further discussion on member Ritesh Pandey's resolution which was moved in March last year for taking welfare measures for anganwadi workers and helpers. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lok-sabha-likely-to-pass-narcotic-drugs-and-psychotropic-substances-amendment-bill-2021-1059359.html
10-12-2021||National||Indian architect Balkrishna Doshi wins prestigious UK medal||Acclaimed Indian architect Balkrishna Doshi will receive the Royal Gold Medal 2022, one of the world’s highest honours for architecture, the Royal Institute of British Architects (RIBA) announced. RIBA said on Thursday that with a 70-year career and over 100 built projects, 94-year-old Doshi has influenced the direction of architecture in India and its adjacent regions through both his practice and his teaching. Given in recognition of a lifetime’s work, the Royal Gold Medal is approved personally by Queen Elizabeth II and is given to a person or group of people who have had a significant influence on the advancement of architecture. “I am pleasantly surprised and deeply humbled to receive the Royal Gold Medal from the Queen of England. What a great honour,” said Doshi, on hearing about the big win. “The news of this award brought back memories of my time working with Le Corbusier in 1953 when he had just received the news of getting the Royal Gold Medal. I vividly recollect his excitement to receive this honour from Her Majesty. He said to me metaphorically, ‘I wonder how big and heavy this medal will be’,” he shared. “Today, six decades later I feel truly overwhelmed to be bestowed with the same award as my guru, Le Corbusier – honouring my six decades of practice. I would like to express my heartfelt gratitude to my wife, my daughters and most importantly my team and collaborators at Sangath my studio,” he said. RIBA said his buildings combine pioneering modernism with vernacular, informed by a deep appreciation of the traditions of India’s architecture, climate, local culture and craft. His projects include administrative and cultural facilities, housing developments and residential buildings. He has become internationally known for his visionary urban planning and social housing projects, as well as his work in education, both in India and as a visiting professor at universities around the world. RIBA President Simon Allford said: "It was an honour and a pleasure to chair the committee in selecting Balkrishna Doshi as the 2022 Royal Gold Medallist. He has influenced generations of architects through his delightfully purposeful architecture. Influenced by his time spent in the office of Le Corbusier his work nevertheless is that of an original and independent thinker – able to undo, redo and evolve." "In the twentieth century, when technology facilitated many architects to build independently of local climate and tradition, Balkrishna remained closely connected with his hinterland: it’s climate, technologies new and old and crafts." “Balkrishna Doshi’s outstanding contribution to the art of architecture, the craft of construction and the practice of urban design establish him as a most deserving recipient of this award and I greatly look forward to him being presented with the medal next year.” Born in 1927 in Pune, to an extended family of furniture makers, Balkrishna Doshi studied at the JJ School of Architecture, Bombay, before working for four years with Le Corbusier as Senior Designer (1951-54) in Paris and four more years in India to supervise projects in Ahmedabad. He worked with Louis Kahn as an associate to build the Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad, and they continued to collaborate for over a decade. He founded his own practice, Vastushilpa in 1956 with two architects. Today Vastushilpa is a multi-disciplinary practice with ﬁve partners spanning three generations and has sixty employees. The practice invites dialogue and its philosophy of pro-active participation even applies to their office space – which has an open door, inviting passers-by to drop in. Doshi’s key projects in Ahmedabad include Shreyas Comprehensive School Campus (1958-63); Atira Guest House low cost housing (1958); The Institute of Indology (1962) building to house rare documents; Ahmedabad School of Architecture – renamed CEPT University in 2002 – which focused on creating spaces that promoted collaborative learning; Tagore Hall & Memorial Theatre (1967); a 700-seat Brutalist auditorium. Premabhai Hall (1976) theatre and auditorium. Besides, he has also designed the Indian Institute of Management in Bangalore (1977-1992); Sangath (1981), the studio for his architecture practice, Vastu Shilpa; Kanoria Centre for Arts (1984), an arts and creative hub; and Aranya Low Cost Housing (1989), Indore.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-architect-balkrishna-doshi-wins-prestigious-uk-medal-1059365.html
10-12-2021||National||CDS chopper crash: Air Force continues probe at Coonoor||Investigators from the Indian Air Force (IAF) continued to fly drones over the site where a Mi17V5 helicopter carrying Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) Gen Bipin Rawat and 12 others crashed for the second day on Friday, looking for more evidence from the spot.  Tamil Nadu Director General of Police Sylendra Babu visited Nanjappanchathiram village in Coonoor and felicitated the villagers who rushed to the crash site and rescued “three persons alive.” He said the villagers used bedspreads and water to douse the fire as much as they can and pulled out three people from the rubble. However, only Group Captain Varun Singh survived the crash, and his condition is currently critical.  “The villagers were the first respondents and they were joined by police personnel from Coonoor within minutes. They reached at 12.25 pm. We salute everyone who braved their lives to help those affected by the crash. The villagers and the police team rescued three people alive. The three had even spoken to the villagers,” Babu said.  The rescued were taken to the Military Hospital in Wellington.  While felicitating the villagers, the DGP also handed over new bedsheets and other articles to them.  The IAF, which is investigating the helicopter crash, flew drones at the crash site for the second day on Friday even as the black box or Flight Data Recorder was recovered on Thursday. Meanwhile, the Tamil Nadu Police warned of “strict action” against those making offensive comments or spreading rumours on the helicopter crash. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cds-chopper-crash-air-force-continues-probe-at-coonoor-1059378.html
10-12-2021||National||PM Modi to take final call on crypto regulatory framework: Report||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will take a final decision on the regulatory framework for cryptocurrencies, amid conflicting views, The Economic Times reported on Friday. The draft bill for cryptocurrencies has been finalised by the finance ministry but certain sections of the government felt more detailed discussions might be required, according to the report citing two persons familiar with the development. The officials are likely to meet later in the day to form a final consensus on the Bill, the report added. The bill is expected to be tabled in the current session of the parliament. The finance ministry didn't immediately respond to Reuters' request for a comment. Earlier this week, Reuters reported that the proposed legislation to ban the use of cryptocurrencies as a method of payment in India also seeks to make those who infringe the law subject to arrest without a warrant.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-take-final-call-on-crypto-regulatory-framework-report-1059379.html
10-12-2021||National||Ajit Doval, M L Khattar, Rajnath Singh pay last respects to Brigadier Lidder||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and Haryana Chief Minister M L Khattar on Friday laid wreaths on the mortal remains of Brigadier L S Lidder, who died along with 12 others in the military chopper crash in Tamil Nadu. Brigadier Lidder's mortal remains were kept at Brar square in Delhi cantonment before his cremation. Many senior defence personnel also paid their last respects to Lidder at Brar square. Along with Chief of Defence Staff Bipin Rawat, Lidder was among the 13 killed when a Mi17V5 helicopter carrying them crashed in Tamil Nadu on Wednesday. Born on June 26, 1969, Brigadier Lidder was defence assistant to the CDS since January 2021.  He was commissioned in the Jammu and Kashmir Rifles (JAKRIF) in December 1990 and commanded a battalion of the JAKRIF in Congo as UN peacekeeping force. He also commanded a brigade on India's northern borders. He served as director at the Military Operations Directorate and also as defence assistant at Kazakhstan.  Approved for the Major General rank, he was due to take over a division. He is survived by wife Geetika Lidder and a daughter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ajit-doval-m-l-khattar-rajnath-singh-pay-last-respects-to-brigadier-lidder-1059380.html
10-12-2021||National||JAP likely to merge with Congress in next few weeks||The Jan Adhikar Party (JAP) in Bihar is likely to merge with the Congress in next few weeks, its top official has said. Party chief Rajesh Ranjan, alias Pappu Yadav, has convened a meeting on December 16 and 17 to deliberate on all the aspects before the merger, the official said on Thursday. "Our leader Pappu Yadav has already dissolved all committees and wings of the party on December 2 and the same was announced by state president Raghvendra Kushwaha. Dissolving the committees and wings was an indication of the merger. With this, no one would hold any post in the party and hence will not have the power to challenge the party chief's decision," he said. Pappu Yadav is the only face of the party. Apart from him, no one is capable of pulling the crowd or delivering during the elections. Since contesting against bigger political forces like RJD, JDU and BJP in Bihar would be tough, hence, merging with the grand-old-party is a wise decision. Earlier on Thursday, Congress leader Asit Nath Tiwari had also spoken about the merger. According to sources, Pappu Yadav's wife Ranjeet Ranjan-- Congress in charge of Rajasthan-- has played a crucial role in the amalgamation. During the by-elections, she was the one who took Pappu Yadav to the dais of the Congress. Following that Pappu campaigned for Congress candidates in Kushsehwar Asthan and Tarapur along with Bhakt Charan Das, Kanhaiya Kumar and Madan Mohan Jha. Pappu Yadav is treading on the path of Upendra Kushwaha who also tasted a very bitter defeat in the 2020 Assembly elections. His party Rashtriya Lok Samata Party (RLSP) failed to win even a single seat. Kushwaha too lost his seat. After the defeat, he merged his party with Nitish Kumar-led Janata Dal United. Pappu Yadav is also doing the same. His party was unable to open an account in 2020 Assembly election despite having an alliance with over half-a-dozen smaller political parties. Yadav had led the alliance which contested on all 243 seats but could not bag a single seat.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jap-likely-to-merge-with-congress-in-next-few-weeks-1059387.html
10-12-2021||National||'It's ok to be mediocre': Group Captain Varun Singh in letter to students of his school||"It's ok to be mediocre," this is what Group Captain Varun Singh, the lone survivor of the IAF chopper crash, had conveyed to the students of his school in a letter to its principal in September. Group Captain Singh is now battling for life at a military hospital in Bengaluru. He was conferred with the Shaurya Chakra in August for averting a possible mid-air accident after his Tejas light combat aircraft suffered a major technical glitch last year. "It is ok to be mediocre. Not everyone will excel at school and not everyone will be able to score in the 90s. If you do, it's an amazing achievement and must be applauded," Group Captain Singh wrote in the letter to the principal of the Army Public School in Chandimandir in Haryana. "However, if you don't, do not think that you are meant to be mediocre. You may be mediocre in school but it is by no means a measure of things to come in life," he said. "Find your calling, it could be art, music, graphic design. literature etc. Whatever you work towards, be dedicated, do your best. Never go to bed thinking I could have put in more effort," he added. The air warrior said he was an average student and barely scored first division in 12th standard, but had a passion for airplanes and aviation. "I write to you filled with a sense of pride and humility. On August 15 this year, I have been awarded Shaurya Chakra by the President of India in recognition of an act of gallantry on October 12, 2020," he said. "I credit this prestigious award to all those I have been associated with over the years in school, NDA and thereafter the Air Force, as I firmly believe that my actions that day were a result of the grooming and mentoring by my teachers. instructors and peers over the years," Group Captain Singh wrote in the letter dated September 18. The Group Captain said he was not trying to blow his own trumpet or writing with a desire to seek a pat on the back, and that he wanted to let the children know a few of his life's experiences that may help them in future. "I was a very average student who barely scored first division in 12 class. Even though I was made the Discipline Prefect in 12th I was equally average even in sports and other co-curricular activities. But I had a passion for airplanes and aviation," he wrote. Group Captain Singh was conferred with the Shaurya Chakra for displaying exemplary composure and skill when his Tejas aircraft developed the technical snag during a sortie last year. "Despite being in extreme physical and mental stress in an extreme life-threatening situation, he maintained exemplary composure and recovered the aircraft, thereby exhibiting exceptional flying skill," the award citation said. Group Captain Singh was on board the Russian-made chopper as the liaison officer for the visit of CDS Gen Bipin Rawat to the Defence Services Staff College in Wellington. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/its-ok-to-be-mediocre-group-captain-varun-singh-in-letter-to-students-of-his-school-1059391.html
10-12-2021||National||Brace yourselves, treatment in private hospitals may get costlier||Apollo and Fortis are mulling increasing their package rates by 5-10 per cent amid rising overhead costs, according to the publication.  "Though we are a large multispeciality hospital chain with significant overheads, we continue to treat patients at the same rates since 2019 despite non-Covid revenues being affected by the pandemic, rising manpower costs, and other operating costs," a Fortis Healthcare spokesperson was quoted saying by The Economic Times. "We are evaluating the situation and will decide about package tariff correction at an appropriate time", they added. According to officials, both private hospitals are 5-6 per cent away from complete business recovery to pre-Covid levels. "The cost of sanitation, consumables, human resources and general inflation are eating into our margins, so at some point, we have to pass on the cost," Group Chief Financial Officer of Apollo Hospitals Krishnan Akhileswaran is quoted as saying in the report. While a 5 per cent average yearly increase is not out of the ordinary, it may be a little higher this time, Akhileswaran further explained. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/brace-yourselves-treatment-in-private-hospitals-may-get-costlier-1059393.html
10-12-2021||National||Srinagar records season’s coldest night at minus 2.6 degrees Celsius||As a cold wave further tightened its grip over Kashmir on Friday, Srinagar witnessed the coldest night of the season as mercury plummeted to minus 2.6 degree Celsius. A Meteorological Department official said the mercury dipped to minus 2.6 degrees Celsius in Srinagar on the intervening night of Thursday and Friday from minus 2.1 degrees on the previous night. Today’s minimum temperature surpassed that of December 1 when the mercury fell to minus 2.5 degrees, he said. The minimum temperature in south Kashmir hill resort of Pahalgam, which serves as a base camp for annual Amarnath yatra, settled at minus 5.9 degrees Celsius from the previous night's minus 4.9 degrees Celsius, the official said. In the ski resort of north Kashmir’s Gulmarg, the minimum night temperature settled at minus 6.0 degrees Celsius, from the previous night’s minus 5.8 degrees. In Leh town of the frontier Ladakh region, mercury settled at bone chilling minus 11 degrees Celsius against previous night’s minus 10 degrees Celsius. Mercury in neighbouring Kargil town settled at a low of minus 8.6 degrees Celsius. The Met office has forecast dry weather during the next four days with the likelihood of a further fall in night temperatures due to a clear sky. “There is no forecast for major snowfall till December 20 in both J&K and Ladakh,” the official said and added that there would be warmer days and colder nights till December 14. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/srinagar-records-season-s-coldest-night-at-minus-26-degrees-celsius-1059394.html
10-12-2021||National||Avoid uninformed speculation on Coonoor crash, urges IAF||As the country pays respects to Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat and 12 others who were killed in a military chopper crash in Tamil Nadu, the Indian Air Force (IAF) cautioned against "uninformed speculation".  The Air Force said that an inquiry into the chopper crash "would be completed expeditiously" and facts would be brought out but till then any "uninformed speculation may be avoided". It added that the IAF has constituted a tri-service court of inquiry to investigate the cause of the tragic helicopter accident on December 8, 2021. IAF has constituted a tri-service Court of Inquiry to investigate the cause of the tragic helicopter accident on 08 Dec 21. The inquiry would be completed expeditiously & facts brought out. Till then, to respect the dignity of the deceased, uninformed speculation may be avoided. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday said that a tri-service enquiry regarding the incident has been ordered. The team will be headed by Air Marshal Manvendra Singh. Those who were killed in the crash include the spouse of the CDS, Madhulika Rawat, his Defence Adviser Brig Lakhbinder Singh Lidder, Staff Officer Lt Col Harjinder Singh and nine other Armed Forces personnel including the Air Force helicopter crew. Their names are Wing Commander Prithvi Singh Chauhan, Squadron Leader Kuldeep Singh, Junior Warrant Officer Rana Pratap Das, Junior Warrant Officer Arakkal Pradeep, Havildar Satpal Rai, Naik Gursewak Singh, Naik Jitendra Kumar, Lance Naik Vivek Kumar, Lance Naik B Sai Teja. The lone survivor Group Captain Varun Singh is a hospital in Bengaluru.  The Chief of Defence Staff would be cremated with full military honours later today. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/avoid-uninformed-speculation-on-coonoor-crash-urges-iaf-1059407.html
10-12-2021||National||Chopper crash: TN CM writes to kin of deceased persons expressing condolence||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin on Friday personally wrote to the families of the Defence personnel killed in the Coonoor helicopter crash expressing his condolences, the state government said. All the people were with the families during this tough time, he told them in seperate letters. Chief of Defence Staff, General Bipin Rawat, his wife and 11 others were killed after the helicopter carrying them to Wellington in the Nilgiris district in the state crashed near Coonoor there on Wednesday. Stalin had rushed to Coonoor soon after coming to know of the accident and paid floral tributes to the departed on Thursday, an official release recalled. The state government had ensured all arrangements during the rescue activities and later during transportation of the mortal remains of the deceased, which were later flown from Coimbatore to Delhi, it said. "Further, the chief minister today wrote individually to the families of the Defence personnel killed in the accident, expressing his sincere condolences and regret." "He said all the people were by them in this tough time and said though their loss is irreparable, he wished they got the strength to recover from it," the release said.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chopper-crash-tn-cm-writes-to-kin-of-deceased-persons-expressing-condolence-1059413.html
10-12-2021||National||CDS chopper crash: Person who recorded MI 17's last moments appears before police||Two men, who shot the video showing the final moments of the Mi-17V5 helicopter that crashed 13 Army officers and personnel including Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) Gen Bipin Rawat, appeared before Coimbatore Police on Friday and extended cooperation with the probe.  Nasar and Joe, who had been vacationing in the Nilgiris on Wednesday, began recording a video after they heard a helicopter flying in the area. But little did the entourage know that their mobile phones were capturing the crash of a helicopter with CDS on board.  “The weather was misty. We saw the helicopter and suddenly it disappeared into the sky. Moments later, we heard a huge noise. We did not know what happened and we decided to climb up to the road to check the fate of the helicopter. Since my daughter got injured while climbing up, we took time to reach the road,” Nasar said.  After reaching the road connecting Ooty with Mettupalayam, the duo found several vehicles parked on the road and contacted a policeman and narrated the incident. “It was the police personnel who asked us to send the video to his WhatsApp, and we followed the same. We were asked to leave the spot immediately,” Nasar added. The duo told the Coimbatore Police on Friday that they will join the investigation if need be. They said they have given their contact details and residence address to the police and narrated the incident to them. “We told them that we are ready to appear before the police anytime regarding the incident,” Nasar said.  Joe said they did not expect a “normal video” shot by them to turn into evidence of a chopper crash. “We recorded because we heard the sound of a chopper. Only when we went back home in the night, we realised the magnitude of the crash. We didn’t know that the chopper had India’s top general on board,” he said.  The duo added that they first believed that the chopper had crashed in deep forests but realised that the spot was very close to a human habitation site only when they reached the main road. Eye-witnesses who alerted the Nilgiris district police and fire rescue personnel about the crash had on Wednesday said the chopper flew dangerously close to the residential areas before it fell to the ground.  The advanced helicopter hit a tree in the reserve forest in Nanjappanchathiram village before it caught fire and went in flames. If the crash had taken place a few hundred metres away, there could have been heavy civilian causalities, the sources added.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cds-chopper-crash-person-who-recorded-mi-17s-last-moments-appears-before-police-1059420.html
10-12-2021||National||Study on vaccines' effectiveness on Omicron underway: Mandaviya||Union Health and Family Welfare Minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Friday said in the Lok Sabha that the study on the effectiveness of the vaccines on the new Covid-19 variant Omicron is underway and once the experts give their opinions, a decision on the booster dose will be taken. He also said that the country trusts its scientists and the booster policy will go ahead based on their suggestions following appropriate research. Responding to a question during the Question House in the Lower House, he also said that the Omicron surfaced on November 1 and on November 24 this was reported in South Africa. The new variant has been found in 59 countries so far and every country has been studying the effectiveness of the existing vaccines. "We have initiated a study immediately and as of now, there are 36 labs in India where the 'Genome Sequencing' has been done. These labs can do 30,000 genome sequencing every day and also we have been trying to tie up with private labs to increase the capacity", Mandavia informed the House. Responding to the question of Revolutionary Socialist Party (RSP) MP N.K. Premachandran, the Minister further said, "We all want the country to achieve 100 per cent vaccination and we all (MPs) should make people aware about getting vaccinated." He also said that India has done "best" while comparing the vaccination rates to other countries as 'our country has completed 86 per cent of the first dose'. He also requested all stakeholders to participate in getting the vaccination drive faster as soon as possible. Replying to a question asked by the BSP Member Ram Shiromani Verma about the impact of Omicron on children, the Health Minister said that the study on Omicron is underway and once the experts give their opinion, the government will decide on vaccination for children below 18 years. Mandaviya also informed the House that there are 23 cases of suspected Omicron under observation, and the expert teams have been interacting everyday on the response and treatment and they are also studying the hospitalisation status of other countries where this new variant has been reported in large numbers. Responding to Premchandran's query on Kerala Covid status, the Minister also said that he also visited the state personally when over 30,000 cases were reported and also sent an 'expert team' to the state and visited many hospitals and suggested the state government to take various containment measures, therefore, the health protocol and guidelines issued by the Health Ministry from time to time must be followed to arrest the Covid 19 cases at low rate. Replying to a question of Congress MP Manish Tewari, who wanted to know whether any study has been made on the side-effects of the Covid 19 vaccination, the Minister said that no such study has been made so far. He also explained that with "great difficulties, the people have come out from vaccine hesitancy, so we do not want to get a study as of now barring some exceptional cases. We want to get the vaccination of all eligible populations with both doses as soon as possible," he added. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/study-on-vaccines-effectiveness-on-omicron-underway-mandaviya-1059437.html
10-12-2021||National||108 countries recognise Indian Covid-19 vaccination certificate for travel purpose||A total of 108 countries recognised the Indian Covid-19 vaccination certificate for travel purpose, Minister of State for Health Bharati Pravin Pawar informed Lok Sabha on Friday, sharing data available as on December 6. The World Health Organization's Emergency Use Listing (EUL) assists interested UN procurement agencies, member states and countries in determining acceptability of using specific vaccines, based on an essential set of available data on quality, safety, efficacy and performance, Pawar said in a written reply. The aim is to expedite availability of these products to people affected by a public health emergency, and it allows countries to expedite their own regulatory approval to import and administer Covid-19 vaccines, she said. Persons inoculated with such vaccines, which are listed under the WHO- EUL, are deemed to be protected by authorities of many countries and allowed to travel internationally, Pawar said. "However, not all countries require Covid-19 vaccination for travel. India also does not, at present, require Covid-19 vaccination for travel. Among the countries, which do have such requirements, as on December 6, 2021, a total of 108 countries recognise the Indian vaccination certificate for travel purpose," she said in the written reply. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/108-countries-recognise-indian-covid-19-vaccination-certificate-for-travel-purpose-1059438.html
10-12-2021||National||Over 70% of Beti Bachao funds spent on media advocacy: Women empowerment panel||A parliamentary panel has asked the centre to keep an account of the spending by states on the 'Beti Bachao Beti Padhao' scheme. The Committee of Empowerment of Women in its report noted that despite the underutilisation of funds by states the women and child development ministry was sending additional funds to the states. The ministry, the panel in its report said that it did not have adequate data of how much a particular state spent on the scheme. The 'Beti Bachao Beti Padhao' scheme was launched in 2014 as a tri-ministerial effort to build awareness and advocacy campaigns for the girl child. It aimed to check the sex ratio, and to enhance literacy rates among girls, as well as effective enforcement of Pre-Conception & Pre Natal Diagnostic Techniques (PC&PNDT) Act.  The Committee, a 29-member panel headed by BJP MP Heena Gavit, said that despite underutilised funds by states, the WCD Ministry has been releasing additional funds. “The Committee also finds that the nodal Ministry has no disaggregated information on the spending by the States/UTs on education, health and other interventions under BBBP,” the report read.  In its recommendation, the panel has asked the ministry to immediately take up with the states and UTs the issue of poor utilisation of the central funds.  Under the scheme, each district is allocated Rs 50 lakh with 100% central assistance, released in two instalments annually. Since its inception in 2014, the total budgetary allocation till 2019-20 has been Rs 848 crore, excluding the year 2020-21 when funds were halted due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Of the total amount, in these years, only Rs 156.46 crore, or 25.13% funds have been utilised. The scheme has also been criticised by the CA&G report for underutilisation in 2016-17.  Panel member Shiv Sena Rajya Sabha MP Priyanka Chaturvedi said that while advocacy is needed, the government needs to back it with implementation and intent.  “If you do not keep a tab on the funds you are releasing, in effect, you are making the scheme useless. Girls can do with the support system, especially during Covid when so many of them have been forced out of the education system due to a digital disparity. The centre and the states must come with effective ideas using technology. What is unfortunate is that the minister is more involving the former MP from her constituency,” Chaturvedi told Deccan Herald.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-70-of-beti-bachao-funds-spent-on-media-advocacy-women-empowerment-panel-1059447.html
10-12-2021||National||Final journey of CDS Rawat, his wife begins to cremation ground||The final journey of Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat and his wife Madhulika Rawat began from his official residence here to a cremation ground where they will be laid to rest. General Rawat, his wife, and 11 other defence personnel were killed when an Mi17V5 helicopter carrying them crashed near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu on Wednesday. The general will be laid to rest at the Brar Square cremation ground. A ceremonial Battery of the 2233 Field Regiment provided the gun carriage. About 800 service personnel are expected to be in attendance for the military funeral. The final journey of General Rawat and his wife began amid chants of 'Jab tak suraj chand rahega, Rawat ji ka naam rahega', 'Indian Army Zindabad' and bharat mata ki jai', and people showered flower petals as the convoy passed. The mortal remains of General Rawat and his wife were kept at their official residence before cremation, and Home Minister Amit Shah, National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and Congress leader Rahul Gandhi paid tributes and laid wreaths. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the country's top military brass paid homage to the victims of the crash after their bodies were brought to Delhi in a military aircraft on Thursday. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/final-journey-of-cds-rawat-his-wife-begins-to-cremation-ground-1059452.html
10-12-2021||National||Over 14 crore Health IDs generated so far: Govt||The government has made a provision for every citizen to generate a Health ID free of cost and over 14 crore such IDs have been created till the first week of December, Minister of State for Health Bharati Pravin Pawar informed the Lok Sabha on Friday. The creation of Health IDs is voluntary, Pawar said in a written reply to a question. However, the NHA is creating awareness among the citizens about the usage and advantages of the Health IDs to ensure their maximum participation, she stated.  The Ayushman Bharat-Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (AB-PMJAY) was launched on September 23, 2018 to provide health coverage of up to Rs 5 lakh per annum per beneficiary family to around 10.74 crore poor and vulnerable families identified from Socio Economic Caste Census (SECC) data of 2011 on the basis of select deprivation and occupational criteria across rural and urban areas respectively, Pawar said. The number of eligible beneficiaries under SECC 2011 is 10.74 crore families (50 crore people).  Pawar said 33 states and UTs implementing AB-PMJAY have further expanded the coverage of the scheme to include 13.44 crore families (65 crore people).  The AB-PMJAY is implemented in all states and UTs barring West Bengal, NCT of Delhi and Odisha. It is the world's largest government-funded health assurance scheme, she said. It is a completely cashless and paperless scheme and the benefits under AB-PMJAY are portable across the country. There is no cap on family size, or age or gender. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-14-crore-health-ids-generated-so-far-govt-1059454.html
10-12-2021||National||Mandaviya says first Covid vaccine dose given to 86% of eligible population||As many as 86 per cent of India's eligible population has received the first dose of Covid vaccine and the government wishes that 100 per cent vaccination is achieved at the earliest, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said on Friday. Sharing data about the Covid vaccination levels in other countries, including the US, Germany and France, the minister said that India has been doing well on the vaccination front. Replying to supplementary questions in the Lok Sabha, Mandaviya also said that 7 crore vaccines are lying with states and also cautioned against possible vaccine hesistancy that could be triggered by claims of health complications after vaccination. During the question hour, he said that 86 per cent of the eligible population has received the first Covid dose and "we wish that 100 per cent vaccination happens at the earliest". To a query related to Omicron, he said that studies are going on and only after the studies are complete, it will be known which vaccine is how much effective against the new variant. Currently, 23 cases of Omicron have been reported in the country while worldwide, a total of 59 countries have reported such cases. There are 36 laboratories for genome sequencing in the country now. These laboratories can do 30,000 genome sequencing and the capacity is being increased with the help of private laboratories, Mandaviya said. In a written reply, he said the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunization (NTAGI) and National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC) are deliberating and considering scientific evidences related to dose schedule of vaccines and the need for justification for booster dose. As on December 6, "about 80.02 crore eligible beneficiaries (85.2 per cent) (i.e. persons aged 18 years & above) have received at least one dose of Covid-19 vaccine and 47.91 crore (51.0 per cent) have received both the doses of the vaccine", he added. The Covid vaccination drive started in January this year. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mandaviya-says-first-covid-vaccine-dose-given-to-86-of-eligible-population-1059458.html
10-12-2021||National||18 cases of Delta sub-variant AY.4.2 detected in India: Centre||There are 18 cases of Covid-19 Delta sub-variant AY.4.2 that have been detected in India, Minister of State for Health Bharati Pravin Pawar informed the Lok Sabha on Friday. Such mutated variants of coronavirus are likely to evolve as like all viruses, SARS-CoV-2 also evolves over time, Pawar said in a written reply. Of the 18 cases of AY.4.2 detected so far in the country (as on December 3, 2021), 10 cases are from Gujarat, four from Tamil Nadu, two from Assam, and one each from Maharashtra and Telangana, she said in response to a question on whether the central government is aware that amid worries about a potential third wave of Covid-19, as many as 17 cases of the Delta variant AY.4.2 strain, which is spreading rapidly in the United Kingdom, has emerged in India. Responding to a question on whether the central government is aware that Biotech Lab namely HLL Biotech Limited Integrated Vaccine Complex (IVC), a public sector vaccine manufacturing plant in Chengalpattu, near Chennai, Tamil Nadu is lying idle for a long period, Pawar said that the Health Ministry has proactively explored various possibilities to operationalise the facility, including HLL, publishing a tender on the Central Public Procurement Portal inviting bids for selection of IVC facility user on an "as is where is" basis through competitive bidding. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/18-cases-of-delta-sub-variant-ay42-detected-in-india-centre-1059460.html
10-12-2021||National||India plans Rs 76,000 cr scheme to lure semi-conductor firms||The move is reportedly a bid to make India a hub for electronics.  "Through various PLI (production linked incentive) schemes, the Centre has tried to broaden the scope of manufacturing and export from India while the semi-conductor policy will help deepen India's manufacturing base," a senior government official told the publication.  Semi-conductors help in the functioning of a wide range of products, from television sets to cars.  One to two fabrication units are for displays and about 10 units each for designing and manufacturing components, officials reportedly said. The scheme may reach Cabinet by next week for approval and later ministry of electronics and IT may invite applications, according to the publication.  In the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, the work from home mandates resulted in a massive surge in demand for computers and laptops, of which semi-conductor chips are key components. This metamorphosised into a chip shortage crisis that has now affected numerous industries.  Reacting to the Centre's move, Kanishka Chauhan, principal research analyst at Gartner, told the publication: "If the policy can lure some of the foundries (fabrication units) to our country, it would go a big way in making our country self-reliant." Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-plans-rs-76000-cr-scheme-to-lure-semi-conductor-firms-1059462.html
10-12-2021||National||UK returnee tests positive for Covid-19 in Kolkata, genome sequencing underway for omicron variant||A woman, who returned from the UK, tested positive for Covid-19 here on Friday, a senior official of the West Bengal Health Department said on Friday. The required specimens were collected and sent for genome sequencing to ascertain whether she had contracted the new omicron variant, which has been classified as a highly transmissible virus of concern, he said. "A patient from the UK is found positive for Covid-19. She was initially sent to the Beliaghata IDBG Hospital… Later she chose to get admitted at a private hospital for institutional quarantine,” the official said. Her condition is stable, he added. Top officials of the health ministry had on Thursday informed a parliamentary panel that there are 23 cases of the omicron variant across the country, and authorities are closely monitoring the situation. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uk-returnee-tests-positive-for-covid-19-in-kolkata-genome-sequencing-underway-for-omicron-variant-1059464.html
10-12-2021||National||To keep memories 'alive', farmers plan 'protest monuments' in villages||For over a year, a 2,400-square-foot tent at the Singhu border was home to Gurinder Singh, Butta Singh Shadipur and their fellow villagers who were protesting the contentious farm laws. On Friday, the two friends pulled down this pavilion of protest but said they intend to rebuild it at their village in Punjab's Bhatinda district to keep the memories of the movement alive. As the farmers prepare to leave their protest sites on Delhi's borders on Saturday after the government repealed the farm laws and acceded to their other demands, many say they will reinstall their tents in their villages as a symbol of their long, arduous struggle. When Gurinder Singh, Butta Singh Shadipur and 500 others from their Ram Nawas village reached the Singhu border on November 26 last year, they had to unroll their mattresses on the floor and sleep under the open skies. Over the next few months, the two built a makeshift structure that has three rooms, a bathroom and a meeting area together measuring 2,400 square feet. They used bamboo for partitions and tinshed for roof. Around 70-80 people would sleep in the meeting area and the three rooms every night. They then brought television, cooler, gas stove, a small fridge -- everything they needed for a comfortable stay at what would be their home till the government conceded their demands of repeal of the three contentious farm laws and a panel on legal guarantee for minimum support price for crops among others. Now, the two friends plan to rebuild the structure in their village to keep the memories of the movement alive. "We spent around Rs 4.50 lakh on this structure. We had everything we needed. Now, we plan to shift it to our village and rebuild it," Gurvinder Singh said. Butta Singh Shadipur said the structure will also serve as a memorial to those who died during the farm movement. "We will also keep some of our pictures in it to remind us of the time spent here," he added, recalling the initial days of the movement when they faced tear gas shells, water cannons and batons. Bakshish Singh, who managed a 10-bed 'Kisan Mazdoor Ekta Hospital' at the protest site, rode a wave of conflicting emotions as the protest draws to an end. The smiles and hugs hide the pain of parting, Bakshish said. The 30-year-old man from Patiala said the Life Care Foundation-run makeshift hospital started with one stool and medicines to control sugar and blood pressure.  "We scaled it up seeing that a large number of farmers, especially the elderly, had some health issues or other," Bakshish said. The hospital recorded over a lakh OPD visits in the last one year and local residents accounted for more than 50 per cent of them, doctors said. Free diagnostic tests were conducted at the facility for dengue, malaria, chikungunya, typhoid, etc.  "We got a lot of cases of heart attack and seizure. I can say the number of deaths during the protest would have been higher had the hospital not been there," the supervisor said. The Life Care Foundation now plans to shift the hospital to a place near Jalandhar to provide free medical treatment to the needy there. "We will take it down and reassemble it again. A part of the hospital will be converted into a museum having pictures and records of persons treated during the protest," Bakshish said. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha, a forum of 40 farmer unions, Thursday announced that the stir will be suspended and the farmers would go back home in a victory march on December 11. The announcement came after the Centre accepted most of their other demands, including withdrawal of "fake case" against farmer protesters. Jarnail Singh from Mohali said they had built two temporary structures with bamboo and tarpaulin for around 500 people from 12 villages. "It cost us Rs 4 lakh -- Rs 2 lakh for each structure. Everybody contributed something. Inverter battery, air conditioners, television we had everything," he said climbing a ladder to take the tarpaulin off.  Jarnail Singh and others now plan to reassemble the structure in Buta Singh Wala village as a symbol.  "We will plant a lot of flowers around the structure...make it more beautiful. We will also keep one of the tractors we drove to Delhi there," he said.  Sardar Gurmukh Singh of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Doaba) built a structure with bricks and cement mortar having three rooms in March. Since Friday morning, at least five persons have been working non-stop to dismantle it. "I spent around Rs 4 lakh on the structure. We can salvage around 20,000 bricks which will be used to build a memorial to those who died here," he said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/to-keep-memories-alive-farmers-plan-protest-monuments-in-villages-1059466.html
10-12-2021||National||Centre says no farmer died due to police action during farmers' protests||The Union government on Friday said that no farmer died due to police action during the year-long protests by farmers. Various farmer groups were protesting against three new farm laws, which have now been scrapped. The year-long protest at the Delhi borders was suspended by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Thursday after the Union government accepted their key pending demands, including withdrawal of police cases against the protesters and on Minimum Support Price (MSP). In a written reply to the Rajya Sabha, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Friday said, "the subject of compensation, etc. to the families of the deceased farmers in the farmers movement is with the concerned state governments". "No farmer died as a result of police action during the farmers' agitation," he said. Tomar was responding to a joint question by Congress leader Dhiraj Prasad Sahu and AAP leader Sanjay Singh. The members had asked whether the government is planning to provide or made any provision towards livelihood monetary compensation to the families of the farmers who died during farmers' protests. Opposition parties, including the Congress, have been raising the issue of deaths of farmers during the year-long protests. The SKM, which suspended the protests after receiving a formal letter from the Union government accepting their key pending demands, on Thursday also said that farmers would celebrate December 11 as 'Vijay Diwas' and take out victory marches following which they will head home. The SKM is an umbrella body of 40 farm unions. Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and Western Uttar Pradesh, were protesting at various Delhi borders from late November 2020, seeking repeal of the three farm laws. On November 29, Parliament passed a Bill to repeal the three laws. Replying to separate queries on the MSP, Tomar said, "a formal formation of a committee to promote zero budgeting based agriculture, to change crop pattern as per the changing needs of the country and to make MSP more effective and transparent is under consideration." Asked if the government proposes to bring a law to give legal guarantee to MSP for every crop as recommended by Swaminathan Commission, the minister said the government has already implemented in 2018-19 the recommendation made by the National Commission on Farmers (NCF) to fix MSP at at least 50 per cent profit on weighted average cost of production. The Centre fixes MSP for 22 mandated agricultural crops and Fair and Remunerative Price (FRP) for sugarcane on the basis of the recommendations of the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices (CACP). The MSP for toria and de-husked coconut are also announced based on the MSP of rapeseed and mustard and copra, respectively. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-says-no-farmer-died-due-to-police-action-during-farmers-protests-1059467.html
10-12-2021||National||Coronavirus continuously evolving, surge in cases cannot be ruled out, says Centre||A declining trend in Covid-19 cases and deaths has been noted in the last few months, but as the virus is continuously evolving, the same may have an impact on transmission and surge in cases cannot be ruled out, Lok Sabha was informed on Friday. Minister of State for Health Bharati Pravin Pawar said the observation on the trend was based on data reported by states and union territories (UTs). States and UTs have accordingly been urged repeatedly through formal communications as well as during regular video conferences to continue to focus on the five-fold strategy of test-track-treat, Covid-appropriate behaviour and vaccination, she said in a written reply. Given the emergence of mutated variants with variable impact on transmissibility, virulence and effectiveness of vaccines, likelihood of resurgence of the Covid-19 trajectory in the country is being examined by various expert committees under the Indian Council of Medical Research, the Directorate General of Health Services and other relevant ministries and departments, Pawar said. The health ministry continues to keep a close watch on the Covid-19 situation in the country and globally, she added. "At present, a declining trend in Covid-19 cases is noted in the country since last few months. However, as the causative virus is continuously evolving, the same may have an impact on Covid-19 transmission and surge in cases cannot be ruled out," the minister said. The government is supporting states in their endeavour to manage Covid-19 since the beginning of the pandemic. Requisite support is provided to states and UTs to enhance preparedness and response capacities against Covid-19 and other public health emergencies, Pawar said. Various initiatives have been undertaken by the government to provide technical guidance and further strengthen health infrastructure, availability of essential logistics, including drugs and medical oxygen supply to manage Covid-19, she said.  Comprehensive Guidelines for Management of post-Covid sequelae was issued by the ministry on October 21, after expert consultations, to guide doctors on post-Covid-19 complications and their management, Pawar said.  Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-continuously-evolving-surge-in-cases-cannot-be-ruled-out-says-centre-1059469.html
10-12-2021||National||Doctors urge NMC to stop animal use in PG Medical courses for teaching||More than 60 medical doctors have written a letter to National Medical Commission seeking an amendment to the proposed regulations to remove the mandate to use animals and to ensure that animals are replaced by more effective, human-relevant techniques in PG courses. The letter comes in response to the draft Postgraduate (PG) Medical Education Regulations 2021, released by the National Medical Commission (NMC), which mandates the use of animals in teaching and training of PG pharmacology and physiology courses. "It is unnecessary to use animals for routine teaching and training of PG pharmacology and physiology students. Medical students - and India - would benefit more if the students developed practical skills using human-relevant research techniques and gained experience in clinical aspects like epidemiological surveys, clinical postings, case based learning, and patient centric teaching", said doctors in their appeal. "If we fail to train PG students to use the latest technology or to equip them with knowledge relevant to their future careers, whether in industry or academia, they will miss the emerging animal-free trends and employment opportunities," write Dr Nikita Goel and the other doctors in the letter. PETA India has also sent letters to NMC and PGMEB pointing out that several Indian medical school studies have confirmed that non-animal approaches are effective at meeting learning objectives. "This proposed mandate to use animals for teaching and training is out of step with modern science and betrays the animal-friendly values of today's students," says PETA India Science Policy Advisor Dr Ankita Pandey. She added that the medical colleges like All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Raipur; Government Medical College, Srinagar; NHL Municipal Medical College; and Tezpur Medical College, Assam, don't use animals for training PG students and instead use computer-based methods or other human-relevant approaches. According to experts, these methods facilitate repeatability of the experiment, improve students' comprehension of experimental concepts, enhance their retention capacity, and bypass many other issues encountered when experimenting on animals. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/doctors-urge-nmc-to-stop-animal-use-in-pg-medical-courses-for-teaching-1059470.html
10-12-2021||National||Explain PM's surprise 'NetZero' announcement at Glasgow: Opposition in Lok Sabha||Opposition members on Friday alleged that Prime Minister Narendra Modi did a "volte-face" by setting a 'Net Zero' target of 2070 at the climate summit in Glasgow and questioned the rationale behind it. "Even a week before the COP 26, the government of India did not show any inclination to announce Net Zero target. Actually, the Environment Secretary had ruled it out in the media," Trinamool member Saugata Roy said, continuing the discussion on climate change in Lok Sabha. The discussion on climate change was initiated by DMK member Kanimozhi on Wednesday. "What prompted and under what pressure the prime minister did a volte-face in Glasgow and announced Net Zero target in 2070? Is there any credible research available to vindicate the 2070 Net Zero target? Was any discussion carried out on the Net Zero target," Roy asked. N K Premachandran (RSP) accused the developed nations of diluting their climate commitments over the past three decades since the 1992 Rio conference. "The principle of equity has been diluted and lost over the last 30 years. 'Common but differentiated responsibility' has become an insignificant part of the Glasgow declaration," he said referring to the concept first accepted at the UN Conference on Environment and Development in 1992 at Rio de Janeiro. He rued that even the concept of developed and developing countries had been changed at the COP 26 climate summit at Glagow and accused the rich countries of hiding behind poor countries in tackling the challenges posed by climate change. Ramesh Bidhuri (BJP) lauded the prime minister's initiatives to popularise use of energy efficient LED bulbs as an alternative to traditional lighting solutions and offer LPG subsidies which, he claimed, has reduced the dependence on firewood for cooking. Bidhuri accused the Congress of "playing politics" with Mahatma Gandhi's ideals of cleanliness and sustainable living and the "failure" to enact a law to ensure clean air in the country. Hasnain Masoodi (NC) there is a need to shift towards sustainable development so that nature is protected. It is the time to act now to protect climate, said Benny Behanan (Cong) said during the debate on Climate Change in Lok Sabha. Attitude of both states and Centre is negative on climate change, he observed. Jagdambika Pal (BJP) said "we should indulge in blame game... all states irrespective of their political affiliation should work together on the issue of climate change and environment protection." From developing country like India, the committed to zero emission by 2070 at the recent COP26 is an important announcement. Tapir Gao (BJP) suggested that there is need to bring in environment awareness from the school level. There is also need to tighten law around environment protection so that there is deterrence for exploitation of nature, the BJP member said.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/explain-pms-surprise-netzero-announcement-at-glasgow-opposition-in-lok-sabha-1059471.html
10-12-2021||National||Indian-origin student expelled from UK university for stalking||A 22-year-old Indian-origin student found guilty of stalking by a UK court has been handed a suspended sentence and is to leave for Hong Kong after his university expelled him. Sahil Bhavnani, who threatened a female student at Oxford Brookes University, was on Thursday handed four months’ imprisonment, suspended for two years and imposed a five-year restraining order. Judge Nigel Daly pronounced the verdict at the Oxford Crown Court after being informed that Bhavnani will be returning to Hong Kong with his father on Saturday. “Unfortunately for Mr Bhavnani, it’s [Oxford Brookes University] to expel him from the university and the degree he was on,” defence lawyer Richard Davies told the court. A suspended sentence is a sentence on conviction for a criminal offence, the serving of which the court orders to be deferred in order to allow the defendant to perform a period of probation. According to the Oxford Mail, Bhavnani was due to be sentenced last month, but when the court heard it could be six weeks before the university decided on whether the engineering student would be thrown off his course, the case was adjourned to January 2022. However, that decision was brought forward again by the university to conclude the case this week. “If you breach that [restraining] order there is a maximum of five years’ imprisonment to serve. I hope that your obsession with her is over,” Judge Daly told Bhavnani. Last month, the court heard that Bhavnani made threats in a 100-page letter delivered to the female nursing student, who cannot be named for legal reasons. He claimed that he had copied the threats from poetry found online. In her statement, the victim said that she was terrified that Bhavnani would sexually assault her. Bhavnani pleaded guilty to stalking, but not guilty to a more serious form of the offence. He has already spent a month on remand after breaching his bail earlier. "I started getting six-minute-long voice messages saying he was going to make me be his wife, make me have his children, make me live with him,” the victim had told the BBC. The victim had repeatedly made it clear that she was not interested in any kind of relationship, and warned Bhavnani she would contact the police if he continued to harass her. She is now calling for a change in the university’s policies and urged more support for stalking victims. In a statement, Oxford Brookes University said it wanted to reassure students that it took "reports of harassment, violence or abuse very seriously" and added that lessons would be learned. "In this individual case, following a university conduct hearing, the most severe penalty available was applied by the university and the student was expelled from Oxford Brookes," the university said in a statement. "We accept, however, that there are lessons we can learn for the future, especially in cases where student behaviour may also constitute a criminal offence," it added. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-origin-student-expelled-from-uk-university-for-stalking-1059480.html
10-12-2021||National||13.3 crore beneficiaries in India yet to get first Covid vaccine shot||India was in 17th position in terms of proportion of population fully vaccinated against Covid-19 as on October 31, Union Minister of State for Health Bharati Pravin Pawar told the Lok Sabha on Friday. In a written reply to a query in the Lower House, she said that as of December 8, around 13.3 crore beneficiaries against an estimated adult population of 93.9 crore are yet to get the first dose of Covid vaccine. Of those who got the first dose, 33.6 crore -- 17.2 crore male, 16.4 crore female and 90,000 of 'other gender' -- are yet to receive the second jab, Pawar said. She said that 53 per cent of the eligible adult population has received both doses of Covid-19 vaccines as of December 8. Adequate quantity of vaccine doses has been made available to all states and Union Territories, Pawar added.  Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/133-crore-beneficiaries-in-india-yet-to-get-first-covid-vaccine-shot-1059483.html
10-12-2021||National||Instances of fake Covid vaccines, inoculation camps reported from UP, Maharashtra, Bengal: Govt||Instances of fake Covid-19 vaccination camps and vaccines have come to the central government's notice from Maharashtra, West Bengal and Uttar Pradesh, the Lok Sabha was told on Friday. The Ministry of Health has directed the state governments to investigate these instances and take stringent legal and administrative actions so that such fraudulent activities are not repeated in future, Minister of State for Health Bharati Pravin Pawar said in written reply to a question in Lok Sabha. She was responding to a question on whether the government has identified any fake vaccines of approved Covishield, Covaxin, Sputnik V across the country since the beginning of the vaccination programme and measures taken to identify and stop the fake vaccines from circulation. Pawar said that as an additional measure of caution and stringent action, all states and union territories were asked to increase the vigilance within the supply chains and carefully authenticate the product and its physical condition before its use so as to guard against such unscrupulous activities. Further, communication has also been sent to all states and union territories that all beneficiaries who receive vaccines must be captured on CoWIN portal and issued digital vaccination certificate and all vaccination sessions should be recorded on the portal, Pawar said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/instances-of-fake-covid-vaccines-inoculation-camps-reported-from-up-maharashtra-bengal-govt-1059484.html
10-12-2021||National||After cremation, ashes of General Rawat to be taken to Haridwar tomorrow: Family||Family members of Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat have planned to take his ashes to Haridwar on Saturday after completion of cremation rituals in Delhi, his daughter said on Friday. He is being laid to rest at the Brar Square Crematorium at the Delhi Cantonment, where his mortal remains were taken to in a solemn procession from his official residence at 3, Kamraj Marg, on a ceremonial gun carriage, which was bedecked with flowers. "After the cremation today at Delhi Cantonment's crematorium, we will be taking his 'asthi' (ashes) to Haridwar tomorrow," General Rawat's younger daughter Tarini, told PTI. General Rawat, 63, his wife Madhulika Rawat, and 11 other defence personnel were killed when a Mi17V5 helicopter carrying them crashed near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu on Wednesday. Tarini, along with her elder sister Kritika, on Friday afternoon performed traditional rituals at their home, before the mortal remains of their parents -- General Rawat and Madhulika Rawat -- were moved to carriages for taking them to the crematorium. The sisters, stood in sombre silence next to the mortal remains of their father and mother, as a large number of visitors, including dignitaries, continued to stream in at the official bungalow of the Chief of Defence Staff (CDS), since morning. Chief Justice of India N V Ramana, Home Minister Amit Shah, National Security Advisor Ajit Doval, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, former defence minister A K Antony, a number of Union ministers and senior leaders of political parties, religious gurus, seers and several lawmakers paid their last respects to India's first Chief of Defence Staff and his wife. Jaipur-based Vijay Rawat, 60, younger brother of General Rawat, and a former Army officer, said, "I had spoken to him before he went to Tamil Nadu to attend the function at Wellington. Had never thought, fate would take him away from us". "We will be taking his ashes, after the cremation, to Haridwar tomorrow. Our family members will be going to the holy town to immerse his 'asthi' (ashes) into the Ganga river," he said. Around 2:20 pm on Friday, amid chants of 'Vande Mataram' and 'General Rawat amar rahe', the funeral procession of the Chief of Defence Staff General and his wife Madhulika Rawat left his official residence for the last rites at the Brar Square crematorium. Military personnel drawn from all the three services marched towards the streets as drummers played along in tribute to India's first Chief of Defence Staff. As the mortal remains of General Rawat, carried in a casket wrapped in a tricolour, was moved to a gun carriage, decorated with flowers, people showered petals and raised slogans in his praise. As India's first Chief of Defence Staff, General Rawat was tasked to bring in theatre command and jointness among the three services, and he was pushing these with a tough approach and specific timelines in the last two years. The mortal remains of General Rawat and his wife were kept at their official residence here before cremation, to allow people to pay respects. Earlier in the day, right outside his official residence, several people who had gathered, raised slogans of 'Bharat Mata Ki Jai', 'General Rawat amar rahe', and 'Uttarakhand ka heera amar rahe', while dignitaries paid floral tributes and last respects till the funeral procession left the bungalow.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/after-cremation-ashes-of-general-rawat-to-be-taken-to-haridwar-tomorrow-family-1059485.html
10-12-2021||National||Nawab Malik apologises to HC for making comments against Wankhede family despite giving undertaking||NCP leader and Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik on Friday tendered an unconditional apology to the Bombay High Court for making public comments about NCB official Sameer Wankhede and his family despite an assurance that he would not do so. Senior counsel Aspi Chinoy, who appeared for Malik, submitted an affidavit by the minister where he apologised for having violated the court's November 29 order. It was not his intention to dishonor the court by breaching his own undertaking, Malik said in the affidavit. But he also contended that he made the comments in question during an interview and they were not part of social media posts, or public comments. "I offer my unconditional apology to this court in terms of breaches of the undertaking given on November 25 and November 29," he said in the affidavit. He will not make any personal comments about the Wankhede family until the high court heard the defamation suit filed against him by Sameer Wankhede's father Dnyandev, the minister said. "I, however, believe my statement will not prevent me from commenting on the political misuse of central agencies, and the conduct of their officers in the course of performance of their official duties hereafter," the affidavit added. The high court accepted Malik's apology. It also took note of the objection raised by Dnyandev Wankhede's lawyer, senior counsel Birendra Saraf, about Malik's statement that he can still comment on the conduct of `officials of Central agencies'. Malik must not misuse this part of the affidavit to continue making defamatory statements against Sameer Wankhede (who is Mumbai zonal director of the Narcotics Control Bureau), advocate Saraf said. Advocate Chinoy said his client will not make any personal comments against the officer. "I (Malik) am not saying anything about his (Sameer Wankhede's) personal life. His religion, caste, holidays... I am not interested," the lawyer said. The high court accepted Chinoy's statement but also made it clear that Malik shall not make any comments on Sameer Wankhede's past conduct in discharge of official duty. Any comments must be restricted to the present or future, the court said. The court also suggested that counsels of both the parties must advise them to "put an end to this." Chinoy said he wished he could, but the issue was "very complex." On November 29, the division bench had quashed the November 22 order of a single judge who had refused to restrain the minister from making defamatory statements against the Wankhedes while the defamation suit was heard. Malik then gave an undertaking that he will not make public statements or post anything on social media against the Wankhede family. The court also asked Dnyandev Wankhede to file a rejoinder (additional) affidavit by January 3, 2022. Dnyandev has filed a defamation suit against Malik and sought damages of Rs 1.25 crore, alleging that the NCP leader launched a smear campaign against his family after Malik's son-in-law was arrested by the NCB in a drugs case earlier this year. On Friday, HC extended the time granted to Malik to file his affidavit before the single bench up to Tuesday. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nawab-malik-apologises-to-hc-for-making-comments-against-wankhede-family-despite-giving-undertaking-1059487.html
10-12-2021||National||25 Omicron cases detected in India so far, symptoms mostly mild||The government on Friday said 25 cases of the Omicron variant of coronavirus have been detected in India so far and that mostly mild symptoms have been noted in all the cases. Clinically, Omicron is not posing a burden on the healthcare system yet but the vigil has to be maintained, according to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). At a joint press briefing, the government said 25 cases of the Omicron variant have been reported in India -- 10 in Maharashtra, nine in Rajasthan, three in Gujarat, two in Karnataka, and one in Delhi. "Mainly mild symptoms have been seen in the cases of Omicron variant detected so far," Health Ministry Joint Secretary Lav Agarwal said. He said 2,936 cases of the new variant have been found in 59 countries so far. As many as 78,064 probable cases are presently under testing and genomic sequencing, Agarwal said, adding meetings are being held regularly to keep a watch on the global scenario and examine the situation in India. An ICMR official said that scientific evidence for diagnosis and treatment are being reviewed regularly and the treatment remains unchanged at the moment. According to the government, the WHO has highlighted that compliance to public health and social measures is declining globally with the increase in vaccination rates. Another official said the government has not received any recommendation from the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunization (NTAGI) on the pediatric vaccination against COVID-19 yet. The government said 86.2 per cent of the country's adult population received the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine, while 53.5 per cent has been administered both doses. It said the weekly positivity rate in 19 districts was between five and 10 per cent and it was over 10 per cent in eight districts of three states. India's coronavirus tally climbed to 3,46,74,744 with the addition of 8,503 infections in a day, while the number of active cases rose to 94,943, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. The death toll mounted to 4,74,735 with the addition of 624 new fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been recorded below 15,000 for the last 43 days now. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/25-omicron-cases-detected-in-india-so-far-symptoms-mostly-mild-1059488.html
10-12-2021||National||By 2030, India may not meet half of its water demand, claims new book||Water availability in India has been decreasing for decades, leaving several parts in a cruel day-zero situation, shuttering factories and pushing farmers over the brink and by 2030, the country may fail to meet half of its water demand, warns a new book. In "Watershed: How We Destroyed India's Water and How We Can Save It", Mridula Ramesh lays bare the past and present of India's water and underlines why it is crucial to secure its future now. Ramesh also warns that there can be little doubt that the many hues of water crises plaguing India will get worse. "Within each of them lies a shared seed - a disrespect, a disdain for India's water facets. A warming climate and changing demographics are stressing those facets and exposing fault lines. Coming out of the crisis requires a change in mindset, a different way of looking at the world, and recognising and respecting India's water facets," she writes. The book delves into the factors that have led India to this crisis, tracing 5000 years of history, joining the dots between key issues of concern in the country today - from extreme weather events and farmers' protests to water-related geopolitics and the role of clean-tech - and providing practical and scalable solutions to them. "Over the past 150 years, we have radically changed what we grow and eat in India: from a nation primarily growing millets in the 19th century, we have become a rice-and-wheat-growing behemoth," Ramesh writes in the book, published by Hachette India. Agriculture is the largest user of India's water, and this transformation places tremendous stress on the water because the country's biggest breadbaskets Punjab and Haryana don't get much rain, she says. According to her, rising urbanisation adds to the stress. "Between 2011 and 2030, more than 200 million people will move to India's cities. Even if each of them gets just 85 litres per day, this still translates to billions of litres more water that need to be transported to cities daily," the book says. To meet this challenge, India has to transform its seasonal, geographically spread-out water to satisfy perennial, geographically concentrated demand, it says. "This transformation requires massive spending on dams and canals, making urban water supply inherently expensive. Given India's rising population, urbanisation and wealth, about half of India's overall water demand may go unmet by 2030," it adds. Ramesh says the warming climate is changing India's water from something mundane and plentiful into something volatile and precious that needs to be managed with great care. "This pulling-the-carpet-from-under-your-feet shift is spelling the end for industries, and birthing new ones while transforming others. In this new world, the evolving preferences of customers, investors and the government makes mainstreaming water in one's business strategy a source of competitive advantage," she writes. "Businesses (and their leaders) exist on a spectrum. Some get that this change is happening. Others don't. And as with every change in the history of business, this one too will create a new cohort of winners and leave those who don't adapt in the recycle bin," she argues. The book takes a long view and offers solutions that have been proven to work at scale and within political realities. It shows why and how India's water is unique and so vulnerable to climate change, politics, and geopolitics. It also addresses other key topics like why is water more central than carbon for India's climate change story, why and how will the dam that China is building near the LAC in Arunachal Pradesh reshape the geopolitical landscape of the Northeast, and will the river interlinking scheme help overcome the water crisis. Ramesh, who is the founder of Sundaram Climate Institute and author of "The Climate Solution: India's Climate-Change Crisis and What We Can Do About It", takes readers through thousands of years of history to track how India's water has reached this critical point. From stories of ancient water-engineering marvels in the Indus Valley and Tamil Nadu to how water shaped medieval Delhi; from the burning fields of the country's Northwest to the hilsa's curtailed journey; and from the forests of Kanha and dams in Arunachal Pradesh to Kanpur's tanneries, "Watershed" seeks to uncover how India's fate is gradually being sealed by the extremes of drought and floods. Ramesh suggests a number of actions for the government, saying much of the policy can be implemented regionally and implementation should be prioritised in high climate-risk regions, where political competition is low. She says waterbodies and connecting channels should be protected and tourism and fishing encouraged in urban lakes by providing necessary and sustainable infrastructure. "Celebrate lake festivals. This is especially required for historic waterbodies like those in Delhi," she suggests. She also feels a Jal Survekshan survey should be rolled out covering water supply, rainwater-harvesting capacity, percentage of sewage treated and reused, leaks and non-revenue water across municipalities. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/by-2030-india-may-not-meet-half-of-its-water-demand-claims-new-book-1059490.html
10-12-2021||National||CDS General Bipin Rawat cremated with full military honours||As a priest chanted mantras, military personnel accorded gun salute and hundreds raised “Vande Mataram” slogans, the mortal remains of Gen Bipin Rawat and his wife Madhulika Rawat were consigned to flames at a crematorium in Delhi Cantonment on Friday – two days after they died in a helicopter crash in Tamil Nadu. The couple's daughters – Tarini and Krittika – lit the pyres, as the nation bid adieu to its first Chief of Defence Staff and his wife. “I had never thought that he would be taken away from us in this way,” Vijay Rawat, the younger brother of Gen Rawat, said, guiding his nieces in performing the last rites. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh paid his last tribute to the late CDS and his wife. “General Rawat devoted his life to serving and protecting our nation. India will remember his courage, valour and patriotism. Farewell General!” Singh tweeted after placing wreaths on the caskets at the crematorium at Brar Square in Delhi Cantonment where top military officials were also present during the funeral. The coffins of Gen Rawat and Madhulika Rawat as well as 11 others – all draped in national flags – were flown to New Delhi on Thursday and taken to the official residence of the CDS on Kamraj Marg early on Friday. Home Minister Amit Shah, National Security Advisor Ajit Doval, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, BJP president J P Nadda, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and the chief ministers of Delhi, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh, Arvind Kejriwal, Pushkar Singh Dhami, Yogi Adityanath, respectively were among the many dignitaries, who paid homage. Chief Justice of India N V Ramana and the chiefs of the army, navy and air force, Gen M M Naravane, Admiral R Hari Kumar and Air Chief Marshal V R Chaudhary respectively also paid tribute to the late military leader. So did the envoys of the United Kingdom, Israel and France to India, Alex Elis, Naor Gilon and Emmanuel Lenain, respectively/ Senior military officials from Bhutan, Sri Lanka and Nepal also arrived in New Delhi to pay homage to Gen Rawat. The final journey of Gen Rawat and his wife commenced at around 2 pm. As the cortège proceeded from Kamraj Marg to the crematorium in Delhi Cantonment, hundreds of people lined up on the side of the roads, chanting “General Rawat Amar Rahe” and showering flower petals on the caskets. The military buglers played the Last Post and Rouse to bid farewell to the late CDS amid a sombre 17-gun salute.    Onlookers showered flowers on his coffin during the procession, and dozens holding the Indian flag ran alongside the carriage, some shouting "Hail mother India". The bodies of Rawat, his wife and 11 defence personnel who also died in the crash were brought to New Delhi late on Thursday, where Prime Minister Narendra Modi and others laid wreaths before the flag-draped coffins. "India will never forget their rich contribution," Modi said.  'Clear headed' Modi had handpicked Rawat, a decorated general, as CDS in late 2019 with a mission to reorganise India's army, air force and navy into a single, modern force with U.S.-style joint theatre commands. Rawat's death comes at a critical time for India, which is embroiled in a months-long standoff with China along the parts of their shared border. Tensions also remain high on India's heavily-militarised frontier with arch-rival Pakistan, which New Delhi accuses of stoking an armed insurgency in disputed Kashmir. "Clear-headed and plain-spoken, Gen. Rawat became India's public face on China's aggression," said Brahma Chellaney, a specialist on India-China ties. "Filling the void won't be easy."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cds-general-bipin-rawat-cremated-with-full-military-honours-1059495.html
10-12-2021||National||Modi bats for joint efforts to shape global norms for social media, cryptocurrencies||All democratic nations must constantly enhance inclusion and transparency, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Friday, as he participated in the virtual Summit for Democracy convened by the United States President Joe Biden. The Prime Minister also stressed shaping “global norms” for emerging technologies like social media and cryptocurrencies, so that they could be “used to empower democracy, not to undermine it”. The Modi Government was earlier this year at loggerheads with Twitter and WhatsApp over the implementation of the new Information Technology rules. The social media companies had reservations about the new IT rules and they argued that some sections of it might be in conflict with the right of privacy and freedom of speech of the users. Modi took part in the Summit for Democracy even as China made Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan decline the invitation from the US to attend it. The Prime Minister had taken part in a closed-door session of the summit on Thursday and presented the national statement in an open session on Friday. “Different parts of the world have followed different paths of democratic development. There is much we can learn from each other,” he said, addressing over 85 leaders, including the US President. “We all need to constantly improve our democratic practices and systems. And, we all need to continuously enhance inclusion, transparency, human dignity, responsive grievance redressing and decentralization of power”. The Biden Administration has been tacitly conveying to the Modi Government concerns in the US over the perception that India was backsliding on human rights and freedom of speech and religion. The US President, as well as his Vice President Kamala Harris, subtly nudged the Prime Minister to protect the democratic principles of India, when they had hosted him in Washington DC on September 24. The Prime Minister on Friday said that the democratic spirit was integral to the civilization ethos of India. He noted that the elected republican city-states such as Lichhavi and Shakya had flourished in India as far as 2500 years back and the 10th Century "Uttaramerur '' inscription that codified the principles of democratic participation. “This very democratic spirit and ethos had made ancient India one of the most prosperous. Centuries of the colonial rule could not suppress the democratic spirit of the Indian people. It again found full expression with India's independence, and led to an unparalleled story in democratic nation-building over the last 75 years,” he said. He said that the story of India had one clear message to the world. “That democracy can deliver, that democracy has delivered and that democracy will continue to deliver.” He said that the basic strength of democracy was the spirit and ethos within citizens and societies. “Democracy is not only of the people, by the people, for the people but also with the people, within the people.” Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-bats-for-joint-efforts-to-shape-global-norms-for-social-media-cryptocurrencies-1059497.html
10-12-2021||National||Farmers' unions to honour locals who lent a helping hand to their agitation||After over a year of braving extreme weather, the Covid-19 pandemic and living in tents on highways, farmers' unions have decided to honour locals who helped farmers during their protest at Delhi's Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders. Farmers' leaders said locals offered "immense help" to the protesters in different ways such as providing electricity and water connections from their homes. They said now it is time for them to show their gratitude towards such people and honour them. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), which spearheaded the farmers' protest, on Thursday decided to suspend the long-drawn agitation after the government agreed to consider all its other demands, days after the repeal of the three contentious farm laws. The SKM leaders announced that the stir will be suspended and the farmers would go back home in a victory march on December 11. Farmer leader and a member of the SKM's empowered committee, Shiv Kumar Kakka said the SKM will honour those locals who helped farmers selflessly during the course of the agitation and strengthened the movement. "We have formed a committee to make a list of such locals so that we can honour them. Before going home, a ceremony will be held at the Singhu border tomorrow to honour them. We will garland them and present shawls and sweets," Kakka told PTI. Kakka said that some local residents and traders became good friends with farmers and their bond will remain intact. He said the SKM used to hold all its important meetings at the Kajaria Tiles showroom at the Singhu border. The shop owner gave the entire space to farmers. "So we all became good friends. We can never forget this gesture," he added. Kakka said locals helped the agitating farmers in many ways such as providing water, electricity, shelter, places for holding meetings, tents and food etc. "So we have decided to thank and honour them. A similar ceremony is also likely to be held at other border points of Delhi," he said. SKM member Sudesh Goyat said at the Tikri border that a ceremony has been planned near the KMP (Kundali-Manesar-Palwal) Peripheral Expressway to honour locals who helped farmers during their protest. "We will apply 'tilak' on their foreheads and present them with sweets and shawls on Saturday," he said. Goyat said the locals helped the farmers when the government was hell-bent on breaking them. "When our electricity and water supply was disconnected by the government, the locals gave us electricity and water from their homes. They helped us in every way and that's how we won the battle. "Now it's time to show our gratitude towards these people. We will honour people of villages and towns near the Tikri border before going back home," he said. A leader of the Bharatiya Kisan Union Ekta (Ugrahan), who did not wish to be named, said farmer leaders are also visiting villages located near the Tikri border protest site to thank the people who supported the agitation. "We cannot forget the contribution of residents of villages and towns located around the protest sites. We visited them and offered them sweets to thank them for supporting us throughout our agitation," the BKU Ekta (Ugrahan) leader said. Thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh were protesting at the borders of the national capital since November 26 last year to demand the repeal of the three farm laws. On November 29, a bill was passed in Parliament to repeal the laws, one of the main demands of the farmers. However, the farmers refused to end their protest, demanding that the government fulfil their other demands that included a legal guarantee for minimum support price (MSP) and the withdrawal of cases against farmers. The SKM on Thursday decided to suspend the movement and announced that farmers will go back home on Saturday from the protest sites on Delhi's borders after the central government formally agreed to consider their demands. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-unions-to-honour-locals-who-lent-a-helping-hand-to-their-agitation-1059498.html
10-12-2021||National||Drugs case: Aryan Khan moves HC seeking modification of bail condition||Aryan Khan, son of Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan, on Friday, approached the Bombay High Court seeking modification of a condition imposed on him when he got bail in the drugs-on-cruise case. Aryan's application sought a waiver of the condition that he shall appear before the Narcotics Control Bureau's (NCB) south Mumbai office every Friday to mark presence. As the investigation has been now transferred to a Special Investigation Team of Delhi NCB, the condition that he appear at the Mumbai office could be relaxed said the plea. The application also said that he has to be accompanied by police personnel every time he visits the NCB office here due to the large number of media persons waiting outside. The application is likely to be heard by the high court next week, his lawyers said. Aryan Khan was arrested by the NCB on October 3 on charges of alleged possession, consumption and sale/purchase of drugs following a raid on a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast. He was granted bail by the high court on October 28. The high court also imposed 14 conditions on him. He was asked, among other things, to appear before the NCB each Friday, not to leave Mumbai without informing the agency and not to leave India without permission from the special NDPS court.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/drugs-case-aryan-khan-moves-hc-seeking-modification-of-bail-condition-1059504.html
10-12-2021||National||State force shouldn't be used to browbeat political opinion, journalists: SC||State force should never be used to either browbeat a political opinion or journalists, the Supreme Court has said, calling for "introspection from the political class across the country" over debasement in dialogue which is taking place even as it asked scribes to be more responsible in the “Twitter age”. A bench comprising Justices S K Kaul and M M Sundresh made these observations while quashing the FIRs against editors of a news web portal and others, in connection with articles published in West Bengal. In a country that prides itself on its diversity, there are bound to be different perceptions and opinions which would include political opinions, the apex court said. That is the very essence of a democracy, it said. “State force should never be used to either browbeat a political opinion or the journalists suffer the consequences of what is already in the public domain. “We hasten to add that this does not take away the responsibility of the journalists in how they report the matters, more so in a “Twitter age,” the bench said. The observations came after senior advocate Siddhartha Dave, appearing on behalf of the West Bengal government, informed the bench that the state has decided to withdraw the FIRs registered against Nupur J Sharma, the editor of English language Opindia.com, YouTuber Ajeet Bharti and others including its founder and CEO. The top court said that it was not inclined to let go of the opportunity of saying something which is troubling the society and the court. “It is undoubtedly the debasement in the dialogue which is taking place which needs introspection from the political class across the country. In a country that prides itself on its diversity, there are bound to be different perceptions and opinions which would include political opinions. “The present proceedings in a way emanate from the same. We say so as what the petitioners have done is to reproduce what the political class has stated against each other and which is already in the public domain, an aspect pointed out eminently by senior counsel for the petitioners,” it said. The bench said that no doubt by the very nature of the job required to be performed by the political class, at times their exchanges may get heated. “But it should not explode. We are sure difference in perceptions can be expressed in better language,” it said in its order uploaded today. The top court had earlier stayed further proceedings in a fresh FIR lodged in West Bengal against them. On June 26 last year, the top court had stayed further proceedings in three FIRs lodged in West Bengal against petitioners. In their intervention application, Sharma and others had said that they are constrained to move the top court due to persistent hounding and victimisation by the West Bengal government, who in its endeavour to scuttle inconvenient media reports registered multiple FIRs against them. The application had further said, "That the order dated June 26, 2020, came as a respite to the petitioners whose honour, life and liberty were sought to be repeatedly undermined by the state..." However, "it appears that the respondents are unrelenting in the efforts to persecute the petitioners/ applicants as the petitioners/applicants have recently on August 5, been served with a notice under section 41A of the CrPC from CID, West Bengal concerning FIR registered with Bhadreshwar police station, it had said. It had been said that the FIR relates to media reports published in 'opindia.com' about Telenipara communal riots of May 2020 and were registered contemporaneously around the same time as FIRs, which forms the subject matter of the writ petition. The petitioners had said the FIR came to their notice only on the receipt of the notice under section 41 CrPC on August 5 this year requiring them to appear before the investigating officer on August 13, but later the investigating officer through an email dated August 12 asked the petitioner to appear on August 23. They had sought a stay on the investigation emanating from the FIR registered at Bhadreshwar police station and the notice issued to them for appearing before the investigating officer. They had also sought quashing of the FIR. On June 26 last year, the apex court, while staying the three FIRs, issued notices to the West Bengal government and the Centre seeking their replies on the plea. The main writ petition filed by Sharma and others including the founder and CEO of the news portal and the editor of its Hindi language publications claimed that the West Bengal government and its "authoritarian Kolkata Police" are misusing FIRs and "brute police powers" to intimidate journalists. "The petitioners are constrained to invoke the extraordinary writ jurisdiction of this court under Article 32 of the Constitution against the patent extortionist and mala fide actions of the Government of West Bengal to impose illegal censorship in the state by threatening, scuttling, and gagging honest media houses through misuse of state police," the plea claimed. The petitioners had claimed they were informed that the cause of one of the FIRs lodged by police was an article published by the news web portal on the issue of alleged hiding of data related to COVID-19. The plea had claimed that one of the FIRs lodged pertained to a news report published by the web portal in October last year. It alleged that to undermine the freedom of the press, the state has rather chosen to "hound down" the petitioners by registering multiple FIRs in order to "bargain for deletion of news articles by putting the petitioner's life and liberty at bait". It had claimed the state and the police are not only intimidating the journalists but also threatening their family members to seek deletion of media reports which bring to the public notice "the actual state of affairs in the state of West Bengal during these difficult times". It had also alleged that the police had intimidated some of the petitioners to get the news articles deleted. "Accordingly, the officers while insulting and demeaning the petitioner no. 1, asked her to use her influence to get the articles removed or to face the brunt of state's political executives," it had claimed. The plea had claimed that deleting any content from the internet has a nationwide effect and any decision to delete any content has to be left to be taken by the Centre and not by state governments. It had also sought a direction to exclude the role of police in the matter of deletion of content on the internet particularly since there exists a regulatory mechanism for overseeing such content and restricting any mischievous contents. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/state-force-shouldnt-be-used-to-browbeat-political-opinion-journalists-sc-1059515.html
10-12-2021||National||India initiates development of its first-ever footwear sizing system||India never had its own footwear sizing system. The British introduced English sizes, which are still followed. This is one of the reasons most Indian footwear is not suited to Indian wearers, whose feet characteristics are different than that of Europeans and Americans. It is for this reason the Centre has initiated the first-ever development of the ‘Indian footwear sizing system’ to standardise the footwear size ranges required to cover the need of the local population. The Rs 10.80 crore project launched by the ministry of commerce and industry will soon initiate an anthropometric survey, statistical analysis, gait study, wear trials and other specifications for indigenisation of footwear under the Atmanirbhar Bharat scheme. The footwear sizing will be developed in consultation with Central Leather Research Institute (CLRI), Chennai to identify the footwear size ranges required to cover the need of the local population for footwear. “The present Indian Standard IS 1638:1969 specification for sizing and fitting of footwear is based on the European and French Standards. This standard requires a revision to accommodate for demographic, anthropometric features of the Indian feet, leading to more comfortable footwear and health of the individual,” the Ministry of Commerce said. Since the anatomy and functional requirements of footwear for children, juveniles and adults (both men and women) are demography dependent, it is necessary to design and develop correct footwear exclusively for the Indian population, it said. This project will lead to carrying out accurate measurements taking into consideration all the variations due to region, gender, age, health condition towards indigenisation of key products essential for the realisation of an Atmanirbhar Bharat, the ministry said. The survey will be conducted in about 100 districts of the country and over 1 lakh samples will be collected from across the country. The team is expected to visit schools, offices, business clusters, households and the likes. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-initiates-development-of-its-first-ever-footwear-sizing-system-1059522.html
10-12-2021||National||Railways would do due diligence before resuming providing bedrolls: Vaishnaw||Railway Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw on Friday informed Rajya Sabha that the railways would do due diligence before resuming providing bedrolls to passengers in trains. Though the railways earlier planned to start providing bedrolls, it decided to defer the decision after cases of Omicron. The government would not take any decision in a hasty, the Minister said in reply to a starred question in the Rajya Sabha. The minister also said mail and express trains are running on normal fair. He said the price of platform tickets has also been normalised. Last month, the railways restored some of its services including serving hot cooked food in premium trains that it had suspended in the wake of the coronavirus crisis. However, a decision on restoring concessions and providing bedrolls is still pending. Replying to another question, the Minister said as of March 31, 2021, a total of 810.31 hectares of railway land was under encroachment.   During 2018, 2019, 2020 and the current year up to November, a total of 5,290 joint drives were conducted by the engineering department assisted by the Railway Protection Force wherein a total of 10,832 encroachments have been removed from the railway area, he informed the House. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railways-would-do-due-diligence-before-resuming-providing-bedrolls-vaishnaw-1059532.html
10-12-2021||National||Use of masks declining in India amid Omicron scare, warns Centre||Amidst the Omicron scare, the Union Health Ministry on Friday raised red flags on a sharp drop in mask use between June and December, underscoring the importance of wearing the masks along with vaccination to thwart any future threat. Quoting a study by the Institute of Health Metrics and Evaluation, Washington, NITI Ayog member V K Paul said the high mask use of more than 80 per cent in June had dropped to less than 60 per cent in November. The decline began in July and the downfall continued till December. “We have now entered into a danger zone. From protection capability, the mask use has dipped to an unacceptably low level. We were at a level similar to a period just before the second surge,” warned Paul, one of the government's principal advisors on Covid-19. The warning from the government came days after a major study carried out in rural Bangladesh demonstrated how mask use decreased Covid-like illnesses in the countryside even in a poor nation. The trial in India's neighbour — spanning across 600 villages and involving approximately 340,000 adults — ran from November 2020 to April 2021. Its results suggest that mask distribution and promotion is a scalable and effective method to reduce symptomatic SARS-CoV-2 infection. On the assessment of mask use going down in India, a health ministry official said the World Health Organisation (WHO) too pointed out laxity in the adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour since December 2020. The world body also showed a drop in mask use and physical distancing with an increase in vaccination rate. “The WHO highlighted that public health and social measures compliance is declining with increase in vaccination rates. We need to diligently adhere to these public health measures in order to safeguard ourselves and those around us against Covid-19,” said Lav Agarwal, joint secretary in the health ministry. On Omicron, officials said India currently has 25 omicron cases from five states — Maharashtra (10), Rajasthan (9), Gujarat (3), Karnataka (2) and Delhi (1). The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) is conducting studies to check whether Covaxin and Covishield would work against the new variant. “The National Institute of Virology is trying to grow the virus in the laboratory. Once it is grown, we can test the efficacy of Covaxin and Covishield against omicron in the laboratory,” said Balram Bhargava, the ICMR director-general. Both Paul and Bhargava said no decision had been taken on the booster as well as paediatric dose of the Covid-19 vaccine. Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/use-of-masks-declining-in-india-amid-omicron-scare-warns-centre-1059534.html
10-12-2021||National||TMC lower level workers have a 'khooni' mentality: Goa BJP prez||Goa BJP president Sadanand Shet Tanavade on Friday called for a curb on the mass influx of Trinamool Congress party workers in the state, accusing the West Bengal-based party's cadre of having a 'khooni' (bloody) mentality. "They have a 'khooni' mentality. People are joining them against their own wishes for fear of their lives. Their politics is vulgar. There should be a control over the volume (of TMC workers) coming into Goa," Tanavade told reporters in Panaji. The state Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president also said that while visits to the poll-bound states by party leaders were fair, the influx of hordes of party workers to a poll-bound state posed concerns. "Leaders of every party are welcome in Goa, like P. Chidambaram, CT Ravi, (Devendra) Fadnavis. We have no objection to that. If Mamata Banerjee comes to Goa we have no issue. But (the concern) is about the low-level workers. They have a different mentality. They should not get them here to carry out their agenda. They should not do it. A lot of things could happen on account of this," he added. The issue of an alleged mass influx of TMC workers to Goa was first put in the public domain by the official handle of the Goa BJP, which uploaded a video of Bengali-speaking persons alighting at a Goa railway station. TMC has claimed that the video is fake. Tanavade also said that there was a vast gulf between the political cultures in Goa and West Bengal, adding that in West Bengal post-poll violence was common, unlike Goa. "In Goa, we have a different mentality. Political workers from across parties are not enemies after elections, even though in the run-up to polls political allegations are made. But outside the political realm, we are friends. Finally, we are human beings. But in West Bengal, the nature of politics is different," Tanavade said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tmc-lower-level-workers-have-a-khooni-mentality-goa-bjp-prez-1059535.html
10-12-2021||National||Consider criminal's state of mind, conditions, says SC; commutes death sentence||The Supreme Court commuted the death sentence of first-time offender, convicted for the murder of his two siblings and nephew over a property dispute, saying that it is important to take into consideration not only the crime but also the criminal's state of mind and his socio-economic conditions while handing down a sentence. The accused was sentenced to death by the trial court on April 4, 2017, and the verdict confirmed by the high court. The accused challenged the high court order in the top court. A bench comprising Justices L. Nageswara Rao, B.R. Gavai, and B.V. Nagarathna said: "From the judgment of the trial court as well as the High Court, it does not appear that the courts below have drawn a balance sheet of mitigating and aggravating circumstances. "The trial court as well as the High Court has only taken into consideration the crime but have not taken into consideration the criminal, his state of mind, his socioeconomic background etc." The bench noted that the accused hails from a rural and economically poor background and there are no criminal antecedents. "The appellant cannot be said to be a hardened criminal. This is the first offence committed by the appellant, no doubt, a heinous one. The certificate issued by the jail superintendent shows that the conduct of the appellant during incarceration has been satisfactory," said Justice Gavai, who authored the judgment on behalf of the bench. The top court said it cannot be said that there is no possibility of the appellant being reformed and rehabilitated foreclosing the alternative option of a lesser sentence and making imposition of death sentence imperative. Citing these reasons, the top court commuted the death sentence of the accused to 30 years imprisonment. The bench added: "In view of the settled legal position, it is our bounden duty to take into consideration the probability of the accused being reformed and rehabilitated. It is also our duty to take into consideration not only the crime but also the criminal, his state of mind and his socio-economic conditions." The bench noted that the state government did not place on record any evidence to show that there is no possibility with respect to reformation or rehabilitation of the convict. It pointed out that the trial court had convicted the appellant and imposed the death penalty on the very same day. "From the judgment of the trial court, it does not appear that the appellant was given a meaningful time and a real opportunity of hearing on the question of sentence," said the bench. Bhagchandra was convicted of killing his brothers -- Thakur Das and Devki Prasad -- and nephew Akhilesh, son of Devki Prasad, in October 2015. A case was registered at police station, Maharajpur. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/consider-criminals-state-of-mind-conditions-says-sc-commutes-death-sentence-1059537.html
10-12-2021||National||India has 21.03 judges per million people, Lok Sabha told||India has 21.03 judges per million people, Lok Sabha was informed on Friday. In a written reply, Law Minister Kiren Rijiju said, "The judge to population ratio (judge per million population) with respect to sanctioned strength of judges is 21.03 as on October 31, 2021." In order to calculate the judge-population ratio per million population in a particular year, the Department of Justice uses the criterion of using the population as per Census 2011 and as per available information regarding sanctioned strength of judges in Supreme Court, the high courts and district and subordinate courts in the particular year, he explained. The data pertaining to the number of judges per million of the population is not maintained state or union territory wise, he said. He said the Law Commission had not considered the judge population ratio to be a scientific criterion for determining the adequacy of the judge strength in the country. "The Law Commission found that in the absence of complete and scientific approach to data collection across various high courts in the country, the 'rate of disposal' method, to calculate the number of additional judges required to clear the backlog of cases as well as to ensure that new backlog is not created, is more pragmatic and useful," he said.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-has-2103-judges-per-million-people-lok-sabha-told-1059542.html
10-12-2021||National||Over 3,200 children orphaned during pandemic approved for support under PM-CARES scheme: Govt||The government Friday said it has approved 3,258 applications out of the total 5,714 it received under the 'PM-CARES for Children' scheme for supporting children orphaned during the coronavirus pandemic. Women and Child Development Minister Smriti Irani told Lok Sabha the applications for such children are uploaded on the portal by respective state and union territory governments. As on December 8, 5,714 applications have been uploaded on the portal out of which 3,258 have been approved by district magistrates after due process and 542 are pending approval, she said in a written reply. As informed by the Central Adoption Resource Authority (CARA), 11,331 adoptions have been reported through the Child Adoption Resource Information and Guidance System (CARINGS) portal between 2018-19 to 2020-21, Irani said. Under the scheme, Rs 2,000 per child per month is made available for non-institutional care of children in the need of care and protection and Rs 2,160 per child per month for children living in Child Care Institutions. During the last three years, an amount of Rs. 2189.76 crore has been released under the scheme with a total 2,30,063 beneficiaries, the minister added. Responding to another question, she said the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) has received 438 complaints through POCSO e-Box during the last three years and the current year 2021-22.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-3200-children-orphaned-during-pandemic-approved-for-support-under-pm-cares-scheme-govt-1059544.html
10-12-2021||National||Chopper crash: 'We must give him a smiling send-off', says Brigadier Lidder's wife||“We must give him a good farewell, a smiling send-off,” Geetika Lidder said, as she accepted the national flag that draped the coffin of her husband Brigadier L S Lidder. Defence Assistant to Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat, Brig Lidder, was on the ill-fated helicopter that crashed in Coonoor in Tamil Nadu on Wednesday. He too died in the crash along with Gen Rawat, his wife Madhulika Rawat and 10 other military officials. The mortal remains of Brig Lidder were consigned to flames at the Brar Square crematorium in Delhi Cantonment on Friday. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and National Security Advisor Ajit Doval were at the crematorium to pay homage to the departed soul and console the bereaved family. His wife Geetika and daughter Aasthna were in tears as they bid him adieu. They, however, regained composure soon, just as any military family would. “I am a soldier's wife,” said Geetika. Aasthna, who is going to be 17 soon, added: “My father was a hero, my best friend”. Lidder, an alumnus of the National Defence Academy, was commissioned in the Jammu and Kashmir Rifles (JAKRIF) in December 1990 and commanded a JAKRIF battalion in Congo while participating in a peacekeeping mission of the United Nations. He also commanded a brigade that was deployed along the disputed India-China boundary and served at the Directorate of Military Operations. Lidder joined the office of the Chief of Defence Staff as his Defence Assistant last January. He was due to be promoted to the rank of Major General and would have taken over the command of a division. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chopper-crash-we-must-give-him-a-smiling-send-off-says-brigadier-lidders-wife-1059558.html
10-12-2021||National||Former AAP MLA Baldev Singh joins Congress||Former Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA from Jaitu Baldev Singh on Friday joined the Congress in Mansa. Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi welcomed him into the party, according to an official release. Baldev Singh on Thursday had resigned from the AAP, quitting the party a second time. He was disqualified in October from the membership of the Punjab Assembly by speaker under the anti-defection law. Singh, along with few other AAP MLAs, had turned rebel against the party leadership after Sukhpal Singh Khaira was removed from the post of the leader of opposition in July 2018. He then joined the Punjab Ekta Party floated by Khaira and unsuccessfully contested the 2019 Lok Sabha polls from Faridkot. He had returned to the AAP in October 2019.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/former-aap-mla-baldev-singh-joins-congress-1059561.html
10-12-2021||National||Stubble burning decriminalised under Air Quality Commission Act: Bhupendra Yadav||Union Environment, Forest and Climate Change Minister Bhupendra Yadav on Friday said that stubble burning has been decriminalised under the Air Quality Commission Act and lands have been allotted land for decomposition in Punjab, Haryana, and Uttar Pradesh. Participating in a debate in the Lok Sabha on Climate Change, he also said that there has been a proposal to use stubble for bio-fuel in future and this has been sent to thermal power companies like National Thermal Power Corporation. Earlier, resuming debate on the matter under Rule 193, BJP's Ramesh Bidhuri said that many countries have brought legislation to deal with air pollution, and the previous government did not do anything for 30 years. He also highlighted the different projects undertaken by Prime Minister Narendra Modi when he was Chief Minister of Gujarat. Noting that the concept of development needs to be changed, RSP member N.K. Premachandran said that it has had a direct effect of developmental process of the country. About the Glasgow summit on climate change, he further said that there has been a dilution of the basic principle and for the last 30 years, the principle of equity is diluted and lost. "Carbon emission from a person living in a 27 storey building and an Adivasi living in an Attappadi colony in Kerala cannot be equated," he said, adding that the "rich is hiding behind the poor". Giving suggestions including binding commitments from historical polluters to deal with environmental problems in developing countries and reviewing the country's coal policy, he also said, "We need action today, not tomorrow." National Conference's Hasnain Masoodi said that "on the international front, we have not been able to negotiate a fair deal, what is being demanded by the developed nations is that we should now preserve our resources for them". Congress member Benny Behanan warned, "Climate change is not an issue of the future, but the climate has already changed and is changing." Citing the extreme climate changes in recent times such as the increasing frequency of cyclones in the Bay of Bengal region, he also said that rainfall is expected to increase in the coming years along the Western Ghats. "Attitude of both Central and state governments is totally negative and risking the lives of the present generation and the future generations as well," he added. BJP's Tapir Gao said that the discussion in the House should focus on the decisions taken during Glasgow Summit, and on how the states plan to contribute towards the different goals envisaged by Prime Minister Modi during the COP26 in Glasgow. Hanuman Beniwal of the RLP said that climate change has affected Rajasthan. Blaming industries for pollution in the state, he specifically mentioned a cement plant in his constituency that has flouted environmental norms and also asked the Environment Minister to conduct an inquiry. Quoting a report, Independent member Navneet Rana said that around 80 per cent of potable water is already polluted. "Look at the Yamuna in Delhi and Meethi in Mumbai, it is not touched even by animals! Delhi is one of the most polluted cities in the world," she commented. She also suggested that the government give heavy subsidies to electric, solar and CNG vehicles so that they can replace petrol or diesel vehicles. About the bio-diversity of Meghalaya, NPP's Agatha Sangma said that it must be protected and also questioned the Centre's palm oil mission which will be a disaster for the whole northeastern region. "Please reconsider this Palm Oil Mission, she asked the Minister. SAD's Harsimrat Kaur Badal said that climate change is an important issue in a country that depends on agriculture. "Effect of climate change is most on an agriculture state like ours," she said. Raising the issue of pollution being blamed on stubble burning by farmers, she said: "Do not burden the farmers and the government should come up with a solution to stubble burning." BJD member Bhartruhari Mahtab said that the recent order by National Green Tribunal (NGT) to ban vehicles more than 10 years old was a 'blanket order' passed without taking into consideration other factors including kilometres travelled. He also urged the formulation of a plan to realise the 'zero emission' promise made by the Prime Minister at Glasgow. Others who participated in the debate were the BJP's Sanjay Jaiswal, the DMK's Kanimozhi, Trinamool Congress' Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar and the Leader of Congress in the House Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/stubble-burning-decriminalised-under-air-quality-commission-act-bhupendra-yadav-1059569.html
10-12-2021||National||Omicron: Booster shots necessary in India, says top virologist||Stepping up vaccination as well as booster doses against Covid is necessary to counter the Omicron variant, top virologist Dr. Shahid Jameel said on Friday. According to Jameel, Director, Trivedi School of Biosciences, Ashoka University, with the advent of Omicron the possibility of return to a life similar to pre-pandemic "now seems distant". The Omicron variant, identified last month, is concerning due to its highest number of mutations among any variant so far, 50 in all, with 32 in the spike protein, making it significantly more transmissible than even the Delta variant. More than 63 countries around the world have so far reported cases associated with Omicron. "The nature of Omicron mutations suggests increased efficiency of infection, transmission and evasion of antibodies and interferon, an early innate antiviral response," the professor said at a webinar organised by the University. Early lab results from South Africa and Us drug maker Pfizer showed about a 40- and 25-fold drop in virus neutralisation ability of the vaccine. But various studies have shown that "booster shots increase the amount of antibodies and cut reinfection rates. Given these results, it is now time that India devises policies on booster shots and vaccination for children," Dr Jameel said. More details about the virus -- its virulence and severity as well as vaccine escape -- will be clear in the coming weeks as studies are underway. But what is clear so far is that this variant spreads more efficiently and can evade immunity even from an earlier infection of Covid-19 and vaccination. At the same time, there are also some positive indications such as the severity of the illness being possibly less than that caused by Delta variant but this requires confirmation. "In India, it is essential for us to now step up the vaccination programme to vaccinate around 15 per cent of India's totally unvaccinated adults and also administer the second dose to the remaining population," Gautam Menon, Professor of Physics and Biology at the varsity, said. "Booster shots may be necessary, at least initially for frontline health care workers, those about 60 years of age and those who are immunocompromised, but others can wait for them." Further, experts said more information is required about the use of the currently available Indian vaccines as boosters and also about how the two vaccines most used in India -- Covaxin and Covishield -- might perform against the Omicron variant. They also noted that "cases in India will rise by early next year as this has been the experience of other countries with high levels of vaccination, such as Israel and the UK". The best strategies to reduce the spread of Covid-19 still are mask-wearing, care for ventilation, physical distancing, and stepping up vaccination, the experts advised. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/omicron-booster-shots-necessary-in-india-says-top-virologist-1059570.html
10-12-2021||National||Centre admits issuing wrong Covid-19 vaccine certificates||The Union Health Ministry on Friday admitted that wrong Covid-19 vaccine certificates against dead individuals were issued, but said that such errors happened due to data entry errors. “In occasional isolated cases, vaccination certificates are generated for people who were deceased or those who did not receive the vaccine,” Bharati Pravin Pawar, the minister of state for health said responding to a written question in the Lok Sabha. These cases were due to inadvertent data entry errors by vaccinators in updating the vaccination data of the second dose of beneficiaries, she said in response to a question raised by Trinamool Congress MP Abhishek Banerjee. The admission from the government came in the wake of several revelations on such fraudulent certificates, including the latest one from Bihar in which false Covid-19 vaccination certificates were issued in the name of public figures such as Prime Minister Narendra Modi and film actor Priyanka Chopra. When asked what the Union Health Ministry is doing to stop bogus beneficiaries, officials said that such reports were anecdotal in nature. “The reports are anecdotal in nature. I don't think there is any major mettle in such reports,” said Balram Bhargava, director-general of the Indian Council of Medical Research. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-admits-issuing-wrong-covid-19-vaccine-certificates-1059571.html
10-12-2021||National||Indian diaspora groups campaign against human rights 'abuses' in India||On Human Rights Day, individuals and 30 Indian diaspora groups, as well as international organisations from over 15 countries on Friday, came together for a social media campaign to draw attention to alleged growing attacks on human rights in India. In a joint statement, UK's Anti-Caste Discrimination Alliance (ACDA), US's Coalition of Seattle Indian Americans, US's Dalit Solidarity Forum, Australia's The Humanism Project, US's Hindus for Human Rights, among others, condemned the “growing attacks on human rights in India”. Posters with “Speaking up is not anti-national, silencing people is!” slogan were displayed in numerous cities around the world, including Paris, Sydney, Melbourne, Kuala Lumpur, Cape Town, Tokyo, New York and Amsterdam, according to the statement. "We find it empowering to see so many members of the Indian diaspora, and even partners and allies, come together to make this strong statement. "With all the noise made by those who want to divide and destroy, we hope others will find it hopeful, too. That is why we are raising our voices as Indian diaspora and allies to highlight that India - just like every country - needs a free press, and needs youth, Dalit, Muslim and all kinds of activists, because we can only guarantee the best possible world for all if everyone can speak,” Alena Kahle from Foundation The London Story said. On the importance of global solidarity, Michael Gottlob from the India Coordination Group (IndienKoGruppe) at Amnesty Germany said, “The utopian idea of solidarity across boundaries still inspires millions of Amnesty activists from many countries in the world. “That is why we are glad to join the common protest on the Human Rights Day. Let us make sure that the world is watching India - as Indians are watching the world. So that the movement for human rights will become truly global," he said. Expressing the pride and hope that the diaspora feels about the native country, Haroon Kasim, co-founder, The Humanism Project based in Australia, said, “We stand proudly as Indians who will speak out loudly against any efforts to compromise or threaten India's proud history of diversity, inclusiveness or her democratic values. “Governments will come and go, but we remain committed to standing up and protecting India's proud multicultural, multi religious, multilingual and democratic ethos. We will not have it any other way,” he asserted. Sunita Viswanath from Hindus for Human Rights-US asserted, “We are progressive Hindus who respect the egalitarian and inclusive principles in the Indian constitution. For us, ‘vasudhaiva kutumbakam’ means a world where no one is superior to another (which means an end to caste), and all live in peace and harmony. "We call on the Indian citizenry -- particularly the Hindu majority -- to wake up to the horrors taking place before their eyes, and remove Hindutva hatred from their hearts and their government,” she said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-diaspora-groups-campaign-against-human-rights-abuses-in-india-1059572.html
10-12-2021||National||Only 70 medical colleges functional in India's backward areas||Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Friday said that out of the total 157 newly approved medical colleges in the country's backward areas, only 70 institutes have become functional to date. "Health is a state subject, and primary responsibility to ensure availability of public health facilities lies with the state government. However, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare administers a Centrally Sponsored Scheme for 'Establishment of new Medical Colleges attached with existing district and referral hospitals' with preference to under-served areas and aspirational districts where there is no existing government or private medical college," he said in the Parliament. This step will help to improve the healthcare delivery system in these areas. In this scheme, the Central government has approved the establishment of 157 new medical colleges in three phases. Out of these, 70 medical colleges have become functional till date. Answering another question on the steps taken by the Centre for making healthcare facilities affordable for patients, he said, "To provide affordable and quality tertiary health care facilities, the government is setting up new All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS) and upgrading Government Medical Colleges under the Pradhan Mantri Swasthya Suraksha Yojana. The state governments are also supported for setting up of new medical colleges as well as for increasing undergraduate and postgraduate medical seats." "Further, under the National Health Mission (NHM), technical and financial support is provided to states and union territories for strengthening their healthcare systems up to district hospital level, based on the proposals submitted by them in their Program Implementation Plans (PIPs), subject to availability of resources. NHM adopts a health system approach and targets to build a network for public health facilities with health and wellness centres at the grassroots level and district hospitals, with robust referral linkage, to offer comprehensive primary and secondary care services to citizens," the minister added. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/only-70-medical-colleges-functional-in-indias-backward-areas-1059573.html
10-12-2021||National||US sanctions on Iran have no bearing on India's Chabahar port project: Govt||The US sanctions on Iran have not affected India's Chabahar port project, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar told Lok Sabha on Friday. Replying to a question from BSP member Ritesh Pandey, the minister also clarified that US sanctions are "not relevant" to India's Chabahar port project in Iran "at all". During the Question Hour, Pandey sought to know from the government if US sanctions on Iran had any bearing on India's project at the Chabahar port, and claimed that the Iranian government is "publicly saying that our Chabahar port project has been miserably delayed" due to sanctions imposed by the US. The BSP member also claimed he is "aware" that China is trying to work on the project by taking advantage of US sanctions on Iran as it did "with the rail link", and asked the government if it is working on a "solution". "I would like to inform the member that (his) assertion is completely inaccurate. This agreement was signed in 2016. We took possession of the terminal in 2018. We have already supplied six cranes. The terminal is fully functional," Jaishankar said. "The US sanctions are not relevant to this project at all," he said in his reply. In a supplementary question, the BSP member sought to know from the government if India has signed "any backdoor agreement" to continue using the Chabahar port to provide help to central Asian countries and Afghanistan after the Taliban took over the control of the Afghanistan government. "All our agreements on the Chabahar port operations are limited to Iran. Originally, there was a trilateral agreement but that was the basis to set it up. In terms of port operations, we are not required to have an agreement with the government of Afghanistan. And, I assure you that the port is functioning and functioning back," the external affairs minister said in his reply. In a written reply to the question on the port, the minister noted that during the visit of the prime minister to Iran in May 2016, a trilateral agreement to establish the International Transport and Transit Corridor (Chabahar Agreement) was signed by India, Iran and Afghanistan. India is participating in the development of the first phase of the Shahid Beheshti Terminal, Chabahar Port, in cooperation with the government of the Islamic Republic of Iran, he pointed out. "The Indian company, India Ports Global Limited (IPGL), through its wholly-owned subsidiary, India Ports Global Chabahar Free Zone (IPGCFZ), took over the operations of the Chabahar Port w.e.f. 24.12.2018. Since then, it has handled 160 vessels, 14,420 TEUs (Twenty-foot Equivalent Units) and 3.2 million tons of bulk and general cargo," Jaishankar said. The Shahid Beheshti Terminal, Chabahar Port, has handled shipments and trans-shipments from various countries, including Russia, Brazil, Thailand, Germany, Ukraine, Oman, Romania, Bangladesh, Australia, Kuwait, Uzbekistan and the UAE, he said. The minister said India has committed total grant assistance of $85 million and a credit facility of $150 million for the development of the Shahid Beheshti Terminal, Chabahar Port. "As part of our commitment towards infrastructure development of Shahid Beheshti Terminal, Chabahar Port, India has supplied six mobile harbour cranes (two 140 tonnes and four 100 tonnes capacity) and other equipment worth $25 million," Jaishankar said. The Chabahar Port has provided much-needed sea access to landlocked Afghanistan and it has also emerged as a commercial transit hub for the region, he said. It is a more economical and stable route for landlocked countries of the region to reach India and the global market, Jaishankar said, noting that recently, it facilitated the delivery of humanitarian assistance, especially during the Covid-19 pandemic. India utilised the Chabahar port to ship 75,000 MT of wheat as humanitarian food assistance to Afghanistan in 2020, he said. To date, a total of 1,10,000 tonnes of wheat and 2,000 tonnes of pulses have been trans-shipped from India to Afghanistan, Jaishankar said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-sanctions-on-iran-have-no-bearing-on-indias-chabahar-port-project-govt-1059579.html
10-12-2021||National||Vaccines effective against Delta variant; yet to be confirmed for Omicron: ICMR study||A study by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) launched after the second wave to determine the effectiveness of vaccines against severe Covid-19 infection has found that while vaccines can prevent health complications, their efficiency is lower than indicated during trials.  Researchers found that the peak vaccine efficiency of two doses of Covishield was 80% and 69% for Covaxin, when the gap between the two doses was six to eight weeks. This constituted a substantial reduction in the risk of severe Covid-19 with people affected by the Delta variant.  This was determined using a multi-centric, hospital-based, case-control study at 11 hospitals, conducted between May and July, by researchers from across India. The sample size was 3,683 people, all of them over the age of 45, with 1,143 people having severe Covid-19. Some 781 of these had comorbidities such as hypertension, diabetes, renal disease, tuberculosis and heart disease. The remaining 2,541 individuals who were Covid-negative formed the ‘control’ group. “These vaccine efficiency rates were similar across the Delta strain and its sub-lineages,” said Dr H Basavanagowda, principal and professor of general medicine at JSS Medical College in Mysuru, who was among the researchers involved in the study.  The researchers wrote in the study, which is in pre-print, that one central finding is that there must be an “escalation of two-dose coverage with Covid-19 vaccines, (which) is critical to control the pandemic in the country.” Basavanagowda said that while the vaccines are effective against the Delta variant of the novel coronavirus and its various sub-lineages, the jury is still out for Omicron. He said the current study did not cover the rate of decline of antibody levels weeks after the second dose. “The existing vaccines will continue to be effective, but at the end of six to nine months of getting the second dose, people will require a booster,” he said, adding that studies also now suggest that hybrid vaccines should be used. For example, after taking Covishield for the first two doses, Covaxin can be taken as a booster.  Mild/moderate infection  He said people who had mild or moderate forms of the disease “fall into almost the category of a person subjected to a hybrid vaccination regime”. “Such people may not necessarily be candidates for a booster shot for a period of at least one year after the date of infection,” Basavanagowda said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vaccines-effective-against-delta-variant-yet-to-be-confirmed-for-omicron-icmr-study-1059583.html
10-12-2021||National||Not aware of any unlawful interception of any message, says Centre ||The Centre Friday informed Rajya Sabha that the government was not aware of any unlawful interception of any message of any individual. Minister of State for Communications Devusinh Chauhan said that the government was not aware of any authorised official unlawfully intercepting any message. To another question, the Minister said approval of the competent authority before intercepting any message. Earlier this year, a row erupted over Israeli spyware Pegasus allegedly being used for targeted surveillance in India. In October, the Supreme Court set up a three-member independent expert panel to probe the alleged use of the spyware for targeted surveillance in India. The apex court had also observed that the state cannot get a ''free pass'' every time the spectre of national security is raised and that its mere invocation cannot render the judiciary a ''mute spectator'' and be the bugbear it shies away from. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/not-aware-of-any-unlawful-interception-of-any-message-says-centre-1059599.html
10-12-2021||National||CBI arrests TMC leader Pranab Chatterjee in Rs 3.74 crore chit fund scam||The CBI arrested TMC leader and chairman of Burdwan Municipality in West Bengal, Pranab Chatterjee for allegedly siphoning off Rs 3.74 crore from a trust running a chit fund scheme, officials said on Friday. The alleged role of Chatterjee, not named in the FIR, had surfaced during the three-year-long probe against chit fund schemes allegedly run by Sunmarg Welfare Organisation, they said. Chatterjee was arrested on Friday and was produced before the competent court in Asansol which sent him to two days CBI custody.   During the probe, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) found that Chatterjee was closely associated with the trust Sunmarg Welfare Organisation and the trustees, officials said.   Chatterjee was allegedly associated with the registration of the trust and allowed the trust to carry on its business of illegal deposit collection from his commercial complex.  "It was also alleged during the investigation that the accused (Chatterjee) in conspiracy with the other accused (trustees) had misappropriated Rs.3.74 crore from the trust for personal use through various methods," CBI spokesperson R C Joshi said. In its FIR, the CBI alleged that the accused Soumyarup Bhowmik, chairman of Sunmarg Welfare Organisation, and others allured the public at large to invest in their schemes with a promise of the high rate of returns at maturity without the requisite permission from the regulatory authorities.  "It was further alleged that a large number of investors invested their hard-earned money with the Trust. It was also alleged that the trustees failed to repay the maturity amount, cheated the investors, misappropriated their hard-earned money, closed down the branches and fled away," the CBI spokesperson said. The CBI had taken over the probe into the chit fund fraud cases in West Bengal and Odisha on the directions of the Supreme Court on May 9, 2014. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbi-arrests-tmc-leader-pranab-chatterjee-in-rs-374-crore-chit-fund-scam-1059608.html
10-12-2021||National||Child killed, mom injured in firing by forest personnel driving away wild elephants||A two-year-old girl was killed and her mother injured during a firing by forest department personnel to chase a herd of wild elephants that also wounded another person in Assam's Kamrup Rural district, police said on Friday. Personnel of the department were engaged in driving away a herd of wild elephants creating havoc for the past several days from Bondapara in Boko area and a bullet accidentally hit the child and her mother who were sitting outside their house on Thursday night, police said. The baby was on her mother's lap. The forest guards rushed the two to a hospital in Boko where the child was declared dead and the mother was shifted to the Gauhati Medical College Hospital (GMCH) in a serious condition. Meanwhile, the elephants attacked a farmer injuring him and he was also referred to the GMCH. Angry locals blocked National Highway 17 on Friday to protest against the death of the child and urged the government to take measures to stop destruction of crops by wild elephants. Environment and Forest Minister Parimal Suklabaidya told PTI in Guwahati that a high-level team of forest officials have been sent to the area to ascertain the details leading to the death of the child and review the prevailing situation there. "The incident is unfortunate and tragic. The loss of the child can in no way be compensated but I have directed the authorities to immediately release the ex-gratia amount to the bereaved family," the minister added.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/child-killed-mom-injured-in-firing-by-forest-personnel-driving-away-wild-elephants-1059613.html
10-12-2021||National Politics||Mamata's stand on BSF ambit alarming for national security, says Dhankhar; TMC hits back||West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar firing a fresh salvo at the TMC government on Thursday said Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's stand on the expansion of BSF's jurisdiction in the state is "potentially alarming for national security", eliciting a strong response from the ruling party which accused him of acting like a "BJP spokesperson". In a letter to the chief minister, Dhankhar urged Banerjee to take appropriate steps urgently and address the issue in public and national interests and revise her stance to generate an environment of harmony and cooperation. The governor's letter was prompted by the chief minister's recent directive to the state police not to allow the BSF to enter areas outside its jurisdiction. At an administrative review meeting on December 7 in Uttar Dinajpur district, Banerjee had directed the police administration not to allow BSF to breach its jurisdiction limits and get involved in law and order of the state. She gave the same order on Thursday at another meeting in Nadia district. There was no immediate reaction from the state government on the governor's letter. \ "Deeply concerned at your directives concerning BSF including 'BSF is allowed for 15 km that too with the permission of state police' to state apparatus during the course of the official administrative meeting at Ganga Rampur on December 7. These are not in sync with law or the recent Union Home Ministry notification increasing the jurisdiction of the BSF in the state from 15 km to 50 km. Your stance has sent disturbing signals and is potentially alarming for federal polity and national security," Dhankhar said in the letter which he shared on Twitter. He said there is need to generate "bonhomie and not confrontation" between the central security agencies and the state police. "This imperatively calls for, in public and national interest, that your directives, instructions as also stance regarding functioning of BSF in the state be revisited so as to generate an environ of harmony and cooperation," the letter read. "In the state having international border with Bangladesh, Nepal and Bhutan, BSF and Central Armed Police Force play significantly well defined crucial role from the perspective of national security and containing criminal illegal activities," Dhankhar said in the letter. The Centre has recently amended the BSF Act to authorize the force to undertake search, seizure and arrest within a larger 50 km stretch, instead of 15 km, from the international border in Punjab, West Bengal and Assam. Banerjee has criticized the decision, alleging that it is an attempt to interfere with the country's federal structure. She has also claimed that the move is aimed to torture the people in those areas. She had met Prime Minister Narendra Modi in New Delhi in November and demanded a rollback of the decision. At the administrative meeting held at Krishnagar in Nadia district on Thursday, Banerjee said, "I ask the ICs (inspectors-in-charge) to increase their mobility and step up naka checking. You have borders with Bangladesh starting from Karimpur. You have to keep an eye on that too." "You have also to see that BSF does not get into villages without your permission and get involved with anything. The BSF will do their work and you will do yours. Always remember that law and order is your subject," Banerjee said. For the last couple of days, Banerjee has been directing the police administration not to allow BSF to breach its jurisdiction limits and get involved in law and order of the state. Earlier, referring to the killing of 13 civilians in firing by security forces in Nagaland, she had alleged that West Bengal had witnessed incidents of BSF getting into villages beyond its jurisdiction in Murshidabad, Malda, Uttar and Dakshin Dinajpur districts. West Bengal Assembly had last month passed a resolution against the Centre's decision to extend BSF's jurisdiction. Echoing Dhankhar, the opposition BJP accused Banerjee of driving a wedge between BSF and the state police despite taking the oath to have allegiance to the Constitution. "I wonder how, the Chief Minister of a State, bound by the oath taken by her, to bear true faith and allegiance towards the Constitution of India & supposed to uphold the sovereignty and integrity of India; could repeatedly malign @BSF_India, who are assigned to do just that," BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari tweeted. He drew the attention of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union Home Minister Amit Shah and Governor Dhankhar on the issue and requested the Raj Bhawan to inform the Rashtrapati Bhawan about it. "She is a repeat offender, wilfully trying to drive a wedge between @BSF_India & @WBPolice. Kindly request @PMOIndia, @HMOIndia, @DefenceMinIndia to take this into cognizance. WB Governor @jdhankhar1 Ji, please apprise Hon'ble @rashtrapatibhvn regarding this matter," he said in a series of tweets. Reacting to the Governor's letter, TMC state general secretary Kunal Ghosh said Dhankhar should stop behaving like a "BJP spokesperson". "The Governor should maintain the dignity of his office. He should stop behaving like a BJP spokesperson. He is talking about federal polity and national security. We would like to know his stance on the demand by a BJP MLA on the separation of Darjeeling hills from West Bengal. Why is he silent on it ? Ghosh said. Senior Trinamool Congress leader and party's Deputy Leader in Rajya Sabha, Sukhendu Sekhar Roy, said the chief minister is well within her rights about alerting the police and flagging the issue of BSF atrocities against villagers in many border villages. The Trinamool Congress government headed by Banerjee has had several run-ins with Dhankhar over a number of issues since he took over as the state governor in July 2018. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mamatas-stand-on-bsf-ambit-alarming-for-national-security-says-dhankhar-tmc-hits-back-1059347.html
10-12-2021||National Politics||Opposition has decided to oppose everything Modi govt does: Pralhad Joshi||Union Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi on Friday said that the Opposition parties have decided to oppose everything that the Modi government does. "They are opposing even reforms made in the law related to extension of the tenure of CBI and ED directors. They think that Opposition parties are there only for opposing. One should have a sense about what to oppose and what not to oppose," he said  "Opposition MPs who danced on the tables, created chaos, tried to attack marshals and throw LED screens are not apologising. Instead they said what they did was correct," he added. On the issue of farmers' protest, Joshi said farmer unions withdrawing the protest was a good decision. Regarding the demise of CDS Gen Bipin Rawat and 12 others who died in the recent chopper crash, Joshi said that a comprehensive probe would be conducted into the incident. "The government would take steps to ensure that such incidents do not repeat. With Rawat's demise, the country has lost a great, honest and patriotic military expert," Joshi said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/opposition-has-decided-to-oppose-everything-modi-govt-does-pralhad-joshi-1059421.html
10-12-2021||National Politics||Congress not being accepted as alternative to BJP: Pinarayi Vijayan||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Friday launched a scathing attack on the Congress, BJP and the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) while speaking at a party meeting held at his home district- Kannur. Vijayan said in the national scenario, the Congress party is supporting the BJP. "The Congress is now not seen as an alternative to the BJP by the people. It's due to that in Tamil Nadu, the DMK failed to give more seats to the Congress (Assembly polls). The Left will now go forward by grouping the various regional parties and emerge as an alternative to the Congress," said Vijayan. He said the BJP is governing the country for the corporates and taking a cue from what happened in Tripura and West Bengal, where the Left was in power for long, he said there should be introspection on what happened there now and one has to tread cautiously. "We should through our good governance gain the confidence of the people here, as we have provided a viable alternative through our policies and programmes," added Vijayan. Training his guns at the IUML- the second biggest ally of the Congress-led UDF, Vijayan said they are out to create a divide and that was seen in the way they handled the issue of the appointments to be made to the Waqf Board. "It was after the Waqf Board which requested to hand over all the appointments to the Board to the PSC. Then we floated a Bill in the Assembly. At that time, all the IUML members said was to ensure that the present employees working in the Board be protected. And after that when the Bill was passed and the law floated to hand over all appointments to the PSC, they started a smear campaign and created issues," he said. Incidentally early this week, Vijayan assured a group of Muslim leaders that the government has stayed handing over the appointments of the Board to the PSC and a detailed discussion with all concerned will be held. "It's high time that you (IUML) should take stock of who you are and you should not forget that today the difference of votes in Malappurram between the UDF in which you are and the Left is marginal. Your position is becoming weaker," said Vijayan. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-not-being-accepted-as-alternative-to-bjp-pinarayi-vijayan-1059463.html
10-12-2021||National Politics||Influential 'Brahmin' leader in Yogi bastion to join Samajwadi Party||In what may turn out to be a shot in the arm of Samajwadi Party (SP) supremo Akhilesh Yadav, an influential 'Brahmin' leader from Gorakhpur, the home town of Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, is likely to join the former's party in the next few days. Pandit Hari Shankar Tewari, one of the tallest 'Brahmin' leaders in 'Poorvanchal' (eastern region), who was a six-term MLA in the state assembly from Chillupar seat and hailed from Gorakhpur, and his two sons one of whom was a BSP MLA and another a former MP, could join the SP on Sunday. Tewari, a former mafia don, who faced several criminal cases and was once a history-sheeter, wielded considerable influence of the 'Brahmin' community in Gorakhpur and its adjoining districts. Eighty-five-year-old Tewari, a former UP minister, was once the tallest brahmin leader in the region. Tewari stopped contesting polls in 2012. His son Vinay Shankar Tewari became an MLA from the constituency in 2017 on a BSP ticket. Tewari's other son Bhishma Shankar alias Kushal Tewari was an MP from Sant Kabir Nagar seat in 2007 and 2009 on a BSP ticket.  Both Vinay and Kushal were expelled from the BSP three days back amid speculations that they could switch over to the SP. ''The Tewari family has considerable influence over Brahmin voters in the region....SP will stand to benefit immensely if it joins hands with Akhilesh Yadav,'' said a Lucknow based political analyst. The development assumes significance as it comes amid a fit of perceived anger in the electorally influential Brahmin community against the BJP in the state.  BJP was pushed on the defensive after its own leaders had voiced concern over 'persecution' of the Brahmins under the current dispensation. A BJP legislator from Lambhua assembly seat in Sultanpur district Deomani Dwivedi, who hailed from the 'Brahmin' community, had sought to know from the state government about its future plan to ensure the community's security. The legislator also wanted to know about the number of 'brahmins' murdered in the state since the BJP came to power in UP and in how many cases the police were able to arrest the culprits. The saffron party, in an apparent bid, to douse the anger had senior Congress leader Jitin Prasada join it and also made him a minister in the Yogi Adityanath government. 'Brahmins' who formed around ten per cent of the electorate in the state, were a deciding factor on around a dozen Lok Sabha and over 50 assembly seats. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/influential-brahmin-leader-in-yogi-bastion-to-join-samajwadi-party-1059479.html
10-12-2021||National Politics||Rahul to rally in Dehradun on December 16 to honour war veterans, Gen Rawat||Top Congress leader Rahul Gandhi will address a rally in poll-bound Uttarakhand on December 16 to celebrate Bangladesh War veterans as well as pay homage to India's first Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat, who died in a chopper crash earlier this week. The Vijay Samman Rally scheduled for next Thursday at Dehradun will have in attendance a large number of 1971 war veterans and other military veterans. Sources said the rally will also pay homage to Gen Rawat, who hails from Pauri in Uttarakhand. This is part of Congress’ plans to hold programmes across India on December 16 to celebrate the victory over Pakistan in the 1971 war. It was on December 16, 1971 that Pakistan signed the Instrument of Surrender, leading to the creation of Bangladesh. The rally in Uttarakhand comes a day after Congress president Sonia Gandhi is scheduled to attend a function in New Delhi that concludes the year-long celebration of 50th Anniversary of the Bangladesh Liberation War. Uttarakhand is home to a sizable section of veterans as well as serving military personnel and Congress is attempting to woo them ahead of the Assembly polls early next year. Congress General Secretary (Organisation) K C Venugopal said programmes like honouring war veterans and war widows and commemorating the Bangladesh Liberation War-1971 should be conducted in a befitting manner at the district level across the country. He said the Congress’ programmes on the 1971 War celebrations, which were delayed due to Covid-19, started in mid-July with a district-level meeting in Haryana’s Panchkula on July 10. District and block levels in some of the "soldier states" like Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan could be continued beyond 2021, he said. Maximum district meetings have been held in Madhya Pradesh, Bihar and Tamil Nadu. Congress has so far organised over 100 such meetings throughout the country. State-level functions started on November 16 with a meeting in Nagaland capital Kohima followed by other states. Venugopal also directed the states, which have not concluded their state-level functions, to organise such meetings up to December 31. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-to-rally-in-dehradun-on-december-16-to-honour-war-veterans-gen-rawat-1059518.html
10-12-2021||National Politics||Lalu Prasad's brother-in-law angry over Tejashwi's 'inter-community' marriage||RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav's maternal uncle Sadhu Yadav on Friday went all out at his nephew over his inter-community marriage to former schoolmate Rachel Godinho. Sadhu Yadav, the former Gopalganj MP, did not pull his punches in his attack on Tejashwi. "He has demeaned the image of Lalu Prasad's family after did the marriage with a girl belonging to another community. He doesn't deserve to be called Leader of Opposition in the Bihar Assembly. "He is doing arbitrariness in the family and party. He wants to rule us. We cannot allow him to do so. We will boycott him. We will teach him a lesson," said Sadhu Yadav, whose rage also owed to the fact that he was not invited to the ceremony. He said that Lalu Prasad's old aide Prem Gupta, who attended the marriage, was a "corrupt person". "In fact all the invited persons who were participated in the marriage are corrupt," he said. Tejashwi Yadav got married to Rachel Godinho in south Delhi's Sainik farm locality on Thursday in presence of all family members. He has invited a limited number of people for the marriage. Even RJD's Bihar President Jagadanand Singh and other top leaders were not invited to the event. Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar was not invited as well. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/lalu-prasads-brother-in-law-angry-over-tejashwis-inter-community-marriage-1059525.html
10-12-2021||National Politics||Havan, honour, sacrifice ring loud day before farmers' victory march||From a “Havan” to pray for CDS Bipin Rawat at Ghazipur border to the formation of a committee to honour the helping locals near Tikri and Singhu borders, symbolism marked life at farmer protest sites on the Delhi borders on Friday ahead of their ‘ghar wapsi” on December 11 after the year-long agitation that forced the government to withdraw the contentious farm laws months before polls in seven states. Dismantling of the brick-and-bamboo-made structures were carried out by farmers before they head home on Saturday after the planned victory march for which the Delhi police have made elaborate arrangements. Keeping the spotlight on the farmers' struggles, Kisan Ekta Morcha took to social media to say, “A year long of struggle, torture, humiliation but determination, unity & patiencemade our farmers win this fight". Putting out a list of over 700 farmers allegedly killed during the agitation, the farmers' organisation on Twitter further said that the government has accepted the demands of farmers at the cost of the sacrifice of these farmers and their sacrifice will never be forgotten.   Centre, however, asserted that “no farmer died due to police action” during the farmer protest. In a written reply to the Rajya Sabha, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Friday said, “no farmer died as a result of police action during the farmers' agitation.” He was answering a question by Congress and AAP MPs on whether the government is planning to provide or has made any provision towards livelihood monetary compensation to the families of the farmers who died during farmers' protests. The Union Minister’s reply also added, “the subject of compensation, etc. to the families of the deceased farmers in the farmers’ movement is with the concerned state governments.” Before the farmers take out the victory march, a ceremony will be held at the Singhu border to honour the locals, while some farmer leaders will also go to villages near the protest site at the Tikri border. The SKM statement on Thursday had taken note of the support of the locals. “SKM thanks local communities at the Morcha sites profusely for their patience and support throughout the long agitation and apologises to them for the inconvenience caused,” it had said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/havan-honour-sacrifice-ring-loud-day-before-farmers-victory-march-1059559.html
10-12-2021||National Politics||Offering 'namaz' in open spaces will not be tolerated: CM Manohar Lal Khattar||With several Hindu outfits objecting to Friday prayers being offered in open spaces in Gurgaon, Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said that the practice of offering 'namaz' in the open "will not be tolerated". He also said that the district administration's prior decision to reserve some spots for holding prayers in open spaces has been withdrawn and the state government will now work out an amicable solution to the issue. "The practice of offering namaz here (Gurgaon) in open spaces will not be tolerated...But we all will sit to find an amicable solution," the chief minister told reporters in Gurgaon, responding to a question on the objections raised by several right-wing outfits to offering 'namaz' in open spaces in the NCR city. "Everyone should get the facility (to offer prayers), but nobody should infringe on others’ rights. It will not be allowed," Khattar said. On withdrawing the district administration's decision to earmark some places for holding prayers in open spaces, he said, "We have told the police and the Deputy Commissioner that this issue has to be resolved…. If somebody offers namaz, holds paaths at one's place we have no objection to that. "Religious places are built for this very purpose that people go there and offer prayers. Such programmes should not be held in open spaces," he said. "Confrontation should be avoided by offering namaz in open spaces. We will also not allow confrontation (to build between two sides)," he said. Over the past few months, members of some Hindu outfits have been gathering at sites where the Muslim community offers 'namaz' in open space and raising "Bharat Mata Ki Jai" and "Jai Shri Ram" slogans. Three years ago, the district administration had designated 37 sites in Gurgaon city for Muslims to offer Friday namaz after which there were protests by some Hindu groups. A few months ago, one group started protests against the prayers offered in the open after which there have been protests on Fridays for the past several weeks. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/offering-namaz-in-open-spaces-will-not-be-tolerated-cm-manohar-lal-khattar-1059563.html
10-12-2021||National Politics||BJP's ideology rooted against women: Priyanka Gandhi||The BJP ideology is rooted against women and can never support the philosophy of their empowerment, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi said on Friday. Speaking at a women's empowerment convention in South Goa, Gandhi, who is on a one-day tour of the poll-bound state, also said that BJP's schemes and initiatives reflect the party's inherent bias towards womenfolk. "The (Congress) ideology gave this country, this state its freedom. It is very important that we protect this ideology. When we talk about women's power, about women's freedom, when we want such an atmosphere in the country where the women are free to express, are free of shackles, then we can never talk about the ideology of the BJP," Gandhi said. "Because the BJP's ideology right from its roots is against women. BJP's ideology will never want women's empowerment. When they come and talk about women, when you see their schemes for women, it is only about providing gas cylinders and money for the household. And they think that their responsibility towards women ends there," Gandhi said, adding that the biggest responsibility which the state owes women is to empower them and make them independent. She also slammed the increasing crimes against women in Goa and added that if Congress comes to power, it would increase staffing of women in police stations, "See how many attacks are happening on women. When attacks happen on women, when rapes happen what does the Goa CM say? He asks what they were doing out so late. Why were they on the beach? His minister says why are you wearing such clothes? When such attacks happen on women, the allegation is not on the one who rapes, but the one who is raped," Gandhi said.  "It is the government's responsibility that crimes against women be stopped. They need to be tried and jailed but this government hasn't done it. Congress will increase the staffing of women in police stations. You have to be heard. Wherever there is a BJP government, there are more crimes against women," Gandhi said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjps-ideology-rooted-against-women-priyanka-gandhi-1059598.html
10-12-2021||North and Central||PM Modi pays homage to Gen Rawat, his wife, others at IAF station in Delhi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh paid homage to late Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat, his wife Madhulika Rawat and 11 other military personnel after their mortal remains reached the Indian Air Force (IAF) station at Palam in New Delhi on Thursday. Modi and Singh were joined by National Security Advisor Ajit Doval, Indian Army chief Gen M M Naravane, Indian Navy chief Admiral R Hari Kumar, and Indian Air Force chief Air Chief Marshal V R Chaudhari to pay tribute to the departed souls. Gen Rawat, his wife and others died when an Indian Air Force chopper they were flying in crashed at Conoor in Tamil Nadu on Wednesday.             A C-130J Super Hercules aircraft of the IAF brought the 13 coffins from Sulur in Tamil Nadu to New Delhi. After the aircraft landed around 7:35 p.m., the military officials carried the caskets to a hanger, where they were linked up. The members of the families of Gen Rawat and other deceased military personnel were present. The Prime Minister placed wreaths on the caskets. So did the Defence Minister and others. The moral remains of only three of the 13 were positively identified till Thursday – Gen Rawat and his wife, Madhulika Rawat and Brigadier L S Lidder. The bodies of the others would be preserved at the mortuary at the Army Base Hospital and would be released to the families of the deceased only after positive identification.  The mortal remains of Gen Rawat and his wife, Madhulika Rawat, would be kept at the official residence of the late CDS at Kamraj Marg in New Delhi from 11 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. on Friday for civil and military dignitaries as well as common people to pay tribute. A funeral procession from the Kamraj Marg will start at 2 p.m. and the mortal remains of the couples would be consigned to flames at the Brar Square crematorium in Delhi Cantonment at 4 p.m. The funeral of Brigadier Lidder would be held at 9 a.m. on Friday, official sources said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-modi-pays-homage-to-gen-rawat-his-wife-others-at-iaf-station-in-delhi-1059332.html
10-12-2021||North and Central||Punjab CM Channi congratulates farmers for 'historic triumph'||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Thursday congratulated farmers for the “historic triumph” of their stir against the Centre's farm laws. “Warmest congratulations to all for historic triumph of the farmers' movement & coercing Centre Govt. to accept all demands of #farmers. The year-long protest signifies a historic victory for our democracy. It is vital to remember martyrs who laid their lives during this struggle,” he said in a tweet. Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal also congratulated the farmers for their “big victory”. “All farmer organisations are going back home. It is a big victory of the farmers of the country. I, on behalf of SAD, congratulate them,” he said. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of 40 farm unions, on Thursday decided to suspend the year-long farmers' movement against three contentious central farm laws and announced that farmers will go back home on December 11 from the protest sites on Delhi's borders. The announcement came after the SKM, which is spearheading the movement, received a central government signed letter where it agreed to consider their pending demands, including withdrawal of cases against farmers and form a committee on minimum support price (MSP). Farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, started protesting at Delhi border points on November 26 last year against the three farm laws, which have recently been repealed. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-cm-channi-congratulates-farmers-for-historic-triumph-1059338.html
10-12-2021||North and Central||Now, water bills cannot be more than 1.5 times last month's bill: Delhi minister||The Delhi government has taken a decision to ensure that water consumption bills issued to city residents, henceforth, shall not exceed more than one-and-a-half times the amount of the bill in the previous month, officials said on Thursday. Water Minister and Delhi Jal Board (DJB) chairman Satyendar Jain took the landmark decision in the meeting held with DJB officials on Thursday to strengthen the revenue management system of the board, they said. "DJB today has revised the billing system. Now your bill cannot be more than 1.5 times of previous month. If it crosses this, explanation will be provided to the customer and he/she can put in grievance for the same. AccountableDJB ResponsibleDJB," the minister said on Twitter. Later, the DJB issued a statement to this effect. Meter readers will be rotated after every billing cycle, and "we will ensure full transparency in the billing system," Jain was quoted as saying in the statement. "The Delhi Jal Board will be held accountable and responsible for any errors," he said. Certain grievances were received by the officials wherein the meter readers either do not upload a picture of the current meter reading or upload a random image and put a reading as deemed fit by them, the statement said. This exercise has no check until a consumer lodges a complaint about the same. Most consumers pay their bills thinking it to be accurate, and not realising the change in consumption pattern in the bimonthly billing cycle, it said. The crucial meeting of the DJB chairman with the revenue officials brought forth such issues, and "landmark steps were taken to curb this process of erroneous bill generation," it added. There will be an "automatic system check to stop billing from a metre readers tablet, if consumption variance is more than 50 per cent higher or lower, in comparison to the previous bill," the statement said. "In such a case, the bill will only be generated by the Zonal Revenue Office, if the metre reading image confirms the consumption. This step will curb the erroneous reading bills that were being generated," it said. Daily random metre reading image audit by revenue officers is one of the salient features of the landmark decision taken by the DJB chairman. This step will enhance transparency and keep a check on any discrepancies prevailing in the billing system. This will also lead to closing all the loopholes related to the existing billing system.  The department will strengthen its vigilance system. In case of improper images of the metre reading, metre inspectors will visit the site and recheck the images and make sure the images are taken properly by the metre readers, officials said. This incorrect image feeding will also call for strict action against the metre readers concerned. This will bring a robust system ensuring 100 per cent accuracy in billing. "At present, there are about 900 metre readers taking readings of about 26.50 lakh consumers in 41 zones of DJB. Out of these consumers, about 18 lakh consumers avail zero bills under free water scheme," the statement said. Rotation system for the metre reader will also help in making the billing system "stronger and transparent". This will be considered as a huge step in avoiding any discrepancy or loopholes in the system. In this system, metre readers will be changed in every billing cycle. This will lead to smooth functioning of the system and will eradicate any type of corruption involved, it added. This is a "huge and revolutionary step" taken by the Arvind Kejriwal government to "eradicate corruption and solve the discrepancy existing in the current system". This will also help provide a smooth and transparent billing system for the people of Delhi, it said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/now-water-bills-cannot-be-more-than-15-times-last-months-bill-delhi-minister-1059339.html
10-12-2021||North and Central||Rajasthan: NGOs to be exempted from development, other fees under new scheme||Non-profit organisations in Rajasthan are going to be exempted from different fees to which they were earlier subjected, according to rules under a new scheme. The government's approval of Social Security Investment Promotion Scheme-2021 exempts eligible not-for-profit organisations from development fee and the BSUP -- fee paid towards 'Basic Services for Urban Poor', according to a release. The scheme was approved by state Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, and has been notified by the Urban Development and Housing (UDH) department. Under the scheme, various facilities, concessions and exemptions are being provided to recognised non-profit bodies working for the welfare of children, women, handicapped, poor, homeless, transgender and elderly people. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-ngos-to-be-exempted-from-development-other-fees-under-new-scheme-1059340.html
10-12-2021||North and Central||Omicron: All 9 patients in Rajasthan test negative, discharged from hospital||All the nine people in Rajasthan who were found infected with the Omicron variant of coronavirus were discharged from a government hospital here on Thursday after they tested negative for the infection twice, Health Minister Parsadi Lal Meena said. Their reports for blood, CT scan and all other tests are normal and they have been advised to remain in home quarantine for a week, he said. Dr Sudhir Bhandari, principal of Sawai Mansingh Medical College, said research on the Omicron variant is currently underway. "The spread of this variant is rapid but it is not as fatal as the Delta variant," he said. Meanwhile, 38 more people tested positive for Covid-19 in Rajasthan, officials said. Jaipur reported the highest number of fresh cases at 18. With this, the number of active Covid-19 cases in the state increased to 260, the officials said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/omicron-all-9-patients-in-rajasthan-test-negative-discharged-from-hospital-1059342.html
10-12-2021||North and Central||23 Omicron variant cases across India, health officials inform standing committee||Top officials of Health Ministry on Thursday informed a parliamentary panel that there are 23 cases of Omicron variant of Covid-19 and authorities are closely monitoring the situation, government sources said. Maharashtra leads the chart with 10 cases, followed by Rajasthan with nine, officials told the panel in the presentation, adding that globally there are 2303 cases of Omicron variant, the sources said. The health officials gave a detailed presentation on the Omicron variant and other issues related to Covid-19. Health Secretary, ICMR Director General, and other top officials from the ministry deposed before the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Health chaired by Ram Gopal Yadav on the issue 'Challenges posed by Omicron variant of Covid-19'. On the question of a booster dose of the Covid-19 vaccine, officials said if required, a third dose can be taken, but only after nine months of the second dose, the sources said. During the meeting, members suggested that tackling Covid-19 is like game of police-thief and authorities “should stay ahead of the virus," the sources said. According to sources, during their presentation, officials underlined the need for the versatility of the vaccine which is effective against different variants. There are more than 100 countries that are accepting vaccine certificates issued by the Indian government for international travel, they said, according to the sources. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/23-omicron-variant-cases-across-india-health-officials-inform-standing-committee-1059344.html
10-12-2021||North and Central||Jaipur-Delhi highway blockade to be lifted with farmers' return to home||Jaipur-Delhi highway which was partially blocked at Shahjahanpur on Rajasthan-Haryana border due to farmers agitation will reopen from Friday with the withdrawal of farmer agitation. “Farmers who have been sitting at the border will return to their respective villages after the agitation is formally called off at 11 am Friday,” vice president of Kisan Sabha and former CPI (M) MLA Amra Ram said. One side of the highway was blocked due to the agitation since October 2020. Vehicles going from Jaipur to Delhi had to travel a few extra kilometres due to the blockade. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jaipur-delhi-highway-blockade-to-be-lifted-with-farmers-return-to-home-1059349.html
10-12-2021||North and Central||Modi to inaugurate Saryu Nahar National Project in UP's Balrampur||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will visit Uttar Pradesh's Balrampur district on Saturday and inaugurate the Saryu Nahar National Project which will provide assured water for irrigation of over 14 lakh hectares of land and benefit about 29 lakh farmers of the region, his office said. The Prime Minister's Office (PMO) said the project has been built at a total cost of over Rs 9,800 crore, out of which more than Rs 4,600 crore was provisioned in the last four years. The project also involves interlinking of five rivers --  Ghaghara, Saryu, Rapti, Banganga and Rohini -- to ensure optimum usage of water resources of the region. Prime Minister Modi will visit Balrampur, Uttar Pradesh and inaugurate the Saryu Nahar National Project on December 11 at around 1 PM, the PMO said in a statement on Friday. The work on the project started in 1978 but due to lack of continuity of budgetary support, interdepartmental coordination and adequate monitoring, it got delayed and was not completed even after nearly four decades, it said. The prime minister's vision for farmer welfare and empowerment, and his commitment to prioritise long pending projects of national importance, brought much needed focus on the project, the statement said. Consequently in 2016, the project was brought under Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchayee Yojana with the target to complete it in a time-bound manner, the PMO said. In this endeavour, innovative solutions were found for new land acquisition to construct new canals and fill the critical gaps in the project, and also for resolving the pending litigation related to the previous land acquisitions, it said. The renewed focus has resulted in the project being completed in only about four years. The project will provide assured water for irrigation of over 14 lakh hectares of land and benefit about 29 lakh farmers of more than 6,200 villages, the PMO said. It will benefit nine districts of Eastern Uttar Pradesh, namely Bahraich, Shravasti, Balrampur, Gonda, Siddharthnagar, Basti, Sant Kabir Nagar, Gorakhpur and Maharajganj, the statement said. The farmers of the region, who were the worst sufferers of the inordinate delay in the project, will now immensely benefit from the upgraded irrigation potential, it said. They will now be able to grow crops on a larger scale and maximise the agri-potential of the region, it added.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/modi-to-inaugurate-saryu-nahar-national-project-in-ups-balrampur-1059364.html
10-12-2021||North and Central||Amit Shah, Ajit Doval, others pay last respects to CDS Bipin Rawat, wife||Home Minister Amit Shah on Friday laid wreaths on the mortal remains of Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat and his wife Madhulika Rawat, who were among the 13 killed in the military chopper crash in Tamil Nadu. The mortal remains of General Rawat and his wife were kept at their official residence here before cremation.  NSA Ajit Doval also paid floral tribute to CDS Gen Bipin Rawat and his wife Madhulika Rawat. Uttarakhand Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami, BJP leader Ravi Shankar Prasad, Delhi Lt Delhi Lt Governor Anil Baijal and British Ambassador to India Alexander Ellis were among the other leaders who paid their last respects to Gen Rawat and his wife. Gen Rawat, his wife, and 11 other defence personnel were killed when a Mi17V5 helicopter carrying them crashed near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu on Wednesday. As India's first Chief of Defence Staff, Gen Rawat was tasked to bring in theatre command and jointness among the three services, and he was pushing it with a tough approach and specific timelines in the last two years. Known to be forthright, fearless, and blunt at times, the 63-year-old strongly backed a policy of hot pursuit in dealing with cross-border terrorism and militancy in Jammu and Kashmir when he was the Army Chief between 2016 and 2019. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/amit-shah-ajit-doval-others-pay-last-respects-to-cds-bipin-rawat-wife-1059373.html
10-12-2021||North and Central||Delhi Police arrests former Religare CEO in Rs 2,300 crore RFL scam case||The Economic Offences Wing of Delhi Police has arrested a former Group CEO of Religare Enterprises Limited in connection with siphoning off public money of over Rs 2,300 crore, officials said. The accused has been identified as Krishnan Subramanian, a resident of Rohini in north west Delhi, they said. According to police, Manpreet Singh Suri, AR of Religare Finvest Ltd (RFL), filed a complaint against Malvinder Mohan Singh, Shivinder Mohan Singh, Sunil Godhwani and others holding key managerial posts, alleging that these people having absolute control on Religare Enterprises Limited (REL) and its subsidiaries put RFL in poor financial condition by way of disbursing loans to companies having no financial standings. These companies willfully defaulted in repayments and caused wrongful loss to RFL to the tune of Rs 2,397 crore. This was also pointed out and flagged during their independent audit by RBI and SEBI, police said. Subramanian was the Group CEO of REL during 2017-2018. A loan against property worth Rs 115 crore was sanctioned as secured loans to three entities -- Best Health Management Pvt Ltd, M/s Vitoba Realtors Pvt Ltd and Devera Developers Pvt Ltd -- vide three separate loan facility agreements, and property documents of Asola land was kept as security with RFL, they said. Subsequently, these loans were converted to unsecured loans under the corporate loan book portfolio as title deeds of these lands were never submitted to RFL. Later on, it was found that the land which was kept as security with RFL had been exchanged without any permission or intimation to RFL, a senior police officer said. "It was also found that the property documents were released to the borrower after execution of share pledge agreement on January 10, 2018 with RHC and Elive under which the shares of Elive were pledged and the trade mark certificates with respect to Religare brand were deposited with RFL. The said SPA and subsequent release of property papers were done by Subramanian," Additional Commissioner of Police (EOW) R K Singh said. Malvinder and Shivinder along with three others have already been arrested in the case. Subramanian was held on Wedneday, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-police-arrests-former-religare-ceo-in-rs-2300-crore-rfl-scam-case-1059382.html
10-12-2021||North and Central||Contact of Omicron-infected person in Rajasthan tests positive for Covid in South Delhi||A woman contact of an Omicron case in Rajasthan has been found Covid-19 positive in Delhi and is being shifted to the Lok Nayak Hospital, officials said on Friday. The woman tested Covid positive on Thursday. She did not travel to any foreign country. 17 members in her family have been also put under home quarantine, an official said. She is being taken to the LNJP Hospital and her sample has been sent for genome sequencing to the National Centre for Disease Control, the official said, adding her contacts are being traced. Delhi had reported its first case of Omicron on Sunday -- a 37-year-old fully vaccinated man who arrived in Delhi from Tanzania. The patient, a resident of Ranchi, had travelled from Tanzania to Doha and from there to Delhi on a Qatar Airways flight on December 2. He stayed in Johannesburg, South Africa, for a week. The person has “mild symptoms”. The results of 12 out of 17 samples sent for genome sequencing were released on Sunday. Eleven of them tested negative.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/contact-of-omicron-infected-person-in-rajasthan-tests-positive-for-covid-in-south-delhi-1059384.html
10-12-2021||North and Central||Along with Muslim-Yadav equation, Samajwadi Party engaging other castes to defeat BJP in UP||The Samajwadi Party (SP), under its new strategy for the early next year Assembly polls, has stitched alliances with small parties besides eyeing the Muslim-Yadav (MY) equation. The 2022 Assembly polls are important for the SP as it has faced defeat thrice in the elections in the state. In the 2017 polls, the BJP had worked even on booth levels, formed alliances with smaller parties, managed the caste equations and reaped its dividends. Taking cue from the BJP, the SP has so far formed alliances with small parties Suheldev Bhartiya Samaj Party, Rashtriya Lok Dal, Mahan Dal, Janwadi Party and the Apna Dal (kameravadi). Recently, Aam Aadmi Party Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh met SP chief Akhilesh Yadav. Akhilesh told IANS that the situation was entirely different in 2014, 2017 and 2019, but in 2022, it has changed a lot. He claimed that the people of the state will root out the BJP in the polls. In the 2017 polls, the BJP and its allies bagged 3.59 crore votes and emerged victorious on 325 seats, the SP got 1.89 crore votes and won on 47 seats while the Congress got 54 lakh votes and won on seven seats only. Political situation is, however, different this time. Om Prakash Rajbhar's Suheldev Bhartiya Samaj Party, which was a coalition partner of the BJP, has allied with the SP this time. The Congress has also not allied with the SP this time. The biggest challenge the SP is facing is to bridge the gap of almost 1.7 crore votes. SP's former MP and an important family member of the Yadav family claimed that "vote difference is not a big issue as we had made the government in 2012". Dharmendra accused the BJP of fooling the people in the 2017 polls, saying the saffron party projected members of all castes as the chief minister's candidate, but after winning the polls, it made someone else the Chief Minister. This time, these parties will not get influenced by the BJP, he opined. Akhilesh said that the farmers, youths, traders and the entire public is with the SP this time. Dharmendra said that the SP was getting support from all quarters. Counting the achievements of the Akhilesh Yadav's government during 2012 to 2017, Dharmendra said famers, women, Dalit, OBC, all sections of the society will vote for the SP. Despite AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi entering the fray, Akhilesh is confident of his Muslim votebank. Dharmendra said, every political party want to contest the polls, but this time Akhilesh magic is sweeping the state. The SP is constantly trying to stung the BJP by holding election rallies and mobilising huge crowds. Akhilesh is trying to tell his supporters that he is ready to fight heavyweights like Prime Minister Narenda Modi and Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/along-with-muslim-yadav-equation-samajwadi-party-engaging-other-castes-to-defeat-bjp-in-up-1059395.html
10-12-2021||North and Central||Missive to play hymns at Punjab CM events draws flak, withdrawn||A missive directing the district authorities in Punjab to play hymns during the chief minister's visits in order to counter slogans by protesters drew flak from the opposition, prompting the authorities to roll it back citing “clerical error”. The office of the Inspector General of Police (IGP) of the Special Protection Unit had on Thursday issued a letter to the deputy commissioners, police commissioners and senior superintendents of police with the subject, “Regarding security arrangements during chief minister's visit.” The letter, in Punjabi, stated that various bodies raise slogans during the chief minister's visits. “Therefore, whenever there is a function/programme of the Punjab chief minister in your district and different organisations hold demonstrations, DJ be placed and gurbani shabad (hymns)/religious songs be played so the slogans are not heard.” After the letter went viral on social media, Aam Aadmi Party MLA and leader of opposition in Punjab Assembly Harpal Singh Cheema slammed the government and dubbed the order “utterly shameful”. He also uploaded the order on his twitter handle.  “How afraid you are @CHARANJITCHANNI? Trying to silence voice of protesting unions by such tactics shows your fear from them. You are not ready to face them & hear them. All you do is drama of being a sympathizer of all those who are fighting for their rights. Utterly Shameful,” Cheema tweeted on Thursday.         Senior Congress leader and former Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar said in a tweet, “It couldn't be true ! Sacrilegious and a mockery of democracy.” After drawing severe criticism, the office of the IG came out with another missive on Thursday evening stating the “earlier letter is being withdrawn because of clerical mistake”. “It is informed that when the Punjab chief minister is hearing pleas of the general public, the sound of loud speakers be lowered so that he does not face any inconvenience in hearing out the public,” the revised letter stated. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/missive-to-play-hymns-at-punjab-cm-events-draws-flak-withdrawn-1059426.html
10-12-2021||North and Central||Rajasthan government changes public school uniforms, sparks controversy||The Rajasthan government's decision to change the colour of its school uniform has stoked a controversy with the opposition BJP calling it a move to please the Congress high command. The earlier BJP government led by Vasundhara Raje had in 2017 changed the uniform colours to shades of brown. The Congress back then had alleged these colours resembled the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh's uniform. Nearly three years after coming to power in December 2018, the Ashok Gehlot-led Congress government has now issued orders to revise the colours from the next academic year. As per the school education department's order on December 8, boys will be seen in surf blue shirts and dark grey trousers while the girl students will wear surf blue kurtas or shirts and dark grey salwars or skirts.   Former education minister Vasudev Devnani said that the previous government had changed the school uniform colour to give a new look and a proud experience and that the change was introduced after discussions with students and teachers. Calling the Gehlot government's decision “very shameful”, he said that it was to please the party high command. The decision will put a financial burden on 98 lakh parents, Devnani pointed out. “There is no rule of law in the state. Serious crimes are being committed against girls in government schools and the level of education is deteriorating. But, the attention of the government is maliciously focused only on the change of colour of the cycle, uniform and curriculum,” he said. Devnani also alleged that enrolment in government schools was on the decline. Another BJP leader, who did not wish to be named, said that the Congress government's decision was illogical and that it would further burden the parents who are reeling under financial distress due to Covid-19. Rejecting the BJP's allegations, School Education Minister BD Kalla said that the change should not be seen in a political light. He said the process of changing the uniform was approved by his predecessor Govind Singh Dotasra. “There is nothing political. It is the BJP which always works on an agenda,” he said.   Dotasra, also the Congress chief, said the decision to change the school uniform was taken on the recommendation of a six-member committee. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-government-changes-public-school-uniforms-sparks-controversy-1059430.html
10-12-2021||North and Central||NCPCR issues notice on complaint of feeding beef to kids in MP||The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) on Friday issued a notice to the Superintendent of Police (SP) of Sagar district in Madhya Pradesh, seeking its report on a complaint of feeding cow meat to children at sewadham ashram. The move came after the Commission received a complaint against St. Francis Sevadham located in the Shyampura area under Sagar district in Madhya Pradesh. The complaint alleged that children were being forced to eat beef and read the Bible. Recently, two siblings residing in St. Francis Sevadham with the help of their parents lodged a complaint in the Cantt police station in the district. As per the report, children have alleged that "they were forced to eat cow meat and read the Bible. On refusing to do so, the children alleged that they would be harassed by the ashram authorities." Acting on the complaint, the NCPCR has directed Sagar District SP to investigate the matter and submit its report within next 48 hours. Father of the two children, Deshraj Raikvar had written a letter to the Child Welfare Committee, Sagar, mentioning that a woman, who introduced herself as a social worker, took his children to the sevadham ashram. "I went to meet my children many times, but they did not allow me to meet them. Somehow, once I got a chance to meet them. My children said they did not want to stay at the ashram because they are being forced to eat cow meat. They were beaten up for refusing to eat the meat and reading the Bible," Deshraj wrote in his letter to the Child Welfare Committee, Sagar. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ncpcr-issues-notice-on-complaint-of-feeding-beef-to-kids-in-mp-1059431.html
10-12-2021||North and Central||Delhi pollution: SC tells Air Quality Management Commission to examine relaxation ||The Supreme Court on Friday asked the Commission for Air Quality Management in Delhi Adjoining States to take a decision on relaxing ban on construction and other restrictions on industrial and other activities, imposed due to poor air quality in the national capital. A bench of Chief Justice N V Ramana and Justices D Y Chandrachud and Surya Kant said the Commission would consider the matter after taking views of various state governments. "We direct the Commission to examine requests of various industries and organisations about relaxation of conditions imposed by virtue of our orders or otherwise as per their circulars," the bench said. The court gave the Commission a week's time to look into the matter. Following this, the bench disposed of the intervention applications filed by builders' forum, operators of sugar industries, rice and paper mills, etc. The bench asked them to approach the commission with their grievances. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for the rice manufacturers, submitted before the bench that they had made a representation in the first week of December seeking relaxation, but the Commission has not decided it yet. The bench responded that till now there was no question of relaxation.  "We are all in Delhi, we all know the condition, just now, it started improving," the bench said. As senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi, representing the Delhi government, contended that the government has given a list of 26 hospitals, in connection with construction activity, but court had last time only mentioned seven in its order.  The bench said the Commission would examine the matter. The court also directed the state governments to file affidavits showing compliance with the order in connection with the payment of minimum wages to labourers during the period of construction ban. Appearing for PIL petitioner Aditya Dubey, senior advocate Vikas Singh said things have become better now and the critical period is over. He, however, said, the court would require to give proper hearing to the issue of stubble burning and air quality standards for Delhi. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-pollution-sc-tells-air-quality-management-commission-to-examine-relaxation-1059433.html
10-12-2021||North and Central||Centre allots five genome sequencing machines to Madhya Pradesh||The Centre has allotted five genome sequencing machines to Madhya Pradesh, where no case of Omicron, a new variant of coronavirus, has been detected so far, state minister Vishwas Sarang said on Friday. The allotment has come a day after the state medical education minister met Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya in Delhi. “The five machines will be installed at Bhopal, Indore, Jabalpur, Rewa and Gwalior cities. At present, the samples collected in Madhya Pradesh are being sent to Delhi for genome sequencing, and it takes over 10 days to get reports," Sarang said. These machines with help shorten the detection time considerably, he said. The minister further said that the Union Health and Family Welfare Ministry has accepted the state government's demand for a special package to ramp up six government medical colleges and funds for the upkeep of nursing colleges in the state. The Centre has also given a nod for setting up a new super-speciality hospital in Bhopal, he added. According to the state health department, a total of 7,93,307 cases of Covid-19 have been detected in the state so far, including 10,529 casualties.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/centre-allots-five-genome-sequencing-machines-to-madhya-pradesh-1059445.html
10-12-2021||North and Central||Speaker rejects Congress' no-trust notice on 1st day of Himachal Assembly session||Himachal Pradesh Assembly Speaker rejected a notice by the Congress to move a no-confidence motion against the BJP government on Friday, saying that the move was not backed by the required numbers. The leader of the opposition Mukesh Agnihotri stated that the present BJP government has lost people's confidence as it lost the recent bypolls of Mandi parliamentary and the three assembly seats of Arki, Fatehpur and Jubbal-Kotkhai. He said that Jai Ram Thakur should have resigned as chief minister, paving way for the fresh election after losing all the four seats in the recent bypolls. However, Speaker Vipin Parmar cancelled the motion saying that only 18 Congress members were present in the Assembly while the notice for a no-trust motion needed the backing of the one-third members of the House. Amid uproar on the issue by the ruling and opposition benches, the proceedings of the House were adjourned for the lunch. Earlier, the Assembly passed a condolence motion to pay tribute to Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat, his wife Madhulika Rawat and 11 others who died in a helicopter crash in Tamil Nadu. The condolence motion was moved by Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur as soon as the House assembled at 11 am on the first day of the Winter Session at Tapovan in Dharamshala. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/speaker-rejects-congress-no-trust-notice-on-1st-day-of-himachal-assembly-session-1059468.html
10-12-2021||North and Central||Can't force paternity test on rape survivor's child: Allahabad HC||In a significant decision, the Allahabad High Court has said that a rape survivor can not be forced to put her child to a DNA test to ascertain its paternity. A single bench comprising Justice Sangeeta Chandra of the Lucknow bench of the Allahabad High Court passed the order on a petition filed by the mother of a rape survivor seeking to challenge the order of a POCSO Court directing the victim for the DNA test of her child to determine paternity of the baby. The POCSO court had given the order on an application moved by the minor rape accused seeking DNA test of the child. The high court said that the rape survivor could not be "forced" to allow her child to undergo the DNA test to ascertain the baby's paternity. ''The consent of the rape survivor is essential for the DNA test,'' the court said in its order. It also said that the question before the POCSO court was whether the offense of rape had been committed and not who the father of the baby was. According to the prosecution, an FIR was lodged with the police in Sultanpur district in 2017 by a woman, who had alleged that the accused had raped her 14-year old daughter and that she was seven months pregnant. Since the accused was a minor, the case was heard by the Juvenile Justice Board (JJB). During the pendency of the case, the victim gave birth to a baby. The accused filed an application before the JJB seeking a DNA test of the baby but the Board rejected the application. The accused thereafter moved the POCSO Court which ordered for the DNA test of the child. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cant-force-paternity-test-on-rape-survivors-child-allahabad-hc-1059475.html
10-12-2021||North and Central||Two cops shot dead by militants in Kashmir||Unidentified militants on Friday shot dead two policemen in North Kashmir's Bandipora district on Friday evening. An official said that militants opened indiscriminate fire on a police party in the Gulshan Chowk area of Bandipora, in which two policemen were injured.  The injured policemen were immediately shifted to a hospital where they were declared brought dead, he said.  The slain policemen were identified as Mohammad Sultan and Fayaz Ahmad. The official said that immediately after the attack the area was cordoned off and a manhunt was launched to nab the attackers.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-cops-shot-dead-by-militants-in-kashmir-1059496.html
10-12-2021||North and Central||On second day of offer, MapmyIndia receives 6.16 times subscription||The initial share sale of CE Info Systems Ltd, the parent of digital mapping company MapmyIndia, elicited 6.16 times subscription and all categories were oversubscribed on the second day of the offering on Friday. Popularly known through its brand MapmyIndia, the company is backed by global wireless technologies company Qualcomm and Japanese digital mapping firm Zenrin. The latest data available with the BSE showed that the company received 4,33,94,624 bids for 70,44,762 shares on sale, which translates to a subscription of 6.16 times. Among the categories, the Retail Individual Investors (RIIs) portion received the maximum subscription at 7.17 times with 2,52,38,542 bids. The shares on offer are 35,22,381. According to the data, the subscription stood at 4.32 times for the Qualified Institutional Buyers (QIBs) section. For the 20,12,789 shares on offer, the bids received touched 86,97,668. With respect to non-institutional investors, the subscription was 6.27 times as the number of bids was at 94,58,414 against 15,09,592 shares on sale. The company mopped up Rs 312 crore from anchor investors on Wednesday. The IPO is entirely an offer for sale of up to 10,063,945 equity shares by existing shareholders and promoters. The price band for the issue is Rs 1,000-1,033 a share. The company provides advanced digital maps, geospatial software and location-based IoT technologies, and among others, it powers Apple maps. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/on-second-day-of-offer-mapmyindia-receives-616-times-subscription-1059528.html
10-12-2021||Opinion||Hybrid immunity may help protect against Omicron||Covid-19 has ravaged many countries and claimed millions of lives in the past two years. In India, too, a pandemic caused by the SARS-CoV-2 virus had affected many between April and May 2021 and before that. The national sero-survey conducted post-second wave showed a seropositivity rate of about 80 per cent, including in children, which means this population has developed antibodies against the contagion, either through exposure to the virus or through vaccination. After the second wave, the world's largest adult vaccination programme launched on January 16, 2021, by the prime minister accelerated coverage of the maximum eligible population in record time. Presently, over 50 per cent of the adult population is fully vaccinated, and more than 85 per cent of them have received at least one dose of the Covid-19 vaccine. It indicates that a large proportion of the population has developed a hybrid immunity through both natural infection and vaccination. When a human body is exposed to a natural infection or is being inoculated, it generates an immune response that helps fight infections in the future. This helps protect the body against pathogens, such as Covid-19, which may lead to severe disease or even death. Hybrid immunity is believed to provide greater protection against SARS-CoV-2 variants.  It has also been observed that people who have received one dose of vaccine after being infected have developed a fairly good level of immunity against Covid-19 mutants, including Omicron. First reported in South Africa, the Omicron variant has now been found in more than 57 countries. It has about 30 mutations on its spike protein and is said to be a few times more transmissible than the Delta variant, which caused the severe second wave in India and other countries. The Omicron variant has become a cause of great concern worldwide, with many countries imposing restrictions and taking severe measures to contain its spread. Though the initial scientific evidence suggests that Omicron is causing a milder form of the disease with symptoms such as body aches, sore throat, cough, and mild fever, it is better to be more cautious and prepared. People worldwide have also realised that timely precautions can prevent the spread of the virus to a great extent. So, we need to follow personal protective measures such as wearing masks, maintaining a safe distance, avoiding gatherings, and sanitising hands regularly. Besides, those who have not taken their first or second dose of vaccine should now take it on a priority basis. Alongside, by making air travel, both domestic and international, as safe as possible through rigorous testing and screening at the airports, contact tracing, and quarantining of positive as well as suspected cases, we can prevent its spread at an early stage. Stringent surveillance will also help keep a tab on its outbreak in the country. The pattern of the pandemic in the last two years has shown us that a global health crisis like this can be dealt with collectively. Many countries have found innovative ways to safeguard their population. Germany, for example, does not allow gatherings at restaurants until one is fully vaccinated or tested negative for Covid-19. Britain has reinforced masking and other restrictions. In November 2021, India too had launched the Har Ghar Dastak campaign, which had healthcare workers go door to door addressing various contextual concerns that may stop people from taking the vaccine. The ongoing campaign is receiving good support from the vaccine eligible population. Many have taken their scheduled vaccine, thus protecting their communities and society from the virus. From our past experiences, we find that a virus dies its natural death, provided we keep ourselves safe and be patient till it does. After all, Covid is a community disease.  (Dr Vikas Bhatia is Director, AIIMS, Bibinagar) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/hybrid-immunity-may-help-protect-against-omicron-1059386.html
10-12-2021||Opinion||Back to square one for farmers: Govt proposals merely a face-saver to end agitation||Upcoming Assembly elections in five states, including agriculture-dominated Uttar Pradesh and Punjab, cornered the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led National Democratic Alliance government to acquiesce on agitating farmers' demands. However, trust deficit marks the communication between the government and the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) leaders. The SKM insists on written assurances from the government on official letterhead, while the latter wants them to lift their siege of Delhi before their demands are met in principle. The issue of mandatory payment of minimum support price (MSP) for 23 notified farm commodities remains a sticking point to be discussed in a committee to be set up. The only consolation for the SKM is that the government agreed to include their representatives on the panel. However, the letter of proposals sent to the SKM on December 9 by the Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers' Welfare, Sanjay Agarwal, is vague on specifics. It sets no time frame within which the issues will be resolved. While talking about the withdrawal of cases against farmers during the agitation, it does not mention the Republic Day and Lakhimpur Kheri incidents, which are contentious issues. Similarly, after first dismissing outright the demand for relief to families of over 700 farmers who lost their lives during the agitation, the official letter said that states had agreed to pay but did not mention the quantum of compensation. The Congress-ruled Punjab government, whose term ends early next year, has declared a compensation of Rs 5 lakh each, and it can be assumed that other states will follow suit. The ball has been nudged into the states' court. On the amendments to the Electricity Act, the government has gone back on its assurance given to SKM representatives during their initial 11 rounds of talks in November-December 2020 that the amendments regarding privatisation of distribution of power will be withdrawn. On the contrary, the government listed the amended Bill for discussion during the ongoing winter session of Parliament. However, the Union secretary's proposal to the SKM says that the government will consult stakeholders, including farmers, before amending the Act. Ever since Parliament repealed the three contentious reforms-oriented farm laws on November 29, the SKM has raised the pitch for mandatory payment of the MSP, which was an issue flagged from the beginning. The MSP is a major instrument of the agriculture price policy of the government and is a safety net for farmers against price fluctuations, climate vagaries and market glut. The government procures farmers' produce for its central pool and gives them a guaranteed price and assured procurement under the State Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee Act. Farmers bemoan that without legal guarantees, state/government agencies set lower procurement targets and pay lower prices than the declared MSP to farmers, especially small and marginal farmers who lack storage facilities. There is no doubt that the forthcoming Assembly elections have triggered the government's latest move. However, it still refuses to meet farmer leaders to iron out differences and bring clarity on either side's understanding of the issues. As far as Punjab is concerned, the BJP is a distant fourth party in the fray, and according to political analysts, it is likely to remain so. Punjab farmers are peeved at how they were treated and at the loss of their colleagues during the agitation. In Uttar Pradesh, the Samajwadi Party has already stitched an alliance with the Rashtriya Lok Dal, which will give it an upper hand in western UP. Even otherwise, in UP, which accounts for nearly half of the farming population, peasants are unhappy over the MSP issue hanging fire. Farmer leaders do not expect much to come out of the proposed MSP committee, which they feel will obfuscate the matter and put the issue on the backburner once the farmers withdraw from Delhi's borders. The report of a similar internal committee set up in the Agriculture Ministry during the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government did not see the light of the day. Political will seems to be lacking on this issue. The only gain, and a major one at that, is that farmers have united under the umbrella of the SKM and have created a historical platform for themselves with farm women as equal partners.   So the result for farmers is that they are back to square one, and the government's target of doubling farmers' income by 2022, which is barely three weeks away, remains a distant goal.  For now, the government proposals are a face-saver for farmers to end their agitation.  (Gargi Parsai is a senior journalist based in New Delhi) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/back-to-square-one-for-farmers-govt-proposals-merely-a-face-saver-to-end-agitation-1059434.html
10-12-2021||Opinion||Nagaland killings a reminder why AFSPA should go||On Monday, while speaking in the Lok Sabha about the recent killings of 15 civilians in Nagaland by the Army, Union Home Minister Amit Shah said the Government of India expresses deep regret over the unfortunate incident. Instead of going into the root cause of the incident, Shah tried to justify it by claiming it to have been a mistake. According to him, the Army had received information on the movement of extremists and, based on this, laid an ambush in the suspected area. "A vehicle reached there, it was signalled to stop, but it tried to flee. On suspicion of the vehicle carrying extremists, it was fired upon," he told Parliament, adding later that it was discovered they were civilians.  But few, least of all in the Northeast, are convinced that the civilians were killed by mistake or suspicion as they were trying to flee. Nyawang Konyak, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)'s Mon district president, the district where the killings took place, termed the claim Shah made in Parliament a lie. According to media reports, disappointment among party leaders was evident in the BJP's Nagaland state executive's WhatsApp group.  More importantly, the killings have revived the demands for repeal of the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act [AFSPA]. Unlike in the past, not just the much-maligned human rights defenders, but a larger section of the Northeast's society and mainstream political parties have demanded repeal. People have realised such killings are likely to continue as long as the AFSPA is in force. After all, something like this has not happened in the region for the first time.  On November 2, 2000, 10 civilians were gunned down allegedly by the 8th Assam Rifles at Malom Makha Leikai, near Imphal (Manipur)'s Tulihal airport while waiting at a bus stop. The victims included Leisangbam Ibetombi, a 62-year-old woman, and 18-year-old Sinam Chandramani, a winner of the National Bravery Award. The incident forced activist Irom Sharmila to sit on a hunger strike against the AFSPA, which lasted 16 years. According to a report prepared by the Extrajudicial Execution Victims' Families Association Manipur (EEVFAM), "during the period May 1979 to May 2012, at least 1,528 people were killed in Manipur alone by security forces on the basis of suspicion or terming them terrorists or their allies. Based on this report, towards the end of 2012, a PIL was filled in the Supreme Court of India. In July 2016, the SC concluding that indeed several innocent people were killed by the security forces had remarked: "if members of our armed forces are deployed and employed to kill citizens of our country on the mere allegation or suspicion, that they are the 'enemy', not only the rule of law, but our democracy would be in grave danger". However, despite these strong words by the SC, 'action' has been taken in only a few of the cases. According to a recent report by the EVFAM, of the 1,528 cases filed by the organisation, the CBI had registered 39 FIRs and filed chargesheets in only 19 cases. Even a cursory glance of these cases tells us that this culture of impunity continues to prevail because the draconian AFSPA allows security personnel to kill anyone on mere suspicion in the name of maintaining law and order in the so-called disturbed areas.  According to the Act, in an area declared "disturbed", even a non-commissioned officer of the armed forces has powers to: "Fire upon or otherwise use force, even to the extent of causing death, against any person who is acting in contravention of any law", against "assembly of five or more persons" or possession of deadly weapons. Moreover, to arrest without a warrant and with the use of 'necessary' force on anyone who has committed certain offences or is suspected of having done so and to enter and search any premise at any time in order to make such arrests. It gives army officers legal protection for their actions. There can be no prosecution, suit, or other legal proceedings against anyone acting under the law.  The AFSPA is dangerous because it makes human rights violations routine in areas declared "disturbed". It is also problematic because once the AFSPA is in force, as it is in a large part of the Northeast, the government, through a simple notification, can declare any area, the entire state, or parts of the state, as "disturbed" without any public debate. For example, in July, the Union Home Ministry declared the entire Nagaland a "disturbed area" for six more months till December 31, under AFSPA that empowers security forces to conduct operations anywhere and arrest anyone without prior notice. In this manner, an area can remain "disturbed" for years with no end. Furthermore, the AFSPA legitimises a localised form of indefinite emergency rule. As we, along with the rest of the world, observe Human Rights Day today, December 10, it is important to remember that laws like the AFSPA are an antithesis of international human rights norms and our constitutional values. The repeal of the AFSPA will not only minimise human casualties but also save the soul of our democracy. (The writer is a multilingual journalist and researcher)  Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/nagaland-killings-a-reminder-why-afspa-should-go-1059517.html
10-12-2021||Opinion||The return of the native||When news broke that Parag Agrawal became CEO of Twitter, following in the footsteps of Sundar Pichai of Google and Satya Nadella of Microsoft and others, there was effusive praise about the rise of Indians in the US. But the joy of their achievements is overshadowed by the loss for India. Is it the state of affairs of our country, our own failings, or is it simply their apathy or just the lure of lucre that draws them to foreign shores? It has been a steady loss of Indian talent over the last five decades. When they left, these were among our most gifted young men and women from our premier institutions who migrated after securing subsidised education, which leaves a twinge of pain.   A thought crossed my mind about the many Indians who had gone abroad for higher studies to the West, around a century ago, who gave up successful and lucrative careers, who did not yield to the temptation to stay back, but returned to India. And they did so during India’s bleakest times and became a source of inspiration and beacons of light to countless people who joined them to win independence and to struggle to remove poverty, ignorance, social evils and injustice. They saw the same India as the others and sought to make it better, rather than to dismiss it as hopeless and make their lives elsewhere when they had the chance to do so.    These men and women are part of our recent history and lore, whose triumphs over trials and tribulations, indomitable courage and dedication and sacrifices to uplift our people are awe-inspiring.   Gandhi, who had a fairly prosperous legal practice in South Africa after becoming a barrister in England, returned to India and is universally known and his life is deified; the saga of Ambedkar is even more stirring and inspiring. A Dalit who grew up in extreme poverty, whose family suffered untouchability, went on to study in two of the most iconic institutions — Columbia University in the US and the London School of Economics -- earning from these institutions not one but two doctorate degrees in economics. He was also a barrister at law from Gray’s Inn, a scholar in economics, law and political science and the architect of our Constitution. He dedicated his entire life to the uplift of Dalits.   The sacrifices of Jawaharlal Nehru, born to a wealthy father, Motilal Nehru, and educated at Harrow and Cambridge and who too became a barrister after training in the law at the Inner Temple, gave up everything and sailed to India to join the freedom movement, ignites your mind and heart. The tale of Bose, who returned from Cambridge, and his daring leadership in Congress and later of Azad Hind Fauj is electrifying. Sardar Patel saved up money to go to London and trained in law at the Middle Temple Inn, become a barrister topping his class but took a ship back to India to later join Gandhi’s freedom struggle.   The lives of Aurobindo Ghosh, the revolutionary who returned from Cambridge and became a mystic, and Sarojini Naidu, the poet known as the Nightingale of India, an alumni of King’s College London and Cambridge, who came back and plunged into the freedom struggle, animate and swell your heart.   Shyama Prasad Mukherjee became a barrister after graduating from Lincoln’s Inn, but came back to initially join Congress, later led the Hindu Mahasabha, distanced himself from it over the assassination of Gandhi, became a minister in Nehru’s cabinet, quit and went on to found the Bharatiya Jan Sangh, the forerunner to the BJP.    Their stories and their struggles, the adventures of their minds, their reformist zeal and inextinguishable optimism, and their love for the country invigorate and fascinate you. They returned to a country in its darkest period of oppression by the British, riven by factions and internal strife, a caste and communal cauldron, and to a people mired in poverty. They faced beatings and bullets and long prison sentences. And it is troubling that while those extraordinary individuals chose to return to repair our society‘s ills, those who are beating a beeline to America and leaving the country are doing it because of our overwhelming problems -- of lack of opportunity, casteism and flawed reservations, social and communal strife, corruption, and an ecosystem that does not reward merit.   Why have our young become anaesthetised to the ills of our society and are turning their back on India and heading to the West? Why is a similar zeal and fervour missing today? Have globalisation and technology desensitised and deadened our nobler feelings and sentiments? Is it a blind worship of the West and its opulence that has dulled our senses? Why are those who have settled abroad, despite their good jobs, more insecure today and increasingly jingoistic in advising their kin here to “preserve our culture” and “Hindu supremacy”. That is worrying and unworthy of our glorious civilisation and heritage.   In the years before Independence and post-Independence, right uptil 1974, when US and Western sanctions kicked in, the likes of Nehru and Indira Gandhi, and Homi Bhabha and Vikram Sarabhai would recruit and send hundreds of freedom fighters, scientists and engineers, artists and academics, leaders and managers abroad and provide them opportunities to come back and serve India.  Thus, Jayaprakash Narayan, initially fired up by the son-of-the-soil patriotism of Maulana Abul Kalam Azad, returned from the University of Wisconsin and joined the Indian National Congress on Jawaharlal Nehru’s invitation and became a hero of the Quit India Movement, later going on to oppose Indira Gandhi and Emergency, galvanising the youth of the country and the opposition parties; then there’s Verghese Kurien, whom the Nehru government sent off to study nuclear engineering but who came back to be sent to Anand to build the Amul dairy movement. Hundreds, if not thousands, of nuclear and space scientists and engineers went abroad thus and came back to serve India’s strategic programmes; others built the civilian science institutions and workforce; still others came back to teach at IITs and IIMs and AIIMS, etc.  Those who cross the oceans to discover and ‘conquer’ new lands should be celebrated with generosity, whatever our reservations. But all those, from all religious denominations, who are keen to come back to their motherland must be embraced with open heart and arms, invoking in them the spirit of our ancient verse from the Ramayana - Janani Janmabhumischa Swargadapi Gariyasi (Mother and motherland are superior to even heaven).                    (The writer is a soldier, farmer and entrepreneur)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-return-of-the-native-1059590.html
10-12-2021||Right in the Middle||A long-lost book||Nieces and nephews are an underestimated gift to people. The advantage of having them could be likened to having children of your own, without the headaches that often go with it. You can treat them like your own children, or as adults, play with them, humour them or advise them, and without reason or rime, ignore them and walk away. No one notices, no one complains. Bachelors and bachelor girls can have first-hand experience of parenthood if they can play the game, with genuine affection for good measure, to master the art the proper way. I have had children of my own but I have been blessed with a lot of nieces and nephews as well; I know this has enriched my life to no end. I discovered the truth of it all only by chance, and I might have even missed it totally had it not been for an email from a niece recently that lit up another revelation as to how we can never guess where, why, when, and how they might remember us. To all immigrants like me who have left India, life maintains its excitement and variety with the spray of visits we make back home every now and then. Each visit has a highlight that stays as a link made of steel. I looked forward to one such visit that would add a new person to my life: I would be meeting my younger brother’s daughter for the first time. I bought a pretty little dress and a children’s book. When I handed them to her, the little girl was happy to wear the dress and sat down, placed the open book on her stretched-out legs and started turning the pages. Strange English words, and stranger colorful pictures. And that was the end of that as years rolled by as they will. Today I received an email with a cover picture attached from the same niece, now married and settled down in Germany with a five-year-old daughter. “Dear Indu Aunty, I don’t know if you remember, but you had given this book to me when I was in First Grade in 1990. Unfortunately the book was lost in the process of us moving from Banashankari to Basavanagudi in 1994. However, I found this book again at a thrift store all for six euros! It is amazing because I have never forgotten this book. The pictures are so hauntingly beautiful.” Since I did not even vaguely remember the book, I was seized by a desire to hold it in my hands and read it from beginning to end. I went searching online and found one available on Amazon for $99! A more realistic offer was from a thrift bookstore here somewhere in the Midwest for $7 that I ordered right away. Next time I visit Bengaluru, I will gift it to a child.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/a-long-lost-book-1059595.html
10-12-2021||Second Edit||Worrying picture of states’ finances||The RBI’s latest report on states’ finances presents a gloomy picture and gives an idea of the challenges they may face in the near future. It says they are experiencing loss of income and rising expenditure and indebtedness, which together make their financial position very difficult. Their finances were badly hit in the first half of 2020-21 when the compression of tax revenues and higher expenditures together generated unprecedented pressures on fiscal positions. Fiscal deficits rose to very high levels. Since most of the fight against the pandemic was done at the level of the states and the local bodies, their finances were most affected by it. Apart from Covid management, many states also had to deal with problems like the reverse migration of workers. Even now they have to deal with the pandemic situation and have the task of further improving the public health system and social security nets so that they can better cope with future challenges. The report has also noted that the pandemic may leave lasting scars on federalism in the country.  The RBI has also underlined the need for better empowerment of urban local bodies and panchayati raj institutions. A survey made by it among local bodies found that the deterioration of their finances during the pandemic could impact their ability to provide services to local communities. They had to do a lot of work that they had not done before. Every one of them had to undertake quarantine and testing work, sanitise environs, run vaccination facilities and manage clinics and hospitals. The experience gained in such work would stand them in good stead, but it was found that 98% of the local bodies saw an increase in expenditure and fall in revenues. They had to borrow funds and draw on reserve funds. The financial impact will affect their capacity to maintain and create infrastructure and to provide facilities in future.  The RBI has suggested that the financial autonomy of civic bodies should be raised, and their governance structures strengthened. The report has noted that property taxes are their main source of revenue but there is scope for raising more resources through taxes. It has also proposed issuance of bonds against tax revenues. The report has outlined some areas of financial reform and underlined the need for transparency in the working of the bodies. The suggestions also include boosting development and green finance and making use of land-based financial opportunities. The RBI wants the states to maintain quality spending and support local bodies with greater powers and supportive policies. It specifically wants the spending on health to go up to 2.5% of GDP. It is currently only about 1.5%.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/worrying-picture-of-states-finances-1059592.html
10-12-2021||South||Polling under way for six seats of Telangana Legislative Council||Polling was under way amid tight security on Friday for biennial elections to six seats of Telangana Legislative Council from local authority constituencies. Local body representatives including corporators, councilors, ZPTC and MPTC members were casting their votes in five undivided districts of Adilabad, Karimnagar, Khammam, Medak and Nalgonda. The polling was on for two seats in Karimnagar district and one each in the remaining four districts. According to poll officials, a total of 5,326 voters will decide the political fortunes of 26 candidates. The polling, which began at 8 am at all 37 polling stations in the six constituencies, will continue till 4 pm. Counting of votes will be taken up on December 14. State Chief Electoral Officer Shashank Goel said all arrangements were made to ensure free and fair polling. He was monitoring the poll process from Hyderabad. District collectors, police commissioners, superintendents of police and other officials were supervising the arrangements in their respective districts. The officials were also taking steps to ensure strict adherence to Covid-19 protocol during the polling. They banned mobile phones and cameras in the polling centres.  Facing rebel trouble, ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) had shifted its local body members to Bengaluru, Goa, Delhi and other places to prevent the opposition parties from poaching its voters. They were brought to a resort on the outskirts of Hyderabad on Thursday and left for their respective districts on Friday morning. TRS rebel candidate and former Karimnagar mayor Sardar Ravinder Singh is contesting from one of the seats in Karimnagar district. The BJP is supporting him. Congress candidates are in the fray in Medak, Khammam and Adilabad. The Election Commission of India had last month issued notification for election to six seats of the Council from local authority constituencies. Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao's daughter K Kavitha and five other candidates of ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) were declared elected unanimously. Kavitha was elected from Nizamabad constituency. The others who were elected to upper house of the state legislature are Patnam Mahender Reddy, Shambipur Raju (both from Rangareddy district), Pochampally Srinivas Reddy (Warangal), Kasireddy Narayana Reddy and Kuchumalla Damodar Reddy(both from Mahabubnagar district). Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/polling-under-way-for-six-seats-of-telangana-legislative-council-1059370.html
10-12-2021||South||'Tamil Thai Vazhthu' is prayer song, not Anthem: Madras HC||The 'Tamil Thai Vaazhthu', an invocation, is only a prayer song and not a National Anthem and hence, there is no need for every one to remain in standing posture when it is rendered, the Madras High Court bench here has ruled. Justice G R Swaminathan gave the ruling recently while quashing an FIR registered against "Nam Tamilar Katchi" (NTK) functionaries by the Remeswaram police in Ramanathapuram district, in 2018. The then Tamil Nadu Governor Banwarilal Purohit released a Tamil-Sanskrit dictionary at a function held in Music Academy, Chennai in the presence of the Pontiff of the Kanchi Kamakoti Peetam Sri Vijayendra Saraswathi on January 24, 2018. When the invocation song to Mother Tamil, 'Tamil Thai Vaazhthu' was played, the seer remained seated and this triggered considerable outrage and debate. Kan Ilango, now associated with NTK and then part of "Tamilar Desiya Munnani", and his men entered the branch of the Kanchi Mutt in Rameswaram, shouting slogans, condemning the Shankaracharya. They allegedly entered the Mutt premises wearing footwear. When the Mutt manager protested, he was criminally intimidated. Hence, a case was registered against them for offences under various sections of the IPC including rioting and criminal intimidation. Hence, the present criminal original petition from Ilango, challenging the FIR. Justice Swaminathan noted that Sec. 3 of the Prevention of Insults to National Honour Act, 1971 states whoever intentionally prevents the singing of the National Anthem or causes disturbance to any assembly engaged in such singing shall be punished with imprisonment which may extend to three years, or with fine, or with both. Article 51A(a) of the Constitution mandates it shall be the duty of every citizen of India to respect the National Flag and the National Anthem. When three school children who were adherents of Jehovah's Witnesses, a Christian denomination, refused to sing the National Anthem, they were expelled from the school, in Kerala. The matter reached the Supreme Court, which struck down the expulsion and directed their re-admission in the school. The Supreme Court had held that the children while refusing to sing had stood up respectfully, the judge said. It was noted there is no provision of law which obliges anyone to sing the National Anthem. The apex Court judges did not think it is disrespectful to the National Anthem if a person who stands up respectfully when the National Anthem is sung, does not join the singing. After a discussion regarding the right to freedom of conscience and freedom to profess, practice and propagate religion the court concluded “our tradition teaches tolerance; our philosophy preaches tolerance; our Constitution practices tolerance; let us not dilute it”. Allowing the petition, the Madras HC also pointed out that there is no statutory or executive order requiring the attendees to stand up when Tamil Thai Vazhthu is sung. It was not a National Anthem. But highest reverence and respect ought to be shown to Tamil Thai Vaazhthu. It is true that the members of the audience conventionally stand up whenever Tamil Thai Vaazhthu is sung. But the question is whether this is the only mode in which respect can be shown. When we celebrate pluralism and diversity, insisting there can be only one way of showing respect, it reeks of hypocrisy. One should not forget that a Sanyasi occupies a special place in the social and cultural life. Emperors and Kings have prostrated before Sanyasis and Fakirs. In the epics whenever a Sanyasi entered the royal court, the King will step down from his throne and pay his respects. On becoming a Sanyasi, the person suffers a civil death. He must be taken to have a re-birth. A Sanyasi primarily leads a life of piety. When in prayer, he is invariably found in a meditative posture. Since Tamil invocation is a prayer song, a Sanyasi is certainly justified in sitting in a state of meditation. In the instant case, the pontiff is seen sitting in a Dhyana (meditative) posture with his eyes closed. It was his way of expressing his reverence and respect for Mother Tamil, the judge said and also set aside the case pending before the Rameswaram police station.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-thai-vazhthu-is-prayer-song-not-anthem-madras-hc-1059419.html
10-12-2021||South||Ahead of CPI(M) conferences, Kerala CM ensures everything is firmly under his belt||To ensure that his clout over the party is firmly under his belt, Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan is leaving nothing to chance, as he has decided to take the centre stage at the 14 district party conferences, the first of which begins on Friday at his home district-Kannur. In the CPI(M), an out and out cadre party, where everything is well planned and the leaders are elected, the most important event of every party unit is the state conference held in every state once in three years and the district level party conference is the last one ahead of the state conference to be held in Ernakulam in February. Even though aberrations have surfaced at quite a few districts when the lower level committee meetings were held, where sounds of anti-Vijayan was heard, the decision that Vijayan himself will arrive in most of the district conference, clearly shows that he does not wish to lose the grip he has in the party for close to two decades. The grassroots party meetings at districts like Alappuzha, Kannur, Idukki, Ernakulam and Malappuram saw an uneasy calm when some members expressed their displeasure in the manner in which Vijayan is going forward, after winning a historic second term in the April 6 Assembly elections. A medic critic on condition of anonymity said Vijayan is the be all and end all both in the party and in the government and he knows that if he wants to continue as the unquestioned leader, he will have to ascertain himself and does not wish to lose it. "Unlike other parties, in the CPI(M) things are a bit different. If a leader loses his grip, then curtains are down for him in the party, as such is the party structure. Now all eyes are on if there is going to be age restrictions that will come into play as speculations are rife that the party might put a maximum age of 75, after which such members will have to make way for others. Vijayan is 76 now. Of course there will be exemptions and the very fact that he has decided to attend maximum district conferences, itself shows, he will douse any banter against him, if at all," said a critic on condition of anonymity. Incidentally, Vijayan has chalked out a road map and that has begun with his participation at maximum district conferences, so as to retain his firm grip in the party as the delegates from these district conferences are selected to attend the state conference. "Once he ensures his dominance in the state conference, then he would ensure that his dominance continues at the national level. He saw to it that the Party Congress is scheduled at his home district - Kannur in April and his game plan is very clear that he wants to prove that his is the final word in the party at all levels. If he is able to do that, then for the next three years, nothing in the party will move without his concurrence. Now let us wait to see if his plans go according to what he has drawn out," added the critic. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ahead-of-cpim-conferences-kerala-cm-ensures-everything-is-firmly-under-his-belt-1059441.html
10-12-2021||South||YouTuber arrested out of vendetta: TN BJP chief||Tamil Nadu BJP state president K. Annamalai on Friday alleged that YouTuber Maridhas's arrest was the result of a political vendetta by the DMK government. The YouTuber was arrested on Thursday night for posing questions on social media as to whether Tamil Nadu has turned into Kashmir. BJP state president said that the DMK government was suppressing the freedom of expression and said that the state leader of the BJP, Kalyam Raman, and other nationalists were arrested by the DMK government to satisfy their egos. Annamalai in a tweet on Friday said that the Tamil Nadu BJP was doing everything possible to get the nationalists released. He tweeted, "@BJP4TamilNadu would fight tooth&amp;nail to get all of them out of their judicial confinement. Our party would take care of them and their families in all respect." Kalyam Raman and 10 other BJP cadres were arrested in October and according to the police, he was arrested for offensive tweets that allegedly promoted enmity and hatred. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/youtuber-arrested-out-of-vendetta-tn-bjp-chief-1059449.html
10-12-2021||South||Tamil Nadu Police felicitates locals involved in rescue operation in M1-17V5 chopper crash||Tamil Nadu police on Friday felicitated the villagers and estate workers who were the first to reach the spot when the helicopter M1-17V5 carrying Chief of Defence Service (CDS) General Bipin Rawat, his wife Madhulika Rawat and 12 others crashed at Kateri near Coonoor. Tamil Nadu police DGP, C. Sylendra Babu was personally present while felicitating the local and estate workers who had helped to recover the mortal remains and provided blankets and other clothes to carry the injured to the Wellington Army hospital. While handing over blankets, clothes, and eatables to the local estate workers in Conoor, the DIG told media, "The local people who are workers in tea estates have done a yeoman service by rushing to the place on hearing about the accident. The service of these people have to be recorded and hence we are felicitating them." Meanwhile, he said that the state police, under the leadership of ADSP Muthumanickam, who is heading the special team investigating the case, have recorded eyewitnesses' statements. "We have already taken the account of 25 people and will be handing over these statements to the Army special team led by Air Marshall Manavendra Singh," he told the media. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-police-felicitates-locals-involved-in-rescue-operation-in-m1-17v5-chopper-crash-1059451.html
10-12-2021||South||Niece gets keys to Jayalalithaa's Poes Garden bungalow||After an intense and long legal battle, Deepa Jayakumar and Deepak Jayakumar on Friday received the keys of the palatial Poes Garden bungalow of their late aunt J Jayalalithaa, who died in 2016 without leaving a will or appointing a legal heir to oversee her properties.  Deepa and Deepak, the daughter and son of Jayalalithaa’s only brother Jayakumar, were handed over the keys of the bungalow by Chennai District Collector J Vijaya Rani on Friday afternoon, in line with a Madras High Court order issued on November 24 quashing a decision by the then AIADMK government to convert the mansion into a memorial for the late chief minister.  Immediately after receiving the keys, Deepa along with her husband Madhavan drove to ‘Veda Nilayam’, one of the most powerful addresses in Tamil Nadu for three decades, and posed for pictures from the balcony, Jayalalithaa’s favourite place to greet her cadre and supporters.  “This is no small achievement. I don’t consider this as a legal victory. It (owning the bungalow) is my right and I am glad that I am able to enter this place where my aunt lived after so many decades. My happiness knows no bounds and I am extremely happy,” Deepa, who was flanked by her husband Madhavan, said at the ‘Veda Nilayam’. Deepa, who along with her brother was declared as legal heirs of Jayalalithaa by the Madras High Court in 2020, said the family plans to move to the Poes Garden mansion and ruled out plans to throw open the bungalow for the public.  “Our first priority is to take up maintenance work of the bungalow. We plan to move in. This is the place where I was born, and coming back here after decades is overwhelming. Finally, we have been able to get our due,” Deepa said.  Deepa also said that she was prepared to face the issue legally if AIADMK moves appeals against the High Court order.  The High Court order is a setback to former chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and his then deputy O Panneerselvam who issued the orders to acquire the residence against the wishes of Deepa and Deepak and converted it into a memorial. Though the memorial was inaugurated in January, it was not thrown open to the public due to a court order.  The sprawling mansion in upscale Poes Garden was where Jayalalithaa resided for nearly 50 years after her mother, Sandhya, bought the bungalow in the late 1960s.  The bungalow, whose market value is nearly Rs 100 crore as of date, was purchased by Jayalalithaa’s mother Sandhya for a mere Rs 1.32 lakh in 1967. Sandhya bought the front portion of the mansion in the 1960s, but Jayalalithaa expanded the bungalow by acquiring nearby properties. For Jayalalithaa, the Poes Garden residence was more than a home. A voracious reader, Jayalalithaa had set up a library that had nearly 8,000 books overlooking her bedroom on the first floor. After her death in 2016, the Tamil Nadu government had in 2017 announced that the Poes Garden bungalow will be converted into a memorial for Jayalalithaa.  A trip to Poes Garden residence was nothing short of a pilgrimage to lakhs of AIADMK cadre when Jayalalithaa, who nurtured the party founded by her mentor M G Ramachandran, was alive.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/niece-gets-keys-to-jayalalithaas-poes-garden-bungalow-1059508.html
10-12-2021||South||24 tribal men face social boycott in Kerala for consuming beef||Twenty-four tribal men in Kerala's Idukki district have been allegedly socially ostracised by the "oorukoottams" (council of tribals) for allegedly consuming beef, which is against their custom. Police said the incidents were reported from Marayoor forest areas in this hill district and the authorities of the local self government and tribal department are trying to resolve the issue by talking to chiefs of tribal communities. They said no case has been registered as no one has come forward to launch a formal complaint with the police on the matter. Police said they have launched an investigation based on the information they received from various quarters on the issue of social boycott of tribal men. A senior police officer told PTI that 24 men allegedly consumed beef after coming out of their hamlets in forest areas. The oorukoottams, which came to know about it, assembled under the leadership of their chiefs and ordered social boycott of the men who allegedly violated the centuries old tradition and customs of the community, police said. Police said the men facing social boycott could not be contacted as they have reportedly withdrawn deep inside the forests following the oorukoottams' decision. Their family members including parents, siblings, wives and children have been allegedly prevented from meeting them, police said. "If the family members meet the ousted men, they will also face similar problems. That is the situation prevailing there" police said. Kerala Minister for Welfare of Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes K Radhakrishnan told PTI that efforts were on to resolve the issue. He said such customs and practices are still prevalent in tribal communities in the state and efforts were on to bring them to the mainstream.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/24-tribal-men-face-social-boycott-in-kerala-for-consuming-beef-1059556.html
10-12-2021||South||IIT Hyderabad launches new one-stop website for all Covid-related data in India||Covid19tracker.in, a one-stop website providing all the information related to the pandemic in India like daily updates on case numbers, vaccinations, and tests for each state of India was launched on Friday. The initiative of the Indian Institute of Technology, Hyderabad, comes as a replacement for covid19india.org which had stopped operating on November 1. “As Covid-19 information is crucial to Indians of all hues (researchers, students, and the public), a team of developers were authorised by IITH to carry on the work. covid19tracker.in is built using the public code base of covid19india.org website,” officials said. The developers said their website has improved features like critical updates availability in 10 Indian languages. The website also offers predictions (including the post-Omicron scenario) using the Sutra model. “In future, we plan to enhance the website by including a search feature to highlight trends and raise alerts as and when required. If resources permit, we will monitor not just India but other countries as well. The emergence of the Omicron variant of concern shows that India cannot collect and monitor its data in isolation,” said Mathukumalli Vidyasagar, a distinguished professor at IITH. Mathukumalli headed the national Covid-19 supermodel committee that predicted the onset of the second wave earlier this year. Omicron: Third wave Sutra, a consortium of academics from various IITs and other institutions, is predicting a worst-case scenario of up to 1.5 lakh new Covid-19 cases per day by January end-February beginning because of the Omicron variant spread in the country. Even in an optimistic scenario, the estimation is that there could be about one lakh cases per day. “We have not made any projections on hospitalisations, which anyway were reported to be low in South Africa,” said Prof Mathukumalli, a senior member of Sutra. “But since we had witnessed a situation of around four lakh cases per day during the second wave in the country, I think there would not be any excess pressure on our health facilities.” covid19tracker.in, funded, developed and maintained by IIT Hyderabad, provides external links to the CoWIN dashboard for vaccination data and INSACOG database of coronavirus variants. “We run the predictions every day, but the updates would be on display when there are substantial variations,” Mathukumalli, The website served over 18 million requests from a quarter-million visitors over the past 30 days. Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/iit-hyderabad-launches-new-one-stop-website-for-all-covid-related-data-in-india-1059564.html
10-12-2021||South||Jaganmohan moves to ensure safety of dams, reservoirs in Andhra Pradesh||The Jaganmohan Reddy government has moved to ensure the safety and proper maintenance of the reservoirs and irrigation projects across the state, after two projects – Annamayya and Pincha – suffered major damages due to the floods last month. Chief Minister Reddy has directed the officials to prioritise dams and reservoirs safety while instructing them to conduct a comprehensive review of all the projects in Andhra Pradesh and rectify the drawbacks “as they were left abandoned since the state bifurcation.” In a review meeting on Thursday, Reddy asked the officials to ensure enough staff are maintained for effective management of the irrigation projects and reservoirs. Officials said that a committee was formed headed by the Chief Secretary with the representation of various departments, besides an expert committee from institutions like IIT, JNTU headed by the Water Resources Engineer-in-Chief. The Chief Secretary led team is exploring the development of an automation system that would supply real-time data to the command control room, which could alert about flash floods. Officials said proposals are being moved to recruit additional staff for the maintenance of all major and medium reservoirs and barrages, as well as for water regulation. Last week, Reddy visited the farmers and flood-affected people at Pulapatturu village in Kadapa district, which suffered major life and property loss because of the rains in mid-November. 293 houses were damaged in Pulapatturu village while several people were washed away in the flash floods caused by the breach of upstream reservoirs. CM Reddy announced that Pincha and Annamayya, a minor and medium irrigation project respectively on the Penna river tributaries, would be redesigned and reconstructed to handle more flood inflows. He added that retaining walls would be constructed along with the river bank residential areas till the Nandaluru bridge to stop the floodwaters from entering those areas. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/jaganmohan-moves-to-ensure-safety-of-dams-reservoirs-in-andhra-pradesh-1059588.html
10-12-2021||South||Telangana: Two international passengers test positive; Samples sent for genome sequencing||Two passengers who arrived at the international airport here tested positive for Covid-19 and their samples have been sent for genome sequencing to test for new SARS-Cov-2 variant Omicron, the state government said on Friday. Earlier, 13 international passengers tested negative for Omicron after the government strengthened testing mechanism at the international airport, among other measures, in the wake of the threat of new variant. Meanwhile, Telangana on Friday reported 207 new Covid-19 cases, pushing the tally to 6,77,954, while the death toll rose to 4,004 with one more fatality. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) accounted for the most number of fresh cases with 82, followed by Ranga Reddy (19) and Karimnagar (16) districts, a state government bulletin said, providing details as of 5.30 PM today. It said 196 people recovered from the infectious disease. The cumulative number of recoveries till date was 6,70,053. The number of active cases was 3,897. It said 38,467 samples were tested on Friday and the total number tested till date was 2,89,55,445. The samples tested per million population was 7,77,953. The case fatality and recovery rates in the state were at 0.59 per cent and 98.83 per cent respectively, it added. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-two-international-passengers-test-positive-samples-sent-for-genome-sequencing-1059589.html
10-12-2021||State||10 students of a nursing college test Covid positive||One more containment zone has been declared in Dakshina Kannada district with a nursing college reporting 10 Covid-19 cases. On Thursday, two tested positive and on Friday, eight tested positive in the college. Arrangements have been made to collect 374 swab samples in the college by the health department. Classes have been suspended for seven days, said DK Covid-19 Nodal Officer Dr Ashok. The college management has taken all the preventive measures. All students who tested positive have been isolated at their institution and the health department is monitoring the situation, he added. It may be recalled that a paramedical college in Mangaluru was declared as a containment zone on December 6 after nine students were tested positive for Covid-19. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/10-students-of-a-nursing-college-test-covid-positive-1059456.html
10-12-2021||State||I am also a CM aspirant: Congress MLA Shamanur||MLA Shamanur Shivashankarappa stated that Congress would win 140 seats in the next Legislative Assembly polls and he would become the next chief minister of Karnataka. Speaking to media persons after casting vote in the legislative council polls in city corporation on Friday, he said Congress would emerge victorious in the next assembly polls as people are disappointed with the BJP-led government in Karnataka. "I am one of the aspirants for the chief minister spot. What is wrong with it? I will ask the party high command next time." He said the leader of opposition in Legislative Assembly Siddaramaiah is also an aspirant but voters will decide who the next chief minister is. The party high command will decide it. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/i-am-also-a-cm-aspirant-congress-mla-shamanur-1059519.html
10-12-2021||State||Karnataka youth arrested for raping woman who rejected his proposal||A youth in Bajpe town of Karnataka's Dakshina Kannada district was arrested for allegedly raping a woman for rejecting his love proposal, police said on Friday. According to police, Abubakar Siddique, 21, and the victim studied in the same college and were classmates. She had posed with him for a photograph during the farewell party in 2019. Taking advantage of this, he started pestering her to enter a relationship. When she rejected his offer, he threatened her to make the photograph of them together viral on social media. The woman didn't pay heed to his threats and ignored him. But, the accused had followed her when she was returning from work to her residence. After confirming that no one was at home, he barged inside and raped her. The victim had lodged a complaint with Bajpe police station and the police have arrested the accused. Further investigation is on. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-youth-arrested-for-raping-woman-who-rejected-his-proposal-1059562.html
10-12-2021||State||Flagship grievance redressal system gets 7,000 complaints||A month after it was launched, the government’s flagship project Janaspandana, an integrated public grievance redressal system (IPGRS), has received over 7,000 applications from citizens. Of these, some 5,700 grievances are pending redressal, according to data available on the IPGRS portal. Almost a third of the issues raised on the platform are related to revenue and RDPR departments. Among districts, Bengaluru Urban has raised the highest number of complaints on the platform. The grievances were raised through various platforms such as the 1902 helpline, Janaspandana mobile app, the web portal, Janaspandana Kendras, Bapuji Seva Kendras and others. Of the grievances raised on the IPGRS platform, authorities have disposed of 1,312 - around 18.67%. Of these, 518 were escalated to senior officials, as the complaints or applications were not disposed of by officials at the lower rungs of the hierarchy.  Data also shows that 487 grievances were disposed of by last mile functionary (LMF) officers, classified as L1 under IPGRS. Their peers - L2 - addressed 300 cases, while L3 - the topmost officials under the system - cleared 518.  Among the 5,712 pending grievances, more than half - 3,044 - were pending at the LMF level, while 1,293 were pending at L2 and 1,447 were pending at the L3 level. Grievances related to revenue department topped the list with 1,271 applications, followed by rural development and panchayat raj department with around 1,150. Third was the Home department with around 850 grievances. Bengaluru Urban, Belagavi and Dakshina Kannada were the top three districts in terms of grievances raised through IPGRS. Speaking to DH, principal secretary (revenue) Tushar Giri Nath said grievances raised in IPGRS were mainly related to land disputes and surveys. A few of them are with respect to services (offered by the department), but they are small in number, he said. On the low percentage of grievances disposed, he said that the department was pursuing all the applications filed.  “The objective is to disclose at what stage an application is, so that the issue can be redressed quickly,” he said.  The whole system is designed in such a manner that any unresolved grievance escalates to the top level of functionary. “Earlier, it was a top down approach. Now, it is going directly to LMF. If they do not complete it on time, it will come to the attention of higher officials,” he said, adding that the project would see more progress in addressing grievances in the near future.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/flagship-grievance-redressal-system-gets-7000-complaints-1059587.html
10-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Rains wash away months of horti farmers' labour in Karnataka||The unseasonal rains in the months of October and November have damaged horticultural crops cultivated on more than 1.5 lakh hectares of land in various parts of the state, according to data from the Horticulture department. According to senior officials in the department, the perished crops comprise vegetables, fruits, flowers and plantation crops.  A senior official told DH that out of the total 1,56,257 hectares of horticultural crop loss, Ballari district was the worst hit with various types of standing crop on 42,643 hectares of land being wiped out. "After Ballari, districts such as Gadag (23,257 hectares), Dharwad (14,735 hectares) and Chikkamagaluru (12,272 hectares) incurred huge losses. Similarly, Bagalkot and Kolar districts lost ready-to-harvest crops on 9,998 and 7,196 hectares, respectively," the official said.  The officer explained that among vegetables, chillies are the worst-hit crop due to two months of rains. "Farmers had cultivated chillies on 60,000 hectares of land in various districts. This is followed by onions grown on 31,868 hectares. Tomatoes, the prices of which have recently been on a roller-coaster, were lost on 7,754 hectares and potatoes on 3,577 hectares," explained a deputy director of horticulture.  "While there are no reports of damage to grapes in and around Bengaluru, districts such as Bagalkot, Vijayapura and Belagavi have suffered a majority of the losses." Grapes cultivated on a total of 7,666 hectares of land have been damaged. This apart, 930 hectares of banana have been destroyed.  The flower growers, too, have suffered losses with rains damaging the crops on 2,245 hectares. Further, plantation crops including 11,559 hectares of pepper, 7,714 hectares of arecanut and 1,994 hectares of ginger have also been destroyed due to the heavy showers.  Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/rains-wash-away-months-of-horti-farmers-labour-in-karnataka-1059312.html
10-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Pejawar seer opposes serving eggs in midday meals||Pejawar Mutt seer Vishwaprasanna Theertha Swami, on Thursday, condemned the government’s decision to provide eggs to schoolchildren as part of the mid-day meals programme. “It is an attempt to change the food culture. Every individual has a right to food.”  “Children are innocent and don’t know fully about what they eat. It is better if the government pays the cost of eggs, instead of forcibly changing their food habits. It should refrain from taking decisions which might lead to communal feelings among children,” he said.  He also sought stricter action against forced religious conversions. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/pejawar-seer-opposes-serving-eggs-in-midday-meals-1059313.html
10-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||SSLC exams switch back to descriptive mode this year||Students appearing for class 10 (SSLC) board exams in the state this academic year will have to prepare to write descriptive answers. The Karnataka Secondary Education Examination Board (KSEEB) has withdrawn the multiple-choice questions (MCQ) pattern, which was implemented during the 2021 board examinations, and has returned to the earlier pattern of descriptive type questions. The KSEEB has specified the change in a notification issued recently, for guidelines to conduct the March-April 2022 preparatory and final examinations. Officials said the MCQ pattern was introduced during the 2020-21 academic year, keeping in mind the Covid-19 situation. “Before the 2021 examinations, the syllabus was not completed and physical classes were conducted hardly for a few months. Considering that, the board had switched to MCQ pattern in the interests of students,” said a senior official of the Board. This year also, there were suggestions to continue with the MCQ pattern, but experts and teachers felt that doing away with descriptive type answers will stop students’ creative thinking.  H K Manjunath, president of the Karnataka High School Assistant Masters Association, said, “At this age, importance should be given to writing. If we continue with the MCQ pattern, the students will forget writing, thinking about and analysing the subject.” The exams will be conducted for 100 marks for core subjects, second and third languages, and for 125 for the first language. Of these, 80 marks will be for theory and 20 marks for internal assessment, for subjects other than the first language. For the first language, 100 marks will be for theory and 25 for internal assessment.  Mixed reactions have come in from students over the move. While some are happy with the change in pattern, others said they were comfortable with MCQ. “It would have been helpful had the government continued with MCQ as that is the pattern adopted by most competitive examinations,” said a student of class 10. Another student said, “There are more chances of students getting confused in the MCQ pattern while marking the answers. When it is a descriptive type, we can answer easily.” Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sslc-exams-switch-back-to-descriptive-mode-this-year-1059315.html
10-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Voting under way for 25 MLC seats in Karnataka||Voting is underway for the biennial election to the Karnataka Legislative Council's 25 seats from 20 Local Authorities' Constituencies on Friday, for which 90 candidates are in the fray. The polling that began at 8 am will go on till 4 pm. The results will be declared on December 14. Out of total 90 candidates in the fray, 20 each are from BJP and Congress, six from JD(S), 33 independents and rest are all from smaller parties. Among the candidates, there is only one woman from Chickmagalur. The electorate for this election comprises elected members of urban and rural local bodies, and unlike legislative assembly or Lok Sabha polls, council contests are decided by preferential votes. The election is necessitated as the term of 25 incumbent MLCs — 14 Congress, seven BJP and four JD(S) — will end on January 5 next year. The poll outcome will have a bearing on the power equation in the 75-member Upper House, where the ruling BJP wants to gain a majority. The BJP that has expressed confidence about winning maximum seats, needs to win at least 13 seats to secure a majority. The good performance in this election will be a morale booster for the party after losing Hangal seat in the Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai's home district of Haveri, during the recent assembly bypolls. The Congress too is determined to win maximum seats to keep the BJP away from gaining control of the upper house; while JD(S) has expressed confidence about winning all the six seats it is contesting in. With the aim to get a majority in the Council, State BJP strongman and former Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa had openly sought JD(S)' support for BJP candidates in the seats where the regional party is not contesting. However, amid buzz about a possible pact with the ruling BJP, JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy recently said that local leaders have been authorised to take a decision on whom to support in the seats where his party is not contesting, keeping in mind the prospects for the 2023 assembly election. T he elections are being held for two seats each from the local authorities constituencies of Bijapur, Belgaum, Dharwad, Dakshina Kannada and Mysuru; and one each from Bidar, Gulbarga, Uttara Kannada, Raichur, Bellary, Chitradurga, Shivamogga, Chikmagalur, Hassan, Tumakuru, Mandya, Bangalore, Bangalore Rural, Kolar and Kodagu.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/voting-under-way-for-25-mlc-seats-in-karnataka-1059357.html
10-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||BJP will win 15 out of 25 seats in MLC polls: Nalin Kumar Kateel||Karnataka BJP president and MP Nalin Kumar Kateel has predicted that the BJP will win 15 out of the 25 seats in the biennial election to the Karnataka Legislative Council from 20 Local Authorities' Constituencies. The BJP is contesting in 20 seats. “We have voters supporting the BJP across the state. Hence, I am confident of them exercising their franchise in favour of the BJP candidates,” he told mediapersons after exercising his franchise at Mangaluru City Corporation in Mangaluru. “If BJP wins 15 seats, then the BJP-led government will have a majority in the Legislative Council, which in turn will help us to pass the acts and bills with ease,” Kateel said. There is a BJP wave in the state and all are favouring the party, he added.    He also predicted the victory of minister Kota Srinivas Poojary with the highest margin in the state. The voters in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi will give first preference vote to Poojary and will elect him for the fourth term, said Kateel. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bjp-will-win-15-out-of-25-seats-in-mlc-polls-nalin-kumar-kateel-1059416.html
10-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||North Karnataka issues to get priority in Winter Session: Horatti||Legislative Council Chairman Basavaraj Horatti on Friday stated that issues related to the North Karnataka region would be given preference during discussions in the winter session to be held in Belagavi from December 13. "We have decided to give top priority to North Karnataka issues. During zero hour also, 15 instead of 10 members will be given an opportunity to speak," he said. Efforts have been made to conduct meaningful discussions in the session and to complete the agenda. Leaders of all parties have agreed to hold issue-based discussions and not to stage protests. If protests outside are also peaceful, their issues can also be discussed property inside the house, Horatti noted. Horatti lamented that he has not yet received copies of bills to be tabled in the session. Bills should reach us five days in advance but that is not being done, he added. Guest lecturers' demand for job security is a genuine one but officials have a negative attitude and the minister concerned should instruct them properly to rectify errors, Horatti said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/north-karnataka-issues-to-get-priority-in-winter-session-horatti-1059424.html
10-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||CDS Rawat's death: Karnataka CM directs police to lodge FIR against those posting hate messages||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Friday came down heavily on people indulging in spreading hate and celebratory messages on social media in connection with the tragic death of the Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat and 12 others in an army helicopter crash. Reacting to developments of miscreants posting messages on social media platforms celebrating the death of CDS General Rawat, Bommai stated that he had directed the police to book FIR against those who posted hate messages in this regard in Karnataka. He further stated he condemned such an insane mindset of celebrating the tragedy. These acts should be condemned by every citizen of India. There will be action against those persons who are celebrating the tragedy, he underlined. "I have asked the police to bookcases immediately and initiate action," he said. Meanwhile, BJP MP Pratap Simha also stated that it is painful to see celebratory messages at this juncture. All BJP-ruled states are initiating strict action against those indulging in such acts. "I demand the state government to initiate action in this regard," he urged. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cds-rawats-death-karnataka-cm-directs-police-to-lodge-fir-against-those-posting-hate-messages-1059440.html
10-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka MP urges Centre to increase psychiatrists seats in medical colleges||BJP Rajya Sabha member KC Ramamurthy on Friday urged the Centre to take steps to increase the number of psychiatrists in the country by hiking the number of seats in medical colleges to meet the growing demand. As per one estimate, nearly 160 million people in the country need mental therapy, whereas, only about 30-35 million are seeking advice and taking care. The National Mental Health Survey also revealed that India has 0.75 per cent psychiatrists for one lakh problems; whereas the desirable number is 3 psychiatrists, per one lakh of population, he said in Rajya Sabha. As per an estimate of the Government of India itself, the country needed about 13,000 psychiatrists but had only 3,500. Against the required 20,000 chemical psychologists, they have only a little more than 1,500 available. We need  35,000 psychiatrist social workers, but we have only 2,000. We need 30,000 psychiatrist nurses, but we have only 2,500, he said. The government should increase the number of seats in psychiatry at various levels andencourage the students to take psychology as a subject. Services of psychiatrists should be provided in all districts and important hospitals, he demanded. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-mp-urges-centre-to-increase-psychiatrists-seats-in-medical-colleges-1059538.html
10-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||In approval blitz, projects worth Rs 6,800 crore cleared||Karnataka issued back-to-back orders approving at least 25 industrial projects worth Rs 6,802 crore in November alone, which includes new investments by medtech firm Wipro GE and agro-processing brand Gujarat Ambuja Exports, documents show.  These 25 projects will create 35,400 jobs. The approval orders coincide with Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai completing 100 days in office, and the new government’s attempts to woo more investments amid the post-pandemic economic growth.  Of these 25 projects, 21 got the orders on November 11 by the technical cell of the Murugesh Nirani-led Commerce & Industries department. DH has copies of all the 25 orders.  Wipro GE is setting up a unit to manufacture medical equipment (CT scanners, ECG, ultrasound, ventilators and so on) in the Kadugodi industrial area in Whitefield, Bengaluru, at a cost of Rs 109 crore.  The Ahmedabad-based Gujarat Ambuja Exports has received a two-year extension to start its sorbitol and ethanol unit in Shiggaon, Bommai’s assembly constituency, with a Rs 100 crore investment.  In terms of money, the project with the highest investment is an iron ore pelletisation plant that Resources Concentrates Pvt Ltd will establish in Sandur (Ballari) with Rs 890 crore. Followed by a sugar plant and private freight terminal that Favorich Agro Pvt Ltd will establish in Nagamangala, Mandya, with Rs 520 crore.  One of the projects that has received an extension order is by RBSSN Ferrous Industries Pvt Ltd to set up an iron oxide pellet and a thermal plant at Hagaribommanahalli in Ballari at a cost of Rs 266 crore. This project was cleared way back in 2010. Since 2011, the company has received three extensions. In May, this year, the company requested the government for another two years citing the Covid-19 pandemic.  “Companies seeking time extension is a complex issue,” industries commissioner Gunjan Krishna said. “Some big infrastructure projects may require land that (companies) acquire on their own, which takes longer sometimes. Also, getting environmental clearances is another reason,” she said.  Besides conventional industrial/IT parks, some approval orders are for projects in niche areas such as nano urea manufacturing by Indian Farmers Fertiliser Cooperative Ltd with an investment of Rs 225 crore and a research lab worth Rs 200 crore by JSS Mahavidyapeetha, both in Haraluru Muddenahalli Industrial Area in Devanahalli taluk.  In one case, SS Super Foods went back to the government asking for a fresh approval under the Karnataka Industrial Policy 2020-25 instead of the Karnataka Agri Business and Food Processing Policy under which its cattle feed unit at Shidlaghatta in Chikkaballapur was cleared. The company said the industrial policy offered more concessions. However, Gunjan pointed out that the agri business policy has ended.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/in-approval-blitz-projects-worth-rs-6800-crore-cleared-1059577.html
10-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Lessons on capital markets, fin-tech for UG students||Students, pursuing undergraduate courses in the state, will soon have lessons on financial management. The Karnataka State Higher Education Council is all set to enter a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the National Stock Exchange (NSE) Academy for the purpose. The officials of NSE Academy have discussed the issue with Higher Education Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan in a virtual meeting and expressed their interest in signing an MoU with the higher education department to create financial awareness among youngsters. “The state government is open-minded about introducing this programme as it will provide financial awareness and scientific knowledge about entrepreneurship for students. Basically, the students will learn about economic policies, Fin-Tech, Capital market, central banks etc,” said Ashwath Narayan. The NSE Academy has introduced the programme already in seven states with around 70 lakh students and is expected to benefit lakhs of students in Karnataka also.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/lessons-on-capital-markets-fin-tech-for-ug-students-1059581.html
10-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Experts' panel to monitor Covid protocol in residential schools||Aimed at monitoring the effective implementation of Covid-19 safety protocols at schools and colleges, particularly residential institutions, a joint committee comprising officials from the primary and secondary education department and health and family welfare department will be constituted at the taluk level, according to Education Minister B C Nagesh.  Even though the primary and secondary education department has sought separate guidelines for schools and colleges, the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) for Covid-19 in the state has opined that monitoring is more important than issuing a separate set of guidelines. Speaking to reporters, Nagesh said the department will constitute a joint committee of district health officer and block education officer. "These committees will visit the residential schools/colleges and hostels to monitor the safety protocols and standard operating procedures," the minister said. "There is no dip in attendance at schools and colleges and there is no need to shut down schools/colleges," Nagesh said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/experts-panel-to-monitor-covid-protocol-in-residential-schools-1059582.html
10-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Council polls: EC moves appeal challenging interim order||A day after the single judge bench's interim order withholding declaration of result of Karnataka Legislative Council election from Bengaluru Urban Local Authorities constituency, the Election Commission of India (ECI) on Friday moved an appeal before a division bench. The ECI has stated that the interim order is nothing short of postponing the electoral process. The petition before the single bench was filed by Congress candidate Yusuf Sharif on the ground that 15 nominated members of Bommasandra, Attibele and Anekal town municipal councils have no right to vote in the election since they are nominated members of the municipality.   In the interim order, the single judge had directed that the elections shall go on. However, the votes cast by 15 nominated members shall be kept in a separate ballet box, placed in a sealed cover and the result of the elections of Bengaluru Urban Local Authorities constituency shall not be declared without the leave of the court. Senior advocate Dhyan Chinnappa, appearing for the ECI, made a mention about the appeal by submitting a memo before a division bench headed by Chief Justice Ritu Raj Awasthi and prayed for an urgent hearing. He submitted that the single bench's order tantamount to interference in election process, which is not permissible in terms of Article 329 (b) of the Constitution. Article 329 (b) stipulates that no election to either house of Parliament or state legislature can be questioned, except by an election petition in the aftermath of the election process. He also said that the political parties may demand similar treatment with regards to other constituencies in the state, wherein nominated members have exercised their franchise in the election held on Friday. The division bench said that the matter will be taken up on December 13, a day before the counting of votes. The ECI stated that since the election is held under the system of proportional representation by means of single transferable vote, it is not feasible to cast the votes in the separate ballot box and keep the votes cast in a sealed cover. It is also contended that the direction of the single-judge bench will result in creating a separate logistic and other arrangement apart from the laid down procedures for keeping the votes cast by 15 nominated members.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/council-polls-ec-moves-appeal-challenging-interim-order-1059584.html
10-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||MLC elections record 99.5% voter turnout||Brisk polling with a voter turnout of over 99% was recorded on Friday for the Legislative Council election to pick 25 members from 20 local authorities’ seats. According to Chief Electoral Officer Manoj Kumar Meena, the polling process was peaceful in all the constituencies. In the elections, voters comprised elected representatives from gram panchayats, urban local bodies, MLAs and MPs. Among the constituencies, highest polling was recorded in Belgavi with 99.98%, followed by Kolar with 99.96%. Lowest was at Vijayapura - 99.55%. In the last elections held in 2015, the overall voter turnout was 99.6%. For the polls, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai cast his vote in Shiggaon, while Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah voted in Badami, KPCC president D K Shivakumar exercised his franchise in Kanakapura and JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy in Channapatna.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/mlc-elections-record-995-voter-turnout-1059585.html
10-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka issues discharge guidelines for Omicron recovered persons||The state government on Friday issued a discharge policy for recovered Covid patients with the Omicron variant. State Health Commissioner D Randeep instructed the district and BBMP health authorities to follow the discharge policy ‘for the institutionally isolated Covid-19 (Omicron variant) patients until further orders.’ In mild, moderate and severe cases (including immunocompromised HIV patients, transplant recipients, malignancy), the patient can be discharged after 10 days of symptom onset if there is no fever, breathlessness or any other symptom for the last three consecutive days before discharge without antipyretics (drug used to prevent or reduce fever). The patient has to maintain saturation above 95% for the last four consecutive days without oxygen support. There should be resolution of clinical signs and symptoms based on the report of investigations. Patients should undergo repeat tests for inflammatory markers like S Ferritin, S.LDH, D-Dimer, and CRP at the time of discharge. These should be in the normal range or decreasing trend. Patients shall be discharged only after two negative RT-PCR reports 24 hours apart. If the report is positive, the swab test shall be repeated after 48 hours. At the time of discharge, the patient shall be advised to quarantine himself at home and self-monitor health for further seven days. The district surveillance officer (DSO) shall follow up these persons at their homes for their health status. They shall be followed up by the tele-monitoring team in the community and by using the quarantine app. In home quarantine, RT-PCR is repeated on the sixth day of home quarantine, if negative, patients can be released from home quarantine. All patients advised home quarantine after discharge need to watch for onset of any new symptoms like fever, cough, breathlessness, chest pain, weakness, etc. If any of these are found, they are immediately advised to consult the doctor/physician. If there’s no facility for home quarantine, institutional quarantine is advised. Since the circular does not mention Omicron suspects who are awaiting genomic sequencing results, Dr K Ravi, Professor of Medicine, and Chairman of the State Covid-19 Clinical Expert Committee clarified to DH saying, “Even Omicron suspects who test Covid positive at the airport will be sent to designated hospitals. If they test Omicron positive, they will stay back at the hospital, if they test negative, the existing protocol for other Covid patients will apply in which asymptomatic patients need not be hospitalised.” Any deviation from the discharge policy will be viewed seriously, said Randeep in his order dated December 9. The state government has so far identified only two designated hospitals for Omicron patients: Wenlock Hospital in Mangaluru and Bowring and Lady Curzon Hospital in Bengaluru. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-issues-discharge-guidelines-for-omicron-recovered-persons-1059607.html
10-12-2021||West||Upping the ante against BJP, Priyanka Gandhi to hit Goan streets on December 10||Congress is upping the ante in poll-bound Goa with its General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi hitting the Goan streets on Friday, as the party is looking at a close contest with the ruling BJP though it makes light of new entries like Trinamool Congress. With former Congress president Rahul Gandhi taking special interest in the state, the party has lined up a series of events for Priyanka during the day, including lunch with tribal women in Morpila village followed by an interaction with Mollem students at Margao and women's convention 'Priyadarshini' in Costa Ground. She will also interact with Mahila Congress office bearers and attend a function inducting Captain Viriato Fernandes. She would begin her programmes in Goa by laying a wreath at the martyr's memorial in Assolna. Sources said Congress is confident about its prospects in Goa as the Pramod Sawant-led government is "facing huge anti-incumbency" though a section of leaders acknowledge that the fight is very close, owing to lower number of votes in constituencies. There is also apprehension about how the voters will perceive the desertion of around a dozen MLAs out of 17 elected on Congress ticket in 2017 jumping ship and joining the BJP soon after the Assembly polls. Sources said the Congress has decided not to give tickets to the 2017 deserters and conveyed it to a couple of them who reached out to the party. A similar perception about the MLAs who jumped the Congress ship was shared by senior Trinamool Congress leaders who were looking for possible candidates in the state. Senior Congress leaders also discount the impact Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress or Arvind Kejriwal-led AAP have in Goa. The party is already in discussions with the NCP and Shiv Sena has now said that it is exploring alliance with Congress in Goa. Sena's Sanjay Raut met Rahul and Priyanka in the last two days and is learnt to have hinted about it among other things. In a boost for the Congress, the Goa Forward Party chief Vijay Sardesai, party MLA Vinod Palyekar and an independent MLA Prasad Gaonkar met Rahul recently and pledged support. The GFP chief's meeting came weeks after Trinamool Congress attempted to woo the party to its fold. However, GFP and Trinamool could not find a way forward as the latter wanted Sardesai, who left Congress in 2012 after being denied a seat to contest the Assembly polls then, to merge his party, which he refused. On Wednesday, Rahul also held a meeting with party's senior observer in Goa P Chidambaram and in-charge Dinesh Gundu Rao on the poll preparations in the state. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/upping-the-ante-against-bjp-priyanka-gandhi-to-hit-goan-streets-on-december-10-1059343.html
10-12-2021||West||Sameer Wankhede, wife move court against defamatory social media posts||Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) Zonal Director Sameer Wankhede and his wife have approached a Mumbai court seeking direction to restrain social media giants from publishing or displaying any "malicious and defamatory" content against the couple on their platforms. In a suit filed before a civil court in suburban Borivali last month, Wankhede and his wife, actor Kranti Redkar, have sought a permanent injunction against Google India, Facebook India online services and Twitter Communications India on allowing any "defamatory" post against them on their platforms. The suit claimed that "sponsored misinformation" is being spread on social media platforms by various "unscrupulous elements" at the behest of individuals against whom the NCB officer has acted. It is clear that the "misinformation campaign" is a consequence of vested interests that are affected by investigations carried out by the NCB official, the plea, filed through legal firm Rex Legalis, said. The suit further stated that the "unscrupulous elements" realising that Wankhede was largely unaffected by such "character assassination", started attacking his wife personally. "The plaintiffs state that the circle of such accusations have been only widening to cover even the distant relatives of the plaintiffs," it added. The court in the last hearing had allowed an application of Wankhede for impleading the American entities of the defendants in the present suit. The matter will be further heard on December 17. Wankhede is already locked in a legal battle with Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik over his allegations against the IRS officer and his family members on a number of issues.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sameer-wankhede-wife-move-court-against-defamatory-social-media-posts-1059389.html
10-12-2021||West||Goa Congress hit by resignations on day of Priyanka Gandhi Vadra visit||A group of Congress leaders from the Porvorim assembly constituency tendered their resignations on Friday morning. The group, supported by Independent MLA Rohan Khaunte, claimed the Congress was not serious about contesting the assembly polls likely to be held in early 2022. “The Congress party does not seem to be interested in contesting the upcoming Goa elections seriously. It is a non-starter due to the attitude of some of its leaders,” Gupesh Naik, a former zilla panchayat member, who led the group from Porvorim, told reporters. In yet another setback for the Congress, its senior leader from South Goa Moreno Rebelo tendered his resignation. The resignation letter by Rebelo claims he was upset after the party announced the "candidature" to sitting MLA Aleixo Reginaldo Lourenco from the Curtorim constituency "despite he working against the party". Rebelo hails from Curtorim. “Aleixo Reginaldo Lourenco, who has never participated in any party activity for the last four-and-a-half years and on the contrary only abused party leaders and yourself, worked against the official candidate of Curtorim in the recently held Zilla Panchayat election, is promoted as working president of the party and is declared as a candidate by senior leaders during a recently held convention,” Rebelo said in the letter addressed to Goa Pradesh Congress Committee (GPCC) president Girish Chodankar. The spate of resignations came after differences emerged in the Congress over the nature of its understanding with the Goa Forward Party (GFP) for the assembly polls. AICC Goa election in-charge P Chidambaram on Thursday said the GFP had only extended support to the Congress and refused to term it as an alliance at this stage. On the other hand, senior Congress leader Dinesh Gundu Rao has proposed a meeting between GFP chief Vijai Sardesai and Chodankar on Saturday.  Talking to reporters in Panaji, Chidambaram had said, “So far we had one party leader Vijai Sardesai who came to Delhi and said, 'in order to defeat BJP, my party offers support to the Congress party'. Rahul Gandhi said we accept the support. All other details have to be discussed further." Within minutes of his statement, Rao had tweeted,  “I have invited Sri @VijaiSardesai, President of @Goaforwardparty for a meeting with Sri @girishgoa, President of @INCGoa and others on 11/12/21, 10 am at Congress Election Office, Patto Plaza, Panjim.” Priyanka Gandhi Vadra is scheduled to address various events and interact with youngsters and women during her day-long visit to Goa. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-congress-hit-by-resignations-on-day-of-priyanka-gandhi-vadra-visit-1059401.html
10-12-2021||West||3 passengers who arrived from London test Covid positive: Goa Minister||Three passengers who travelled to Goa on Friday onboard Air India flight from London have tested positive for Covid, Health Minister Vishwajit Rane said. "This is with reference to flight AI 146 that arrived from the UK today morning. 237 travellers tested on arrival. 3 patients have been tested positive," Rane tweeted. (2/2)All other negative travellers will be kept in strict home quarantine and will be retested on day 8 or earlier if symptomatic. According to the Government of India Guidelines/protocols, necessary directions have been issued to DHS in this regard. The positive passengers will be quarantined at a government designated facility. The Health Minister also said that all passengers who have tested negative would also be kept in strict home quarantine and would be "retested on day 8 or earlier if symptomatic".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/3-passengers-who-arrived-from-london-test-covid-positive-goa-minister-1059408.html
10-12-2021||West||NCP Minister reveals Sharad Pawar's 'state secret'||State politics heated up again with Nationalist Congress Party Minister Dr Jitendra Awhad declaring that the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) would return to power and NCP president Sharad Pawar was keen to continue Uddhav Thackeray as the Chief Minister after 2024 Assembly polls. Contending that it was Pawar's "secret desire" which he had expressed in close circles, Dr Awhad said at a party meeting in Navi Mumbai that the Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress would once more unitedly contest the 2024 Assembly elections and come back to power, relegating the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to the Opposition benches again. Dr Awhad's statement was greeted with smugness by Sena leaders, the Congress smelt a rat while the BJP was left rattled though it has not yet reacted. The NCP Minister's statement assumes significance, coming months after Sena MP and Chief Spokesperson Sanjay Raut had also said the same, but it was scornfully ignored as a "tall claim." This time, the state Congress Working President Arif Naseem Khan made it clear that the MVA experiment was born (in 2019) owing to the peculiar political situation then and functions on the basis of a Common Minimum Programme. "The Congress is growing stronger in the state, particularly at the grassroots level. Our firm endeavour is to win the maximum seats and also elect our CM," Khan told IANS. However, he declined to comment on Dr Awhad's statement or whether the party would adopt a solitary path and said the "Congress will take a call depending on the political situation in 2024". Sena's farmer face and Vasantrao Naik Sheti Swavalamban Mission Chairman Kishore Tiwari - accorded a MoS status - said Pawar's sentiments are "a testimony to the performance of CM Thackerayji, as compared with the dismal tenure of BJP with Devendra Fadnavis as CM". "It is also the people's open wish to vote the MVA back with a thumping 200-plus seats in 2024. The masses have not forgotten the treatment the BJP meted out to the farmers, the inflation, fuel prices, unemployment, false promises and hounding of non-BJP governments by letting loose central agencies on them," Tiwari told IANS. Despite repeated attempts, top BJP leaders were not available for their comments, but sources indicated a sense of despair as the party repeatedly misses its "deadlines" predicting the MVA collapse in the past 25 months. Coming barely 10 days after West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee wrote "RIP" for the Congress-led UPA, the Congress was buoyed by the Sena-NCP's response then. Now, they also anticipate the possibility of new permutations and combinations emerging with "turncoats" defecting from the BJP ranks, but the Congress would adopt a wait-and-watch policy. For the present, despite the occasional hiccups, things appear hunky-dory among the three allies and cracks are sealed, at least, temporarily with high-level confabulations - like the recent ones between Sanjay Raut with Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi - that ensure the 3-tyre government remains accident-free. A senior NCP leader reiterated that the priority for the three-parties is "to ensure the BJP is kept out" at any cost, starting with the upcoming civic elections in early-2022, followed by the 2024 Lok Sabha and then the 2024 Assembly polls. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ncp-minister-reveals-sharad-pawars-state-secret-1059412.html
10-12-2021||West||Gujarat Omicron patient's wife, brother-in-law also detected with new variant; tally rises to 3||Nearly a week after detection of the first case of Omicron variant of coronavirus in the state in an NRI, his wife and brother-in-law have also been found to be infected with the new strain. Senior officials said that both the relatives are asymptomatic. With this, the number of Omicron cases in Gujarat has gone up to three, all in Jamnagar, the district which is witnessing a steady rise in covid-19 cases for the past several days.  According to local health officials, the wife and brother-in-law, who are already isolated in a designated hospital, had tested positive and their genome sequencing conducted by Gandhinagar-based Gujarat Biotechnology Research Center confirmed Omicron strain. A senior health official said that 30 people who came in close contact with the NRI had undergone a test, out of which his wife and brother-in-law tested positive for the virus. "Both of them are asymptomatic and under constant watch. The wife had taken the vaccine back in Zimbabwe while his brother-in-law was vaccinated in Dubai three to four months ago. They all are in isolation and under doctors' constant watch," said Vijay Kharadi, commissioner, Jamnagar municipal corporation. The 72-year-old NRI had landed at Ahmedabad airport from Zimbabwe to meet his relatives in the city earlier this month.  Kharadi added that the condition of the first patient is also stable. Another medical officer in the city said, "Further tests on the NRI will be conducted in the next three to four days before discharging him." He added that Jamnagar is seeing a rise in cases due to Delta strain but the next few weeks are going to be crucial when their reports of genome sequencing arrive. Jamnagar has recorded over 30 new positive cases in the last four days including 11 on Friday. The state health bulletin reported 63 new cases in the state while three deaths in 24 hours, one of the highest numbers in the last four months. The state has a total of 480 active cases. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-omicron-patients-wife-brother-in-law-also-detected-with-new-variant-tally-rises-to-3-1059429.html
10-12-2021||West||5 of 7 Omicron patients in Pune test Covid negative: Ajit Pawar||Five out of seven Covid-19 patients in Pune district, who were earlier detected with Omicron, the new variant of coronavirus, have now tested negative for the infection, Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar said on Friday. Four out of six patients from Pimpri-Chinchwad industrial township and a patient from Pune city have tested negative for the viral infection, Pawar told reporters after a weekly review meeting on the Covid-19 situation in the district. "The health of all seven patients is good. Four out of six Omicron patients in Pimpri-Chinchwad and a patient in Pune city have tested negative," said Pawar, who is also the guardian minister of the district. These seven persons, including an NRI woman and her two daughters from Nigeria, had tested positive for Omicron in Pune last week. They were admitted for treatment in city-based hospitals and their latest tests came out negative. The new strain, discovered in Africa last month, has been classified as a 'variant of concern' by the WHO. Pawar further said that 100 per cent of the eligible population in the district has been covered with the first dose of Covid-19 vaccines, and over 1.38 crore shots have been administered so far. The pace of vaccination has increased in the district in the last 10 days, the minister said. "It is true that people were a bit reluctant about taking the second dose, but now after the recent developments (Omicron), the pace of vaccination has increased and queues are being witnessed outside the vaccination centres," Pawar said, adding the focus needs to be on rural areas. "Doctors in the (state) task force (on Covid-19) have advised that we have to administer the second dose at the earliest and if we become successful in that, the situation will be good," he said. The state government has received a list of over 4,500 passengers travelling to Pune district from abroad, Pawar said. "The search is on for these passengers. Passengers are being contacted, their information related to their health is being recorded," he said. Currently, the Covid-19 positivity rate in the Pune Municipal Corporation limits and Pune rural is 1.4 per cent, while in the Pimpri-Chinchwad region, it is 0.7 per cent, Pawar added. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/5-of-7-omicron-patients-in-pune-test-covid-negative-ajit-pawar-1059457.html
10-12-2021||West||Mumbai Mayor gets letter with death threats; security beefed up||Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar on Friday received an anonymous letter with death threats in foul language, a couple of days after she lodged a complaint against a BJP legislator for using offensive words against her. Pednekar told media persons that the letter in Marathi, threatening to kill her and her family, was received in her mailbox, but it was not sealed and she would lodge a complaint with Byculla police in the matter. The sender has warned that she would face repercussions if she messed with 'Dada', after which the Mumbai Police have strengthened security around her south Mumbai residence even as several women Shiv Sainiks condemned the targeting of the city's First Citizen. The Mayor said that the letter was apparently posted in Panvel, Raigad district and asserted that she would not be cowed down by such intimidatory tactics. Last year in December, she had received death threats on telephone which was received by her aide when she was subjected to abuses and warnings to kill her, and after her complaint, the accused was nabbed from Gujarat in January this year. This week, Pednekar complained to Home Minister Dilip Walse-Patil and Police Commissioner Hemant Nagrale and filed the plea with Marine Drive Police Station against BJP legislator and ex-minister Ashish Shelar. Following her complaint, Shelar - who claimed it was politically motivated and his comments were twisted out of context - was arrested under various charges but later granted bail by the police. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-mayor-gets-letter-with-death-threats-security-beefed-up-1059494.html
10-12-2021||West||Antilia bomb scare case: NIA moves HC against special court order granting bail to bookie||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Friday moved the Bombay High Court challenging a special court’s order granting bail to cricket bookie Naresh Gaur, an accused in the Antilia bomb scare case and killing of businessman Mansukh Hiran. A special NIA court granted bail to Gaur on November 20, but he continues to be in jail, as the court stayed its order for a period of 25 days. Earlier this week, a single bench of the High Court set aside the stay order, noting that a sessions court judge does not have the power to stay his own order. The probe agency, in its appeal, said the present case was a “terror crime” and was committed with an intent to strike terror among people. On Friday, the NIA's advocate Sandesh Patil sought that the division bench of Justices Nitin Jamdar and Sarang Kotwal must grant a stay on the single bench's order so that Gaur can remain in jail. Patil informed the court that Gaur has filed an application before the special NIA court seeking permission to submit temporary cash surety instead of bond. The application is to be heard on Friday, the lawyer said, adding that pending hearing of the NIA appeal, his (Gaur) release should be stayed. Gaur's advocates Shirish Gupte and Aniket Nikam, however, argued that he (Gaur) has been in jail despite being granted bail on merits. “Let him be released. He will surrender if the NIA's appeal against the bail order is allowed,” Gupte told the court. The bench said it would start hearing the appeal from December 15 on merits. Gupte then assured the court that till then they would not press for the special NIA court to hear their application for submission of temporary cash surety. The NIA had arrested Gaur in March this year, accusing him of being involved in the Antilia bomb scare case and in the killing of businessman Mansukh Hiran. According to the NIA, Gaur had provided SIM cards to the co-accused in the case. The agency in its appeal in the High Court claimed that Gaur and the other accused in the case, including dismissed cop Sachin Waze had parked an explosive-laden vehicle outside the Antilia building, residence of industrialist Mukesh Ambani and his wife Nita Ambani, and thereafter killed Hiran, owner of the vehicle, with an intent to strike terror in the section of people residing in the area. “The present crime involves the serious and heinous offence of murder which is the culmination of the conspiracy of planting of explosives near Antilia and threat to the Ambani family. This was an act of terror,” the NIA claimed in its appeal. The special court had erred in appreciating the prima facie evidence available against Gaur in the case, the appeal stated. “The special court has passed an erroneous order and gone into the question of accused Naresh Gaur allegedly not having active knowledge of conspiracy in this case,” it said. “Gaur was fully aware that the SIM cards he was providing were to be used for extorting money and to commit criminal offences,” the NIA alleged. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/antilia-bomb-scare-case-nia-moves-hc-against-special-court-order-granting-bail-to-bookie-1059500.html
10-12-2021||West||Use a Godrej lock to keep your candidates safe: Goa BJP prez to rival party||Goa BJP president Sadanand Shet Tanavade on Friday chided the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP) leadership to keep their candidates under "lock and key", amid allegations that the ruling party was trying to poach election candidates from the regional party. "BJP does not poach anybody's candidates. If people want to safeguard their candidates, they should keep them safe by padlocking them with a big Godrej lock," Tanavade told a press conference on Friday. The state BJP president was responding to allegations levelled by MGP MLA and former Deputy Chief Minister Sudin Dhavalikar, who had alleged that the ruling BJP was trying to poach some of its candidates. "We are not interested in poaching (MGP) candidates. He should protect his own candidates," Tanavade also said. The BJP over the last few weeks has inducted a steady stream of politicians from the Congress, MGP as well as the Goa Forward party. Since 2017, 14 Congress MLAs have quit the opposition party to join the BJP. The MGP was in alliance with the BJP from 2017-2019 and the regional party is now in talks with the Trinamool Congress to form a pre-poll alliance ahead of the 2022 state assembly polls. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/use-a-godrej-lock-to-keep-your-candidates-safe-goa-bjp-prez-to-rival-party-1059552.html
10-12-2021||West||Dharavi resident who returned from Tanzania tests positive for Omicron; 11th case in Maharashtra||A resident of Dharavi area here who recently returned from Tanzania was found to have contracted Omicron infection on Friday, taking the number of cases of the new coronavirus variant in Maharashtra to 11, officials said. The 49-year-old man, who is a `Maulavi' (Muslim cleric), was asymptomatic and was isolated before he could mingle in the community, said a Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) official. The man landed in Mumbai from Tanzania on December 4 and his samples were sent for genome sequencing when he tested positive for coronavirus. With this, the number of Omicron-infected patients in Mumbai rose to three. One case had been found in neighbouring Thane district. Seven cases have been found in Pune district, but deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said earlier in the day that five out of them have now tested negative for the infection. Tanzania does not figure in the list of `at-risk' countries, but the Dharavi resident tested positive for COVID-19 during the mandatory random checking of two per cent of arrivals at the Mumbai airport. When his test came out positive, a medical team from G-North ward (where Dharavi falls) tracked him down immediately. The man was shifted to BMC-run Seven Hills hospital, the official said, adding that he was asymptomatic and is not vaccinated. Dharavi in central Mumbai is known as the biggest slum in Asia where over six lakh people live in a 2.5 square km area. The area has recorded 7,073 coronavirus cases since March 2020, but there are only seven active cases at present, as per the BMC. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/dharavi-resident-who-returned-from-tanzania-tests-positive-for-omicron-11th-case-in-maharashtra-1059566.html
