11-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Questioning students from different faith in bus: 2 arrested||The city police have taken two persons to custody, for allegedly questioning two students from a different faith, who had boarded a bus, at a private service bus stand in Mangaluru on December 10. In fact, the video clip of five to six men questioning them and creating an embarrassing situation for the students in a public place had gone viral on social media. City Police Commissioner N Shashi Kumar said that already two persons have been taken to custody. There were around five to six persons who were part of the incident. The students from a private college had boarded a bus to travel to Udupi. The young girl was hailing from Udupi and the young boy student was hailed from Shivamogga. When they were sitting inside the bus, men who barged inside the bus had allegedly questioned them and sought their identity card and address.   As the video went viral, the Mangaluru South police after confirming cognizable offence filed a suo motu case later in the night and contacted both the students and informed their family members. “When the students come back to the city, we will be able to get full details into the incident,” said the Commissioner. Those who were taken to custody were working on the bus and the police are verifying their background.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/questioning-students-from-different-faith-in-bus-2-arrested-1059737.html
11-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mangaluru airport commences pre-booking facility for Covid test||Mangaluru International Airport (MIA) has commenced the pre-booking facility for passengers who need to undergo an RT-PCR test. RT-PCR, rapid RT-PCR testing facility has been arranged in the pre-immigration arrival hall. Similarly, rapid RT-PCR testing facility is also available in the departure area. This is an additional value-added service that Mangaluru International Airport is providing for the passengers. This will be particularly useful for passengers arriving from the “at-risk” countries who can now book the test beforehand and proceed to undergo the same on arrival at the airport. A dedicated testing counter has been set up for passengers who pre-book their RT-PCR or rapid RT-PCR test and will save time otherwise taken for registration. Mangaluru International Airport has also set up a waiting area sufficient for 92 passengers, six registration counters and two sampling booths, including 70 Rapid RT-PCR machines. Dedicated passenger service executives are available in the area to assist the passengers, said a release. Stringent sanitising at regular intervals and deep cleaning is being conducted, at the areas where testing and seating arrangement has been made for passengers at arrivals.   Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mangaluru-airport-commences-pre-booking-facility-for-covid-test-1059759.html
11-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Parish priest attacked during daylight||A parish priest of St Joseph the Worker Church in the city was attacked with a sword in broad daylight on Saturday. However, Fr Francis D'Souza, the priest, managed to escape without any injury. Fr Francis informed the police that a man wielding a sword jumped from the compound wall and entered the first floor of the residence behind the church at about 3.15 pm. He was hiding in a room and attempted to assault the priest. However, the priest escaped by whiskers. Later, culprit managed to flee by jumping the wall. His entry and exit have been caught in the CCTV APMC police officials arrived at the spot after Fr Francis informed them of the incident over the phone. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/parish-priest-attacked-during-daylight-1059864.html
11-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka Forest Department to organise festival of frogs in Sagar taluk||The Karnataka Forest Department is organising a frog festival at Muppane nature camp in Sagar taluk on December 18 and 19 in order to create awareness among people about the need to protect the endangered amphibian. Frogs, considered the best friend of farming community, are on the verge of extinction. Seminars, discussions on frogs, screening of documentaries, presentation of research articles, information on various species of frogs and presentation of details on how frogs produce sound will be part of the two-day event. There would be an exchange of information on bush frog, Karaavali skittering frog, common toad and bullfrog. Besides, environmentalists will pass a resolution in the event urging the government to declare the Malabar tree toad frog found in Western Ghat region as a State frog. Principal Chief Conservator of Forests Sanjay Mohan will inaugurate the event on December 18 at 10:00 am. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-forest-department-to-organise-festival-of-frogs-in-sagar-taluk-1059882.html
11-12-2021||Karnataka Politics||Congress to identify ‘neutral’ households, voters' castes in Karnataka||The Congress will use its massive membership drive to identify “neutral” households in Karnataka that do not vote for the party, KPCC president DK Shivakumar said Saturday. Shivakumar was speaking at the launch of the party’s membership drive at the booth level. The party will also create a database of voters comprising their caste details. “I have asked everyone to go house-to-house. If there’s a house that doesn’t accept [Congress] membership, we will know it’s a neutral household and we will have to deal with such households differently,” Shivakumar told AICC general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala at the event. Surjewala, who is in charge of the party’s affairs in Karnataka, participated in the event virtually. Party leaders and workers joined the event virtually from nearly 2,000 locations in the state. The party’s membership drive will continue till March 31, 2022. “This is an important exercise for the Congress. For the first time in the party’s history, we have taken the digital membership route,” AICC data cell chief Praveen Chakravarty said. Digital membership will help the party create a database of voters, he said. “There are around 5.5 crore voters in Karnataka across 55,000 booths. Of them, four crore are below 45-50 years of age. Almost all of them use WhatsApp today. We can communicate directly with them through WhatsApp without depending on other media,” he said. Enrollers approved by the party will get access to the digital membership app. “You can go to every house, take the person’s mobile number, Voter ID, photograph, caste and education details. The Voter ID number is important because only then will we know which assembly constituency, booth and block the person belongs to,” Chakravarty explained. These details will get stored on the AICC servers. “The mobile number, Voter ID and photograph will be verified. Membership will be approved only after this 3-step verification,” he said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/congress-to-identify-neutral-households-voters-castes-in-karnataka-1059813.html
11-12-2021||National||Speak Out: December 11, 2021||In a written reply to the Rajya Sabha, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Friday said, "the subject of compensation, etc. to the families of the deceased farmers in the farmers movement is with the concerned state governments". "No farmer died as a result of police action during the farmers' agitation," he said. Tomar was responding to a joint question by Congress leader Dhiraj Prasad Sahu and AAP leader Sanjay Singh. The members had asked whether the government is planning to provide or made any provision towards livelihood monetary compensation to the families of the farmers who died during farmers' protests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/speak-out-december-11-2021-1059656.html
11-12-2021||National||Over 7 lakh workers returned from six Gulf countries under 'Vande Bharat Mission': Govt||More than seven lakh workers came back from six Gulf countries under the Vande Bharat Mission, the Centre said on Friday, asserting that the Indian missions are pursuing with these nations the return of Indian workers, the realisation of payments due to them and new recruitment in the light of economic recovery. To a question in Lok Sabha on whether a large number of emigrants employed in Gulf countries were forced to return to India in the aftermath of Covid-19 pandemic, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said that while a large number of Indian workers in the Gulf returned to India as a result of the impact of Covid-19, the economic recovery in that region and their increasing openness to travel from India has now seen a return by many of them. "As per government's estimates, about 7,16,662 workers returned from the six Gulf countries under the Vande Bharat Mission," Jaishankar said in a written reply. A total of 3,30,058 Indian workers returned from the UAE, 1,37,900 from Saudi Arabia, 97,802 from Kuwait, 72,259 from Oman, 51,190 from Qatar and 27,453 from Bahrain, he said. During the Covid-19 pandemic, Indian missions and posts proactively extended support to Indians both directly using the Indian Community Welfare Fund and by coordinating with community associations, Jaishankar said. This included expenses on a needs basis pertaining to boarding and lodging, air passages, emergency medical care, etc., he said. ework established by the government, especially since 2014, was extremely useful in meeting the emergency needs that arose during the pandemic.The minister said that the robust fram Apart from the liberalisation of the usage of Indian Community Welfare Fund, the role of the Pravasi Bhartiya Sahayata Kendras, Mission/Post helplines, shelter homes, etc. were notable in this regard, he said. Jaishankar said it was the government's priority to ensure during the pandemic that its impact on Indian workers in terms of loss of employment was mitigated. "To that end, the Ministry and all our Missions in the Gulf were continuously engaged with the Governments of the Gulf nations to maintain the workers, ensure their welfare and facilitate financial payments due to them," he said. As the pandemic has receded in recent months, this focus has shifted to pressing for the return of workers and families on an expeditious basis, the minister said. To that end, all Gulf nations were pressed to establish air bubbles and ease visa, travel and health restrictions, he said, adding that all the Gulf countries have responded favourably to these efforts by the government as a result of which, there has been a steady flow of returnees. The government will continue to make this its priority in engagement with the Gulf nations, Jaishankar said. During 2020-21, the government has received many representations from different quarters, including the state of Kerala, regarding the welfare and livelihood of Indian workers in the Gulf, he said. "These issues have been taken up by the government with its Gulf counterparts at the highest levels. Since March 2020, Prime Minister has had telephonic conversations with Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi (March, May 2020 & January 2021), King of Saudi Arabia (twice in September 2020) and Crown Prince of Saudi Arabia (March 2020 & March 2021), Amir of Qatar (March, May, December 2020 & April 2021), Sultan of Oman (April 2020 & February 2021), King of Bahrain (April 2020) and Amir of Kuwait (April 2020)," he pointed out. The government convened meetings of Gulf regional Heads of Missions of India on this specific subject physically in Kuwait in June 2021 and virtually in July 2021. The government also launched in January 2021 a programme to upskill Indian blue collar workers in the UAE to enhance their employability and wages, he said. "Embassies are continuing to pursue with the Governments in the Gulf the return of Indian workers, the realization of payments due to them, new recruitment in the light of economic recovery, and other welfare measures as appropriate," Jaishankar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-7-lakh-workers-returned-from-six-gulf-countries-under-vande-bharat-mission-govt-1059660.html
11-12-2021||National||IAF chopper crash: Mortal remains of 6 more identified||The mortal remains of two Indian Army men and four IAF personnel who died in a helicopter crash that also killed Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat and his wife, have been identified. Following the positive identification using a DNA test, the mortal remains have been released to the family for ferrying them to their homes for last rites. "Positive identification of mortal remains of L/Nk B Sai Teja and L/Nk Vivek Kumar has been done. Mortal remains were released to close family members this morning a short while ago," said an Army source. Mortal remains will be moved by air for last rites with appropriate military honour.  Prior to the departure, wreaths will be laid at the Base Hospital, Delhi Cantt.  L/Nk B Sai Teja will be flown to Bangalore whereas L/Nk Vivek Kumar will be taken to Gaggal. The identification of all four IAF personnel has also been completed. A transport plane carrying the mortal remains of Wing Commander Chauhan - pilot of the ill-fated chopper - will soon leave for Agra, whereas a second plane carrying Squadron Leader Kuldeep will go to Pilani. Mortal remains of JWO Pradeep and JWO Das will be flown to Sulur and Bhubaneswar, respectively from where their remains will travel by road to their home. With the six identification, nine of the 13 victims of the chopper crash have now been positively identified. Efforts are on to identify the rest as early as possible. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iaf-chopper-crash-mortal-remains-of-6-more-identified-1059673.html
11-12-2021||National||Farmers at Singhu dismantle a makeshift town, many leave for home||Large parts of the Singhu border protest site lay vacant on Friday after a number of farmers bundled up their belongings and headed home on tractors, while others worked long hours to dismantle the makeshift accommodations they built painstakingly over the last year. Tractors bedecked with colourful lights rolled out of the protest site blaring songs of victory. The elderly flaunted their colourful turbans and danced with the youngsters. Ladders, tarpaulin, poles and ropes lay scattered at the once-buzzing protest site, while blankets, pillows, mattresses and chairs were neatly stacked on the roadside. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), which spearheaded the farmers' agitation, had on Thursday announced the suspension of the protest that began over a year ago to seek the repeal of the Centre's farm laws. Weeks after the government withdrew the contentious laws, the farmers will head home on Saturday morning. Harjot Singh from Punjab's Barnala said people who had little luggage left for home on Thursday evening. "Some are leaving today. Those who built large structures and had more goods will depart tomorrow," he said before breaking into a Punjabi song as tractors passed by. The movement of tractors in large numbers led to a heavy traffic jam, similar to the initial days of the protest when protesters poured in from different states. The young and the elderly worked together to dismantle the sturdy temporary structures erected by them on the long dusty stretch of the Delhi-Karnal road. Time and again, they chanted 'Bole So Nihaal' to pump themselves up. Jassa Singh, 69, a farmer from Punjab's Faridkot said, "More men means it will be over quickly. We had ample time to build them, but we leave tomorrow. Hence, the haste... I have eaten a lot of ghee in my life. My muscles are as good as those of a 30-year-old man." As the men bundled up the clothes and mattresses and swiftly loaded them onto the trucks, women prepared lunch and tea. "The gas stoves and the utensils will be packed at last. We still have to cook dinner and tomorrow's breakfast," said Mai Kaur, 61, from Jalandhar in Punjab. Cardboard, thermocol, iron wire mesh, PVC sheets and mosquito nets lay around the dismantled structures. The youngsters inspected the tractors, cleaned the trolleys in preparation for the journey back home. They stop to have lunch, or tea, or a snack and return to work. Some farmers even donated their belongings to the needy in nearby villages. "We have a lot of clothes and ration that could be of use to them. Earlier we were also feeding a lot of people from neighbouring areas," said Surjeet Singh, 64, from Punjab's Hoshiarpur. Before setting out for their respective places, farmers clicked group pictures and shook a leg together one last time. Many volunteers, however, won't be leaving on Saturday. "We have decided to stay back for some time to lend a hand to farmers who may need help in dismantling their tents and packing up belongings," said Jasveer Singh, who managed the 'Jangi Kitaab Ghar' library here. Bakshish (30), who managed the 10-bed Kisan Mazdoor Ekta Hospital, said he will start packing up only after everyone has left. "There should be someone to cater to medical emergencies," he said.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-at-singhu-dismantle-a-makeshift-town-many-leave-for-home-1059676.html
11-12-2021||National||India logs 7,992 new Covid-19 cases, 393 deaths||With 7,992 people testing positive for the coronavirus in a day, India's Covid-19 tally climbed to 3,46,682,736, while the number of active cases declined to 93,277, the lowest in 559 days, according to Union Health Ministry data updated on Saturday. The death toll mounted to 4,75,128 with the addition of 393 fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been recorded below 15,000 for the last 44 days now. The number of active cases has decreased to 93,277, comprising 0.27 per cent of the total infections, the lowest in 559 days, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has been recorded at 98.36 per cent, the highest since March last year, the health ministry said. The data stated that a decrease of 1,666 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 case count in a span of 24 hours. The daily positivity rate has been recorded at 0.64 per cent and it has been less than two per cent for the last 68 days. The weekly positivity rate has been recorded at 0.71 per cent and it has been below one per cent for the last 27 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,41,14,331, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.37 per cent, it said. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the Covid-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 131.99 crore. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23; 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28; 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29; 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the crore mark on December 19 last year. India crossed two crore Covid-19 cases on May 4 and three crore cases on June 23. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-logs-7992-new-covid-19-cases-393-deaths-1059682.html
11-12-2021||National||Second Omicron case reported in Delhi||Delhi on Saturday reported its second case of Omicron after a fully vaccinated person from Zimbabwe tested positive for the new variant in the national capital. The person had travelled to South Africa, according to ANI. With this, the tally of Omicron cases in India rose to 33.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/second-omicron-case-reported-in-delhi-1059691.html
11-12-2021||National||Amid Omicron scare, high 'seropositivity' rate should help India, says expert||Observing that data on the new SARS-CoV2 variant, Omicron, is still emerging, an expert has said the very high rate of 'seropositivity' should keep the country in good stead even as he emphasised on increased vaccination coverage and adhering to Covid-appropriate behaviour. "Because, India has the advantage of very high rate of 'seropositivity' of 70, 80 per cent, and in big cities more than 90 per cent people already have antibodies," Rakesh Mishra, former Director of CSIR-Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) here, told PTI. In view of the protection available to people, even if they get infected, it will be very mild and most of the time asymptomatic, Mishra, currently Director, Tata Institute for Genetics and Society (TIGS), Bangalore, said. It would help the cause in a big way if vaccination coverage is further expanded and if vaccines for children are rolled out, he noted. The spread of Omicron almost looks certain in the country though data is still emerging, but the situation would be better than with Delta as the symptoms appear to be only milder. However, there is no scope for lowering guard as the virus should be prevented from becoming more virulent. The only way to do that is wearing masks properly, maintaining social distance and vaccination, he stressed. Asked about the possibility of a third wave hitting the country in February or March next year as predicted by some, coupled with the threat of Omicron, he said waves are happening in Europe even without Omicron. Waves can happen even without a new variant, he said. The country has the advantage of a heavy rate of infection from the second wave, Mishra said. Even if the number of cases increase, he said he does not see the possibility of increased hospitalisations and problems of oxygen arising. In the same breath, the former official of CCMB emphasized on Covid-appropriate behaviour, including avoiding exposure in closed spaces, and vaccination. He warned of a mild wave if there is laxity in following the safety norms. Noting that new variants are bound to emerge, he said the general tendency is that newer variants should be milder and more infectious. However, it is possible that an unexpected bad variant may emerge. Not wearing masks and not taking vaccination would help the virus grow which would be harmful to people with weak immunity or the unvaccinated people, Mishra said. On the testing mechanism to detect Omicron, Mishra said, "at the moment genome sequencing is the only way to detect Omicron." But, many institutes and those in foreign countries are developing specific RT-PCR kits that can detect Omicron-specific infection. But, it will be weeks before they are available in the country, he added. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amid-omicron-scare-high-seropositivity-rate-should-help-india-says-expert-1059699.html
11-12-2021||National||PM Modi to address bank deposit insurance programme||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address a programme, "Depositors First: Guaranteed Time-bound Deposit Insurance Payment up to Rs 5 Lakh," on Sunday at Vigyan Bhawan here, his office said. Deposit insurance covers all deposits such as savings, fixed, current and recurring deposits in all commercial banks. Deposits in state, central and primary cooperative banks, functioning in states and union territories are also covered, the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) noted. In a path-breaking reform, bank deposit insurance cover was enhanced from Rs 1 lakh to Rs 5 lakh, it added. With deposit insurance coverage of Rs 5 lakh per depositor per bank, the number of fully protected accounts at end of previous financial year constituted 98.1 per cent of the total number of accounts as against the international benchmark of 80 per cent. The first tranche of interim payments has been released by the Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation recently against claims received from depositors of 16 Urban Cooperative Banks which are under restrictions by the RBI. Payout of over Rs 1,300 crore has been made to alternate bank accounts of over one lakh depositors against their claims, the statement said.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-address-bank-deposit-insurance-programme-1059700.html
11-12-2021||National||Congress to rally against price rise in Jaipur on Dec 12; next phase on job loss, selling of national assets in January||As top leaders head to Jaipur for a rally against price rise on Sunday, the Congress is now planning another agitation on unemployment and selling of national assets by the Narendra Modi government beginning at the end of January. A panel headed by senior leader Digvijay Singh will chalk out agitation programmes for the party and finalise the contours of the next campaign even as the party has extended its 'Jan Jagran Abhiyan' against price rise till this month-end. Congress president Sonia Gandhi had in early September set up a nine-member committee under Singh to plan national level agitations. It includes Priyanka Gandhi, BK Hariprasad, Ripun Bora, Uttam Reddy, Manish Chatrath, Udit Raj, Ragini Nayak and Zubair Khan as its members. Sources said the panel is chalking out the second phase of agitation programmes against the Modi government from January last week, coinciding with the start of the Budget session. During this agitation programme, Congress will highlight the job scenario in the country and the loss of employment, especially during the Covid-19 pandemic. The protest will also highlight the "selling of national assets" in the name of privatisation and its link to job loss. It will also highlight the problems with the government's National Monetisation Pipeline. The third phase of the agitation will focus on issues related to women and youth, especially students, sources said. Soon after it was set up, the panel headed by Singh had chalked out the Jan Jagran Abhiyan against price from November 14 across India. This is followed up by the rally on Sunday in Jaipur, which will be attended by Congress chief Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi. Earlier this month, Congress had said that it had to shift its mega rally against 'Modi-made Mehangai (price rise)' to Jaipur, claiming that the Modi government revoked permission granted to the party to hold the programme in Delhi. Describing the Modi government as "behaving like a full-fledged authoritarian dictatorship", Congress General Secretary (Organisation) K C Venugopal had said the party had sought permission for holding the protest rally and "the Modi government after much effort" gave its nod for the programme to be held in Delhi's Dwarka. However, he said in a statement, the Modi government "in a prejudiced conspiracy got the Lt Governor of Delhi to cancel permission" for the rally even as the party was making arrangements for a "massive public show with people and party workers" from all over the country. "However, the Congress is neither going to get intimidated by their tactics nor is it going to withdraw even an inch from its age-old commitment to raising issues concerning the people. It has been decided that the 'Mehangai Hatao Rally' will be organised in Jaipur on December 12 itself," Venugopal said.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-to-rally-against-price-rise-in-jaipur-on-dec-12-next-phase-on-job-loss-selling-of-national-assets-in-january-1059702.html
11-12-2021||National||India successfully tests multi-barrel rocket launcher system Pinaka-ER||India successfully tested multi barrel rocket launcher system with extended range at Pokharan range, on Saturday. Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) in a statement said that successful tests of Pinaka Extended Range (Pinaka-ER), Area Denial Munitions (ADM) and indigenously developed fuzes have been carried out at various test ranges. The system is jointly designed by laboratories of DRDO - Armament Research &amp; Development Establishment (ARDE), Pune and High Energy Materials Research Laboratory (HEMRL), Pune. The DRDO, after establishing the performance efficacy of the enhanced range Pinaka, transferred the technology of the system to the industry. The Industry Partner has manufactured enhanced Pinaka Mk-1 rockets with DRDO's hand holding during the production and Quality Assurance. In continuation of the Transfer of Technology absorption, rockets developed by the industry have undergone the performance evaluation and quality certification process. The hand holding during the production, quality assurance and launch coordination for bulk production is being provided by the DRDO design team and quality assurance agencies nominated for the system. The DRDO, along with the Army, conducted series of performance evaluation trials of these industry produced rockets at Field Firing Ranges in the last three days. In these trials, enhanced range Pinaka rockets were test fired at different ranges with various warhead capabilities. All the trial objectives were met satisfactorily. A total of 24 rockets were fired for different ranges and warhead capabilities to meet the objectives of accuracy and consistency. With this, the initial phase of technology absorption of Pinaka-ER by the Industry Partner has successfully been completed making the Industry Partner ready for series production of the rocket system. The Pinaka-ER is the upgraded version of earlier Pinaka version which has been in service with the Indian Army for the last decade. The system has been designed in the light of emerging requirements with advanced technologies enhancing the range. The Area Denial Munition (ADM) variants of munition designed by the ARDE, Pune for Pinaka and manufactured by the industry partners under technology transfer were successfully carried out at Pokhran Field Firing Ranges. These trials are part of performance evaluation under technology absorption. The indigenously-developed proximity fuzes for Pinaka rockets have also been tested. The ARDE, Pune has developed different fuzes for Pinaka rocket for different types of applications. After design validation trials, dynamic performance evaluation of these fuzes have been evaluated with flight testing. Consistency in performance of fuzes has been established in consecutive flight trials. These have been developed through dedicated indigenous Research and Development efforts for the first time in the country. These indigenously developed fuzes will replace the imported fuzes and save foreign exchange. The ARDE has also designed miniaturised fuzes for ADMs. Performance of dual-purpose Direct-Action Self Destruction (DASD) and Anti-Tank Munition (ATM) fuzes were evaluated during the current flight trials and the results were satisfactory. All the mission objectives were successfully in all the above trials. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-successfully-tests-multi-barrel-rocket-launcher-system-pinaka-er-1059715.html
11-12-2021||National||Maintain strict vigil on Covid situation with focused district-level measures: Centre to states||The Union Health Ministry on Saturday asked the states to impose containment measures like night curfew and prohibition of a congregation in areas where the Covid-19 positivity rate is more than 10% and there is a rise in demand for oxygen beds. While there are only eight such districts at the moment, the states have been advised to keep a close watch on 19 additional districts where the positivity rate varies between 5-10% besides 70 Covid clusters as highly infectious omicron variant of SARS-CoV-2 has spread to nearly 60 countries with the experts fearing a rise in Covid-19 cases in India in January -February. In a letter to state Chief Secretaries, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan advised them to impose containment in areas where the test positivity rate is equal to or greater than 10% or there is more than 60% occupancy of oxygen supported or ICU beds. An eye is to be kept on the emerging severe acute respiratory illness (SARI) and influenza-like illness (ILI) situations as the winter sets in. Even though the government didn’t release a list of the 70 clusters, many of them would be in 30 odd districts in six states where the number of new Covid-19 cases witnessed a sharp rise in the last two weeks of November. The increase was 726% in Kathua (J&K), 666% in Dhenkanal and 250% in Kandhamal (both in Odisha) and 152% in Tumakuru. Bengaluru Urban is also one of the districts flagged by the Centre. The restriction measures would include night curfews, curbing on the intermingling of people, prohibition of all types of congregations (social, political, sports, entertainment, academic, cultural, religious, and festival-related) and curtailment of attendees in marriages and funerals. The caution comes at a time when 59 countries including India have reported nearly 3000 cases of the new variant of concern and another 78,000 probable cases are under investigation. The 32 omicron cases found in India so far are mild in nature, but government officials and health experts are keeping their fingers crossed. “The next two weeks are important to know how much more they will spread in India,'' said a top ICMR official. Bhushan asked the states to ramp up testing and active case search, testing of all SARI and ILI cases through rapid antigen tests and retesting by RTPCR of symptomatic RAT negative tests. Strict adherence to Covid-19 appropriate behaviour at all places and at all times must also be rigorously enforced and aggressively monitored. Independent experts said they expected the cases in India to rise by early next year as this had been the experience of other countries with high levels of vaccination, such as Israel and the UK. The best risk reduction strategies, according to them, still are mask-wearing, care for ventilation, physical distancing and stepping up vaccination. Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maintain-strict-vigil-on-covid-situation-with-focused-district-level-measures-centre-to-states-1059741.html
11-12-2021||National||Dead man gets Covid-19 vaccination certificate in Madhya Pradesh||A deceased senior citizen allegedly received a message about having taken the second dose of the Covid-19 vaccine and got a certificate for the same in Madhya Pradesh's Rajgarh district, an official said on Saturday. The authorities have cited computer error as a reason for the goof-up, in which Purushottam Shakyawar (78) of Biaora town, who died in May, received a message on his mobile phone number that he was administered the second dose of the vaccine on December 3. According to the deceased man's son Phool Singh Shakyawar, they received the message on December 3 and were also able to download the vaccine certificate. Shakyawar said his father had taken the first dose of the vaccine on April 8, and had died on May 24 while undergoing treatment in Indore. When asked about the goof-up, District Vaccination Officer Dr P L Bhagoria said he had received information about the matter and was inquiring into it. A glitch in the computer might have generated such a message, he said. Biaora's block medical officer Dr Sharad Sahu said that since vaccination is being carried out on a large scale, someone might have entered the wrong mobile phone number while making an entry, and the mistake will be rectified. Meanwhile, Congress MLA from Biaora Ramchandra Dangi alleged that the state government was misleading people by presenting the wrong data of vaccination. Such incidents were exposing the government's claim and a high-level inquiry should be conducted into all such cases, he said.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dead-man-gets-covid-19-vaccination-certificate-in-madhya-pradesh-1059742.html
11-12-2021||National||Coonoor crash: IAF officer's mortal remains reach Odisha, CM pays tribute||Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik and other dignitaries paid floral tributes to Junior Warrant Officer (JWO), who was killed in the helicopter crash in Tamil Nadu's Coonoor, as his mortal remains arrived at the Bhubaneswar airport on Saturday morning. Das, a native of Talcher in Odisha's Angul district, was killed in the helicopter crash on December 8 along with India's first Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat and 11 others. The Indian Air Force (IAF) officer was given a guard of honour by the personnel of the 120 Infantry Battalion. State ministers, MLAs and top police officers, including Director-General of Police Abhay, were among those who paid floral tributes to JWO Das at the airport. The body was then taken to his native village of Krushnachandrapur in Kundala panchayat area in Talcher. Mahanadi Coalfields Ltd, on the direction of Union Minister Dharmendra Pradhan, is preparing a special crematorium at the village for his last rites, which will be held with full military and state honours. People of JWO Das' native village have been demanding that the road between Talabeda and Krishnachandrapur be named after him. JWO Das, 34, joined the IAF in June 2006 and was posted at Coimbatore. He got married to Dr Sibangi, a dentist, in 2017, and the couple has a 19-month-old son. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coonoor-crash-iaf-officers-mortal-remains-reach-odisha-cm-pays-tribute-1059745.html
11-12-2021||National||Congress demands probe into BJP's alleged link with 'lottery king'||The Tamil Nadu BJP is in a spot after the Pradesh Congress Committee (TNCC) president, K.S. Alagiri alleged that the BJP has received an amount of Rs 100 crore during the 2021 Assembly elections from lottery king, Santiago Martin. Congress has demanded a "transparent and impartial probe" into it. The Congress leader wondered as to how the BJP was going to help Martin as a token of gratitude for receiving such huge money. He also said that the BJP is taking money from all shady characters in Tamil Nadu. The Congress leader said that people like Martin were providing huge money to the BJP to protect themselves from the long arm of the law. K.S. Alagiri said that there must be a transparent and impartial probe into the relationship between BJP and people like Martin. The Congress leader wondered whether the BJP would help Martin overcome the Income Tax cases registered against him and said that the BJP as a political party has been thoroughly exposed over this. Santiago Martin is a lottery king based out of Coimbatore with a lottery business in northeastern states. He is believed to be worth more than Rs 30,000 crore asset base, and the ED had conducted several raids at his premises in Coimbatore and other parts of the country. Martin was a labour contractor in Myanmar and landed back in Tamil Nadu in 1988 and commenced his lottery business. He was jailed during the Karunanidhi government under several charges. He was also close to the CPI-M government of Kerala and had donated liberally to the coffers of the party and there were allegations of the party leaders accepting Rs 2 crore as advertisement for its mouthpiece 'Deshabhimani'. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-demands-probe-into-bjps-alleged-link-with-lottery-king-1059746.html
11-12-2021||National||President asks IMA graduates to follow General Rawat as role model||President Ram Nath Kovind on Saturday asked the gentlemen cadets passing out of the Indian Military Academy here to uphold the iconic status accorded to the prestigious institution by its illustrious alumni like CDS General Bipin Rawat, who by sheer hard work had emerged as a role model. Describing General Rawat as an extraordinary military leader, the president said the void created by his untimely demise can never be filled. He said the nation is yet to come out of the shock of his untimely death. "...But for the tragedy he would have been here with us looking at the passing out parade with happiness and pride," the president said addressing the passing out parade of the academy's autumn course as the reviewing officer. India's first CDS Gen Rawat was an alumnus of the IMA and had graduated from here with a Sword of Honour, the most coveted award given to the best gentleman cadet by the academy for overall performance. Gen Rawat was also scheduled to attend Saturday's event held on a much lower scale as it came just a day after his mortal remains were consigned to flames in New Delhi on Friday. President Kovind advised the gentlemen cadets commissioned as officers to develop a strategic mindset, adaptive temperament and resilience to take on the challenges they could face as military leaders. Noting that the security environment at the regional and global level is complex, the president said, "Physical and mental toughness is not enough. As military leaders you must develop a strategic mindset, adaptive temperament and resilience to take on the challenges ahead." "Your training equips you for the challenges," he said. A total of 319 gentlemen cadets from India and 68 from friendly foreign countries graduated from the academy and got commissioned into the armies of their respective countries as officers. Despite being a small state, Uttarakhand has the second highest number of 43 cadets commissioned as army officers after Uttar Pradesh with 45. Uttarakhand Governor Lt Gen (retired) Gurmit Singh and Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami were also present at the event which decided to do away with the usual celebrations held on the occasion in view of Gen Rawat's tragic demise.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/president-asks-ima-graduates-to-follow-general-rawat-as-role-model-1059754.html
11-12-2021||National||Chidambaram takes dig at law minister over 'no proposal to scrap sedition law' reply in Lok Sabha||Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Saturday took a swipe at Law Minister Kiren Rijiju for stating that the home ministry has no proposal under consideration to scrap the sedition law, saying what he did not state was that it has proposals to book many innocent people under the the law. Rijiju on Friday said in Lok Sabha that the Ministry of Home Affairs has no proposal under consideration to scrap Section 124A of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) dealing with sedition. Responding to a question by Assam MP Badruddin Ajmal on whether the Supreme Court has recently termed the sedition law as colonial and has made an observation that it is being misused, Rijiju said "No such observations have been found in any judgment or order delivered by the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India." Reacting to Rijiju's written reply in Lok Sabha, Chidambaram tweeted, "The Minister of Law said that MHA has informed him that there is no proposal to repeal the sedition law (Section 124A). What he did not say was that MHA has proposals to book many innocent people under the sedition law!" The Minister of Law said that MHA has informed him that there is no proposal to repeal the sedition law (Section 124A). What he did not say was that MHA has proposals to book many innocent people under the sedition law! The law minister also said that there is no record of the Supreme Court making any observations on the sedition law, the Congress leader noted. "What he (law minister) did not say was that he does not read newspapers reporting the proceedings of the SC," Chidambaram said in another tweet.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chidambaram-takes-dig-at-law-minister-over-no-proposal-to-scrap-sedition-law-reply-in-lok-sabha-1059761.html
11-12-2021||National||India re-elected to International Maritime Organisation Council||India has been re-elected to the International Maritime Organisation (IMO) Council after elections were held at its Assembly in London for the 2022-23 biennium. India's election falls under the Category of 10 states with "the largest interest in international seaborne trade", alongside Australia, Brazil, Canada, France, Germany, the Netherlands, Spain, Sweden and the United Arab Emirates (UAE). The newly elected Council will meet formally at the conclusion of the 32nd Assembly for the IMO's 126th session on Wednesday, when it will elect its Chair and Vice-Chair for the next biennium. “India is re-elected to International Maritime Organisation (IMO) Council,” the High Commission of India in London said in a Twitter statement following the election on Friday. “India’s delegation to IMO extends heartfelt thanks to all fellow member states, looks forward to working with all for the achievement of our common goals,” it said. The Council is the executive organ of IMO and is responsible, under the Assembly, for supervising the work of the organisation. Between sessions of the Assembly, the Council performs the functions of the Assembly, except that of making recommendations to governments on maritime safety and pollution prevention. China, Greece, Italy, Japan, Norway, Panama, the Republic of Korea, the Russian Federation, the UK and the US were elected to the Council under the Category of 10 States with the "largest interest in providing international shipping services". Meanwhile, another 20 states not elected under the two categories were elected to the Council to ensure the representation of all major geographic areas of the world as having "special interests in maritime transport or navigation". The 20 countries in the list are Bahamas, Belgium, Chile, Cyprus, Denmark, Egypt, Indonesia, Jamaica, Kenya, Malaysia, Malta, Mexico, Morocco, the Philippines, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Thailand, Turkey and Vanuatu. The 32nd Assembly of IMO is currently meeting at the IMO headquarters in London between December 6 and 15. All 175 member states and three associate members are entitled to attend the Assembly, which is the IMO's highest governing body. The intergovernmental organisations with which agreements of cooperation have been concluded and international non-governmental organisations in consultative status with IMO are also invited to attend. The Assembly normally meets once every two years in regular session. It is responsible for approving the work programme, voting the budget and determining the financial arrangements of the Organisation. It also elects the Organisation's 40-member council at these meetings for the next two-year period. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-re-elected-to-international-maritime-organisation-council-1059774.html
11-12-2021||National||IAF Group Captain Varun Singh is a fighter, says father of Coonoor crash survivor||The health condition of IAF Group Captain Varun Singh, the lone survivor of the helicopter crash that killed Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat and 12 others, being treated at Command Hospital in Bengaluru is "fluctuating", but he will win the battle and come out as he is a "fighter", his father said on Saturday. CDS Rawat, his wife Madhulika and 11 armed forces personnel were killed in the Mi-17V5 helicopter crash near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu on Wednesday. Group Captain Varun Singh, a decorated officer, was on board the Russian-made chopper as the liaison officer for the visit of Gen Rawat, India's senior-most military officer, to the Defence Services Staff College in Wellington. Talking to PTI over the phone from Bengaluru, Varun Singh's father Colonel K P Singh (retired), who lives in Bhopal, said, "There is so much of fluctuation that how (my son is) cannot be defined." He said his son's health is being monitored every hour. "In the hourly monitoring, there are rises and falls. You cannot say. Everyone is discussing. We are in the best hands. He is in the best hands, rather," the retired Army officer, who hung up his boots some ten years ago, said. "The best medical facility, the best experts are treating him. Prayer of the whole country is there. I am emotionally moved as a lot of people who don't know him or are retired or serving have come to meet. Even ladies are coming saying they want to see him (Varun). That is the kind of love and affection one has got," he proudly said. "He will come out victorious. He is a fighter. He will come out... He will come out," Singh said. The Group Captain was conferred with the Shaurya Chakra in August for averting a possible mid-air accident after his Tejas light combat aircraft was hit by a major technical last year. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh had on Thursday told the Lok Sabha that all efforts were being made to save the Group Captain, who was then on life support at the military hospital in Wellington (Tamil Nadu). He was admitted to a hospital in Wellington with severe burn injuries following the Wednesday crash. He was initially moved to Sulur in an ambulance by road and then was flown to Bengaluru for better treatment. The condition of the Group Captain is critical but stable, officials had said on Friday.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iaf-group-captain-varun-singh-is-a-fighter-says-father-of-coonoor-crash-survivor-1059778.html
11-12-2021||National||Mathematician Neena Gupta wins 2021 Ramanujan Prize||Gupta became the third woman to receive the award ever since it was introduced in 2005. In 2014, she was awarded the Young Scientists Award of the Indian National Science Academy for her solution in solving the Zariski cancellation problem, with the Academy deeming her solution as ‘one of the best works in algebraic geometry in recent years.’ The Ramanujan Prize is given to an eminent Mathematician less than the age of 45 on 31 December, every year. The mathematician to have conducted credible research in developing countries by the International Centre for Theoretical Physics, Trieste, under the sponsorship of the Department of Science and Technology, Government of India. Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mathematician-neena-gupta-wins-2021-ramanujan-prize-1059780.html
11-12-2021||National||Rahul Gandhi takes dig at govt over panel report on 'Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao' scheme||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday took a dig at the Centre over a parliamentary panel suggesting that the government should reconsider spending on advertisements under the 'Beti Bachao-Beti Padhao' scheme, saying the BJP's real slogan is "chhavi bachao, photo chhapao (save image, get photos printed)". The Parliamentary Committee on Empowerment of Women has flagged poor utilisation of funds by states under the 'Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao' scheme and suggested that the government needs to focus more on education and health than on advertising the scheme. Tagging a media report on the panel's report tabled in Parliament, Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi, "BJP ka asli naara -- chhavi bachao, photo chhapao (BJP's real slogan -- save image, get photos printed). "The committee finds that out of a total of Rs 446.72 crore released during the period 2016-2019, a whopping 78.91 per cent was spent only on media advocacy. Though the committee understands the necessity to undertake media campaign to spread the message of 'Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao' among the people, they feel that it is equally important to balance the objectives of the scheme," the panel said. Noting that over the last six years, through focused advocacy, BBBP has been able to capture the attention of the political leadership and national consciousness towards valuing the girl child, the report said now the scheme should focus on other verticals by making ample financial provisions to help achieve measurable outcomes related to education and health envisaged under the scheme. "Since BBBP is one of the most important schemes of the government to improve child sex ratio in backward regions and ensure education of the girl children, the committee recommends that the government should, hereafter, reconsider spending on advertisements under the 'Beti Bachao-Beti Padhao' scheme and should focus on planned expenditure allocation for sectoral interventions in education and health," it added.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rahul-gandhi-takes-dig-at-govt-over-panel-report-on-beti-bachao-beti-padhao-scheme-1059786.html
11-12-2021||National||Time to do away with discretionary quota for allotting lands; adopt public auction method: SC||The Supreme Court on Saturday said a day has come now to do away with allotment of government largess, particularly plots, on the basis of discretionary quota as this inevitably leads to corruption, nepotism and favouritism.  "Even if guidelines are issued to be followed while allotment of the plots under the discretionary quota and it is found that many a time they are hardly followed or are manipulated to suit the particular circumstances. Therefore, the best thing is to do away with such discretionary quota and allotments of the public properties/plots must be through public auction by and large," a bench of Justices M R Shah and B V Nagarathna said. The top court said public interest should be the prime guiding principle in allotment of public properties. It said even in the case where the policy decision is taken to allot the plots to a particular class like the downtrodden class etc in that case also the guidelines must be strictly followed and the allotment must reflect the fair play and non¬arbitrariness and should have objective criteria or procedure. "When a democratic government in exercise of its discretion selects the recipients for its largess, then discretion should be exercised objectively, rationally, intelligibly, fairly and in a non¬arbitrary manner and it should not be subjective and according to the private opinion and/or the whims and fancies of the persons in power and/or the public servants," the court emphasised. The bench allowed a petition filed by the Odisha government and cleared decks for prosecution of three officials for misuse of their power in surreptitiously distributing prime lands at a commercial complex in Bhubaneswar at throw away price to their own family members and relatives. The court set aside the High Court's judgement quashing the criminal proceedings, saying it embarked upon examining evidences as if it was conducting the mini-trial. It said action has to be initiated against the officials, prima facie responsible for the illegality in the allotment of the plots to the relatives or family members resulting in huge loss to the Bhubaneswar Development Authority and the public exchequer. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/time-to-do-away-with-discretionary-quota-for-allotting-lands-adopt-public-auction-method-sc-1059807.html
11-12-2021||National||Fact Check | No, Akhilesh Yadav had not signed petition to commute Kasab’s death sentence||Several social media users claimed that Samajwadi Party leader Akhilesh Yadav was one of the 302 people who signed the petition to stop the capital punishment of Mohammed Ajmal Amir Kasab, 2008 Mumbai attack convict. BJP Harayana social media head Arun Yadav posted this claim. This post was shared over 23,000 times.  Hindu Yuva Vahini Gujarat-in-charge Yogi Devnath also tweeted the claim and deleted it after gaining over 3,000 retweets. Alt News has documented multiple instances where Devnath has posted misleading claims.  Several Twitter users have posted this claim — @BeingBihar_ (over 900 RTs), @I_Khushbo (over 2,000 like), @sarojni12345431 (over 200 RTs), @_S__Raj__ (over 200 RTs), @MeenaTarunYadav (over 700 likes).  Facebook accounts that gained high engagement on the claim are — महान हिन्दूस्तान (2,000 shares), यूपी मुख्यमंत्री रिपोर्ट कार्ड (7,500 likes), मोदी समर्थक ख़बर (4,500 likes), Search India (2,800 likes) अब मोदी है तो मुमकिन है (1000 like), Ek Bihari 100 Pe Bhari (2,300 likes).  Fact check Kasab, 25, was executed on November 21, 2012. The death penalty was upheld on charges of criminal conspiracy, waging war against the nation and various other provisions of the Indian Penal Code and the anti-terror law, Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. A few weeks prior to his execution, Kasab’s plea for clemency was rejected by President Pranab Mukherjee on November 5, 2012. As per a 2012 report by The Indian Express, more than 203 people had signed a petition addressed to President Pranab Mukherjee, requesting a commutation of the death sentence. Mumbai-based lawyer Yug Chaudhry had written to the President on October 28, 2012. “In the first batch sent to the President, 203 people had signed the petition. About 15-20 more signatures were obtained in the second batch that was also sent to the President,” Chaudhry had told The Indian Express. In a conversation with Alt News, he confirmed that Akhilesh Yadav was not one of the signatories to the petition. He further added, “I am not willing to answer any further questions on the topic because the signatories have been harassed enough.” Several social media users including BJP leader Arun Yadav, therefore, falsely claimed that Samajwadi Party leader Akhilesh Yadav signed the petition seeking pardon for Kasab’s death penalty. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fact-check-no-akhilesh-yadav-had-not-signed-petition-to-commute-kasab-s-death-sentence-1059808.html
11-12-2021||National||UP Polls: 'Ours is ganna, theirs is Jinnah' says Nadda||BJP national president J P Nadda on Saturday joined a long list of his party leaders who had been trying to polarise the forthcoming Assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh along religious lines. "We have ganna and they (rivals) have Jinnah... ganna will win", Nadda said while addressing a meeting of party workers at Meerut. Before the BJP president, UP deputy chief minister Kehsav Prasad Maurya had referred to Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav as "Akhilesh Ali Jinnah". UP BJP president Swatantra Deo Singh had also likened Akhilesh Yadav's regime to the rules of Mahmud of Ghazni, who had plundered India in the 10th century, and Muhammad Ghori, who laid the foundation of the Muslim rule in India in the 12th century. "Like Ghazni and Ghori, these people (Akhilesh) have also looted the state and attacked our religious identity... the Hindus had to plead with the officials to allow them to make a pandal for Durga Puja," Singh said. The BJP leader had also called Akhilesh a "seasonal Hindu". UP minister Dinesh Khatik, who was also present at the meeting, perhaps taking a cue from his party chief, went a step further saying that India should be declared a Hindu Rashtra. He also said that during the previous governments, even the prime ministers bowed before the graveyards and 'mazars' (graves of Muslims).  "Today we have a prime minister, who is requested to build temples even in Arab nations,'' Khatik said. BJP leaders have also been raking up the issues of "conversion, cow slaughter, migration of Hindu families" in their rallies and seeking to remind the Hindus about their alleged 'humiliation' and attack on their culture during the regimes of the Samajwadi Party (SP) and others. The opposition leaders have slammed the BJP for trying to polarise the polls along communal lines and said that it appears that the saffron party has already accepted defeat.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/up-polls-ours-is-ganna-theirs-is-jinnah-says-nadda-1059812.html
11-12-2021||National||Gujarat man arrested for posting derogatory remarks about Gen Rawat on social media||A man has been arrested here for allegedly making derogatory remarks in a Facebook post about the late Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat, police said on Saturday. Accused Firoz Diwan used objectionable words about Gen Rawat, thereby "hurting the feelings of people and Armed Forces", said a police official. India's first Chief of Defence Staff Gen Rawat and his wife Madhulika were killed along with 11 others in a helicopter crash near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu on December 8. "Facebook user named Anuj Dhiman Sharma posted a tribute to Gen Rawat and others killed in the crash on the same day," said the official. "In his comment on the post, Diwan used objectionable words against Rawat that hurt the dignity of his position and feelings of people and the Armed Forces," he added. A First Information Report (FIR) was lodged against Diwan at Bharuch rural police station under IPC sections 153 (giving provocation with intention to cause riot), 153 (B) (imputations prejudicial to national integration) and 504 (intentional insult to provoke breach of peace) besides provisions of the Information Technology Act. Diwan was arrested on Friday and further probe was on, the police official added.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gujarat-man-arrested-for-posting-derogatory-remarks-about-gen-rawat-on-social-media-1059814.html
11-12-2021||National||India successfully flight-tests indigenous Stand-Off Anti-Tank Missile||India on Saturday successfully flight tested the indigenously designed and developed helicopter launched Stand-Off Anti-Tank (SANT) missile from Pokhran ranges, an official said. The flight test was jointly carried out by Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), and Indian Air Force (IAF). The flight-test was successful in meeting all its mission objectives. The release mechanism, advanced guidance and tracking algorithms, all avionics with integrated software, performed satisfactorily and tracking systems monitored all mission events, a government release said. The SANT missile is equipped with a state-of-the-art millimetre wave (MMW) seeker which provides high precision strike capability from a safe distance. The weapon can neutralise targets in a range up to 10 km. The SANT missile has been designed and developed by Research Centre Imarat in Hyderabad, in coordination with other DRDO labs and participation from industries. This is the third in the series of indigenous stand-off weapons to be tested in recent times after long-range bombs and smart anti-airfield weapons for strengthening the arsenal of IAF. The indigenous development of various configurations for different applications with advanced technologies is a firm march towards 'Aatmanirbharta' in defence. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh has congratulated the team associated with the mission, the release said. DRDO Chairman G. Satheesh Reddy said the successful flight test of SANT missile would further bolster the indigenous defence capabilities. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-successfully-flight-tests-indigenous-stand-off-anti-tank-missile-1059816.html
11-12-2021||National||SC designates seven ex-HC judges, 18 lawyers as senior advocates||The Supreme Court on Saturday designated seven former judges of various High Courts and 18 lawyers as senior advocates. Among those designated senior advocate roles among the former judges category are Dr J N Bhat, Surendra Kumar, S K Gangele, Vinod Prasad, L Narasimha Reddy, A I S Cheema and Naushad Ali.  Notably, Justice Gangele, who retired in July 2018, faced sexual harassment charges by a district court judge during his tenure at the Madhya Pradesh High Court. Among the lawyers category, those designated senior advocates by the apex court are Ravi Prakash Mehrotra, S N Bhat, Dr Krishan Singh Chauhan, Vishwajit Singh, D N Goburdhun, Vijay Punjwani, Pradeep Kumar Dey, A D N Rao, Rachna Srivastava, Anil Kumar Sangal, Rajiv Nanda, Arunabha Chowdhury, Ravindra Kumar, Vijay Kumar, Manoj Goel, Yadavilli Prabhakar Rao, G Umapathy and P Niroop. The decision to grant senior advocate designation under Section 16 of the Advocates Act, 1961 was taken in the full court meeting held on December 8. It had been pending for quite some time due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Fresh guidelines were framed in 2018 for conferring the designation after the top court's judgement in Indira Jaising's case on October 12, 2017. Prior to the 2017 judgement, the decision on senior advocates designation was taken on the basis of secret voting among the judges and by the rule of majority. Different high courts followed their own criteria. The fresh norms mandated setting up a permanent committee with a secretariat headed by Chief Justice of India, or chief justice in case of high courts, two senior-most judges with Attorney General/Advocate General, who would nominate another bar member, to scrutinise the candidates, conduct interview and award points before referring the matter to the full court. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-designates-seven-ex-hc-judges-18-lawyers-as-senior-advocates-1059822.html
11-12-2021||National||Omicron's impact on Indian economy will be less severe: Finance Ministry report||India will be among only a few economies in the world to rebound strongly from Covid-19 induced economic contraction of 2020-21, a Finance Ministry report said assuaging that the Omicron variant's impact on the economy will be less severe due to rapid vaccination. Real GDP in Q2 of FY2021-22 has grown by 8.4 per cent YoY, recovering more than 100 per cent of the pre-pandemic output in the corresponding quarter of FY2019-20, said the monthly Economic Review prepared by the Finance Ministry. "India is among the few countries that have recorded four consecutive quarters of growth amid Covid-19 (Q3, Q4 of FY21 and Q1, Q2 of FY22) reflecting the resilience of the Indian economy. The recovery was driven by a revival in services, full-recovery in manufacturing and sustained growth in agriculture sectors," it said. The recovery suggests kick-starting of the investment cycle, supported by surging vaccination coverage and efficient economic management activating the macro and micro drivers of growth, the report said. India's economic recovery is expected to gain further strength in the remaining quarters of the financial year, as evident from 19 among 22 High Frequency Indicators (HFIs) in September, October and November of 2021 crossing their pre-pandemic levels in the corresponding months of 2019, it said. "Yet, Omicron, a new variant of Covid-19 may pose a fresh risk to the ongoing global recovery. However, preliminary evidence suggests that the Omicron variant is expected to be less severe and more so with increasing pace of vaccination in India," the Finance Ministry said. Observing that the Covid-19 pandemic has led to considerable human and economic costs setting countries back on their developmental goals, the latest review said, the year 2021 is thus a "catch-up" year for the global economy including India, trying to recover the pre-pandemic output level of 2019. India has not only caught up with its pre-pandemic output of Q2, but is also expected to do so for the full year, it said, adding, the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) in its December statement has maintained the growth forecast of 9.5 per cent during FY 2021-22, implying a full recovery and a 1.6 per cent growth over pre-pandemic GDP level of FY 2019-20. "India will be among only a few economies in the world to rebound strongly from Covid-19 induced economic contraction of 2020-21," it said. Noting that the agriculture sector has been the foundation on which economic contraction in India was minimised in FY2020-21 and recovery sped up in FY2021-22, the report said rising production of food grains, increase in MSPs for both kharif and rabi crops in 2021-22 have also raised rural incomes. The central government finances improved during April 2021 to October 2021 over the corresponding period of previous year, with both direct and indirect taxes showing a significant YoY growth, it said, adding that sustained improvement in revenue collection bodes well for achieving the government's fiscal deficit target at 6.8 per cent of GDP for the current financial year. In the first seven months of FY2021-22, it said the government stepped up public capital expenditure in infrastructure by 28.3 per cent over the corresponding period of last year with focus on railways, road transport and highways, and housing and urban affairs. Revenue expenditure during this period saw a much lower YoY growth of 7.5 per cent, indicating a pronounced shift towards much-improved quality of total expenditure, it added. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/omicrons-impact-on-indian-economy-will-be-less-severe-finance-ministry-report-1059832.html
11-12-2021||National||General Rawat's death creates a void that cannot be filled: President Kovind||General Bipin Rawat was an extraordinary military leader, and his death has created a void that cannot be filled, President Ram Nath Kovind on Saturday. The President was speaking on the occasion of the review of the Passing Out Parade of the Indian Military Academy in Dehradun. India's first Cheif of Defence Staff General Rawat, his wife and 11 other armed forces personnel were killed in an IAF chopper crash near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu on Wednesday. The President said, "We gathered here today when the nation is yet to come out of the shock of the untimely demise of General Bipin Rawat, the Chief of Defence Staff. Uttarakhand was his home and he was trained at the Indian Military Academy. "At the IMA, he was awarded the Sword of Honour for his exceptional skills. But for the tragedy, he would have been among us here today, looking at the passing-out parade with delight and pride for the cadets." The President said that General Rawat added to the glory of the IMA, which is an institution with an inspiring tradition. Before him, Field Marshal K.M. Cariappa, Field Marshal Sam Manekshaw and many other extraordinary warriors and strategists began their journey from here as young cadets and potential leaders. Some of them laid down their lives for the safety and honour of the nation, the President said, as he expressed confidence that the gentlemen cadets, who would shortly embark on their journey of a life characterised by valour and wisdom, would carry forward the rich legacy of this academy. Congratulating the cadets on the successful completion of their training at the IMA, the President said that their service and dedication as soldiers and leaders shall add to the strength of a peaceful, independent and democratic India. He said, "We should recall the iconic status acquired by one of the many illustrious alumni of the academy, General Rawat, who with his hard work emerged as the role model of soldierly conduct for the future generation." The President was happy to see gentlemen cadets from friendly foreign countries of Afghanistan, Bhutan, Maldives, Myanmar, Nepal, Sri Lanka, Tajikistan, Tanzania, Turkmenistan and Vietnam at the parade. He said, "We cherish the special bond between our nations, and it is a matter of great pride for India to have such fine officers and gentlemen from friendly foreign countries graduating today."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/general-rawats-death-creates-a-void-that-cannot-be-filled-president-kovind-1059840.html
11-12-2021||National||India sends medicines for children in Taliban-ruled Afghanistan||India on Saturday sent medicines to Afghanistan in the first tranche of humanitarian assistance to the war-ravaged country after the return of the Taliban to power on August 15 last. A consignment of 1.6 MT of medicines was sent from New Delhi to Kabul on an aircraft, which the Government of India chartered from the Kam Air of Afghanistan. The medicines will be handed over to the representatives of the World Health Organisation (WHO) and will be administered to children undergoing medical care at the Indira Gandhi Institute of Child Health – a hospital, which was set up in Kabul in 1972. New Delhi has not yet recognised the interim government set up by the Taliban in Kabul. But it sent the medicines “in view of the challenging humanitarian situation in Afghanistan”, according to a press release issued by the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA).   A spokesperson of the Taliban, however, thanked the Government of India for the medicines. He said that medical equipment would be imported from India to Afghanistan in the coming days.  The aircraft chartered by the Government of India arrived in New Delhi on Friday, with 10 Indian and 94 Afghan citizens, including members of the minority communities of the war-torn nation. The Afghan Sikh evacuees carried with them two copies of the holy book Guru Granth Sahib and some ancient manuscripts of the Hindus. The aircraft returned with over 200 Afghans, mostly the students and others, who had come for medical care in India. Just days after the Taliban took over Kabul, India evacuated its ambassador to Afghanistan, Rudrendra Tandon, and other diplomats and consular officials. It had earlier evacuated officials posted in its four consulates in Afghanistan. But neither any of the consulates in Kandahar, Herat, Mazar-e-Sharif and Jalalabad, nor the embassy in Kabul was officially shut down. India also evacuated 669 people from Afghanistan after August 15, including 448 Indians and 206 Afghans, which included the Afghan Hindus and Sikhs. Besides, 565 people including 438 Indians had been evacuated from Afghanistan earlier in the month of August. India may soon send 50,000 MT of wheat and another consignment of medicines to Afghanistan through Pakistan. Pakistan has recently agreed to allow trucks of Afghanistan to carry humanitarian aid from India through its territory. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-sends-medicines-for-children-in-taliban-ruled-afghanistan-1059848.html
11-12-2021||National||Farmers to vacate Ghazipur border fully by December 15, says Tikait||BKU leader Rakesh Tikait said farmers will fully vacate their protest site on the Delhi border here by December 15 as their first group left for Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh on Saturday. Meanwhile, farmers here celebrated the repeal of the farm laws by distributing sweets. BKU’s national spokesman Rakesh Tikait said the government has scrapped its contentious agriculture laws and agreed to sort out other problems. A large portion of the Ghazipur border would be vacated on Sunday, though it will be fully vacated by December 15, he said. Tikait said he will be returning home after seeing off all farmers.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-to-vacate-ghazipur-border-fully-by-december-15-says-tikait-1059852.html
11-12-2021||National||Zero convictions in child porn cases despite six-fold increase this year||Child pornography cases have seen a six-fold increase in 2020, shows government data, but despite stringent laws, conviction remains abysmally low. In reply to a parliament question, the women and child development ministry has said that of the 738 cases filed in 2020, there was no conviction in any case. The WCD ministry, replying to a question by Congress MP Shashi Tharoor, has said that in 2020, the Centre received 738 complaints of child sex abuse material (CSAM). That is a massive six-fold jump from 103 cases in 2019. In 2018, there were 44 cases of CSAM filed.  The data set shows that of the 738 cases filed in 2020, chargesheets were filed in only 272 cases, which is a little over a third of cases. The trial was completed in only one case, and the conviction rate was zero.  In the previous year, in 2019, chargesheets were filed in 58 of the 108 cases, and the trial was completed in only two cases. In 2018, of the 44 cases filed, chargesheets were filed in 22 cases, and trials were completed in one case.  Rajeev Chandrasekhar, minister of state in the IT Ministry, told DH that the low rate of convictions and high rate of acquittal is “very worrying”.  “It means child sexual offenders who are almost always repeated offenders are out roaming around and remaining threats to the safety of children. State governments must do more to ensure better prosecution of these crimes,” said Chandrasekhar.  In his question, Tharoor asked the government to list the steps it has taken to curb CSAM cases. Incidentally, Tharoor heads the Parliamentary committee on information technology. The WCD ministry, in reply, said that it periodically blocks websites containing extreme CSAM based on INTERPOL’s “worst of list” received through the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). In addition, the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012 provides strict punishment for CSAM. Additionally, Section 67B of the Information Technology (IT) Act, 2000 as well as The Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021 are instrumental in checking CSAM, the government said.  The WCD ministry further said that it has issued an order to Internet Service Providers (ISPs) to implement Internet Watch Foundation (IWF), UK or Project Arachnid, Canada list of CSAM websites and block access to them. However, barring one provider, major ISPs have not yet joined.  An ad hoc parliamentary committee formed in 2020 to study the alarming rise of CSAM on social media, among 40 recommendations, suggested that mandatory APPs to monitor access to pornography on all devices sold in India, permission to break end-to-end encryption to trace distributors of such content and penal provisions for cyber grooming. Rajeev Gowda, a former Congress Rajya Sabha MP who was a member of the panel, told DH that the reported data points to the lacunae in the law and order machinery.  “Effective enforcement of criminal laws is possible only when Acts are accompanied by forceful actions on the investigation and prosecution front. The government must wake up and realise that its inaction and incompetence is perpetuating an unsafe environment for our children,” said Gowda.  Vidya Reddy of the Centre for the Prevention and Healing of Child Sexual Abuse (CPHCSA) says that India is lacking in its larger international commitment to address CSAM.  “Why is India not a part of global alliances like WeProtect and Virtual Global TaskForce. Conviction is woefully low because trial takes a lot of time, and filing cases under cybercrime is no easy task,” said Reddy. She had filed a case in 2015 in a matter pertaining to CSAM; the trial for which began just recently.  The International Association of Internet Hotlines’s 2020 report shows that 93% of CSAM feature girls, and 77% of cases depicted children below the age of 13. In some cases, CSAM involving children below two years, too, were found.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/zero-convictions-in-child-porn-cases-despite-six-fold-increase-this-year-1059856.html
11-12-2021||National||Goa headed for split verdict with BJP as single largest party: Survey||The BJP is expected to emerge as the single largest party with a 30 per cent vote share in Goa, which will go to the polls early next year, as per the third ABP News-CVoter Battle for the States Tracker. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) is projected to be the main opposition with 24 per cent vote share, while erstwhile prime contender Congress is projected to poll 20 per cent votes. It is clear from the vote share that Goa is heading for a split verdict that could eventually lead to a hung Assembly, as per the survey. The current projections are based on CVoter daily tracking poll conducted from November 13 to December 9, among 18+ adults, including likely voters. As for the methodology and survey details, the survey reached out to a total of approximately 92,000+ persons across five states (UP, Punjab, Uttarakhand, Manipur and Goa). It was conducted through CATI (telephonic survey). The same is also expected to have a margin of error of ±3 to ±5 per cent and may not necessarily have factored in all the criteria. In the earlier rounds of the Tracker, BJP was projected to win a simple majority, but heading into the final weeks, that edge has undergone erosion. Currently, BJP is projected to win 19 seats, just one shy of the halfway mark of 20 seats. AAP is the surprise of the pack and is expected to win 7 seats, higher than the 6 seats projected for the Congress. In normal times, the anti-incumbency in the state would have been sufficient to sink the fortunes of the BJP. However, the incompetence of state Congress and better groundwork of AAP has split the anti-incumbency votes. This has pushed the BJP into an advantageous position. The kingmakers in this scenario will be the other smaller parties that are currently projected to poll 26 per cent vote share and win 8 seats. In a hung Assembly, just like the previous Vidhan Sabha, the government formation will be a messy process with some twists and turns. Incumbent Chief Minister Pramod Sawant of the BJP is the most popular leader for the CM's post among the Goans with 29 per cent approval. The second spot is held by AAP's unnamed leader with 21 per cent approval. Digambar Kamat of Congress is the third most popular leader with 14 per cent approval. This brings up the question of leadership dividend for AAP. If AAP is currently doing well without a face, does it stand to gain from projecting a strong leader? Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/goa-headed-for-split-verdict-with-bjp-as-single-largest-party-survey-1059860.html
11-12-2021||National||Committed to inclusive development of villages: Channi||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Saturday said no stone will be left unturned for the inclusive development of villages. Channi met zila parishad and panchayat samiti members, sarpanches, councillors of Chamkaur Sahib block at his residence in Dholan Majra village. Addressing the gathering, the chief minister said no stone will be left unturned for the inclusive development of villages, for which he is meeting the panchayats personally and their demands will be met. He asked the panchayats to complete development works on a war footing so that the next phase of works could be started soon, an official release said. Referring to farmers returning home from Delhi borders after the suspension of their agitation, Channi said their stir has proved to be a big success and people of Punjab and the state government made contributions to the struggle. "Farmers are returning home today after ending the 'morcha' and the state government is extending a warm welcome to farmers by setting up reception gates at various places," said Channi, as per the release. The chief minister further said the Punjab government wanted to waive the debt of the farmers and debt up to Rs 2 lakh has already been waived. Channi said he has also written a letter to the prime minister to waive all debts of farmers and formulate a policy in this regard as farmers of the entire nation direly needed the same. Channi said the Punjab government is committed to uplifting the economic status of the poor and concrete steps are being taken in this regard.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/committed-to-inclusive-development-of-villages-channi-1059870.html
11-12-2021||National||Congress demands Dhami's resignation for 'protecting' mining mafia||Opposition Congress dug in its heels in the state assembly on the issue of illegal mining on the third day of the winter session on Saturday with Leader of Opposition Pritam Singh demanding the resignation of Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami for allegedly shielding the mining mafia. Nandan Singh Bisht, a public relations officer (PRO) at the Chief Minister's Office (CMO), had written a letter to the Senior Superintendent of Police, Bageshwar on December 8 asking him to cancel the challans issued against three vehicles used allegedly for illegal mining specifying their numbers. Bisht had said that the challans be cancelled citing an oral order of the chief minister to this effect. After the opposition raised the issue in the House, Additional Chief Secretary Anand Vardhan issued an order on Saturday asking officers on special duty (OSDs), PROs, coordinators and the chief coordinator at the CMO not to use the official letterhead for issuing administrative orders with their signatures. Singh said the letter proved the CMO's protection to the mining mafia and demanded the chief minister's resignation on moral grounds. Congress poll campaign head Harish Rawat and state Congress president Ganesh Godiyal also raised the issue outside the assembly and staged a dharna at one of its gates along with their supporters holding anti-government placards which read "mining loving CM, wake up". The opposition also raised the issue of unemployment in the state assembly accusing the BJP government of issuing "conflicting and misleading" data on the number of people given employment in the state. "The parliamentary affairs minister informed the House in 2020 that 10 lakh people had been given employment and contradicted himself in 2021 saying only seven lakh people had been given employment," Singh said. "All we want to know is which of the two figures is correct. The state government is misleading the House by giving conflicting data on employment," he added. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-demands-dhamis-resignation-for-protecting-mining-mafia-1059877.html
11-12-2021||National||India, Russia look for new equilibrium||When Pakistan in 1971 let loose its soldiers on its own people in what was then known as East Pakistan, the United States and the United Kingdom sent warships to the Bay of Bengal to dissuade India from intervening and stopping the genocide. Moscow, however, firmly stood by New Delhi, the landmark Indo-Soviet Treaty of Peace, Friendship and Cooperation was signed and the Soviet Union navy sent a flotilla from Vladivostok, eventually scaring the British and the American fleets away from the region. India won the war against Pakistan and East Pakistan was liberated into Bangladesh in December 1971. India on December 6 celebrated the ‘Maitri Diwas’ to commemorate the day it had recognized the newborn nation of Bangladesh back in 1971. Coincidentally, Prime Minister Narendra Modi hosted Russian President Vladimir Putin on the same day. The summit saw India and Russia trying to adapt to the geopolitical realities of the day and readjust the bilateral relations in pursuit of a new equilibrium. Putin flew to New Delhi to hold the summit with Modi at a time when Moscow’s acrimony with the United States and the European Union escalated over Russia’s military build-up near Ukraine. Modi on the other hand hosted the Russian President amid New Delhi’s growing strategic convergence with the United States in the wake of China’s continued belligerence all along its disputed boundary with India. The two leaders, however, did try to arrest the drift in the relations. A 2+2 dialogue among the foreign and defence ministers of the two nations also took place on December 6 morning, a few hours before the leaders held the summit. The back-to-back engagements by the end of the day resulted in as many as 28 government-to-government and business-to-business pacts, in addition to a 99-point joint statement titled “India-Russia: Partnership for Peace, Progress and Prosperity”. The most significant outcomes were of course the contract for manufacturing 6,01,427 Russian AK-203 rifles in India and the renewal of the agreement on military-technical cooperation for 10 more years, outlining the ongoing and future possible cooperation in the defence sector. The two documents signalled that India would for now continue with its decades-old defence cooperation with Russia, notwithstanding the US frowns. Modi said during the summit that “India-Russia friendship” remained “a constant” amid many fundamental changes in geopolitical equations over the past decades. Putin said that Russia considered India “a major power” and promoted military-technical cooperation with India as it did with none of its other partners. He also said that Russia developed and manufactured high-tech military products, with India and in India. India underlined its “enhanced requirement” of military and military-technical cooperation with Russia to meet the security challenges it was confronted with, particularly the aggression by China along the disputed boundary between the two neighbours. The summit took place with the spectre of the US CAATSA (Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act) sanctions looming large over India for its October 2018 deal to procure five S-400 air defence systems from Russia at an estimated cost of nearly Rs 39,000 crore. Though several US lawmakers and strategic affairs analysts argued in favour of granting India a waiver from the CAATSA sanctions, President Joe Biden’s administration remained non-committal and informally signalled that even if New Delhi gets an exemption for the S-400 contract, it should not expect the same for future big-ticket deals to procure defence equipment from Russia. Russia has since long been the largest supplier of military hardware to India and has been maintaining low-key defence cooperation with Pakistan. But with the changes in geopolitical landscape and New Delhi’s growing ties with Washington DC, after the landmark India-US civil nuclear agreement of 2008, Moscow, too, responded to Islamabad’s overtures to improve bilateral relations. Russia started discussing the sale of Mi-35 attack helicopters to Pakistan in 2014 and purportedly started delivery of the choppers in 2018, although New Delhi publicly conveyed its concerns over the deal. Russia, in November 2015, also inked a defence cooperation agreement with Pakistan and the two nations had their first military drill in September-October, 2016 – just weeks after India signed the Logistics Exchange Memorandum of Agreement (LEMOA) with the US creating a framework to support each other's aircraft, ships and personnel with logistics, fuel and spares. India turned into a “major defence partner” of the US and kept on signing one defence agreement after another – Communications Compatibility and Security Agreement (COMCASA) in 2018, Industrial Security Annex (ISA) to General Security of Military Information Agreement (GSOMIA) in 2019 and the Basic Exchange and Cooperation Agreement (BECA) in 2020. Russia too continued to expand its defence cooperation with Pakistan with regular bilateral military drills, with the last one being held in November 2020. During a visit to Islamabad on April 7 this year, Putin’s Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov announced Russia’s plan to provide Pakistan with more “special military equipment” and to conduct more military exercises with Pakistan, both in the mountains as well as in the Arabian Sea. Russia has also been stepping up its strategic partnership with China, with the important milestones being the settlement of the border dispute in 1991, signing of the Treaty of Good-Neighbourliness and Friendly Cooperation in 2001, and elevation of the relations to Comprehensive Strategic Partnership in 2014. Russia signalled its willingness to consider transfer of defence technology to China, as its military sales to the communist country increased substantially. Russia in December 2017 delivered the second batch of 10 Su-35 fighter jets to China — about a year after the delivery of the first batch of four aircraft. Russia also delivered S-400s to China, which recently deployed two units of the missile defence systems in Holan and Nyingchi, just across Ladakh and Arunachal Pradesh of India. Moscow did quietly play a mediating role between New Delhi and Beijing ever since India and China got engaged in the military stand-off along the LAC in April-May 2020. What it did not like is India’s growing cooperation with the US as well as with Japan and Australia in the Indo-Pacific, both bilaterally as well as within the framework of the Quad – a coalition forged by the four nations to counter expansionist aspirations of China. The summit and the 2+2 dialogue on December 6 saw Russia conveying to India its “serious concern” over the US role in Asia-Pacific “in the name of so-called Indo-Pacific strategies and (through) creation of closed bloc-type structures”. It had earlier called the Quad a ‘divisive’ and ‘exclusivist’ tool being used by the US to implement its “devious policy” of engaging India against China as well as to undermine Russia’s close partnership with India. Though India argues that its own vision for the Indo-Pacific is inclusive and not against China or any other nation, it obviously could not yet convince Russia. New Delhi of late also supported Russia’s entry into the Indian Ocean Rim Association as a dialogue partner. India obviously wants Russia to play a bigger role in the region as it is consistent with its inclusive Indo-Pacific vision and helps dispel the narrative that it is ganging up with the US to help counter hegemonic aspirations of China. India’s relations with Russia will of course no longer remain the same as it has been in the past half a century. China continued its military build-up all along its disputed boundary with India. Pakistan of late gained a strategic edge against India after the Taliban’s return to power in Afghanistan. So confronted with security challenges, New Delhi will obviously seek to maintain a balance in its ties with Moscow and Washington DC. But doing so is likely to be more challenging if tension between Russia and the US escalates. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-russia-look-for-new-equilibrium-1059890.html
11-12-2021||National||NALSA conducts lok adalats across country, over 29 lakh cases settled||In a bid to ease pressure on the judicial system, over 29 lakh cases were settled and a whopping Rs 4,431 crore awarded on Saturday in national lok adalats held in 35 states and union territories by NALSA. This is the fourth such adalat organised this year by the National Legal Services Authority (NALSA). "In certain states, the National Lok Adalat was inaugurated by the Chief Justice of the respective high courts and the executive chairpersons of the concerned SLSAs. During the day, the executive chairpersons of all SLSAs monitored the ongoing activities in their respective states. Moreover, in some states, the judges of high courts visited their respective administrative district judgeship and motivated all the stakeholders," a release said. The lok adalats, which were conducted through virtual and hybrid mode, took up 7,245,063 cases, which were either pending in courts or belonged to pre-litigation stage, it said. "Across the country, the latest data pertaining to today's National Lok Adalat (till 4:00 pm) indicates that 72.45 lakh cases were taken up out of which 18.23 lakh were pre-litigation cases and 10.76 lakh were pending cases.  "Over 29 lakhs cases were disposed of till last reports were received, indicating a huge achievement and success for the legal services authorities. It was on account of the keen participation by the stakeholders that the legal services authorities have been able to achieve this huge disposal," the release said. In Punjab, approximately 1,38,000 cases were taken up. Long pending matters relating to matrimonial disputes, property disputes, cheque bounce cases, labour matters, criminal compoundable cases, cancellation and untraced reports of various FIRs etc. were taken up. Lok adalats were also organised in 22 districts and 33 sub-divisions of Haryana and 49,324 cases were settled pertaining to "civil, criminal, matrimonial, bank recovery, etc". Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nalsa-conducts-lok-adalats-across-country-over-29-lakh-cases-settled-1059894.html
11-12-2021||National||Govt framed new policies, changed existing ones to restore pre-pandemic economic growth: Amit Shah||The Narendra Modi government framed new policies and amended the existing ones to bring back pre-pandemic levels of economic growth, Union minister Amit Shah said here on Saturday. The projects worth Rs 361.5 crore which he inaugurated or for which he laid the foundation stone in his Lok Sabha constituency Gandhinagar during the day were testimony to the Gujarat government's commitment to keep up the pace of development despite the coronavirus pandemic, he said. "To accelerate the economy, policies were framed after hours of brainstorming and studying all the aspects. And the policies which became hurdles in bringing industry, affected 'Make In India' or obstructed 'Atmanirbhar Bharat' were changed during the coronavirus period," he said. He cited examples such as opening up of the space sector for private players and new policy for the use of drones framed during this period. "The result is that while several other countries are struggling with slowdown, India has achieved pre-coronavirus economic figures," the Union Home and Cooperation Minister said. He praised Prime Minister Modi for ensuring that poor households did not suffer from hunger during the pandemic by providing them 5 kg of foodgrains free. He also hailed Modi's leadership for making available Co-WIN app free for streamlining vaccination, and said even foreign countries are using this app. During his visit here, Shah inaugurated projects worth Rs 112 crore including a four-lane flyover bridge and railway overbridge in Ahmedabad. He also laid foundation stones for projects worth Rs 250 crore.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-framed-new-policies-changed-existing-ones-to-restore-pre-pandemic-economic-growth-amit-shah-1059896.html
11-12-2021||National Politics||DH Toon | Goa Cong hit by resignations on day of Priyanka Gandhi's visit||The Goa Congress faced a spate of resignations and confusion prevailed over its alliance with like-minded parties for the upcoming polls in the coastal state as the opposition party was getting ready for a series of meetings by general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Friday. A group of Congress leaders from the Porvorim assembly constituency tendered their resignations on Friday morning. The group, supported by Independent MLA Rohan Khaunte, claimed the Congress was not serious about contesting the assembly polls likely to be held in early 2022.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dh-toon-goa-cong-hit-by-resignations-on-day-of-priyanka-gandhis-visit-1059657.html
11-12-2021||National Politics||Rift in Opposition camp over continuation of protest outside Parliament||Signalling confusion and differences in the ranks, suspended MPs appeared to have ignored senior Opposition leaders' nudge not to resume their dharna on Friday that was halted for a day, as the funeral of Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat was taking place. The Opposition MPs, barring those of Trinamool Congress who walked out from Rajya Sabha, also attended the proceedings of the Upper House like they did the day before in honour of Gen Rawat, who died in a chopper crash on Wednesday. Barring three MPs who were out of town, nine other suspended MPs continued to sit at Gandhi Statue in Parliament House before they called it a day in the afternoon. MPs from Congress, AAP, Samajwadi Party, DMK and NCP, among others, attended the House proceedings. There is also discontent within the Opposition parties for not stepping up the protest against the suspension of MPs and making it a political fight with senior CPI(M) MP Elamaram Kareem suggesting that a protest programme should be organised in Jantar Mantar with suspended lawmakers and national leaders like Sonia Gandhi and Sitaram Yechury in attendance. Kareem also suggested that Opposition should organise a seminar of Constitutional experts to explain how the suspension was "flawed and unconstitutional". Sources said leaders of some Opposition parties, especially the Left, wanted an escalated protest. They were of the view that there is a need to take the protest outside Parliament and make a case out of it. The Opposition leaders will be meeting again coming Monday to discuss further course of action. During a meeting called by Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge on Friday, it was decided to continue the suspension of the dharna as well as not disrupting the House. Sources said AAP’s Sanjay Singh and Samajwadi Party’s Ramgopal Yadav suggested that the Opposition should continue with the suspension of dharna and should not disrupt the House, as Gen Rawat’s funeral would be held in the national capital later in the day. The AAP leader said they should keep people’s sentiments in mind, as the last rites are being held here, and the ruling BJP could use it against them. The proposal got the support of Congress, RJD and other parties and it was decided that the decision of the meeting would be conveyed to the suspended MPs. When the collective decision was conveyed to Trinamool leaders, who are not attending meetings called by Congress, they were not enthusiastic about it. A suspended Trinamool MP asked what was the logic for suspending the protest for another day, as they have already expressed their tributes. Similar sentiments were shared by other suspended MPs, though a section among them said that they would abide by the common decision. A senior leader who was assigned to communicate the decision of the meeting, however, did not meet them. A group of suspended MPs also visited the residence of Gen Rawat and paid homage before winding up the day's protest. On Friday, only a few lawmakers like Karti Chidambaram, Benny Behanan (both Congress), Sougata Roy, Sukhendhu Shekhar Roy, Sushmita Dev, Mausam Noor, Nadimul Haque (Trinamool Congress), Jaya Bachchan (Samajwadi Party), Sanjay Singh (AAP) and Manoj K Jha (RJD) visited the dharna site before the protesters called it a day.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rift-in-opposition-camp-over-continuation-of-protest-outside-parliament-1059669.html
11-12-2021||National Politics||I oppose parties that indulge in politics for Muslims’ votes: Tyagi||You converted to Sanatan Dharma (Hinduism). What’s your next course of action? You are familiar with what conditions it happened, and how it happened. I have been talking to them (the Muslim community) about reforming Islam. Whenever I talked of reforms, of humanity, and asked them not to fight over Ram Janmabhoomi and return without a court case, I was expelled (from my faith, Islam) with an excuse that I was supporting Hindus. They expelled me at least 20 times in the past four and a half years. There were threats to kill me. When you say ‘they’, are you referring to Shias, specific organisations or groups? I was talking to the Muslim community. When I talked about Quran, I wrote to 57 Muslim organisations. On the Ram Janmabhoomi issues as well, I contacted everyone but received no response from anyone. Do you support any political party? Have you joined any, or are joining any party? I was in the Samajwadi Party. I was expelled 10 years ago. I have had confrontations with maulvis. They got me expelled from the party as the Akhilesh government came into power. I ceased my political career. But as of today, my political thought is clear - I oppose all those regional or national parties that indulge in politics through Muslims’ votes. Do you support BJP? Yeh to baad ki baat hai… (This discussion is for the future). My statement is only this that I am opposing them (the parties in politics based on Muslim votes). And I am trying to reinvigorate Hindutva… wake up politically, socially, commercially. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/i-oppose-parties-that-indulge-in-politics-for-muslims-votes-tyagi-1059732.html
11-12-2021||National Politics||For some priority is to cut ribbons: Modi takes a dig at Akhilesh Yadav over Saryu canal project||Prime minister Narendra Modi and Samajwadi Party (SP) President Akhilesh Yadav on Saturday accused each other of taking credit for the developmental projects in Uttar Pradesh ahead of the forthcoming assembly polls in the state which was scheduled to be held early next year. Modi, who inaugurated the Saryu Canal Project in UP's Balrampur district, about 300 kilometres from here, took potshots at Akhilesh without taking his name saying that some people only knew about ribbon cutting. ''Maybe he (Akhilesh) had cut the ribbon of this (Saryu Canal Project) also,'' Modi said in a sarcastic vein. ''I had been waiting since morning that someone would come forward and claim that he had cut the ribbon of this project....some people have a habit of taking credit for others' works....maybe he had cut the ribbon of this project in his childhood,'' the prime minister said taking a dig at Akhilesh. Modi sought to woo the farmers also and said that the project would go a long way in benefitting the farmers. ''It is our top priority that the waters of the rivers are put to optimum use and the fields of the farmers get enough water for irrigation,'' he added. He alleged that the previous regimes tried to create obstacles in the way of the project and as a result, huge amounts of public money was wasted. ''What pains me most is the misuse of the resources, money and time of the country...those who misused public money are liable to be punished,'' he remarked. Akhilesh hit back at Modi almost immediately and termed his government as 'kainchijeevi' (cutting ribbons with scissors). ''The difference is clear...some people only know how to take credit for others' work.....BJP should make it clear how many of the promises that it had made to the people during the previous polls have been fulfilled,'' he asked. The SP president also accused the BJP of misusing government events for the purpose of election campaigning. ''No political party had misused the government events as the BJP,'' he added. Akhilesh said that the district magistrates had been entrusted with the task of arranging buses to bring people to the PM events and wondered if the saffron party had organised any real public meetings so far. Akhilesh's allegations came in the wake of reports that UP Roadways buses were being used to ferry the people to the inaugurations and launching of developmental programs by the PM and UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/for-some-priority-is-to-cut-ribbons-modi-takes-a-dig-at-akhilesh-yadav-over-saryu-canal-project-1059755.html
11-12-2021||National Politics||Call for Rahul Gandhi to lead Congress again?||As the Congress prepares for its national-level rally against inflation in Rajasthan's capital Jaipur on Sunday, Rahul Gandhi's image occupies the central position in banners and posters and senior party leader V Narayanasamy says everyone wants him to become the party president again. Gandhi had resigned as the Congress president after the party's debacle in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections and the chorus for him to be reappointed to the post has been growing of late. Ahead of the 'Mehangai Hatao Maha Rally' at the Vidhyadhar Nagar stadium, Congress workers have bedecked the city with banners, flags and posters. Gandhi's image is in the centre in posters and banners. Apart from Rahul Gandhi, mugshots of Congress president Sonia Gandhi, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretaries Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, K C Venugopal and Ajay Maken and Rajasthan party chief Govind Singh Dotasra are there in the posters. Venugopal is AICC in-charge of organisation, while Maken is in-charge of party affairs in the state. "Rahul Gandhi is our leader. Everyone wants him to become the party president again," senior party leader and former Puducherry chief minister Narayanasamy told reporters outside the state party office here. Party leaders from across the country will attend the national-level rally which was earlier proposed to be held in New Delhi. It was moved to Jaipur after permission was denied for it in the national capital. Narayanasamy said that the rally will send a message across the country against the central government. Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi will be there in the rally but it is not confirmed yet whether Sonia Gandhi will attend it. "Whether Congress president Sonia Gandhi will also come, it will be known on Sunday itself," Maken said at a press conference at the Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) office. Chief Minister Gehlot and other leaders visited the venue on Saturday to take stock of the preparations. "The enthusiasm is high among party workers and people for the rally against inflation. Inflation is a big issue that has affected the people of the country badly. It is the result of wrong policies of the government of India,” he told reporters at the stadium. He said that the rally is getting extraordinary response from all over the country. After Gehlot, Venugopal, Maken, Dotasra and other leaders reached the stadium to see the arrangements. Eleven committees headed by state ministers are looking after various arrangements for the rally.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/call-for-rahul-gandhi-to-lead-congress-again-1059764.html
11-12-2021||National Politics||PM Modi restoring glory of 'humiliated' Hindu centres of faith: Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Saturday said that the centres of faith of the Hindu community were left humiliated for many years and nobody cared to bring back their glory until the government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi came to power in 2014, which is now working "fearlessly" for the renovation of such sites. "For many years centres of belief of Hindu community remained humiliated as no one started to revitalise them. In 2014, the people of India gave a full majority to Narendra Modi ji...a full majority after 30 years. We have seen earlier how people used to feel embarrassed going to temples. But a new era dawned as designated prime minister Narendra Modi performed Ganga aarti after applying bhabhut (sacred ash) on his forehead at Kashi Vishwanath temple," Union Home Minister Amit Shah claimed in his speech during three-day Umiyadham temple foundation stone laying ceremony in Ahmedabad. He claimed that "Modiji is working fearlessly to renovate our forgotten centres of faith with devotion and respect." Shah further added, "Demolished during the time of Aurangzeb, the renovation of Kashi Vishwanath temple is going to be unveiled by the hands of Narendrabhai in two days on 13th (December). We will see the grand renovation of the temple." He said that many such temples are being renovated.  Giving examples, Shah said that three months ago he participated in a foundation stone laying ceremony in Mirzapur (Uttar Pradesh) for a grand temple of Ma Vindhyavasini as "the idol of the goddess had to be hidden in a house due to fear of Muslim invasion." He said that a grand temple will be built at a cost of Rs 3,000 crore. "Today, as the foundation stone laying ceremony of a grand temple is being performed by Arya Samaji Acharya Devvrat (Governor of Gujarat), I would like to say that under the leadership of Modiji, Modiji is working fearlessly to renovate our forgotten centres of faith with devotion and respect," Shah said while addressing the gathering.  Apart from Shah, and Acharya Devvrat, Gujarat chief minister Bhupendra Patel, his cabinet ministers, BJP leaders and ex-leader of opposition Siddharth Patel, among others were present. The temple project dedicated to goddess Umiya, the deity of the Kadva Patidar sect is being built at a cost of Rs1,500. The campus will have several facilities for the community. In his speech, Shah also mentioned how Prime Minister Modi "unveiled" the statue of Adi Shankaracharya and "revived the centre of faith of crores of Hindus" at Kedarnath temple after the region was devastated by floods in 2013. BJP sources said that it was Shah's major appearance in a Patidar community function since 2016, the year he was booed by Patidar Anamat Andolan Samiti (PAAS) leaders for cases and police atrocities against Patidars for reservation agitation. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-modi-restoring-glory-of-humiliated-hindu-centres-of-faith-shah-1059767.html
11-12-2021||National Politics||Rijiju hits back at Chidambaram for sedition law dig||Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Saturday took a swipe at Law Minister Kiren Rijiju for stating that the home ministry has no proposal under consideration to scrap the sedition law, saying what he did not state was that it has proposals to book many innocent people under the law. Rijiju hit back at Chidambaram, asking how many thousand sedition cases were slapped on people by the Congress government. The law minister on Friday said in Lok Sabha that the Ministry of Home Affairs has no proposal under consideration to scrap Section 124A of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) dealing with sedition. Responding to a question by Assam MP Badruddin Ajmal on whether the Supreme Court has recently termed the sedition law as colonial and has made an observation that it is being misused, Rijiju said,"No such observations have been found in any judgment or order delivered by the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India." Reacting to Rijiju's written reply in Lok Sabha, Chidambaram tweeted, "The Minister of Law said that MHA has informed him that there is no proposal to repeal the sedition law (Section 124A). What he did not say was that MHA has proposals to book many innocent people under the sedition law!" How many thousand sedition cases were slapped on people by Congress Govt ? Law Minister may not read newspaper but Law Minister knows that media reports do not become part of official Depart records. The law minister also said that there is no record of the Supreme Court making any observations on the sedition law, the Congress leader noted. "What he (law minister) did not say was that he does not read newspapers reporting the proceedings of the SC," Chidambaram said. Tagging Chidambaram's tweets, Rijiju hit back and asked how many thousand sedition cases were slapped on people by the Congress government. "Law Minister may not read newspaper but Law Minister knows that media reports do not become part of official Depart records. Hon’ble SC is aware of how to make observations & how to pass formal orders!" Rijiju tweeted. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rijiju-hits-back-at-chidambaram-for-sedition-law-dig-1059773.html
11-12-2021||National Politics||Rijiju, Chidambaram spar over govt's reply to Parliament on sedition law||Union Law Minister Kiren Rijiju and senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Saturday sparred over a reply in Parliament from the government in which it said there is no proposal to scrap the sedition law. In a written reply in Lok Sabha, Law Minister Kiren Rijiju had on Friday said, "the Ministry of Home Affairs has informed that there is no proposal under consideration to scrap Sec 124A of the Indian Penal Code, 1860. Further, the question of law regarding Section 124A is pending for adjudication before the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India." He made the reply while responding to a question by AIUDF MP from Assam, Badruddin Ajmal, who had asked whether the Supreme Court has recently termed the sedition law as colonial and whether the apex court has directed Government of India to submit its response on necessity and validity of this law. Ajmal also made an observation that the law is being misused In his reply, Rijiju had said, "no such observations have been found in any judgment or order delivered by the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India." Former Finance Minister P Chidambaram on Saturday took potshots at the Law Minister saying what Rijiju did not state was that it has "proposals to book many innocent people under the law." "The Minister of Law said that MHA has informed him that there is no proposal to repeal the sedition law (Section 124A). What he did not say was that MHA has proposals to book many innocent people under the sedition law!". The law minister also said that there is no record of the Supreme Court making any observations on the sedition law. What he (law minister) did not say was that he does not read newspapers reporting the proceedings of the SC," Chidambaram said. The Law Minister also said that there is no record of the Supreme Court making any observations on the sedition law. What he did not say was that he does not read newspapers reporting the proceedings of the SC. Hitting back, Rijiju reminded the senior Congress leader "how many thousand sedition cases were slapped on people by the Congress government." How many thousand sedition cases were slapped on people by Congress Govt ? Law Minister may not read newspaper but Law Minister knows that media reports do not become part of official Depart records. "The Law Minister may not read the newspaper but the Law Minister knows that media reports do not become part of official Depart records. Hon’ble SC is aware of how to make observations & how to pass formal orders!" Rijiju tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rijiju-chidambaram-spar-over-govts-reply-to-parliament-on-sedition-law-1059843.html
11-12-2021||National Politics||BJP isolated in Goa, but AITC-MGP alliance may have a rocky road ahead||As the first contours of political alliance formations evolve in Goa ahead of the 2022 assembly polls, the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party appears to find itself isolated. Isolation may not be the worst peril faced by the party, as much as the fact that the only major political party which shares a similar Hindu conservative ideology with the BJP, the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP), appears to have rejected its overtures for a pre-poll tie-up. In the highly volatile political ecosystem in Goa, the MGP and the BJP have both hugged as well as bared fangs at each other at various electoral outings over nearly three decades, with contrasting results. The love-hate relationship between the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party and the Bharatiya Janata Party over the last few decades needs to be examined in the context of the Shiv Sena and the BJP in neighbouring Maharashtra. Founded in the 1960s, Shiv Sena is Maharashtra's legacy political party, while the BJP is a relatively new entrant to the western Indian state's political landscape. When the two parties first aligned together in 1989, Shiv Sena was the alliance's senior partner. Both parties were invested in Hindutva and had a common appeal for the Hindu conservative voters in the state. When the two parties rode to power in 1995, the Shiv Sena had 73 MLAs, while the BJP had 65 MLAs. With time, the BJP, which had slowly developed a pan India appeal, systematically managed to slowly stifle the growth of the Sena, while also expanding its base statewide. The BJP's increasing footprint also led to a split in more recent times between the two parties, who were once considered natural allies in Maharashtra politics. In Goa too, the BJP was the junior ally in its early coalition with the MGP in the 1994 assembly polls. Riding on the MGP's stature, the BJP managed to open its account in the state assembly by winning four assembly seats in the polls, while the MGP won 10. But once it had its foot in the assembly, the BJP through its leaders like the late Manohar Parrikar and Shripad Naik gradually managed to create enough traction in the ideologically similar (to the BJP) vote-bank of the MGP, to outdo the latter in the 1999 assembly polls. In those polls, the MGP won only four seats, while the BJP won 10. While the BJP had both outgrown and outsmarted the MGP in the 1990s-2000 decade, the continued importance of the latter was lost on the former. In the 2012 state assembly polls, the BJP managed to win a simple majority for the first time in Goa, largely on account of the 'mahayuti' (grand alliance) between the two parties. The significance of the MGP to the BJP's scheme of things could not have been lost in the 2017 polls, when the BJP crumbled to a mere 13 seats, after it took on the party led by the Dhavalikar brothers, Sudin and Deepak. The most significant import of the MGP's decision to ally with the All India Trinamool Congress (a formal seat-sharing arrangement has not been worked out yet) is a possible split in the Hindu vote bank, which could severely impact the BJP's chances of winning the election. It is not that the alliance between the MGP and the AITC is a match made in heaven. There are fundamental differences in the ethos of the two parties. One, for example, is the open support of Hindu right-wing politics practices by the MGP, whose leaders have overtly expressed support to the controversial Sanatan Sanstha, which is headquartered in Goa and several of whose members are linked to the deaths of rationalists like Gauri Lankesh, MM Kalburgi, Narendra Dabholkar, etc. The other proposed alliance between the Congress and the Goa Forward party, appears to be still suffering from birth pangs. Goa Forward won three out of the four seats it contested in the 2017 assembly polls on an anti-BJP plank, only to join the BJP after the elections. The party was sacked from power in 2019. While state Congress president Girish Chodankar has expressed reluctance to join forces with Goa Forward, which currently appears to have lost its "punch", Goa Forward president Vijai Sardesai and Congress secretary in-charge of Goa Dinesh Gundu Rao are currently in the process of conducting a laborious 'caesarean' procedure to give birth to the alliance. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-isolated-in-goa-but-aitc-mgp-alliance-may-have-a-rocky-road-ahead-1059850.html
11-12-2021||North and Central||Man arrested in Rajasthan for making indecent remarks against Gen Bipin rawat||A man was arrested from Rajasthan for allegedly making indecent remarks against Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat who along with 12 others were killed when a Mi17V5 helicopter carrying them crashed near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu. “The accused Javed Khan (21), a resident of Nazarbag road in the city, was arrested on Thursday,” SHO Kotwali police station of Tonk, Jitendra Singh said. Khan was arrested for making derogatory remarks against General Bipin Rawat on social media, he said. Four teams were formed to trace the accused, the officer said. The accused was produced in a local court where the magistrate ordered to send him to judicial custody, he added. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-arrested-in-rajasthan-for-making-indecent-remarks-against-gen-bipin-rawat-1059661.html
11-12-2021||North and Central||Will defeat injustice with courage: Rahul Gandhi as farmers leave protest sites||As the farmers prepare to leave their protest sites on Delhi's borders on Saturday, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi Friday said they will defeat injustice with courage. Large parts of the Singhu border protest site lay vacant on Friday after several farmers rolled up their belongings and headed home in their tractors, while others worked long hours to dismantle the makeshift accommodations they built painstakingly over the last year "Tonight is the last night of this 'Satyagraha'... Will defeat the darkness of injustice with courage, will keep moving forward on the path of justice," Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi, using the hashtag #FarmersProtest. इस सत्याग्रह की आज आख़री रात है… The Congress has said that it will extend all support to the farmers in their quest for justice. The party has been raising their issues both inside and outside Parliament. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/will-defeat-injustice-with-courage-rahul-gandhi-as-farmers-leave-protest-sites-1059664.html
11-12-2021||North and Central||Centre to develop Gorakhpur as 'Special Education Zone': Dharmendra Pradhan||Gorakhpur will be developed as a 'Special Education Zone' by the Union Ministry of Education and the study is 'underway' to make it the 'education hub' of eastern Uttar Pradesh. Union Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan said that with the creation of a 'Special Education Zone', the Gorakhpur's tradition of spiritual consciousness and knowledge will be carried forward in the coming days. He said that in line with the needs of the 21st century, the new National Education Policy 2020 is an important initiative towards making the youth 'knowledgeable, virtuous and globalised'. The new education policy will establish India among the leading countries of the world, he added. The union minister was in Gorakhpur on Friday during which he attended the founder's week festival of Maharana Pratap Education Council along with Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. Pradhan asserted that whether it is AIIMS Gorakhpur or Gorakhpur Fertilizer Factory, all the promises made under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, were fulfilled. Pradhan, who is also the BJP's state in-charge for the upcoming assembly elections, said that in Gorakhpur, the land of Lord Shiva and Buddha, 'Yugpurush' Mahant Digvijaynath had taken up the responsibility of the development and advancement of the society in the region by moving beyond the spiritual consciousness centuries ago, which later Mahant Avaidyanath and today Yogi Adityanath is taking forward. The union minister, on the occasion, also paid tributes to late General Bipin Rawat, his wife and 11 others who died recently in a chopper crash. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/centre-to-develop-gorakhpur-as-special-education-zone-dharmendra-pradhan-1059678.html
11-12-2021||North and Central||Modify journey owing to return of farmers: Haryana Police||Haryana Police have advised motorists to modify their journey on national highways on Saturday to avoid inconvenience owing to the return of farmers to various destinations in Punjab after ending their year-long agitation on the national capital borders. However, they said elaborate arrangements have been made to ensure hassle-free movement of the traffic on the highways across the state. A police spokesperson said district Superintendents of Police have been instructed to ensure appropriate traffic, security and law and order arrangements to ensure the smooth flow of traffic in all districts from Delhi to Ambala and Bahadurgarh towards Hisar and Jind. It is expected that farmers from Kundli and Tikri borders will go back by passing through the districts of Sonipat, Panipat, Karnal, Kurukshetra, Ambala, Jhajjar, Rohtak, Jind, Hansi, Hisar, Fatehabad and Sirsa districts in large groups that will become a large motorcade. Keeping this in view, adequate arrangements to ensure normal movement of traffic have been put in place by the police, said the spokesperson. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/modify-journey-owing-to-return-of-farmers-haryana-police-1059679.html
11-12-2021||North and Central||Punjab to welcome farmers on return from Delhi borders||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Channi said the state government will welcome farmers on Saturday on their return from the Delhi borders where they held year-long protests against the three agricultural laws. While congratulating the farmers, farm labourers and their leaders, the Chief Minister on Friday said it was the victory of the people and unmatched unity of various sections of society that have forced the Centre to rollback the "draconian black" laws. Channi said despite not paying heed to the demands of the farmers for almost a year, the BJP leaders now wanted to encash the victory of the farmers and were trying to use it as electoral card in Punjab's forthcoming Assembly polls. The Chief Minister said the farmers and people would never forgive the Narendra Modi government at the Centre and its leaders for testing their patience for the period of more than an year. He said it was not an easy victory for the farmers as they had to pay the heavy price of the Centre's arrogance as more than 700 farmers lost their lives during the course of the agitation. Channi said his government has also given jobs and financial assistance to the family members of 350 dead farmers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-to-welcome-farmers-on-return-from-delhi-borders-1059680.html
11-12-2021||North and Central||Farmers vacate Delhi borders, start leaving for home||After farmers suspended their agitation against the three farm laws, they have started vacating Delhi borders where they have been stationed for more than a year. They have dismantled their settlements, removed tarpaulins, tied bales of clothes and now are in the process of returning home. The farmers will take out victory march to celebrate their success of repeal of the farm laws. At the spot, farmers can be seen removing bamboo sticks used for erecting and tying tarpaulins and loading them in tractors. They hugged each other and bade good bye. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) decided to suspend their agitation after the government repealed the contentious laws and assured them to fulfill their rest of the demands. Some elderly farmers were seen cleaning the place where they had set up tents. The roads are also being cleared of things to make it look like what it was before the agitation. Hundreds of tractors are queued up at Delhi borders to take the farmers back home. Before leaving, the farmers at Singhu border offered prayers and organised langar as well. The farmers have decided to leave in a phased manner to avoid traffic snarls. In a day or two, all roads will be cleared, and within a few days, they will be put through for traffic. On December 13, farmer leaders will visit the Golden temple at Amritsar to offer prayers. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmers-vacate-delhi-borders-start-leaving-for-home-1059706.html
11-12-2021||North and Central||Ahead of elections, Modi woos Uttar Pradesh farmers with Saryu Nahar project||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday inaugurated the Saryu Nahar National Project, which will provide assured water for irrigation of over 14 lakh hectares of land, in Uttar Pradesh's Balrampur district.  Remembering India's first Chief of Defence Staff, General Bipin Rawat and other soldiers killed in Coonoor chopper crash, PM Modi said, "India is mourning but despite being in pain, neither do we stop our pace nor our development. India won't stop. India won't be at a standstill. Together, we Indians will work hard and face every challenge inside and outside the country." The Prime Minister's Office (PMO) said the project has been built at a total cost of over Rs 9,800 crore, out of which more than Rs 4,600 crore was provisioned in the last four years. The project also involves the interlinking of five rivers --  Ghaghara, Saryu, Rapti, Banganga and Rohini -- to ensure optimum usage of water resources of the region. It will benefit nine districts of Eastern Uttar Pradesh, namely Bahraich, Shravasti, Balrampur, Gonda, Siddharthnagar, Basti, Sant Kabir Nagar, Gorakhpur and Maharajganj, the statement said. The farmers of the region, who were the worst sufferers of the inordinate delay in the project, will now immensely benefit from the upgraded irrigation potential, it said. More to follow... Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ahead-of-elections-modi-woos-uttar-pradesh-farmers-with-saryu-nahar-project-1059717.html
11-12-2021||North and Central||Night temperature drops below 10 degree C in most parts of Rajasthan||The minimum temperature was recorded at 3 degrees Celsius in Churu and Sikar districts of Rajasthan, a Meteorological (MeT) Department spokesperson said on Saturday. According to the department, the minimum temperature recorded on Friday night was 4.7 degrees Celsius each in Nagaur and Chittorgarh, 5 degrees Celsius in Bhilwara, 5.1 degrees Celsius in Pilani, 5.5 degrees Celsius in Alwar, 5.7 degrees Celsius in Sangaria and 8.2 degrees Celsius in Sriganganagar. The night minimum temperature has dropped below 10 degrees Celsius in most parts of the state. It was recorded at 9.9 degrees Celsius in capital Jaipur. According to the MeT Department, the state will experience similar weather conditions for the next few days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/night-temperature-drops-below-10-degree-c-in-most-parts-of-rajasthan-1059720.html
11-12-2021||North and Central||Yogi government taking credit for SP's work in Saryu canal project: Akhilesh||Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav on Saturday took potshots at the BJP government over the Saryu Nahar National Project, saying three-fourth of its works were completed during his government. According to the Centre, the project was launched in 1978 but got delayed for four decades due to "lack of continuity of budgetary support, interdepartmental coordination and adequate monitoring". "The BJP government in Uttar Pradesh took five years to complete the remaining works of Saryu Nahar National Project which was three-fourth completed during the SP government," Akhilesh tweeted in Hindi, hours before Prime Minister Narendra Modi's arrival in Balrampur here to inaugurate the project. He said 2022 will usher in a new era for of the SP and the state will sway with "canals of development". Earlier in a series of tweets, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said Uttar Pradesh is the first state to realise former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee's dream project of linking rivers through the Saryu canal project. At least four aspirational districts will also benefit from the project, he said. In a related tweet, he said, "The Saryu canal project connecting five rivers Ghaghara, Saryu, Rapti, Banganga and Rohini is the biggest project under Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchayee Yojana to ensure proper utilization of water resources." Taking a dig at the previous government, Adityanath said inaction of "anti-people governments" had kept 18 agriculture welfare projects languishing since five decades and the incumbent government implemented 17 of them in the interest of the farmers. According to the Centre, the Saryu project has been built at a cost of more than Rs 9,800 crore of which at least Rs 4,600 crore was provisioned in the last four years. Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/yogi-government-taking-credit-for-sps-work-in-saryu-canal-project-akhilesh-1059722.html
11-12-2021||North and Central||India in pain but progress won't stop: PM Modi bats for development in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh||India is in pain after the passing away of its first Chief of Defence Staff Bipin Rawat but it will not stop or pause and will strive harder to face every challenge from inside and outside the country, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday and stressed that the work to strengthen the armed forces would continue at a rapid pace. The prime minister, who was addressing a rally in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh's Balrampur after inaugurating the Saryu Canal National Project, began his speech by paying tributes to Rawat and all other security personnel who lost their lives in the December 8 helicopter crash in Coonoor, Tamil Nadu and said the nation is standing with their families. Modi said the passing away of Gen Rawat is a great loss to the nation.     "It is a huge loss for every patriot of the country. The entire country witnessed General Rawat's bravery and his efforts in making the forces atmanirbhar (self-reliant)," he said. "Wherever Gen Rawat is, he will see his Bharat moving forward with a new resolve in coming days," he said. Whether increasing the security on borders, strengthening border infrastructure, making the armed forces self-reliant, or increasing tri-services co-ordination, many such works will continue to progress rapidly, Modi said. "India is in pain, but despite the pain, we never let it stop our progress. India will not stop. India will not pause. Indians will together work harder, face every challenge both inside and outside the country and make India more powerful and prosperous," the prime minister said. Prime Minister Modi prayed for the early recovery of lone survivor of the IAF helicopter crash Varun Singh, who is from Deoria in Uttar Pradesh. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/india-in-pain-but-progress-wont-stop-pm-modi-bats-for-development-in-poll-bound-uttar-pradesh-1059726.html
11-12-2021||North and Central||Farmers' journey back home slows down traffic on Delhi-Sonipat-Karnal NH||Traffic slowed down on the Delhi-Sonipat-Karnal National Highway (NH) on Saturday as farmers began returning to their home states of Punjab and Haryana in large convoys of tractors and other vehicles, officials said. Vehicles were moving in long queues on the highway. In view of the large convoy of tractor-trolleys and other vehicles, traffic snarls could be witnessed at many places on the NH. Families of farmers along with fellow villagers at many places enroute were welcoming the peasants from Punjab and Haryana with garlands, 'ladoos', 'barfi' and other sweets upon their return to their homes after the suspension of the one-year-long agitation against the Centre's three farm laws. "Langar" arrangements had also been made at some places enroute. A traffic police official from Sonipat said that traffic on the Sonipat-Karnal NH was moving slowly. He said a few odd vehicles were trying to use the wrong side of the highway, which was adding to the traffic snarls. On the Delhi-Rohtak national highway too, the traffic movement at some points had slowed down with a large number of farmers on their way back to homes. Several police personnel have been deployed at various points on key highways for traffic management. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of 40 farm unions, on Thursday had decided to suspend the farmers' movement against the three contentious farm laws and announced that farmers would go back home on December 11 from the protest sites on Delhi's borders. Villagers and others who supported farmers' agitation, carrying farmer bodies' flags, showered petals on peasants as they assembled on the roadside of the highways to welcome them. The Haryana Police had said on Friday that it has made elaborate arrangements to ensure hassle-free movement of traffic on national highways in the state. A Haryana Police spokesperson had said Superintendents of Police have been instructed to ensure appropriate traffic, security, and law and order arrangements to ensure smooth flow of traffic in all districts between Delhi and Ambala, and Bahadurgarh and Hisar/Jind. Farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, started protesting at Delhi border points on November 26 last year against the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. These laws were recently repealed. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmers-journey-back-home-slows-down-traffic-on-delhi-sonipat-karnal-nh-1059734.html
11-12-2021||North and Central||National Conference passes resolution for return and rehabilitation of Kashmiri Pandits||The minority cell of National Conference on Saturday passed three resolutions, which among others called for return and rehabilitation of Kashmiri migrant Pandits in the valley and their political empowerment. The resolutions, which also demanded passage of a bill for managing the affairs of temples and shrines of the community, were presented at the start of the day-long convention chaired by party president Farooq Abdullah. "The Kashmiri migrant Pandit community is yearning for their honourable return and rehabilitation for the past three decades. The issue is very important," senior leader Anil Dhar said as he presented the “politically important” resolutions that were passed by a voice vote. He said the National Conference is the only party that can ensure return and rehabilitation of the Pandits in the valley. "Abdullah should guide the Government of India, which failed to make any headway in this direction till date. We have the roadmap and we are ready to share it with the Centre,” he said. Speaking about the first resolution, Dhar said the National Conference is the only party that had given true representation to the community politically since its inception. "We had members of legislative assembly, members of legislative council and ministers among the Kashmiri Pandits from the National Conference. The community is displaced and needs to be empowered politically," he said. Another resolution demanded passage of the “temples and shrines” bill which, he said, is an important issue and a long pending demand of the community. "Being a Member of Parliament, we request the NC president to raise the issue and attract the attention of the government (for the passage of the bill)," he said. President of NC minority cell MK Yogi said the massive turnout of Kashmiri Pandits, including women, at the convention should serve as an eye-opener to those who try to project that the community is not with the party. "National Conference is the only party that can address all the issues of the Pandits,” he said. The convention also expressed grief over the tragic death of Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat in a helicopter crash in Tamil Nadu. General Rawat, his wife Madhulika and 11 other people on board an Indian Air Force helicopter died in a crash near Coonoor on Wednesday. "We stand with the country and the army at this hour of grief,” a party leader said. Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/national-conference-passes-resolution-for-return-and-rehabilitation-of-kashmiri-pandits-1059738.html
11-12-2021||North and Central||Mortal remains of IAF officer from Rajasthan killed in helicopter crash reach Jhunjhunu||The mortal remains of Squadron Leader Kuldeep Singh, who was among the 13 including CDS General Bipin Rawat killed in a helicopter crash in Tamil Nadu, reached Jhunjhunu airstrip in an aircraft on Saturday. He was given floral tributes by MP Narendra Kumar, MLA Rita Chaudhary, District Collector UD Khan, SP Pradeep Mohan Sharma and others at the airstrip. His wife and other family members were also present. A decorated truck of the IAF left for his village Ghardana Khurd with the mortal remains. The funeral will be performed later in the day. "Proper arrangements have been made for the funeral in the village," Collector UD Khan said. A large number of people have assembled at his village and on the way from the airstrip to pay tributes to Singh.  Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mortal-remains-of-iaf-officer-from-rajasthan-killed-in-helicopter-crash-reach-jhunjhunu-1059747.html
11-12-2021||North and Central||Emotions run high as farmers bid farewell to Singhu protest site||Taking down their tents and breaking into dance atop their tractors, protesting farmers on Saturday began their 'ghar wapsi' vacating the protest sites on the Delhi border as their nearly 15-month long opposition farm laws formally ended. Politics also played along. In the poll-bound Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi shared a photo on social media saying he has distributed the appointment letters and government jobs to the next kin of the farmers, who lost their lives during the protest, in solidarity with their families. "My government stands with them and assures them every possible step for their rights," Channi said. Farmers began vacating the Singhu border early morning, many others stayed to clean the protest sites. At the Tikri border, farmers prayed with folded hands before starting their "Fateh March" (victory procession). Singer Jass also joined the Fateh March of farmers. Farmers held a blood donation camp on Bastara toll plaza, seeking to mark the end of the protest on a positive note. The massive back home movement slowed traffic at a number of roads and arteries from Delhi borders to Haryana, Punjab and Western UP. Kisan Ekta Morcha shared a photo of women kneading the floor on a farmer track under the caption "Ye saara masala roti ka (all this issue relates to livelihood)". In another tweet, it posted a picture of female farmers, calling them the biggest strength of the farm agitation. An aircraft showered flower petals on farmers as they reached the Shambhu border (Punjab-Haryana border) from Delhi. Far away in UP, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, inaugurating Saryu Nahar National Project to "solve irrigation related problems in Eastern UP and help our hard-working farmers", said the swift work on the Saryu Nahar National Project during the last four years is in line with his government’s commitment to complete long-pending projects and also harness our water resources for the benefit of our farmers and to further ‘Ease of Living.' Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/emotions-run-high-as-farmers-bid-farewell-to-singhu-protest-site-1059748.html
11-12-2021||North and Central||17,142 jobs lost amid pandemic in Himachal||Amidst the Covid-19 pandemic, a total of 17,142 people have lost their employment in the private sector in Himachal Pradesh, the state Assembly was informed on Saturday. "Since the outbreak of Covid-19, 17,142 persons have lost their employment working in different companies in Himachal Pradesh. The data of Himachali who lost their employment in companies situated outside the state is not available with the department," Industries Minister Bikram Singh said in a written reply to the question of Vikramaditya Singh. He added the state government has provided employment to 17,033 people in the government sector and 4,311 in the private sector amidst the pandemic till October 31.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/17142-jobs-lost-amid-pandemic-in-himachal-1059750.html
11-12-2021||North and Central||Students of Thapar Institute design satellite to measure air pollution over Punjab||A 25-member team comprising students and faculty of the Patiala based Thapar Institute of Engineering & Technology (TIET) are hoping to launch their nano-satellite ThapSat in 2023 to measure the air pollution levels in in the state, said an official. "In the first quarter of 2023 we hope to launch the satellite through Indian Space Research Organisation's (ISRO) rocket. The satellite is being assembled and will be tested. Almost everything relating to the ground station has been procured," Dr. Rana Pratap Yadav, Associate Professor, Electronics and Communication Engineering told IANS. According to Yadav, the Chennai-based Data Patterns (India) Ltd will assemble and test the satellite and also set up the ground station. Tracing the history of the Rs.3.5 crore ThapSat project, he said: "Padma Bhushan A. Sivathanu Pillai is one of the members of our Board of Governors. At a meeting with the faculty he had asked for a research proposal. I then said air pollution is a major concern in Punjab which can be monitored by a satellite and then the project started." According to Yadav, the weight of ThapSat is 10 kg and will have a life span of six years. It will be powered by solar power in space. He said the design for the satellite bus was fixed by ISRO and the payloads to track the pollution levels were designed by the ThapSat team. The ISRO has launched satellites made by students Indian educational institutions and others like Pratham (IIT Bombay), Swayam (College of Engineering, Pune), SathyabamaSat (Sathyabama University, Chennai), AnuSat (Anna University, Chennai), StudSat (made by consortium of seven engineering colleges in Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh), SRMSAT (SRM University), Jugnu (IIT Kanpur), Sathish Dhawan SAT/SDSAT (Space Kidz India), UnitySAT (Jeppiaar Institute of Technology, Sriperumbudur, G.H.Raisoni College of Engineering, Nagpur and Sri Shakti Institute of Engineering and Technology, Coimbatore, KalamSAT V2 (Space Kidz India), NIUSAT (Noorul Isalm University, Tamil Nadu), PISAT (PES University, Bengaluru and its consortium). Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/students-of-thapar-institute-design-satellite-to-measure-air-pollution-over-punjab-1059765.html
11-12-2021||North and Central||2 Punjab farmers killed in accident while returning home from Tikri protest site||Two Punjab farmers were killed when the tractor-trailer on which they were travelling was hit by a truck in Haryana’s Hisar while they were returning home from a protest site near the Delhi’s Tikri border on Saturday. Police said one farmer was seriously injured in the accident at Hisar's Dhandoor village. The farmers belonged to Punjab’s Muktsar district and were returning home after their year-long agitation against the Centre’s farm laws came to an end, days after the contentious laws were repealed. “Two farmers were killed while another one was seriously injured when the tractor-trailer they were riding was hit from behind by a truck,” Hisar Police Inspector Kaptan said over the phone. He said five farmers were on the tractor-trailer when the incident took place. “While one died at the accident spot, another succumbed to his injuries during treatment at a hospital,” the inspector said. The dead farmers aged 40 and 34, he said. Farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, had started protesting at the Delhi border points on November 26 last year. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of 40 farm unions, had announced that farmers would go back home on December 11 from the protest sites on Delhi's borders. Following the announcement, farmers began returning home in large convoys on Saturday.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/2-punjab-farmers-killed-in-accident-while-returning-home-from-tikri-protest-site-1059769.html
11-12-2021||North and Central||One of 2 deputy Chief Ministers to be from BSP if SAD-BSP alliance forms government in Punjab: Sukhbir Badal||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) chief Sukhbir Singh Badal on Saturday said if the SAD-BSP alliance forms the next government in Punjab, one of the two deputy chief ministers will be from the Mayawati-led party. "I have announced that one of the deputy chief ministers will be from the BSP," Badal told reporters after addressing a public gathering at Banga. The SAD had earlier said if its alliance with the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) comes to power in Punjab after the 2022 Assembly polls, then a Scheduled Caste (SC) MLA and a Hindu MLA will be sworn in as deputy chief ministers. The SAD forged the alliance with the BSP in June for the 2022 Assembly polls. According to the seat-sharing arrangement between the two parties, the BSP will field candidates in 20 of the 117 Assembly seats in Punjab, while the rest will be contested by the SAD. The Punjab Assembly polls are due early next year.  Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/one-of-2-deputy-chief-ministers-to-be-from-bsp-if-sad-bsp-alliance-forms-government-in-punjab-sukhbir-badal-1059772.html
11-12-2021||North and Central||Militants looking for soft targets in Valley: J&K Police chief||Jammu and Kashmir police chief Dilbagh Singh on Saturday said that militants were looking for soft targets to create disturbance in the Valley. “The militants are looking for soft targets to create disturbances, but every such attempt to disrupt the peaceful atmosphere in the union territory would be firmly dealt with,” he told reporters on the sidelines of his visit to the families of two policemen killed by militants in Bandipora on Friday evening. Asked about the number of active militants and overground workers (OGWs) in north Kashmir, he said it is less than what it used to be in the past. Earlier, Inspector General Police (IGP), Kashmir Vijay Kumar said that a lone Pakistani militant was involved in the killing of two policemen in Bandipora. “A single Pakistani terrorist came and fired upon driver and one personal security officer (PSO) of station house officer (SHO) but couldn’t snatch weapon due to retaliation by the second PSO,” the IGP was quoted by a local news gathering agency KNO. However, he said, two OGWs facilitated the Pakistani militant in carrying out the attack. The police categorize “anybody who supports the militants” as an OGW. A person providing a safe house, passage, information, or acting as a messenger for suspected militants automatically comes under the radar of the police as an OGW. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/militants-looking-for-soft-targets-in-valley-jk-police-chief-1059776.html
11-12-2021||North and Central||PAGD still in existence, says NC leader Omar Abdullah||Jammu and Kashmir National Conference vice-president, Omar Abdullah, on Saturday said that the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) was still in existence although its members were working on their own levels. “They (PAGD members) recently held a meeting to discuss further strategies. It is not that PAGD has to hold meetings every day. The existence of PAGD would be visible only by the results and not by holding meetings,” he told reporters on the sidelines of a party convention. Recently Omar had said that had People’s Democratic Party (PDP) patron and former chief minister, late Mufti Mohammad Sayeed not entered into an alliance with the BJP after the 2014 Assembly elections, the erstwhile state’s special status under Article 370 could have been saved. And just days later NC’s Women’s wing president, Shameema Firdous made a scathing attack on the PDP accusing its president and former CM, Mehbooba Mufti of destroying J&K. The NC and the PDP are the two main constituents of People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) which was floated by the Kashmir-based mainstream political parties in October last year on the slogan of restoring the special status of the erstwhile state. Ever since its inception, the inherent contradictions within the constituents of the alliance have come to fore several times. Just two weeks after the alliance came into existence, the NC and the PDP fielded proxy candidates against each other on several seats during first-ever district development council (DDC) polls held last December. And after the results, both the parties have been taking divergent stands on important political issues confronting J&K. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pagd-still-in-existence-says-nc-leader-omar-abdullah-1059782.html
11-12-2021||North and Central||As farmers head home, the poor worry about food, lodging||Thirteen-year-old Aryan is now worried about his next meal as thousands of farmers ended their protest and wound up their langars at Delhi’s Singhu border. Like him, there were many who used to get food at the community kitchens set up by farmers and slept in tents pitched by them during the over a year-long protest. On Saturday morning, a large number of children and local poor, including slum dwellers, had their last breakfast at farmers' langars. "We used to have our breakfast, lunch and dinner at langars here. This is our last breakfast today at the langar. Now, we have to either cook on our own or look for other options," 13-year-old Aryan, a resident of slums in Kundli, told PTI. Farmers said they too had developed feelings for local children who used to come to the protest site as they reminded them of their own sons and grandsons. "These children became part of our protest as they used to come here for food. They reminded me of my grandsons. It was good to have them here. The Almighty will take care of them now," Satwant Singh from Mohali said. Dwellers of slums generally work at factories or warehouses in the region. The homeless who used to live in makeshift tents set up by farmers were concerned about their lodging arrangements. Monu Kushwaha, 38, from Supaul in Bihar said before farmers came to the Singhu border to protest, he used to sleep on the footpath but that changed after the stir began last year. "During the farmers' agitation, I used to sleep in one of their tents and have food at langars. All of that will stop now and I will go back to footpaths again," Kushwaha lamented. Eight-year-old Mausam, a resident of slums located near the KFC tower in Kundli, said for the past one year, he had been having good food at langars. "My father works in a factory but since the family is big, we often have to skip meal of one time. But for the past one year, we used to have plenty of food at langars. We used to get it packed for home as well. All this will stop now," Mausam said. The presence of farmers and their settlements also helped poor children in other ways as well. They said they had no problem crossing the highway for their daily works, which before the protests generally used to be a tough task. "My school is located on the other side of the highway. Ever since farmers came here, I faced no problem in crossing the road because of no traffic. I used to have food here and then go to school. It is sad that they are going back," said Tarun, 11, whose father works in a showroom. On November 29, a bill was passed in Parliament to repeal the laws, one of the main demands of the farmers. However, the farmers refused to end their protest, demanding that the government fulfil their other demands that included legal guarantee on the minimum support price (MSP) and the withdrawal of police cases against them. As the Centre accepted the pending demands, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), which was spearheading the stir, suspended the farmers' movement and announced that they will be returning home on December 11. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/as-farmers-head-home-the-poor-worry-about-food-lodging-1059790.html
11-12-2021||North and Central||Congress rally to script downfall of BJP-led Union govt, says Sachin Pilot||The Congress rally over the price rise will prove to be a factor in the downfall of the Centre’s BJP-led government, said former Rajasthan deputy chief minister on Saturday. The Congress will be holding the rally in Jaipur on Sunday. Pilot said the rally will affect political developments and leave a message that coming times are "bad for the BJP". "It will become a factor of downfall for the BJP government at the Centre in 2024," Pilot said in a statement. He said the Centre will have to give answers for seven years' "misgovernance" and take measures to check inflation. Meanwhile, state BJP president Satish Poonia called the rally a "political hypocrisy" and said Congress should first talk about the promises it made during the last Assembly elections. "It is going to be three years for the Congress government of the state, which is known for not fulfilling promises and making false promises. This is its report card and this Congress rally is just political hypocrisy," Poonia told reporters in Jhunjhunu. Asking Congress leaders to pay attention to their promises, Poonia said Rahul Gandhi must come to Rajasthan but also answer why petrol and diesel and electricity in Rajasthan are the most expensive in the country. Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-rally-to-script-downfall-of-bjp-led-union-govt-says-sachin-pilot-1059792.html
11-12-2021||North and Central||Congress rally to be decisive against 'arrogant' Modi government, says Surjewala||Senior Congress leader Randeep Surjewala on Saturday said the party's 'Mehangai Hatao Maharally' in Jaipur on December 12 will be a decisive fight against Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government at the Centre. He alleged that the “anti-people Modi government” has given a double blow to people by first scuttling their livelihood opportunities and then throwing them in the fire of inflation. Surjewala was talking to reporters at the State Congress office here. The Congress’ Sunday rally is against the inflation in the country and will also be addressed by Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra. "On December 12, Rajasthan will witness a great war against inflation. It will be a decisive fight against the Modi government, which is driven by overweening arrogance of power and is in deep slumber. The echo of the rally will be heard in the entire country,” Surjewala said. The rally was earlier proposed to be held in Delhi but was shifted to Jaipur after it was denied permission by the central government. Surjewala said the Modi government was unaware of the "bravery of Rajasthanis" who managed to defeat "arrogant dictators" in the past. He said for the last seven years the Modi government has only created opportunities for the capitalists and cheated the common man. Necessities such as petrol, diesel, vegetables, pulses, oil or salt have become out of reach of the common man, he said. "In the year 2014, when the Modi government came to power, the price of LPG cylinder was Rs 400, diesel was Rs 56 and petrol was Rs 70 per litre and crude oil was priced at $108 per barrel. “Today, the price of LPG has crossed Rs 1,000, the price of cylinder used in hotels and street vends is beyond Rs 2,000, petrol and diesel cost over Rs 100 per litre, cooking oil beyond Rs 200 per litre and now tomatoes also cost Rs 100 per kg," said the party general secretary. He also alleged that in the last seven years, the Modi government has “looted" the public of Rs 24 lakh crore by increasing the excise duty on petrol, diesel, and cess, dividend etc. In the UPA-Congress government, the excise duty on petrol was only Rs 9.20 per litre, which was increased to Rs 32.90 per litre by the Modi government, he said. He said after its defeat in November 4 by-elections, the BJP brought down the excise duty from petrol to Rs 21.80 per litre, but it was still 512 per cent higher than what it was during the Congress government. Citing data of a recent RBI report, the Congress leader said that as per the report 'Demonetisation and wrong GST' the Modi government ruined the small and medium industries of the country. Despite demonetisation, the amount of cash in the economy increased by 64 per cent, he said. Just before demonetisation on November 8, 2016, cash in circulation was Rs 17.74 lakh crore, which increased to Rs 29.17 lakh crore on October 29, 2021, he said citing the report. According to the recent 'Global Hunger Index Report', India was behind the likes of even Pakistan, Nepal, and Bangladesh, ranking at 101 in a list of 116 nations, he said. Surjwala also cited the "World Inequality Report” issued this month to say 57 per cent of the total income of the nation rests with only the top 10 per cent of people, while the bottom 50 per cent possess only 13 per cent of it. He cited an NSO report saying that under the Modi government average income of farmers in the country is reduced to Rs 27 per day -- less than MGNREGA wages. Far from doubling the income, the farmer's income was reduced ten times, he alleged. He also highlighted the Labour ministry’s finding last year, according to which, the country faced the worst unemployment rate in the last 45 years with the number touching as high as 10 per cent at the point. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-rally-to-be-decisive-against-arrogant-modi-government-says-surjewala-1059802.html
11-12-2021||North and Central||Former Haryana CM lauds 'disciplined' farmers' movement||Congress leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Saturday congratulated the farmers on the “victory” of their movement that lasted for more than a year. “I have never seen such a long and disciplined movement. For more than a year, farmers spent days and nights in roadside dharnas braving cold, heat, rain, storm and difficult conditions,” the former Haryana chief minister said. “They faced torture and humiliation from those in power... lathis, tear gas, cold water cannons, iron nails, trenches were used on them and yet they stuck to peace, truth and non-violence,” the leader of opposition in the state said, adding, “There is an atmosphere of happiness in the whole country on this victory.” “I am happy that the farmers are returning to their villages and are being warmly welcomed everywhere,” he said.   Hooda demanded that the government withdraw all the cases registered against the agitators without delay and “as promised”.   He also demanded financial help and government jobs to the kin of the farmers who were killed during the year-long agitation, besides granting Minimum Support Price the farmers had been asking for.  “Agriculture has to be made a profitable enterprise for farmers and the government should make such policies in future so that the 'annadata' does not have to take to the streets. The food producers of the country suffered during the farmers' movement in the last one year and this should not be repeated,” Hooda stated. On Saturday, farmers from Punjab and Haryana were accorded a rousing welcome with sweets and garlands at several points on their return journey. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of 40 farmers' unions, on Thursday had decided to suspend the over a year-long farmers' movement against the three contentious farm laws and announced that the farmers would vacate the protest sites on Delhi's borders on December 11. Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/former-haryana-cm-lauds-disciplined-farmers-movement-1059810.html
11-12-2021||North and Central||Police working on identifying those involved in killing of 2 cops: J&K DGP||Police have obtained clues in the killing of two cops in Bandipora and are working on identifying those involved, Jammu and Kashmir Director General of Police (DGP) Dilbag Singh said on Saturday. The two policemen were killed in a terror attack on Friday. The DGP was speaking to reporters in Sopore after visiting the family of one of the slain cops. “Initial clues have come and police are working on them and very soon those involved in the case will be neutralised. We have got some initial clues and the police are working on identifying those behind the killings,” he said. Singh said those involved will soon be brought to book. He said policemen were being targeted as they protect and work for the welfare of the people. “The terrorists and Pakistani elements feel this pain and when someone comes in between the locals and terrorists, they get frustrated," Singh said. "Police works for the safety of the people from terrorists. Police with our forces from Army, BSF, CRPF jointly keep the terrorists at distance. This is their (terrorists') desperation, and it is because of this, the killing takes place. We will respond to them," Singh said. Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/police-working-on-identifying-those-involved-in-killing-of-2-cops-jk-dgp-1059815.html
11-12-2021||North and Central||Amarinder Singh welcomes farmers returning from Delhi, hopes Punjab govt fulfils pending commitments||Former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday hailed the successful completion of a farmers' agitation at Delhi's borders against three contentious agriculture laws of the Centre as they headed back home after 380 days. He hailed the culmination of the farmers' agitation of "tapp", "tyaag" and "tapasya". "It was their discipline, dedication, determination and perseverance that saw the movement reaching its logical conclusion with the government of India eventually repealing these laws," Singh said in a statement while congratulating and welcoming thousands of farmers back home in Punjab. He also hoped that the Punjab government would fulfil all the commitments made to the farmers in the Congress party's poll manifesto. "I have already fulfilled most of these promises and the onus is now on the incumbent government to fulfil the pending commitments before the election code of conduct comes into force," the former chief minister said. The Punjab Assembly polls are due early next year. Singh, who has floated his own political party to contest the upcoming polls after his unceremonious exit as the chief minister, was succeeded by Charanjit Singh Channi. Expressing satisfaction over the resolution of the farmers' issue, Singh recalled how a year ago, he personally got himself involved with the movement and encouraged the farmers to take their protest to Delhi. "I am happy that our purpose has been served and the laws have been repealed to the satisfaction of our farming community," he said. The former chief minister said he was on course to fulfil all the pending demands of the farmers, but "unfortunately, first because of Covid-19 and then due to my replacement, some demands still remain unfulfilled, which the new government must fulfil now". He reiterated his resolve to serve and safeguard the interests of common Punjabis, especially the farmers, at any cost. "I want to reassure my farmer brothers and sisters that I won't hesitate in taking any step when it comes to watching Punjab's and farmers' interests the way I did in 2004, when I repealed all previous water-sharing agreements with other states with the Punjab Termination of (Water Sharing) Agreement Act, 2004 to save our waters and also save Punjab from going dry," Singh said. Farmers from Punjab and Haryana were accorded a rousing welcome with sweets and garlands at several places on their return journey from the national capital on Saturday for their "victory" after the Centre repealed the three farm laws. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of over 40 farmers' unions, decided on Thursday to suspend the year-long movement against the three laws and announced that the farmers would go home from the protest sites at Delhi's borders on Saturday. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/amarinder-singh-welcomes-farmers-returning-from-delhi-hopes-punjab-govt-fulfils-pending-commitments-1059819.html
11-12-2021||North and Central||3 killed as water tanker falls into gorge in J&K's Kishtwar||Three people were killed on Saturday when a water tanker skidded off the road and plunged into a gorge in Kishtwar district of Jammu and Kashmir, officials said. The private tanker carrying three people was moving near the under-construction Kiru Hydro-electric project when its driver lost control and the vehicle rolled down into the gorge near Pathernaki village, they said. The bodies of Tariq Hussain (30), Yasir Muneer (18) and Arsalan (18), all residents of Padder, were recovered from the site of the accident. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/3-killed-as-water-tanker-falls-into-gorge-in-jks-kishtwar-1059823.html
11-12-2021||North and Central||BJP’s character ‘undemocratic’, be cautious of ways to affect UP polls: SP chief to party workers||Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Saturday alleged that the BJP’s character was "undemocratic" and alerted his party workers to "conspiracies" to affect the fairness of the upcoming Uttar Pradesh elections. He was addressing district presidents of 403 assembly constituencies at party headquarters after reviewing organisational work and preparedness for the upcoming polls and activities of booth committees. "The character of BJP is undemocratic and it can go to any level for grabbing power. Its conduct in the panchayat elections has been that of dictatorship. The BJP has done a heinous act (chirharan) of women in the panchyat polls," a statement quoted Yadav as saying. He was apparently referring to two women workers of the Samajwadi Party with whom BJP activists had allegedly misbehaved during block panchayat chief elections in July. "The party president also alerted party workers and office bearers to the conspiracies by the ruling BJP which may affect the fairness of the elections," the statement said. Stating that BJP is a threat to democracy, the SP president alleged that the party did not do a single work in the interest of the people during its rule. "Every section of the society is outraged. People are not ready to tolerate the BJP government any more. They want to get rid of the party. “Everyone is impressed by the work done by the Samajwadi Party for the public interest during its regime and they want its government in Uttar Pradesh," he said. Yadav further said work on Purvanchal expressway was started under the party regime. He said Agra-Lucknow Expressway was built, many schemes were run in Bundelkhand, metro services were started in Lucknow, international level Ekana Stadium was built and 80 per cent of Saryu project was completed in the previous regime. "BJP took five years to complete the remaining (20 per cent) work. The habit of the BJP is to only inaugurate and lay foundation stones of the previous regimes’ schemes. “During the time of the Samajwadi government, the gas pipeline was laid from Jagdishpur to Haldia, and the fertiliser factory could run in Gorakhpur. The land for setting up AIIMS was also given by the Samajwadi government," he said. The former chief minister said the saffron party cannot contest the elections on the issue of development as it had done nothing in this regard in the state. He added that it was the responsibility of socialists to save the constitution, addng that "socialists and Ambedkarites now have to discharge their historical responsibility in this regard”. "This election is to save the country. The SP is committed to development," he added. At the end of the meeting, tributes were paid to Chief of Defense Staff General Bipin Rawat, his wife Madhulika Rawat and others who died in a helicopter crash in Tamil Nadu recently. Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-s-character-undemocratic-be-cautious-of-ways-to-affect-up-polls-sp-chief-to-party-workers-1059829.html
11-12-2021||North and Central||Will join IAF, follow father's footsteps, says chopper crash victim wing commander's daughter||The 12-year-old daughter of wing commander Prithvi Singh Chauhan, who died in the helicopter crash along with General Bipin Rawat and 11 others recently, said she wanted to follow her father's footsteps and become an Indian Air Force (IAF) pilot too. After lighting her father's pyre along with her brother Aviraj (7) and cousin Pushpendra Singh at the Tajganj Crematorium here in the presence of her family members, Aaradhya, a Class VII student, said she wanted to emulate her father because he was her hero. Officials from the IAF, Agra administration and police among others, too, paid their tributes to the wing commander.  "My father used to advise me to focus on my studies and not chase marks. He believed marks would follow if I focused on studies," she said. Prithvi's family migrated from Gwalior in Madhya Pradesh to Agra in 2006. He joined the service in 2000 and was flying with the Chief of Defence Staff as part of his assignment at the IAF station in Coimbatore, Tamil Nadu, during the crash. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/will-join-iaf-follow-fathers-footsteps-says-chopper-crash-victim-wing-commanders-daughter-1059833.html
11-12-2021||North and Central||BJP to return to power in Uttar Pradesh with significant drop in seats: Survey||The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is likely to return to power in the 2022 Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, though with a significant reduction in the number of seats that the saffron party is expected to win, as per the third ABP News-CVoter Battle for the States Tracker. The survey findings also suggest that the electoral contest in India's politically most significant state is getting bipolar and the fight is mainly between the BJP and the Samajwadi Party (SP). Other political players in the state — Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and Congress — appear to be relegated to margins in the electoral contest. The current projections are based on CVoter daily tracking poll conducted from November 13 to December 9 among 18+ adults, including likely voters. As for the methodology and survey details, the survey reached out to a total of approximately 92,000+ persons across five states (UP, Punjab, Uttarakhand, Manipur and Goa). It was conducted through CATI (telephonic survey). The same is also expected to have a margin of error of ±3 to ±5 per cent and may not necessarily have factored in all the criteria. As per the findings of the poll, the ruling BJP in alliance with it its coalition partners is expected to grab 40.4 per cent of the votes in the Assembly polls scheduled to be held early next year. Notably, the saffron party has continuously maintained its vote share of more than 40 per cent in the past few elections in the state. In 2017, the party had garnered 41.4 per cent votes polled in the state. As for the vote share of the other political players in the state, while the vote share of SP is expected to witness a jump of 10 per cent from 23.6 per cent in 2017 to 33.6 per cent in 2022, the vote share of BSP is likely to witness a slump of 9 per cent from 22.2 per cent in 2017 to 13.2 per cent in 2022. The country's grand old party — the Congress, out of power in the state since 1989 — is expected to get 7.3 per cent votes. The party had secured 6.3 per cent votes in 2017. Translated into seats, the BJP and its alliance partners are likely to get seats in a range of 212 to 224 in the 403-member UP Assembly. Though the BJP and its alliance partners will witness a dip of almost 100 seats from the figures of 325 they had won in 2017, the coalition is expected to cross the majority mark comfortably. The SP and its allies, emerging as a key challenger to the ruling saffron party, are expected to grab 151 to 163 seats. The survey clearly suggests that the BSP is continuously losing political ground in the state as the party can secure victory on just 12 to 24 seats. The Congress is likely to register a victory on 6 to 10 seats. According to the survey data, incumbent Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath is the most preferred choice to retain the top post in the state. In the survey, 41 per cent of the respondents expressed their opinion in favour of the incumbent Chief Minister. As many as 33.5 per cent of those who were interviewed during the survey said that SP chief Akhilesh Yadav is their preferred choice for the top post, while 15 per cent stated that they want to see BSP supremo Mayawati heading the next government in the state. Interestingly, only 4.3 per cent of those interviewed during the survey wanted Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi to be the next Chief Minister of the state. During the survey, the majority of the respondents said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has taken the right step by withdrawing the agricultural laws that laid the foundation for the ending of the year-long protest by the farmers. A total of 52.4 per cent of those who took part in the survey approved the PM's decision to repeal the farm laws, while 30.7 per cent said that instead of withdrawing the agricultural laws, the Central government should have tried to explain the benefits of the agricultural laws to the farming community. A total of 16.9 per cent of the respondents didn't have any opinion on the issue. Similarly, the majority of the respondents said that BJP will benefit from the withdrawal of farm laws in the upcoming Assembly elections. According to the survey data, 60.6 per cent of those who were surveyed in the latest round of Tracker believe that the ruling party will benefit from the decision of the Prime Minister; 39.4 per cent of the respondents said that it will prove to be detrimental to BJP's electoral prospects. Ahead of the 2022 Assembly polls, Akhilesh Yadav is forging alliances with the smaller parties that are essentially caste-centric with support restricted to a few districts like Jayant Chaudhary's Rashtriya Lok Dal and O.P. Rajbhar-led Suheldev Bharat Samaj Party (SBSP). However, according to the survey findings, despite alliances with several smaller parties, Akhilesh Yadav will not be able to dislodge the Yogi Adiyanath government. According to survey data, while 50.9 per cent of the respondents said that Akhilesh Yadav cannot topple Yogi Adityanath through such alliances, 42.7 per cent believe otherwise and 6.3 per cent appeared to be clueless about the prospects of such tie-ups. The survey data suggests that more people believe that the inauguration of the Purvanchal Expressway will benefit the BJP in the upcoming Assembly polls, than those who think that it will not go in favour of the ruling party. During the survey, while 52.3 per cent of the respondents said that the inauguration of the expressway that sparked off a war of words between the BJP and the SP with both claiming credit for the ambitious project will benefit the ruling party in the 2022 Assembly polls, 47.7 per cent felt otherwise. Similarly, while 54.3 per cent of those who were interviewed during the survey said that the Bhoomi Poojan of Jewar airport will benefit the BJP in Western Uttar Pradesh, 45.7 per cent believe that it will not benefit the ruling party in the region, which witnessed widespread farmers' protest against the controversial agricultural laws. The Teachers' Eligibility Test (TET) paper leak case that caused embarrassment to the Yogi Adityanath government can hurt BJP's electoral prospects in the upcoming Assembly polls, as per the survey findings. During the survey, 55.2 per cent of the respondents said that the TET exam leak case will harm the BJP in the Assembly elections, while 44.8 per cent said that it will have no impact on the party's electoral prospects.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-to-return-to-power-in-uttar-pradesh-with-significant-drop-in-seats-survey-1059837.html
11-12-2021||North and Central||Opposition unity exists theoretically in Uttar Pradesh: BJP||Believing that a perfect opposition unity exists only theoretically in Uttar Pradesh, the BJP is focusing its strategy on getting over 50 per cent votes in the 2022 Assembly polls to blunt any consolidation against them. To further consolidate its Hindu votes, the saffron party has also planned to highlight the construction of Ram Temple in Ayodhya and redevelopment of the Kashi Vishwanath temple in Varanasi in the run up to the Assembly polls. To achieve the target of over 50 per cent vote share in its favour, the saffron party is working on two fronts, firstly strengthening organisation at the booth level and secondly banking on the development and welfare measures that have taken place in Uttar Pradesh in the last five years under the BJP government at the Centre and state. In 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the BJP got nearly 50 per cent votes and 64 seats out of 80. In the last Assembly polls in 2017, the BJP and its alliance partner won 324 seats out of 403 in Uttar Pradesh. The BJP got around 40 per cent of total votes polled in the last Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls. "We are working on getting over 50 per cent of the vote this time also and it will be the key strategy in Uttar Pradesh. In the last 2019 Lok Sabha polls, despite facing the challenge from the biggest alliance of Samajwadi Party (SP) and Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), we won 64 seats with our alliance partner Apna Dal, and also got 50 per cent vote share. Perfect opposition unity only exists theoretically in Uttar Pradesh and on paper," BJP Uttar Pradesh vice president Vijay Bahadur Pathak said. To achieve the target to get over 50 per cent vote share, the BJP has launched booth jeeto, chunav jeeto (wins booths, win elections). The BJP has constituted committees at over 1.53 lakh polling booths in Uttar Pradesh. The ruling party also completed the appointment of 'panna pramukh' at each page of the electoral roll. These workers at the booth level have started reaching out to the voters with works of Narendra Modi and Yogi Adityanath government. In view of the upcoming Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls, the BJP is also enrolling over 1.5 crore new members in the state. Currently the BJP has over 2.5 crore members in Uttar Pradesh. "As per plan, the BJP workers are making a minimum 100 new members at over 1.53 lakh polling booths, where the party has a committee, in Uttar Pradesh. During the membership drive the party is targeting to enroll a minimum 1.5 crore members in the state," a party leader said. On its core ideological agenda of Hindutva, the BJP has made a month-long celebration from December 13 when Prime Minister Narendra Modi will dedicate the massive redevelopment and beautification of the Kashi Vishwanath temple to the nation. On the social engineering front, to woo all the communities ahead of next year's Assembly polls, the party has started holding a caste specific outreach programme for Other Backward Class (OBC) and Schedule Caste (SC). As per the strategy, programmes will focus on all the castes and sub castes of OBCs and SC. Special focus will be on OBCs caste as they constitute over 50 per cent of total electorate of state. The non- Yadav OBCs have played an important role in the rise of the BJP in recent times. "OBCs are electorally important in Uttar Pradesh. This time we are also trying to win support of all OBC communities especially of non - Yadav," a party insider said. Among SC communities, the BJP trying to make in roads of the BSP vote bank by projecting former Uttarakhand Governor and party national vice president Baby Rani Maurya as its Dalit face in the state against former Chief Minister Mayawati. Both Maurya and Mayawati belong to the dominant Jatav community, which accounts for more than half of the Dalit community. Jatav consitutes 11 per cent of total 21 per cent of the Dalit population in Uttar Pradesh. Jatavs are still with Mayawati and any dent in Jatav vote bank will weaken Mayawati and strengthen the BJP. Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/opposition-unity-exists-theoretically-in-uttar-pradesh-bjp-1059841.html
11-12-2021||North and Central||Nearly 133 crore Covid vaccine doses administered in India||India's Covid-19 vaccination coverage has reached nearly 133 crore doses with over 81 lakh vaccine doses administered on Saturday, according to the Union health ministry. The daily vaccination tally is expected to increase with the compilation of the final reports, the ministry added. Cumulatively, 47,76,16,452 first doses and 26,89,95,537 second doses of the vaccine have been administered to the beneficiaries in the 18-44 age group across the states and Union territories since the start of the third phase of the inoculation drive, according to the health ministry's data. The ministry further said a total of 81,41,67,757 first doses and 51,42,36,948 second doses of the vaccine have so far been administered. It said a total of 132,84,04,705 Covid vaccine doses have so far been administered in the country, including 81,08,719 vaccine doses administered till 7 PM on Saturday. The vaccination exercise as a tool to protect the most vulnerable population groups in the country from Covid-19 continues to be regularly reviewed and monitored at the highest level, the ministry underlined. Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nearly-133-crore-covid-vaccine-doses-administered-in-india-1059847.html
11-12-2021||North and Central||General Rawat worked hard to make country's forces self-reliant: Prime Minister Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said the whole country has been a witness to the hard work India's first Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) Gen Bipin Rawat was doing to make the country's forces self-reliant. The Prime Minister said though the country is in sorrow, "even after suffering the pain, we neither stop our pace or progress. India will not stop". "Gen Bipin Rawat, in the days to come, will see his India moving forward with new resolutions. The work of improving the security of the country's borders, work to strengthen border infrastructure will continue," he added. He said the doctors are working hard to save the life of Group Captain Varun Singh "who is a son of Uttar Pradesh", a resident of Deoria. "I pray to God to save his life. The nation is with the family of Varun Singh today and with the families of the heroes we have lost," the PM said. He said this while inaugurating the Saryu Nahar National Project in Balrampur, Uttar Pradesh. Uttar Pradesh Governor Anandiben Patel, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, Union Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat were among those present on the occasion. The Prime Minister said proper utilisation of the water of the country's rivers, and adequate water reaching the farmers' fields, is one of the top priorities of the government. "The completion of the Saryu Canal National Project is proof that when the thinking is honest, the work is also solid". The Prime Minister said: "We have done more work in the Saryu canal project than what was done in five decades in less than five years. This is a double-engine government. This is the speed of work of the double-engine government... our priority is to finish the project on time." "If it is government money, then why should I care? This thinking had become the biggest obstacle in the balanced and all-around development of the country. This thinking also kept the Saryu canal project hanging." Modi also listed long-pending projects like Baan Sagar Project, Arjun Sahayak irrigation project, AIIMS, and fertilizer plant at Gorakhpur that were completed by the double engine government of the BJP -- in the Centre, and in the state of Uttar Pradesh. He also cited Ken Betwa Link project as an example of this government's commitment. The Rs 45,000 crore project was approved in the last Cabinet meeting. The Prime Minister also said that as opposed to the earlier times when the mafia used to get protection, today, the mafia is being cleaned out and the difference is visible. "Earlier, strongmen were promoted. Today, CM Adityanath's government is engaged in empowering the poor, downtrodden, backward and tribals. That's why the people of UP say -- the difference is visible. Earlier illegal occupation of land by the mafia was the norm while today, CM Yogi is running bulldozer over such encroachment." Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/general-rawat-worked-hard-to-make-countrys-forces-self-reliant-prime-minister-modi-1059853.html
11-12-2021||North and Central||Punjab likely to see hung Assembly with AAP on top: Survey||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and the Congress are projected to poll 39 per cent and 34 per cent votes, respectively, in Punjab, which is going to the polls next year, as per the third ABP News-CVoter Battle for the States Tracker. But despite the lead in vote share, AAP may not win a majority out of 117 seats due to regional distribution of voter-base, as per the Tracker. Also, Congress is benefiting from its Mayawati moment by installing the first Dalit CM in the state. The move is consolidating its hold over Dalit voters. This brings us to the conclusion that this is a waveless election in Punjab. For all the political and social turmoil witnessed in the state, the electorate is remarkably split in its expression. If this situation continues to hold for another month, then we may see a hung Vidhan Sabha in Punjab with AAP emerging as the single largest party, closely followed by Congress. The current projections are based on CVoter daily tracking poll conducted between November 13 and December 9, among 18+ adults, including likely voters. As for the methodology and survey details, the survey reached out to a total of approximately 92,000+ persons across five states (UP, Punjab, Uttarakhand, Manipur and Goa). It was conducted through CATI (telephonic survey). The same is also expected to have a margin of error of ±3 to ±5 per cent and may not necessarily have factored in all the criteria. Shiromani Akali Dal (Badal) is down but not out, it is expected to poll 20 per cent votes and may win around 20 seats in the Badal family strongholds. Currently it seems to be out of reckoning, but the party's performance will most certainly act as the tie-breaker between AAP and Congress. The Amarinder Singh-BJP alliance does not seem to be adding up to anything significant. Currently, the vote share and seat share of the grouping is projected to remain in lower single digits. However, the alliance's performance may influence the fate of around 30 seats. Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi is preferred by 33 per cent voters as CM in 2022 polls. Interestingly, this number corresponds to the headcount of Dalit population in Punjab. Congress President Navjot Singh Sidhu is preferred by only 5 per cent voters, Arvind Kejriwal is preferred by 24 per cent voters and Sukhbir Singh Badal is the choice of 18 per cent voters. Regionally, the Dalit population is more concentrated in Doaba and Majha regions of Punjab that account for a total of 48 seats. The Congress is projected to win 28 out of its 42 seats from these two regions. AAP is doing significantly better in Malwa region that accounts for the remaining 69 seats. It is expected to win 41 of its 53 seats from Malwa alone. Therefore, the three X factors that will ultimately decide the Punjab verdict 2022 are the relative sweep of AAP and Congress in their respective strongholds, the performance of Akali Dal and its potential impact on AAP and Congress, and the ability of Amarinder Singh to dent the prospects of Congress. For now, despite a re-energised and repositioned political stance, Congress is facing more headwinds than AAP. Also, the rural peasantry, fresh from the protests at Singhu border, is unlikely to fully trust the Akali Dal or the Congress. Both these parties have baggage with Jat farmers who dominate the rural polity. In terms of Jat Sikh politics, the survey projections are indicative of an emerging vacuum. From 1997-2021, Punjab saw a duopoly of Badal-Amarinder, but currently no leader is polling enough support to inherit the mantle of Jat leadership. Sukhbir Badal is liked by some sections, while others prefer Bhagwant Mann. Navjot Sidhu's theatrics have not helped him gain traction in state politics, despite the outsized media imagery projected. Regardless of AAP's continued lead, there is a distinct possibility of amplification of the current trend of convergence with Congress' vote share. If the race tightens any further, the eventual outcome will be decided on a seat-by-seat basis. Therefore, candidate selection may become very important. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-likely-to-see-hung-assembly-with-aap-on-top-survey-1059854.html
11-12-2021||North and Central||School children in Haryana to recite Gita ‘shlokas’ from next academic session: CM Khattar||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Saturday said from the next academic session, students will be taught to recite 'shlokas' of the Bhagavad Gita in schools across the state. The chief minister made this announcement at the ongoing international Gita Mahotsava in Kurukshetra, an official statement said here. Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla was also present on the occasion. Addressing a seminar organised at the Gita Gyan Sansthanam and Kurukshetra University as part of the international Gita festival, Khattar said books related to Gita will become a part of the curriculum for classes 5 and 7. The chief minister said the youth should imbibe the essence of Gita in their lives as the message of the holy book was given not for only Arjuna but for all of us. Khattar said in order to enhance the scale of annual international Gita Mahotsav, a Gita Jayanti committee would be constituted from next year. He said a Mahabharata-themed museum is being constructed at 'Geetasthali' in Jyotisar on two acres of land at a cost of Rs 205 crore. In this building, Shrimad Bhagavad Gita, the mythical Saraswati river and Vedic civilisation will be depicted through multimedia systems, he said. He said on the lines of Ram Lila, Krishna Utsav would also be organised during the international Gita Mahotsava from next year. In this festival, which lasts around six days, different incidents related to the life of Lord Krishna will be depicted through tableaux, he said, adding that there will be a light and sound show as well. He said the Bhagavad Gita was a source of inspiration for the country's freedom fighters too.  Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/school-children-in-haryana-to-recite-gita-shlokas-from-next-academic-session-cm-khattar-1059855.html
11-12-2021||North and Central||Five drone schools to be set up in Madhya Pradesh: Scindia||Civil Aviation Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia on Saturday said that five drone schools will be set up in Madhya Pradesh. The minister was speaking at the Gwalior drone mela that saw the participation of drone manufacturers, service providers and various other stakeholders. The mela was organised jointly by the civil aviation ministry, Madhya Pradesh government and industry body Ficci. Five drone schools will be set up in Madhya Pradesh, Scindia said at the event. The programme was the biggest congregation of drone manufacturers, service providers, drone enthusiasts and user communities, especially students, farmers and common man of the city, the ministry said in a release on Saturday.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/five-drone-schools-to-be-set-up-in-madhya-pradesh-scindia-1059881.html
11-12-2021||Opinion||Farm, anti-CAA stir: Restoring the majesty of protest||But meanwhile, the farmers have restored the majesty and legitimacy of protest in our democracy. This was one of the largest peaceful protests in the world in recent times—and the world had taken note of it. It all happened on the borders of India's national capital, the city where two other significant protests have taken place in the last decade. The 2011 Anna Movement that defined itself as anti-corruption began in the Jantar Mantar protest site in central Delhi and became a lightning rod for sentiment against the then Congress-led UPA regime in Delhi. Its political outcomes were the founding of the Aam Admi Party in 2012, whose zone of influence remains restricted to Delhi, and the eventual defeat of the UPA at the hands of the Narendra Modi-led BJP in 2014. Because the credibility of the UPA was in tatters, the edifice would come crumbling down, and after decades of coalitions, India got a simple majority regime. It's been during these years of single-party dominance that there has been a sustained attempt to delegitimise protest. This was most blatantly visible during the protests that too began in the national capital against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act or CAA that uses religion as a criterion to grant citizenship to refugees. These protests that started in the Muslim-dominated neighbourhood of Shaheen Bagh were very different in scale and size to the farm agitation. They were spread across small sites in the national capital and eventually other parts of the country and structured around swearing allegiance to the Constitution of India. They erupted at the end of 2019 when CAA was rammed through Parliament and continued till the end of March 2020 when the Covid lockdown and the Delhi riots were used to shut them down. The subsequent arrest of Muslim women, students and activists under draconian laws was seen as psychological messaging against protest, particularly those led by minorities. But if such delicate concerns about alienating communities were behind the repeal of the farm laws, then the New Delhi regime would not have encouraged depiction in sections of the media of the farmers as anti-nationals who were believers in the separate Sikh homeland of Khalistan. The shameful attempt to defame a genuine people's movement is now part of public record and memory. Indeed, one of the significant achievements of the protests is to get the government to agree to withdraw all criminal cases against farmers in various BJP-ruled states, notably Haryana and Uttar Pradesh (those arrested over the CAA protests in contrast still languish in jail or face a long legal battle). The farm protests always had resonance beyond Punjab and certainly in parts of Uttar Pradesh where the son of a Union minister allegedly ran over protesting farmers on October 3, killing four. They were also a factor in bypolls in the BJP-ruled Himachal Pradesh on October 30 this year, where the party lost three Assembly seats by large margins and a Lok Sabha seat to the Congress. The case of Himachal Pradesh is instructive in understanding how widespread the anger against the farm policies of the BJP regime was. In the run-up to the polls, there had been a crash in apple prices due to the low rate offered by Adani Agrifresh Limited. Apple growers were enraged, and the Congress raised the issue of seeking a minimum support price for the apple crop to protect farmers from the manipulations of corporate interests. Indeed, that is what lay at the heart of the farmers' protest. At each of the three protest sites on the Delhi borders, the articulation was always about India being sold off to corporations. Stump speeches would be made, day in and out, for 15 months about people's interests being hawked off to big corporations where men in suits would henceforth run agriculture after making big donations to India's pre-eminent party. If that was indeed the plan, the farmers of India have certainly derailed it. (Saba Naqvi is a journalist and an author) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/farm-anti-caa-stir-restoring-the-majesty-of-protest-1059698.html
11-12-2021||Opinion||Political promises must be universal and equal||In the run-up to elections in five states, the major parties are, as is their wont, making several promises to the public. In some cases, ruling parties even implement such promises in the days before the elections. This is part and parcel of elections in a democracy, and even a healthy practice -- the public should know what they’re being asked to support or reward through their choices on polling day. These appeals to voters broadly fall into three categories. Some of the promises are for all members of the public. For example, a reduction in power tariffs, which is available to all consumers without distinction. A second set of promises is for women, such as free public transport, and these too can be considered universal. But there is a third set of things on offer that are plainly targeted at some people only. The range of such things is quite striking, but their common feature is that the benefit is proposed to be selectively available to some. Market and price support for farmers, ex-gratia payments to victims of some tragedies, the establishment of new government colleges in some districts -- these usual sops of the past had some unspoken but understood premise. Namely, that some people and some regions are suffering, and therefore the support of the State is selectively needed to uplift them. This is understandable, but it is also worth keeping in mind that this kind of intervention has been going on for decades, without any evident results. The reasons why some livelihoods are under threat, or some places face under-development and distress, are complex. Weaknesses in governance, social fracture, and market friction all contribute to their desperation. The State, acting in isolation, is often unable to solve such problems. What is more likely is that new pots of money from government budgets simply disappear into the same abyss that has contributed to the problems in the first place. Quite often, the funds end up entrenching the political power of ‘leaders’ who have only led their constituents to ruin. It would be much better to make all State support universal in nature, without contrived inclusion of some people and exclusion of others. In India, the quest for better rights and opportunities for people has followed a course of ‘separate and equal’, by which those who need help seek it for themselves alone. This is motivated by the fear that unless the benefits are for them alone, they will be appropriated by others too, and therefore it is important to maintain a separate channel in which the gains flow only to them. Political power is distributed unequally across society, and the risk of even good schemes being hijacked by vested interests that want to preserve the status quo is high. So, one can understand the preference for exclusive schemes. But there is also an obvious downside to such choices. The core principles that distinguish democracies are ‘universality’ and ‘equality’. Therefore, the best State interventions for the development of people should also be anchored in these principles. If a proposed benefit does not bring us closer to universal equality, then it’s probably not a good choice. That’s the test that a lot of the political sops are failing today. Separateness itself is a kind of inequality, and it cannot be the answer to the social and economic challenges we face. That would be more obvious if we step back to understand what is at the root of the under-development that some people and places face. Quite often, the reasons are that we have not made adequate investments in the social infrastructure that should be universally available -- and of good quality -- to serve them. Schools and health facilities, roads and transport services for market access, communication, public services -- these things need to be properly and fully provided in every place, rather than only in a privileged few. Perhaps, then, we would not see the basics of development being presented as options in polls. Every child deserves a fair education, and the government of the day is obliged to fund it adequately. Every family has a right to health, and the public health system must be good enough to protect this. And so on about all the other anchors and pillars of development. We have already seen many rounds of promises without this mix of universality and potential equality. And they have not led anywhere. Instead, each time they have only set the stage for another set of very similar promises the next time. Unfortunately, rather than correct the promises, parties are upping the ante on selectively inducing and winning the support of some people and excluding others. These days, they plainly appeal to the identity of the voter rather than their situation in life or their livelihood. Political leaders have become comfortable telling the voters that they stand for and with some people, and implicitly or explicitly against others. This is a vicious cycle. If political power in a democracy is used as an instrument to selectively favour some people, those who are out of favour either lose confidence in development through democratic politics, or they embrace the idea that they too should try and defeat anyone who is not like them. Neither of these is good for the society or the country. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/political-promises-must-be-universal-and-equal-1059902.html
11-12-2021||Opinion||You’ve goat to be kidding me||“Which animal is this?” I reluctantly asked the shopkeeper as I pointed to the tray of mutton mince for sale behind the counter. He looked at me oddly. “Is it goat or is it sheep?” I (sheepishly) elaborated. “It’s goat, madam,” he replied, bemused. “Ah, okay, I want sheep instead. Do you have any?” “No, madam.” Disappointed, I left yet another meat shop in Mumbai empty-handed. At least the shopkeeper was honest with me, though. Not all have been. In Western countries, mutton is actually mature sheep. Lamb is a tender young one. However, in India, mutton and lamb are commonly both goat. A completely different animal. Oh, the confusion! I remember the time I thought I’d finally found sheep mince in Mumbai. It was a jubilant moment. However, as soon as I started cooking the meat, much to my horror, I realised I had been deceived. It was not sheep at all. The strong, gamey aroma distinctly gave it away as being goat. And, it was, quite frankly, repulsive. There was no way I could eat it. The planned evening meal was duly cancelled and food ordered in from a restaurant. Goat meat is rarely consumed in the West and, unfortunately, I’m not used to it. While I personally find the pungent smell of goat off-putting, it doesn’t dampen demand for the meat in India. Upon coming to terms with goat’s popularity, I abandoned my futile search for sheep. Yet, I remained perplexed as to why goat is invariably called mutton or lamb here. That is, until I read Vir Sanghvi’s recent food column. As it turns out, it’s a blatant lie! And the reason for the lie? Apparently, to appease the “delicate sensibilities” of foreigners and their prejudice against goat! You may have heard of the English expression “mutton dressed as lamb.” This derogatory label is often applied to older women who attempt to look young by wearing clothes and make-up more suited to someone of a lesser age. In India, we have “goat dressed as mutton.” Who would’ve thought? It’s time to stop lying and pretending, says Sanghvi. I wholeheartedly agree! It has nothing to do with the inferiority, or otherwise, of goat though. I just want to know what I’m getting without having to conduct an awkward investigation. Some foreigners may be surprised to find goat on the menu in India, but who cares? Those who are adventurous will no doubt want to try it. Others will choose something else. I don’t rule out eating goat as long as it doesn’t taste gamey and I don’t have to prepare it. It’s not something that upsets my sensibilities. To be honest, there are other dishes that I do find offensive and refuse to touch, despite them being deemed delicacies. Most involve body parts such as paya (trotter) soup, bheja (brains) fry, khiri (udder), and fish heads. They are what they are though. No one passes them off as something more mainstream and acceptable. In fact, when making fish curry, my mother-in-law once went to the special effort of saving the fish heads for me. Thankfully, she’s understanding of my occasionally “odd” eating habits and was bemused more than anything when I declined what she considered to be delicious. I feel a little better knowing that finicky foreigners have made a few positive contributions to India’s culinary landscape, though. Just think if, according to legend, it wasn’t for the British who disliked getting their fingers dirty when eating kebabs, a paratha may never have been wrapped around the meat and Kolkata wouldn’t have gotten its famous kathi roll. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/you-ve-goat-to-be-kidding-me-1059903.html
11-12-2021||Opinion||The unwritten rule||Forty-eight men have been appointed Chief Justice of India since 1950. With two exceptions, they have all been the senior-most judges of the Supreme Court of their time. How did ‘seniority’ become the sole criterion to appoint the CJI? The Constitution does not state, in its text, that this should be so. While questions over the appointment of SC and HC judges occupied a lot of the Constituent Assembly’s time, the eventual shape of Article 124, which provides for the appointment of judges to the Supreme Court, is straightforward. It just provides for the minimum criteria for someone to be appointed a judge of the Supreme Court and says nothing on who ought to be appointed the CJI. So how did this (almost) hard and fast rule come into being? For that, we have to go back to the time when the very first CJI, HJ Kania, passed away in his sleep in 1951. Kania was one of the first seven judges of the SC and had previously served in the Bombay HC. Of those seven judges, he had served the longest as a High Court judge and had previously been in the Federal Court of India, the predecessor of the Supreme Court. Faced with the untimely death of the first CJI, Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru and Attorney General of India MC Setalvad hoped to appoint the then Chief Justice of the Bombay HC, MC Chagla, as the CJI. Chagla was a fantastic choice. Anyone who has read his judgements on any subject would be struck by his clarity of thought, deep knowledge and simplicity in writing. He would have been a great CJI. Nehru and Setalvad had spoken to Chagla and told him to prepare to move to Delhi. Except, it didn’t happen. Nehru faced resistance from an unexpected quarter - all six remaining SC judges threatened to resign if Chagla was made CJI. They insisted that the CJI had to be appointed on the basis of seniority alone, meaning that the senior-most judge, Justice Patanjali Shastri, had to be appointed CJI. Here’s the thing though -- the ‘rule’ was entirely made up on the spot. As scholar Abhinav Chandrachud has pointed out, there’s no evidence of any practice prior to 1951 showing that seniority was even a factor in the appointment of Chief Justices of HCs or the Federal Court. The simple justification one can offer was self-interest -- Shastri and his successor, MC Mahajan, would have never become CJIs had Kania survived till the age of 65. They didn’t want to let go of the opportunity. But that doesn’t answer why the other four judges went along with it. One could say that the judges stood up for the independence of the judiciary. Even as it was already facing criticism for being reactionary and opposed to social justice, the judges wanted to show that they were only adhering to the law and the Constitution in their own way. Whatever it was, the argument that it promoted independence of the judiciary struck a chord, and Nehru chose to follow the ‘rule’ for the rest of his tenure as PM. His daughter, though, was responsible for the two exceptions. Indira Gandhi’s tenure saw the only two instances of the ‘rule’ being overruled -- in 1974 and 1976. On both occasions, judges who had ruled against her government were “superseded”, and judges who had favoured it were appointed. The superseded judges (Justices Shelat, Grover and Hegde, and then Justice Khanna) immediately resigned in protest. Whatever else they may have lost by resigning, their reputations only stood enhanced for having stood up for the institution. Such was the moral force of their action that no government has since, irrespective of its parliamentary majority, attempted to change the seniority rule. A constitutional convention has been created on this matter not because of the say so of one or two people but because of the moral force of the argument and the sacrifice made by those willing to stand up for it. Whatever the purpose of the seniority convention, it does not by itself guarantee independence of the CJI, as we now know. Creating a truly independent judiciary is an ongoing project but we wouldn’t have gotten this far without adhering to some healthy conventions and practices. Is this the ideal way to appoint the CJI? Probably not. But to paraphrase Winston Churchill’s quote on democracy, it is the worst way of appointing the CJI, except for all the other ways of doing it. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-unwritten-rule-1059904.html
11-12-2021||Opinion||Conspiracy theories, don’t we love them!||Conspiracy theories always abound around the unnatural death of top military commanders, or for that matter any important personality, and it is no different in the case of Gen Bipin Rawat, especially because the government delayed for hours announcing the inevitable. At one point, it looked as though the government would say nothing until the next day, and it got many worried as rumours and conspiracy theories began to do the rounds on social media. Better sense prevailed by the evening of December 8, and the Indian Air Force announced the death of India’s first Chief of Defence Staff. Questions have been raised by a cross-section of people, including by some former IAF personnel themselves, on how the Mi-17V5, one of the most versatile helicopters in the world today and flown by the country’s best pilots, could have crashed, especially when the weather conditions were not hostile. While such suspicion is natural, though purely speculative, the tri-services inquiry that has been ordered will hopefully bring out the truth. Why the rumours and conspiracy theories got Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai’s goat and he went on to warn that those saying irresponsible things would be punished is anybody’s guess. After all, aren’t his own party’s IT cell and its large army of hired trolls and fake news purveyors the worst practitioners of the black art? Witness all the stuff they put out on Jawaharlal Nehru, for instance. But this is not the first time that a General’s death has raised conspiracy theories. Similar murmurs were heard when Gen K S Thimayya died in December 1965 when he was the Commander of the UN Peace Keeping Force in Cyprus, an assignment he had taken up post-retirement (he retired as Indian Army chief in 1961). Thimayya died suddenly of a heart attack. His body was flown to Bengaluru and was laid to rest at the Wilson Garden burial ground. But conspiracy theories arose mainly for two reasons: Old-timers in Kodagu, where he hailed from, recall that the sealed casket in which his body was brought to India was not allowed to be opened for public viewing, drawing speculation that he was actually poisoned to death; two, that his body was buried and not cremated as per Kodava custom. Usually, relatives are instructed not to open the coffin when the body is dismembered or mutilated, but that was not the case with Thimayya. These doubts have persisted, and as is the fashion these days, for whatever went wrong between the 1940s and the 1980s, fingers must be pointed at either Nehru or Indira Gandhi. Ah, so it was Indira Gandhi who did not allow the coffin to be opened, post-mortem to be conducted, etc. Hmm…she must have got Gen Thimayya killed! Except, of course, when Gen Thimayya died, Lal Bahadur Shastri was Prime Minister, not Indira Gandhi. Shastri himself died of a heart attack soon after, on January 11, 1966, in Tashkent, hours after signing a Soviet-mediated treaty with Pakistan following the 1965 war. Again, oh, he must have been poisoned to death! A film has been made in post-2014 ‘New India’ – by you know who – to peddle this conspiracy theory. Thirteen days later, on January 24, Homi Bhabha, Nehru’s most-trusted man on India’s nuclear programme, died when his airplane crashed over Mont Blanc while he was on his way to Vienna. Did Indira Gandhi get him killed, too, along with 150 others on that plane? Years later, a British journalist claimed that a very drunk former CIA operative had told him the CIA had a hand in it. Vikram Sarabhai was to Indira Gandhi what Homi Bhabha was to Nehru, in addition to being a close friend of the Nehru-Gandhi family. But when he died – of a cardiac arrest – while on a trip to Thiruvananthapuram in December 1971 -- again conspiracy theories were floated. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/conspiracy-theories-don-t-we-love-them-1059905.html
11-12-2021||Opinion||The remarkable world of Isaac Newton||Isaac Newton towers over all others in the history of science, his contribution immeasurable, his influence inescapable; and his masterpiece The Mathematical Principles of Natural Philosophy, or simply the Principia, the foundation of classical mechanics. First published in 1687 in three volumes in Latin, the Principia expounded Newton’s laws of motion and his law of universal gravitation; and marked a great revolution in Physics. Nothing like it had been produced before the 17th century. From the Principia, a science emerged that was to set the agenda for research for the next 300 years, while at once spurring advances in Mathematical Physics. Even as physicists search for the unified theory that would explain the properties of matter and energy in all their manifestations, the terms of the search by now familiar are Newton’s terms, and before Newton, the search would have made little sense. Newton was born in the Hamlet of Wolingsthorpe in 1642, in the year that Galileo died. After attending a local grammar school, Newton entered Trinity College at Cambridge University in the summer of 1661. During a cold wet winter at Cambridge, Newton read Rene Descartes’ Geometrie, and the book inflamed his imagination. While in Euclidean geometry, the plane lies flat, Descartes laid the cross of a coordinate system and so made possible for the first time the invigoration of space by means of number -- two perpendicular lines marking distances in four directions. Soon, with a Bachelor’s degree in hand, Newton retreated to the countryside, and over the next 16 months, in 1665-66, immersed himself in mathematical passion, knowing his powers were bound only by his imagination. And these remarkable mathematical powers resolved themselves in his discovery of the Calculus. It is in Newton’s hands that Calculus became a special instrument to understand the ‘book’ of nature. Like Einstein, his spiritual heir and only equal, Newton viewed mathematics as an instrument. In thinking about Calculus, Newton was already thinking beyond it -- planets in motion and falling objects occupying the vast expanse of his mind. Time and Space make up the world within which change occurs. The day is lit by cheerful bright sunlight, the skies are blue and white clouds pass gently by; then the sun sets and the night sky is lit by moonlight, trees sway, birds shriek, in the opalescent light. Something has changed because some things have changed. This is the now familiar, continuous world that Newton represented mathematically by means of a series of pioneering correlations. His great vision of what he described as “the system of the world”, brilliantly articulated in the Principia. Motion is change in place. Something was there, now it is here. The difference between here and there is simply a measure of distance. A simple question, “how far?” finds its answer in a simple number, “this far!” It is beautiful in its simplicity as a correlation now appears between distance and time, “how far” juxtaposed with “how long”. Newton created a mathematical system that embraced terrestrial and celestial phenomena alike. In doing so, he established a physical basis for the Copernican universe. The self-assurance and precision with which he accomplished this task was such that, even today, when Newtonian dynamics is viewed as but a part of the broader scheme of Einstein’s relativity, most scientists continue to think in Newtonian terms, and Newton’s laws work well enough to guide spacecraft to the moon and the planets. Yet for all this, Newton was himself a reclusive and strange man. When John Maynard Keynes bought a trunk full of Newton’s papers at an auction, he was startled to find that it was full of notes on alchemy, biblical prophecy, and the reconstruction from Hebraic texts of the floor plan of the temple of Jerusalem, which the young Newton had taken to be an emblem of the system of the world. “Newton was not the first of the age of reason,” a shaken Keynes told a gathering at the Royal Society, “He was the last of the magicians.” Newton was isolated, by the singular power of his intellect. Richard Westfall in his biography of Newton writes “Newton...one of the tiny handful of supreme geniuses who have shaped the categories of the human intellect, a man not finally reducible to the criteria by which we comprehend our fellow beings.” As for the apocryphal story of the apple falling on his head, actually, one sunny afternoon, over tea, he did notice the apple fall and wondered why it fell downwards, and not in any other direction. Explore the remarkable world of Isaac Newton; read Never at Rest: A Biography of Isaac Newton by Richard S Westfall. Why the universe is what it is remains a metaphysical question, and the eternal human quest continues. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-remarkable-world-of-isaac-newton-1059906.html
11-12-2021||South||Southern Railway's first e-bike rental service at Tiruchi railway station turns big hit||The e-bike rental service that was inaugurated at Tiruchi railway station on Thursday is turning into a big hit with enquiries pouring in for the facility. Currently, the service is from 9 am to 9pm. Incidentally, this is the only e-bike rental service in Tiruchi district. The e-bike centre is providing bikes on rent at Rs 50 per hour but customers have to deposit Rs 1,000 as security deposit and have to provide copies of Aadhar card as well as driving license. The rental company that is associated with the Southern Railway said that they are presently providing e-bikes on an hourly, daily, and weekly basis but more enquiries are for hourly services. Ganesh Babu, a daily commuter from Tiruchi Railway station while speaking to IANS said, "It's a good initiative but railways should avoid taking security deposit as people will shy away from the facility after one or two drives for curiosity. Railways can themselves stand guarantee for the e-bikes rather than taking money from customers." He said that the bikes have inbuilt GPS facility and are traceable and that there was no reason for levying security deposits. Interestingly, the facility can be availed of by people who are not even railway commuters or rather travel by rail is not a necessity to use the e-bike facility at Tiruchi railway station. The e-bike can travel up to 130 km on a single charge and according to employees in charge of the e-bike centre of Tiruchi railway station, it cannot be used outside of the district at present. If the bike faces any technical glitch, the employees of the e-bike centre at the railway station will reach the spot and pick it up. The student community of Tiruchi is also excited by the venture but the security deposit is a discouraging factor for many. Ashraf Ali, a second-year engineering student at a private engineering college in Tiruchi while speaking to IANS said: "The idea is rocking and we are happy that it has first come in our place in Southern Railway but the rider is we don't have money for the security deposit. Railways should trust us and provide the vehicle at an hourly or daily rent and there will be a lot of takers. Anyways, the vehicle has GPS and our Aadhar and driving license copies are being provided. Hope Railways will respect the feelings of the student community." Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/southern-railways-first-e-bike-rental-service-at-tiruchi-railway-station-turns-big-hit-1059697.html
11-12-2021||South||Auroville tree felling issue: NGT grants interim stay till December 17||The residents of Auroville township in Tamil Nadu’s Villupuram district have some reason to cheer after days of protest against the Auroville Foundation felling trees and clearing of buildings to construct a new project.  The Southern Bench of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) on Friday granted an interim stay on felling of trees by the Auroville Foundation till December 17 when the case will come up for hearing again. The foundation had begun clearing the existing buildings and cutting trees earlier this week to implement the Crown Road project or the ring road.  The residents of the township protested against the foundation’s move and wanted a dialogue with the concerned to arrive at a consensus to resolve the differences. However, the foundation began clearing buildings prompting two residents – Navroz Kersasp Mody and Sandeep Vinod Sarah – to move the NGT in Chennai.  Residents said the project aims at building a ring road for 4.4 km long for which trees and the iconic Matir Mandir have to be cleared, prompting them to protest.  Hearing the case on Friday, NGT judicial member Justice K Ramakrishnan and expert member Dr Satyagopal K said the counsel for Tamil Nadu submitted that the state government has no interest in this matter.  “Ongoing through the allegations made in the application, we are satisfied that there arises a substantial question of the environment as to whether any permission is required under the Forest (Conservation) Act, 1980 for cutting trees from an area which can be treated as a ‘Deemed Forest’ under the Forest (Conservation) Act, 1980. So, the matter is admitted,” they said. The bench ordered status-quo till December 17 and asked the Auroville Foundation to file their response or objection to the allegations made in the application on the next hearing date so that the question as to whether interim order will have to be continued or not can be considered on that date. The Auroville Foundation Act was enacted by the Parliament of India in 1988 after the experience of the Auroville Emergency Provisions Act 1980. which was promulgated to take over the affairs and management of Auroville and all its undertakings pursuant to the order of the Supreme Court of India.  The Auroville Foundation, which was notified on 29.01.1991, has been functioning under the administrative control of the Ministry of Human Resource Development as a statutory (autonomous) body.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/auroville-tree-felling-issue-ngt-grants-interim-stay-till-december-17-1059721.html
11-12-2021||South||Andhra Pradesh government announces Rs 50 lakh ex-gratia to Lance Naik Teja's kin||The Andhra Pradesh government on Saturday announced an ex-gratia payment of Rs 50 lakh to the family of Lance Naik B Sai Teja, who lost his life in the tragic helicopter crash in Tamil Nadu. Sai Teja, hailing from Chittoor district in the state, served as Personal Security Officer of the Chief of Defence Staff Gen. Bipin Rawat. He was among the 13 deceased in the incident, along with Gen. Rawat and his wife. In a tweet, the AP Chief Minister’s Office said the government announced the Rs 50 lakh ex-gratia to the Lance Naik’s family. Meanwhile, the mortal remains of the Lance Naik were expected to arrive in his native village Yeguvaregadipalli in Chittoor district on Sunday. His brother, who is also serving in the Indian Army, said the body of Sai Teja was brought to Bengaluru first, from where it would be brought to his native village for cremation. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-government-announces-rs-50-lakh-ex-gratia-to-lance-naik-tejas-kin-1059736.html
11-12-2021||South||Chopper crash: Mortal remains of Lance Naik Sai Teja reach Bengaluru||Mortal remains of Lance Naik B. Sai Teja, who died in a helicopter crash in Tamil Nadu along with Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat, his wife and other officials on December 8, reached Yelahanka Air Base in Bengaluru on Saturday in a special aircraft to be handed over to his family. After the officers of Indian Air Force (IAF) paid last respects to the mortal remains of the young soldier, it was taken to the Airforce Command Hospital in Old Airport Road. According to sources, the body will be taken in a special ambulance to his home town Madanapalle in Andhra Pradesh on Sunday. Sai Teja is survived by his wife Symala, two children — son Mokshagna (5) and daughter Darshini (2) and his parents. He had joined the Army through a recruitment drive in Guntur in 2012. He was appointed as the Personal Security Officer to Late CDS Gen Rawat. Meanwhile, the mortal remains of six jawans have been flown to airports nearest to their native places. Teja was one among the 13 occupants of the IAF helicopter. Few hours before the chopper crashed, he had made a video call to his wife from New Delhi. He had told his wife that he was going to Tamil Nadu with CDS General Rawat and promised to call her again by evening. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/chopper-crash-mortal-remains-of-lance-naik-sai-teja-reach-bengaluru-1059739.html
11-12-2021||South||Kerala filmmaker Ali Akbar renounces Islam||Malayalam film director and Sangh Parivar fellow traveller Ali Akbar has announced that he and his wife were giving up Islam in protest against a section of social media users allegedly indulging in jubilation over the tragic death of Chief Defence Staff Bipin Rawat and his wife in a helicopter crash. He made the announcement in a video posted on social media on Friday. "I am not a Muslim from today onwards. I am an Indian," the film maker said in it. In the clip, he slammed those who put smiley emoticons below the news reports related to the death of General Rawat and said he could not stand with the "anti-nationals" anymore. Akbar's decision comes in the wake of a section of members of a minority community reportedly rejoicing Rawat's death. In October this year, the film director-turned politician had resigned from all responsibilities in the BJP including as its state committee member as he was "pained" by the Kerala unit's organisational level action against BJP state secretary A K Nazeer. Akbar, however, had said he would continue as a member of the BJP. In an emotional Facebook post, he had said it was very difficult for the common man to understand the kind of humiliations and abuses being faced by a Muslim, from his own family and community, while working for the BJP. The filmmaker is currently working on a film based on Malabar rebellion also called as Moplah riot that took place in north Kerala in 1921. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-filmmaker-ali-akbar-renounces-islam-1059751.html
11-12-2021||South||Kerala government on defensive over Governor's charges of politicising universities||Kerala Governor Arif Mohammed Khan's resentment against the political interventions at universities in Kerala has triggered a political row with opposition parties accusing the CPM-led left-front government of politicising the higher education sector. The Governor had literally cornered the Pinarayi Vijayan government by specifically citing instances of undue political interventions in universities. Though the Chief Minister reportedly got in touch with the Governor after receiving the Governor's letter suggesting that he may be removed from the chancellor post, the Governor was sticking to his stand. The Governor told the media that the government wanted to impose its political decisions on the universities, which he could not tolerate while remaining as chancellor and hence he suggested that he may be removed from the chancellor post through an ordinance. The opposition Congress termed the developments as unprecedented in the country and asked Vijayan to shed his silence on such issues. Opposition leader V D Satheesan said that the Pinarayi Vijayan government was trying to make universities party offices. The quality of the higher education institutions was being spoiled by recruiting unqualified persons through the back door, he alleged. The immediate provocation for the Governor to shoot off a letter to the Chief Minister was the pressure, allegedly from the CMO, to reappoint Kannur University vice-chancellor Gopinath Ravindran. The move also came amidst allegations that the vice-chancellor was favouring a move to appoint Chief Minister's private secretary K K Ragesh's wife at the associate professor in the university. The Governor opposed reappointing the vice-chancellor citing the upper age limit restrictions of 60 in the university norms for vice-chancellor appointment. To overcome it, the government submitted a legal opinion of the advocate general citing the upper age limit of 62 in the UGC norms. However, with regard to the selection of vice-chancellor of Sanskrit University when the search committee suggested only one person instead of a panel, the Governor pointed out that it was against UGC norms. Then the government maintained that as per the university norms it was proper. Government inaction against Kerala Kalamandalam vice-chancellor T K Narayanan despite moving the High Court against the Chancellor's (Governor) ruling in a disciplinary action was another instance pointed out by the Governor. Delay in appointments to the newly formed Sree Narayana open university despite repeated reminders by the Chancellor also irked Khan. Earlier also there were differences between Khan and the Pinarayi Vijayan government on issues like NRC and farm laws. While those were defended by the government as its political stand, the present instances pointed out by the Governor seems to have put the left-front government in a tight spot. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-government-on-defensive-over-governors-charges-of-politicising-universities-1059752.html
11-12-2021||South||Devotees allowed holy dip at Sabarimala temple amid easing of Covid curbs||The Kerala government on Saturday gave the green signal for all Sabarimala pilgrims to take a holy dip before going uphill for darshan of Lord Ayyappa at the Sabarimala temple from Sunday. The two-month-long temple season that began on November 16 will end in the third week of January 2022 with a few days break in the last week of December. Until now, this season, the holy dip was not permitted and there were various restrictions but since the season began, the relaxations are being eased with another directive that came on Saturday that pilgrims can now take any route they wish. Till now only one route was open. All these restrictions were eased after the state Devasom Minister, K. Radhakrishnan held talks with Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. Pilgrims can now remain at the temple hilltop for 12 hours and rooms will also be given to the needy. Earlier this week, the 'tantri' of the temple, Kantarar Mahesh Mohanaru expressed the hope that things will soon fall in place so that all traditional rituals at the temple take place. This season it has been decided to limit the daily number of devotees to a maximum of 30,000 which should be either pre-booked or must get a spot booking for which counters have been opened. According to the temple authorities, by now more than 1.6 million pilgrims have pre-booked their temple visit. The Kerala government has come out with a fresh directive exempting all children below 10 years from a Covid test (RT-PCR) to visit the temple. The directive, however, said that the adults accompanying the children should ensure that the latter follow Covid protocols and must wear a mask, carry a sanitiser and ensure that social distancing is maintained. The order said that the adults are accountable for the children's health issues. Pilgrims above 10 years must either carry a negative RT-PCR test report taken prior to 72 hours or must have taken both the vaccine jabs. The Sabarimala temple, which is the biggest earner for the Travancore Devasom Board that runs this temple and other temples in the south Kerala districts, for a few years since 2018 has had a troubled festival season. While the previous season was badly affected by Covid-19, this time, after the season opened, more than Rs 22 crore has come by way of offerings and sale of "appom" and "aravana" (payasem) as the "prasad". Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/devotees-allowed-holy-dip-at-sabarimala-temple-amid-easing-of-covid-curbs-1059763.html
11-12-2021||South||Bharatanatyam dancer stopped from entering temple in TN's Srirangam||Bharatanatyam dancer Zakir Hussain has alleged that he was stopped from entering the famous Sri Ranganatha Swamy Temple in Srirangam near Tiruchirappalli on the “basis of religion” on Friday when he had gone there to offer prayers. Hussain, who is associated with the DMK, said he had offered prayers at the temple several times in the past and had even performed Bharatanatyam inside the temple premises. “This is the first time I was stopped at the Ranganatha Swamy temple in Srirangam. I was stopped at the behest of one Rangarajan Narasimhan. I was stopped on the basis of religion, and I was literally pushed out,” Hussain said.  Though a board has been put up prominently that only Hindus are beyond a point, Hussain said, he had always visited the temple and prayed before God. Ranganatha Swamy temple is one of the important temples of the Vaishnavite tradition and attracts devotees from across the country. Rangarajan Narasimhan, who was named by Hussain, is an activist based out of Srirangam fighting to free temples across Tamil Nadu from government control. In a Twitter post, Narasimhan admitted that he stopped “Hussain, a Muslim” from entering the temple. “This guy, Zakir Hussain, a Muslim by birth and practice and who abuses Sanathana Dharmis in his Facebook/Twitter was seen inside Srirangam Temple today. I had to show him the door. Archakas of this temple have no sense whatsoever? If he wants to claim to be an SD, why didn’t he convert?” he asked.  As Hussain’s denial into the temple stoked a row, Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR & CE) Minister P K Sekarbabu said an inquiry will be conducted into the incident. “We will go into the incident and take action, if necessary,” he said. The temple management said none from the administration side stopped Hussain from entering the premises and declared that it was “ready to welcome him anytime.” It added that it would investigate whether Narasimhan stopped Hussain from entering the temple. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bharatanatyam-dancer-stopped-from-entering-temple-in-tns-srirangam-1059788.html
11-12-2021||South||Coonoor crash: A teary-eyed farewell for Pradip in Kerala||The mortal remains of junior warrant officer Arakkal Pradeep, who was among those killed in the helicopter crash that claimed the lives of 13 including CDS Bipin Rawat, was brought to his native place Ponnukara in Thrissur district of Kerala on Saturday and funeral was performed with state honours. Pradeep's body was brought by road from Sulur. Three ministers of Kerala were among those at the state border to receive the mortal remains. Hundreds of people were present on either side of the roads to pay last respects to Pradeep. People in large numbers paid homage when the body was placed at the government higher secondary school where he studied and at his house. Pradeep's wife Sreelekshmi and their two children, seven-year-old Dakshindev and two-year-old Devprayag, who were with him at Sulur, reached home earlier. Pradeep's father Radhakrishnan, who is bed-ridden and on ventilator support, was informed about his son's ill-fate only on Saturday. A funeral was performed at the premises of his house. Pradeep also leaves behind a brother and sister. Hailing from financially weak family background, Pradeep joined the Air Force in 2004. Thereafter, he had been supporting the entire family. Pradeep had also participated in the rescue and relief operations in Kerala during the 2018 floods. Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coonoor-crash-a-teary-eyed-farewell-for-pradip-in-kerala-1059809.html
11-12-2021||South||18 passengers who arrived from overseas test Covid positive: Tamil Nadu Health Minister||The number of people who tested Covid-19 positive on arrival from overseas to Tamil Nadu till date has increased with 18 passengers from "at-risk" and "non-risk" countries having tested positive for the Delta variant of the contagion and their RTPCR samples have been sent to Bengaluru for genomic sequencing analysis, Tamil Nadu Minister Ma Subramanian said on Saturday. "All the 18 passengers have tested positive for the Delta variant. Their samples have been sent to inStem (Institute of Stem Cell Science and Regenerative Medicine) Bengaluru for genomic sequencing analysis," the Minister for Health and Family Welfarehe said after inspecting the 14th mass vaccination drive in the city. According to him, the 18 included nine treated at the coronavirus hospital at Guindy, Chennai, four in Annai Mahatma Gandhi Government Hospital in Tiruchirappalli, two in the Government General Hospital in Nagercoil and one in Bengaluru. The Health Department principal secretary J Radhakrishnan said 94.15 lakh people were eligible for the second dose of vaccine and that the impact of the Delta variant at the global-level has not reduced, he said. "At the global-level, the impact of the Delta variant of the virus has been high in Russia, Austria, Ukraine, Germany, the United Kingdom; and at the same time Omicron variant has been spreading in over 50 countries. The good news is that the Omicron variant has not been detected in Tamil Nadu," he said. From the viewpoints of the health experts, the messages to the public are: wear a facial mask, maintain social distancing in public and get vaccinated to prevent the spread of the virus, he said. People should get vaccinated and follow Covid-19 protocols. If they do, there is a possibility to further reduce the daily infection rate which is currently around 600 cases, he added. On a lighter vein, he asked upon seeing the health department officials, including the Minister and himself, people tend to wear a facial mask. "Are we coronavirus? No. People should not cheat themselves by wearing a mask only after seeing us. Virus is still prevalent," he said. On vaccination, Subramanian said 7.54 crore people have received the vaccine till date of which 81.30 per cent received the first dose while 48.95 per cent the second dose. "The number eligible to receive the second dose of the vaccine was 94.15 lakh and we have 95.78 lakh vaccines in stock. The mass vaccination camps have been held targeting those who need the second dose," he said. During the mass vaccination campaign (till the 13th mega vaccination camp) in Tamil Nadu, 2.43 crore vaccines have been administered to the people, he said. Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/18-passengers-who-arrived-from-overseas-test-covid-positive-tamil-nadu-health-minister-1059834.html
11-12-2021||South||Tamil Nadu CM Stalin announces Rs 1,242 crore worth of infrastructural projects||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin on Saturday announced Rs 1,242 crore worth of infrastructure schemes for Salem district, including underground drainage system, amenities for additional drinking water supply, a flyover and a textile park. Inaugurating several completed projects, distributing welfare assistance to beneficiaries and laying foundation stone for new initiatives, all worth over Rs 261 crore, Stalin said he would visit the district again and again and continue to monitor all the initiatives. Two State-wide schemes, 'Nammakku Naame Thittam (NNT),' and 'Nagarpura Velai Vaippu Thittam (NVVT)," were rolled out here by him. The announcement on initiatives at an estimated cost of over Rs 1,000 crore includes underground sewerage system in Salem Corporation areas that do not have the facility at a cost of Rs 530 crore and spread over about 520 kilometres. At a cost of Rs 158 crore, a programme would be taken up for ensuring uninterrupted supply of drinking water here, including work for additional drinking water supply, Stalin said in his address at a State event held at Seelanayakkanpatti here. Development of lakes, a rail-over-bridge at Ammapettai here, a sports stadium, upgradation of roads were among the other announcements. "An integrated textile park will soon come up in Salem for industrial growth and for creating more job opportunities. A software park will also be set up at Karupur. This is the first phase, a beginning and many more schemes are set to come up in a phased manner." Further, the Chief Minister, in an indirect reference to the previous AIADMK regime, said, "There was a government, I do not like to talk politics and there is no necessity for it." Stalin reiterated that his government worked for the welfare of all sections of the people across the State irrespective of whether they voted 'for us' (the DMK) or not. Also, there is absolutely no discrimination, be it on the basis of a district or a particular industry. The aim is uniform growth across the State and several schemes were being implemented in all the districts, he said and listed projects implemented here by the previous regimes led by his party, including the Salem Steel Plant. Salem is the home district of former Chief Minister K Palaniswami and the western region of Tamil Nadu is seen as the stronghold of the main opposition party, the AIADMK. Additional school, hospital buildings, small bridges and check dams were among the completed projects that were inaugurated. Housing scheme for medical officers (Edapadi Taluk), office-cum-residential complex for revenue department (Peddanaikanpalayam), over a lakh saplings-planting initiative under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act scheme were among the projects for which a foundation stone was laid. Welfare assistance for beneficiaries include allotment of 37 tenements under the urban livelihood mission, Rs 3.34 lakh worth of assistance to 62 people by the backward classes and minorities welfare department, and an order for a Rs 2.88-crore grant for entrepreneurial initiatives by educated youth. The NNT is a scheme revived by the government, first introduced during the 1996-2001 DMK regime, and is now implemented at a cost of Rs 300 crore across the State. This initiative is aimed at implementation of a slew of projects, including those for building and upgrading civic infrastructure and rejuvenation of water bodies, all with community participation. The NVVT is aimed at creating job opportunities for the urban poor and implemented across the State at an estimated cost of Rs 100 crore. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-cm-stalin-announces-rs-1242-crore-worth-of-infrastructural-projects-1059851.html
11-12-2021||South||Chandrababu Naidu diluted special category status demand, says Andhra Pradesh minister||Andhra Pradesh's Agriculture Minister Kurasala Kannababu on Saturday said it was N. Chandrababu Naidu who diluted the demand for Special Category Status (SCS) for the state by agreeing to a special package. He said Naidu has no moral right to speak on the promises made at the time of bifurcation of the state. YSR Congress Party leader said that Chandrababu Naidu who is now targeting the state government over SCS, had indeed welcomed the financial package for the state, which was announced by the Centre and had even thanked the Central government by passing a resolution in the state Assembly. He slammed the previous TDP government for mortgaging SCS for Andhra Pradesh in exchange for a special package that solely benefitted Naidu and his 'benamis'. He said that the state lost its privileges because of Naidu and the government is now forced to plead for special status. Recalling that it was YS Jagan Mohan Reddy, who made the YSRCP MPs resign and protest for SCS, he said Chandrababu Naidu did not take such a step. He alleged that Chandrababu had pocketed the announced special package and looted public money. He questioned Naidu why he maintained silence in the past and now making allegations against the chief minister. Kannababu said that Amaravati is an asset for Chandrababu and his benamis, which is worth over Rs 2,00,000 crore and he has been inciting people of that region to protect their 'ill-gotten' properties. He said that the entire state was mortgaged by Chandrababu only to safeguard his 30,000 acres in Amaravati. He said that Naidu will not agree even if the government wants to set up a single capital somewhere other than Amaravati. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/chandrababu-naidu-diluted-special-category-status-demand-says-andhra-pradesh-minister-1059875.html
11-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Online classes: '70% kids addicted to mobiles'||Online classes that became the new normal during the pandemic have had unintended consequences on kids, with a new report flagging severe addiction among students to gadgets. A state-wide study conducted by the Karnataka Child Rights Trust Observatory (KCRO) on children during the pandemic found that a whopping 70% of kids are addicted to mobile-phones for gaming, songs, films and chatting. The report, which was released on Friday, sought immediate counselling for such kids, even as it highlighted the stark digital divide as many families couldn’t afford smartphones for their children. The KCRO, a network of Child Rights NGOs, visited 20 districts and interacted with hundreds of stakeholders to understand the condition of kids — their health, nutrition and education — during the Covid-19 pandemic. According to the report, only 30% of kids had facilities to access online classes while 70% of them were addicted to mobiles for accessing games, films, songs, chatting etc. “These children require counselling at the earliest to wean them out of this,” the report said. “The kids from 1st standard to 4th standard missed out on the schooling experience and forgotten what they had learnt in the past.” The report also pointed out that many families could not afford to buy smartphones for online classes, which meant that such kids missed classes and ended up working. “In many districts, parents could not afford smartphones for every kid. Due to this, many stayed away from studying,” a KCRO member said. “Due to the closure of schools, a significant number of children were engaged in labour, mostly in agriculture, petty shops and cottage industries,” according to the report. “A few other families relied on free ration distributed by NGOs or by borrowing from the rich.” Another important finding by the study was the rise in the number of child marriages. “The adolescent focus groups said that there has been a clear rise in the number of child marriages in the districts of Bagalkot, Mandya, Kalaburagi, Bengaluru Rural and Chikkaballapura due to Covid-19 fear,” the report stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/online-classes-70-kids-addicted-to-mobiles-1059629.html
11-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Students tender apology to teacher for bullying him||A day after a video showing a five-member group of SSLC students bullying their teacher by putting a dustbin on his head during class hour went viral, they have tendered an apology to the Hindi teacher Prakash Bhoger by falling on his feet in the premises of government high school at Nallur in Channagiri taluk on Saturday. The teacher had advised students not to bring gutka packets to classrooms on December 3. But students bullied him and put a dustbin on his head. One of the students had recorded it on his cell phone. The incident came to light on Friday after it went viral on social media. Following this, mischievous students apologised to the teacher in the presence of police and parents and they also fell on the feet of the teacher. The video of students apologising to teachers has also gone viral on social networking sites.   Speaking on the occasion, Hindi teacher Prakash Bhoger said, students come to the school for learning and school is like a temple. "Teachers advising students when the latter harm sanctity of the school is quite common. But these students harassed me. I have forgiven them considering their future. Such incidents must not be repeated in the school in the future."   Six SSLC students of the C section of the school had lodged a complaint at Channagiri police station seeking suitable action. Police registered a case in this regard.   Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/students-tender-apology-to-teacher-for-bullying-him-1059831.html
11-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Govt gives go-ahead to recruit 15,000 school teachers||The Basavaraj Bommai government has given approval for recruiting 15,000 teachers at the state-run schools. This includes 10,000 graduate teachers for grades 6 to 8, and 5,000 teachers for Kalyana Karnataka region. An official notification for the recruitment will be issued soon, said Primary and Secondary Education Minister B C Nagesh. Currently, the state government schools are functioning with 23,000 guest teachers. The government has also permitted to hire 4,000 more guest teachers to overcome the shortage.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/govt-gives-go-ahead-to-recruit-15000-school-teachers-1059867.html
11-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Government files: Always in inertia and the great white hope called e-office||Pending files are a perennial administrative problem for any government. And, much like his predecessors, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has assured to take up a ‘file clearance drive’ even as several hundred files are pending in major departments at any point of time. While there are complaints that such pendency affects citizens in terms of service delivery and adds to administrative lethargy, various factors are to blame for such a delay. The government argues that technology interventions, such as the e-office system on which there are at least four lakh files, are addressing issues with file clearance so that approvals are granted on time for the benefit of the public. Pendencies not only cast a shadow on the efficiency of government machinery, but also lead to suspicions of widespread corruption. Officials, however, maintain that there are several factors responsible for the delay in clearing files as most of the pending files are kept in abeyance for legal reasons. Among various government departments, revenue and urban development have the most number of pending files. Officials from various departments explain how political pressure to clear some files adds to the pile up.  “There are cases where local MLAs or MPs force officials to put up files to convert gomala land for other purposes, say as a playground for a gram panchayat. Even though local authorities realise that these files cannot be cleared at any level due to the restrictions for converting such land, they have no choice but to send a proposal,” says a senior officer requesting anonymity.  Another official cites the example of applications to purchase agricultural land. “Despite government regulations that only those with an annual income of Rs 2 lakh or less can buy agricultural land, there are hundreds of applications by those who exceed the income limit. Until the government amends the Land Reforms Act and increases the income limit to 25 lakh, these files cannot be disposed of,” another official says.  One more reason is complaints filed against any process initiated by various departments. If anyone files a complaint against, say a tender floated by a department, bureaucrats sit on it contributing to the pendency, the official adds. “We all know the consequences faced by officials who take stern and bold decisions based on existing rules. They are relegated to the sidelines.” Movement of files along various levels of bureaucratic machinery is also the reason for pendency, a fact highlighted in a report submitted by the Karnataka Administrative Reforms Commission-2 (KARC-2). In any government department, files have to move 6-7 levels - from junior assistant to section officer to under secretary and so on. In a few cases, various clarifications are sought from departments related to a project or proposal, adding to the delay. Former chief secretary T M Vijay Bhaskar, who heads KARC-2, says adopting e-office system from district level offices right up to the secretariat will help address the issue. “All required documents and attachments related to a file can be accessed in one go under e-office,” he says. Another recommendation to prevent the slow movement of files is delegation of more powers to deputy commissioners. “At the state level, too, the number of levels for file movement can be cut down,” Bhaskar adds. Chief secretary P Ravikumar told DH that files are kept pending only if there are court cases and disciplinary measures or if forest clearances are awaited. “With e-office, we are clearing files at a faster pace and pendency has reduced,” he says.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/government-files-always-in-inertia-and-the-great-white-hope-called-e-office-1059868.html
11-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||ULB Polls: Woman is not a category but a gender, says High Court||The Karnataka High Court has held that if a ward of a municipal body is reserved for a woman candidate under two different categories in successive elections, the same does not amount to repetition of reservation. The Court observed that a ‘woman is not a category but a gender’, while dismissing a petition challenging on the ground that in 2013 elections, a ward was reserved for general (woman), while in 2021, it was assigned to BCA (woman). The petitioners are prospective candidates for the ensuing elections to ward number 19 in city municipal council (CMC) of Sira in Tumakuru district. The reservation notification in 2007 was repeated for the elections in 2013 and ward number 19 was reserved for general (woman). After rounds of litigation, a final notification dated March November 25, 2021 changed the reservation to ward number 19 from BCA to BCA (woman). The petitioners challenged this notification contending that reservation to woman category cannot be repeated. Justice M Nagaprasanna said the contention of the petitioners is unacceptable. “Woman is not a category, but a gender. Category is either ‘general’ or ‘BCA’. In the earlier elections what was reserved qua Ward No.19 was General (Woman) and now it is BCA (Woman). If woman is not a category, the categories that are reserved then and now are ‘General’ and ‘BCA (Woman)’ which are altogether different. Therefore, in my considered view, there is no repetition of reservation or violence made to the guidelines,” the court said. The court also conceded the argument advanced by the senior counsel appearing for the State Election Commission (SEC) that the elections have not been held for the last three years since 2018 when the term of the elected body was over. He further submitted that the calendar of events were notified on November 29, 2021 and a division bench of the high court has directed that elections to all local bodies should be concluded before December 30, 2021. “The elections being the bulwark of democracy cannot be stifled or scuttled by the processes of this nature and interpretation that is contrary to law,” the court said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ulb-polls-woman-is-not-a-category-but-a-gender-says-high-court-1059869.html
11-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Won’t force school kids to eat eggs, says Karnataka Education Minister||Primary and Secondary Education Minister B C Nagesh clarified on Saturday that school students would not be forced to consume eggs in schools. As per experts' suggestions, the government has decided to distribute eggs to prevent malnutrition among schoolchildren, he said. Speaking to reporters here, he said, "Along with eggs, banana is being distributed to the students. They will not be forced to consume any food during midday meals. The union government has sent a report, citing malnutrition among students, in several districts of the state. There is a need to provide nutritious food". Along with eggs and bananas, some more foods have been proposed to be distributed. If experts approve, these foods will be included in the list and given to children in future. Eggs and bananas will be distributed for the good health of children, the minister said. "Several gram panchayats have come forward to open panchayat public schools. If there is no opposition from the local residents, steps will be taken to open schools at the panchayat level from the next academic year," Nagesh said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/won-t-force-school-kids-to-eat-eggs-says-karnataka-education-minister-1059873.html
11-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||A thousand 'cuts': The great Karnataka corruption story||Last month, Karnataka watched in awe as Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) sleuths pulled cash out of a PVC pipe in the house of a junior engineer in the Public Works Department in Kalaburagi. Public money down the drain, indeed. But something more unprecedented has hit the BJP government in the face. The Karnataka State Contractors Association, a body with one lakh members, has approached Prime Minister Narendra Modi with a serious complaint: They say they are forced to pay kickbacks that are now as high as 40% of the project cost — the money goes to various people, including ministers — in order to carry out civic works. Contractors also approached Governor Thaawarchand Gehlot with their complaint.  The letter to the PM was written on July 6, 2021, when B S Yediyurappa was the chief minister. Incumbent Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai was then the home minister.  Contractors approaching the PM is unprecedented, given that they themselves have been complicit in Karnataka’s corruption story — a story in which even the construction of the Vidhana Soudha was not spared from graft charges. And remember the fabled ‘contractor-politician’ nexus? But the rot runs so deep now that contractors are fed up. Sample this back-of-the-envelope example: A project costs Rs 100. If a contractor pays Rs 40, he is left with just Rs 60.That explains why public infrastructure projects, in many cases, have quality issues: New roads dotted with potholes or bridges that crack. “Ultimately, when citizens travel on a poorly-laid road, they curse the contractors,” says D Kempanna, president of the Contractors Association. Come January, about one lakh contractors across the state will gather to protest against corruption in the state government. The irony is that it was Modi, touring Karnataka during the 2018 Assembly elections, who famously dubbed the then Siddaramaiah-led Congress government as “10% Sarkar’’ and “Seedharupaiyya Sarkar”.  That political funding is done through public works is an open secret. But how did 10% become 40%? And what forced the contractors to call it out? “The commission system has gone out of control over the last three years,” Kempanna says. “While earlier it was 2% or 5%, it gradually increased to 10% and has now touched 40%. We had written several letters to the government, bringing the problem to their notice. No one responded to us, forcing us to write to the PM himself.” In their letter to the PM, contractors explain how they have to pay off ministers and officials at various levels. Commission at every stage  A minimum of 5% is paid to ministers before approval of tender and issue of work order; 5% to local elected representatives for building projects and 10% for road works; 25-30% to elected representatives before the work begins and another 5-6% after completion of works to obtain the Letter of Credit (LOC) for their bills to be cleared. Several contractors that DH spoke to laid out the problem thus: The irregularities begin at the time of tender itself. The most conventional corruption mechanism is to predetermine the winner of a tender bid.  Even though the lowest bidder has to get the project, the government tweaks rules to accommodate contractors selected by the powers-that-be even before the tender process.  For instance, if the prerequisite is that a contractor needs experience of having executed a Rs 5 crore project to bag a Rs 10 crore project, this clause itself is changed to give the tender to a higher bidder. Also, tenders are bagged by unregistered contractors from outside the state, who are close aides of ministers and other elected representatives. Another ploy is to convert projects into packages, clubbing multiple components and escalating the cost of the project. This means that only bigger contractors who can afford bigger kickbacks bag the projects. Also, while bigger contractors get bills cleared even before they complete the projects, the smaller ones have to wait 2-3 years. This system eliminates opportunities for local, registered contractors. The Contractors’ Association includes contractors dealing with mid-sized projects up to Rs 10 crore, many of whom take personal loans to pay kickbacks. According to the association, the government owes them Rs 22,000 crore so far, of which Rs 5,000 crore is owed just to the public works department (PWD). If a contractor manages to bag a project, the commission begins at the time of awarding the tender itself, followed by commission to be paid to ministers or MLAs during “Bhoomi Pooja” or laying the foundation stone. “Without commission, they will not turn up for Bhoomi Pooja. They charge 10% for roads, 5% for buildings and up to 25% for minor irrigation projects,” association vice-president R Manjunath says. The commission system persists at each level with officials of various ranks, until the contractors have to get their bills settled by securing the LOC.   One standing example of the government subtly circumventing norms is the Vikas Soudha, next to Vidhana Soudha, constructed in the early 2000s.  According to former Additional Chief Secretary V Balasubramanian, the initial estimate for its construction of Vikas Soudha was Rs 100 crore. Even though the lowest bidder had quoted Rs 76 crore, the government gave the tender to a contractor who had bid Rs 96 crore. “This bidder was then asked to lower his tender to Rs 76 crore, which he did. However, he delayed the project for two years, escalating the cost to Rs 150 crore,” he narrates. Modus operandi The modus operandi on how the money is collected is different. For LOCs, there are middlemen who strike the deals. For tenders and granting of funds, one has to directly deal with the MLAs or ministers. Further, there are a few instances where money is channelled through petrol bunks. “There are middlemen in the petrol bunks,” says one contractor. “Once the money is deposited there, the elected representatives send word to sanction the works to the contractor.” However, most contractors said elected representatives have become “brazen like never before” and insist on direct cash payments in their offices. The “commission” is used to fund elections.  “In our system, the minister is the government,” a senior IAS officer explains. “The problem here is, a file that a deputy secretary can clear is summoned by the minister. Ministers insist on getting the files pertaining to payment of bills. They sit on the file. Contractors are contacted. Money is demanded. The file is cleared only if the money is paid. And, if we as officials resist, then our functional relationship gets affected.”  As far as officials are concerned, engineers want their cut to recover their investment. “The Transfer industry is big in Karnataka. Engineers in charge of certifying bills would have invested to come to that post. So, they have a cut,” the officer says.   The present BJP government is no stranger to allegations of corruption. In August this year, the High Court issued notices to Yediyurappa, his son B Y Vijayendra among others, in a case pertaining to kickbacks from contractors for a BDA housing project.  In October, I-T raids on the house of one Umesh, who is said to be Yediyurappa’s aide, revealed several tender documents pertaining to irrigation projects and payments made for these tenders. The I-T officials are looking into the involvement of black money in these contracts.  In November, North Karnataka Civil Contractors Association president Subhash Patil said they wrote to Bommai that corruption had “tripled” during the BJP regime, compared with previous governments. Last year, the government also faced heat during the Covid-19 peak for alleged misappropriation of money in the purchase of healthcare equipment. According to government officials, the only solution is to streamline the existing process. “No minister should sit on a file for more than six days. We also need systematic benchmarking with international and national standards for cost estimation of projects. These simple measures can fix the problem,” the IAS officer quoted earlier says.  Balasubramanian says the contractors are equally to be blamed. “Now that the commission has gone up and their share has come down, it has irked them,” he says.  What’s next? Bommai has ordered a probe under Chief Secretary P Ravi Kumar, who has written to heads of departments to pull out files in the wake of the contractors’ complaint. “Departments are looking into all the contracts and the payments made,” Kumar says, adding that there is no deadline to complete the inquiry.  Also, the Bommai administration has decided to constitute a committee that will review government tenders for projects costing Rs 50 crore or more. This will prevent exaggeration and escalation of project costs. The committee will be headed by a retired High Court judge. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/a-thousand-cuts-the-great-karnataka-corruption-story-1059889.html
11-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||'MLAs control the BBMP's funds'||Until 2015, the state government’s financial aid to Bengaluru covered only the large infrastructure projects such as construction of flyovers, TenderSURE, Cauvery Water Supply Scheme among others.  But two years into Siddaramaiah’s tenure as chief minister saw the city receive a big bonanza. The government grants also covered works such as developing ward roads, which were usually funded by the BBMP using its own revenue sources.  The government’s allocation to Bengaluru went up dramatically, from Rs 2,300 crore in 2016-17 to Rs 6,300 crore in 2017-18.  When H D Kumaraswamy was the chief minister, the allocation increased to Rs 8,100 crore. “This resulted in MLAs taking (a) keen interest in city affairs,” a senior BBMP official said.  Such a massive influx of grants ensured that MLAs — who weren’t active in city affairs until then — took full control of the government-funded programmes. Some contractors and officials say that the MLAs do not agree to lay the foundation stone for a project if they are not kept in good humour.  An informal conversation with multiple sources revealed that many MLAs in the city have their favourite contractors.  “Earlier what the MLAs received from contractors was a nominal share. Now that many contractors are in the fray, each competes to part with a bigger pie to bag the work. Some give cash upfront. While a few MLAs are happy with such deals, many others are not,” an MLA elected from the city said.  In turn, all that the officials are expected to do is draft tender conditions in a way that kills competition. This is done by rigging conditions like financial turnover and past experience. In many cases, the authorities already know who will emerge as the lowest bidder much before the tender documents are advertised.  An analysis conducted by Bengaluru NavaNirmana Party (BNP) found that the BBMP — over the last five years — awarded about 50% of the 28,314 works to Karnataka Rural Infrastructure Development Ltd (KRIDL) without floating tenders. The BBMP stopped allotting works to KRIDL, known for executing projects poorly, only after a High Court directive. If a project is honestly implemented, just 67% of the overall cost of the project goes into work.  For instance, for a project that costs Rs 100 crore, about 12% goes towards GST and 1% each for workers’ cess and royalty.  An 8.6% profit and another 8.6% overhead cost of contractors is already incorporated in the schedule of rates (SR) fixed by the government for almost all goods and services. About 1% of the project cost goes towards the preparation of detailed project report and project management consultancy.  Other than these costs, a considerable percentage of the project cost goes into unaccounted factors. Multiple sources said the local MLA — if the project is funded by the government — gets 3% to 13% from the contractor.  The service provider is also expected to provide a total of 5% when the file, be it at the time of tender approval or release of payments, moves from one table to another. And those on the receiving end range from first divisional clerks to IAS officers.  The end result is that the contractor ends up executing shoddy work.  Political leadership Some are of the view that the present situation can only change if the political leadership decides to do so. “The charges of the contractors association are quite serious. The leaders at the top should drive change. No matter what the rules are, a lot depends on how one makes the system work. Ultimately, it is human behaviour that counts,” A Ravindra, retired chief secretary, said.  He also pointed out that there is a weak vigilance mechanism in the state. “There is a need to strengthen the Lokayukta. Not much can be expected from the Anti Corruption Bureau (ACB) as it falls under the Chief Minister.” Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/mlas-control-the-bbmps-funds-1059892.html
11-12-2021||West||Prohibitory orders imposed in Mumbai over Omicron scare, law and order threat||The police on Friday imposed section 144 of Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) within Mumbai commissionerate limits prohibiting rallies and protest marches involving people and vehicles over the next two days, an official said. The order, issued by Deputy Commissioner of Police (Operations), will be in force for 48 hours on Saturday and Sunday, he said. "It has been issued to prevent danger to human life from the new Omicron variant of Covid-19 as well as a threat to the law and order situation against the backdrop of violence that took place in Amravati, Malegaon and Nanded," he said. Violators will be punished under section 188 of the Indian Penal Code and other legal provisions, the ordered stated.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/prohibitory-orders-imposed-in-mumbai-over-omicron-scare-law-and-order-threat-1059667.html
11-12-2021||West||TMC announces Rs 5,000 per month cash transfer scheme for women in Goa ahead of Assembly polls||The Trinamool Congress (TMC) on Saturday announced to roll out a direct cash transfer scheme for women in Goa if it is voted to power in the state after the Assembly polls due in February next year. Under the scheme titled Griha Laxmi, Rs 5,000 would be transferred to a woman of every household per month as guaranteed income support to counter inflation once the party comes to power, TMC leader Mahua Moitra said. The party would soon start distributing cards for the scheme, she said, adding that these cards carrying unique identification numbers would become operational once the TMC forms a government in Goa. The Mamata Banerjee-led party has announced that it would be contesting all 40 seats in state. "The women from 3.5 lakh households in the state would be covered under the Griha Laxmi scheme as it will also do away with the maximum income ceiling, which is mandated in the current Griha Aadhar scheme of the BJP government in the state," Moitra, who is TMC's Goa in-charge, said. She said that the current scheme of the BJP government in Goa provides only Rs 1,500 per month to women and it covers only 1.5 lakh households due to the income ceiling. "The actual implementation of Griha Aadhar scheme requires Rs 270 crore annually, but the Goa government has earmarked only Rs 140 crore annually because of which many people are not able to get the benefit," the TMC parliamentarian said. The projected expenditure for the TMC's scheme would be six to eight per cent of the total budget of Goa, she said. "Latest studies have revealed that Covid-19 has shrunk the country's economy, which needs to be revived," Moitra added. Earlier, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), which will also contest the Goa polls, had announced that it would increase the remuneration provided to women in the coastal state under the state-sponsored scheme and also promised financial assistance to women not covered under it, if it is voted to power. During his recent visit to the state, AAP's national convener Arvind Kejriwal had said if his party comes to power in Goa, then the existing remuneration of Rs 1,500 provided to women under the Griha Aadhar scheme would be increased to Rs 2,500, while other women aged 18 and above, who are not covered under the scheme, would be paid Rs 1,000 per month. On Friday, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who was on a day long visit to Goa, had promised 30 per cent quota in jobs for women in Goa if her party came to power in the state. She had claimed that the ruling BJP's ideology was "anti-women", and asked people to check the track-record of the new parties coming from "outside" the state.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/tmc-announces-rs-5000-per-month-cash-transfer-scheme-for-women-in-goa-ahead-of-assembly-polls-1059744.html
11-12-2021||West||NDA holds wreath-laying ceremony in memory of General Bipin Rawat||A wreath-laying ceremony was held at the National Defence Academy (NDA) here on Saturday in memory of Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat, Brigadier Lakhbinder Singh Lidder and Wing Commander Prithvi Singh Chauhan. Air Marshal Sanjeev Kapoor, Commandant, NDA paid homage to the brave hearts, who lost their lives in a helicopter crash at Coonoor in Tamil Nadu on Wednesday. Gen Rawat was an alumnus of the 53rd NDA Course, Charlie Squadron and served the nation as the 27th Chief of the Army Staff and rose to become the country's first Chief of Defence Staff in January 2020. The wreath-laying ceremony was held at the Hut of Remembrance at the NDA. The 'Hut of Remembrance' book read, “Rarely a General goes with his boots on. General Rawat etched his name in the Hut of Remembrance at NDA as the senior-most soldier to die in the line of duty. That's his glory.” Brigadier Lakhbinder Singh Lidder was an alumnus of the 77th NDA Course, India Squadron. The officer was approved for the next rank of Major General and was due to take over a division. He was carrying out duties of the Defence Assistant to the Chief of Defence Staff. Wing Commander Prithvi Singh Chauhan was an alumnus of the 100th NDA Course, Foxtrot Squadron. He was Commanding Officer of the 109 Helicopter Unit and was flying the MI-17 helicopter of the Chief of Defence Staff during the ill-fated accident. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/nda-holds-wreath-laying-ceremony-in-memory-of-general-bipin-rawat-1059777.html
11-12-2021||West||Pune: 1.5-year-old Omicron patient discharged after recovery; 3-year-old boy asymptomatic||A one-and-a-half-year-old girl, who had tested positive for the Omicron variant of coronavirus in Pimpri Chinchwad area of Pune district of Maharashtra recently, has been discharged from hospital after recovering from the infection, while a three-year-old boy, who was also found infected with the new strain in the area, is asymptomatic and keeping well, health officials said on Saturday. The three-year-old boy is among the four new patients in Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) area. The three others are all adults - two males and one female. They are all contacts of the Indian origin woman and her two daughters from Nigeria, who were earlier found infected with the Omicron variant on their arrival here. The woman from Nigeria had come to meet her brother in Pimpri Chinchwad. However, apart from the woman and her two daughters, her brother, his two daughters, including the one-and-a-half-year-old, had tested positive for the Omicron strain, officials said. "Out of the six Omicron patients found earlier, four patients, including the one-and-a-half-year-old, have been discharged from the hospital after they tested negative during their repeat test," an official said. "Barring one female, who had a dry cough, all the patients, including the baby, are asymptomatic and keeping fine. The woman, who had dry cough, also tested negative in the repeat test and was given discharge along with three others. The other two females tested positive in the repeat test and that is why they are currently in hospital, but they are also keeping fine," he said. The three-year-old boy, who is among the four new patients, is asymptomatic and keeping fine at the paediatric care. The other three patients are also asymptomatic and there is no cause of worry, Dr Laxman Gophane, medical officer of PCMC, said. Meanwhile, the only Omicron patient from Pune city, who has now tested negative, was also given discharge on Friday. He had returned to Pune from Finland, officials said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pune-15-year-old-omicron-patient-discharged-after-recovery-3-year-old-boy-asymptomatic-1059796.html
11-12-2021||West||Over 1,300 passengers arrive in Maharashtra's Raigad from abroad amid Omicron threat||At least 1,349 people have travelled from foreign countries to Maharashtra's Raigad in the last eight days, and the district health department is keeping a watch on them in light of the emergence of Omicron, the new variant of coronavirus, an official said on Saturday. While the Covid-19 test reports of these travellers have come out negative, they have been advised to remain under home quarantine, district health officer Dr Sudhakar More said. Of the 1,349 travellers, 594 arrived in Panvel, 150 in Mangaon, 116 in Panvel rural, 105 in Mahad, 83 in Shrivardhan, 170 in Mhasala, 28 in Alibaug, among other parts of the district, he said. The airport authority has been regularly sharing the details of passengers with the local administration for monitoring purposes, the official added. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/over-1300-passengers-arrive-in-maharashtras-raigad-from-abroad-amid-omicron-threat-1059805.html
11-12-2021||West||CBI records statements of seven in Anil Deshmukh extortion case||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Saturday said they have recorded the statement of as many as seven persons in connection with Rs 100 crore extortion case involving former Mumbai top cop Param Bir Singh and former Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh. According to the information, the statements were recorded in Mumbai on Friday. A source said that the seven persons whose statements were recorded are from police. They were reportedly deployed for the security of Anil Deshmukh. Param Bir Singh had accused Deshmukh for missing his post. He had alleged that it was Deshmukh who was forcing him to collect Rs 100 crore every month from bars and restaurants in Mumbai. He made these allegations when he was removed from police commissioner post. Deshmukh had denied all the allegations levelled against him. There are as many as five alleged corruption and extortion cases against Singh. On May 4, he went missing to avoid probe against him. Later, he appeared before the Mumbai Crime Branch to record his statement after the Supreme Court granted him relief that he will not be arrested. The CBI had earlier given clean chit to Deshmukh but they lodged an FIR to further probe the matter. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cbi-records-statements-of-seven-in-anil-deshmukh-extortion-case-1059828.html
11-12-2021||West||SpiceJet flight makes emergency landing at Nagpur airport after medical emergency||A Gorakhpur-Mumbai flight of SpiceJet made an emergency landing at Nagpur airport in Maharashtra due to a medical emergency involving a pregnant passenger, a senior official said. Air India Airport Services Ltd's senior manager Sunil Sangole told PTI that a SpiceJet flight heading to Mumbai from Gorakhpur with 182 passengers and crew members on board made an emergency landing at the Nagpur airport at 12.32 PM after a passenger, who was three-month pregnant, had a medical emergency. The woman passenger was rushed to a private hospital by 12.42 PM. The flight flew to Mumbai at 5.17 PM. All the agencies like Nagpur ATC, Mihan India Ltd and the airport ground handling staff handled the passengers and medical emergency nicely, Sangole said. A doctor of the private hospital, who attended to the woman passenger, said she was fine now. Nearly one hour after the flight took off from Gorakhpur, she developed altered sensorium (a medical condition characterised by the inability to think clearly or concentrate), giddiness, shortness of breath, vomiting, he said. "These are the symptoms of sleeping into shock. We treated her after the flight landed with Oxygen support and other drugs. She was then treated by a gynaecologist," he said. He said the woman left the hospital at 5.20 PM with a relative who lives in Nagpur. Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/spicejet-flight-makes-emergency-landing-at-nagpur-airport-after-medical-emergency-1059838.html
11-12-2021||West||'Stray cattle menace can be resolved if cow dung finds commercial viability'||Stray cattle is a pan-India problem and can be addressed if cow dung is made commercially viable, Union Minister for Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying Parshottam Rupala said on Saturday. Rupala said that his Ministry was keenly observing an arrangement between a research organisation and a cattle shelter in Gujarat, which is examining the financial viability of the sale of value-added cow dung. "This is a pan India problem. We tried to get to the bottom of the issue and we realised how do animals become stray. Until a cow yields milk until then people keep it. But when they become non-productive, people let them loose," Rupala told reporters at a press conference in Panaji. "We are trying a new experiment through which we are trying to add value to cow dung and the product is then marketed in order to sustain non-productive animals. We are keeping watch on the Jalaram gaushala in Gujarat which has more than 10,000 animals and has signed a scientific organisation," Rupala said. The Union Minister also said that the dung was being procured from the cattle shelter at the rate of Rs 3 per kg and was processed for value addition. "If sale of dung at Rs 3 can become a broad success then we will replicate (the model) in other states along with state governments," Rupala said. Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/stray-cattle-menace-can-be-resolved-if-cow-dung-finds-commercial-viability-1059876.html
