12-12-2021||Comment||Rising intolerance||On November 28, a group of Bajrang Dal activists stormed into a church in Belur in Hassan district of Karnataka where the Sunday service was on and raised ‘Jai Shri Ram’ slogans, accusing the Christians of proselytising the people in the area. When the women in the congregation confronted the activists saying they were falsely accusing them of converting people, the mob left. A Christian congregation that had gathered in a godown-turned-church in Matiala in West Delhi for a Sunday worship service the same day was attacked by Bajrang Dal activists and the church premises vandalised. The congregation, under the aegis of Ankur Narula Ministries, was peacefully worshipping when the activists barged into the premises and attacked them. Earlier in October, Vishwa Hindu Parishad activists forced themselves into a church in Hubballi and sang bhajans squatting there. These are just a few instances of attacks on Christians which of late have been on the increase across the country, more so in Karnataka due to provocative statements by a BJP MLA and other leaders. The Karnataka government proposes to introduce an Anti-Conversion Bill in the winter session of the legislature, which Christians feel is more of an anti-Christian Bill to target the Christian community. The word going around among the majority community is that the Christian population is on the increase and further growth needs to be arrested. Fundamentalist elements of Bajrang Dal and Vishwa Hindu Parishad are known to have stormed churches and attacked worshippers during their Sunday services (not mass, as most news reports indicate, as mass is held in Catholic churches and service in Protestant churches). The fear among the majority community is ill-founded and based on falsehood. On the contrary, the percentage of the Christian population in the country has declined from 2.34% in 2001 to 2.30%, according to the 2011 census. In Karnataka, the figure stood at 1.90% in 2001 which came down to 1.87% in 2011. It was about 3% in 1947. Even if we were to presume that there have been conversions, does that make anyone less Indian than their other countrymen or any less nationalist? Christian leaders like Rajkumari Amrit Kaur, Pandita Ramabai, Madhusudan Das, K C Banerjee and several others fought alongside others for the country’s freedom. According to the data compiled by the Religious Liberty Commission of the Evangelical Fellowship of India, there were 327 incidents of violence against Christians across the country last year in which five people lost their lives, six churches were burnt down and 26 persons were subjected to social boycott, merely because they happened to hold on to their Christian faith. A maximum of 95 incidents took place in Uttar Pradesh, while Chhattisgarh accounted for 55, Jharkhand 28, Madhya Pradesh 25 and Tamil Nadu 23. In the first half of 2021, 145 incidents of violence against Christians were reported in which three were killed, 20 ostracised and 22 churches vandalised. Madhya Pradesh, with 30 incidents, figured on the top, with Uttar Pradesh accounting for 22, Karnataka 14 and Chhattisgarh 13. Although Article 25 provides for freedom to profess, practise, and propagate one’s religion, the liberty has been curtailed to the extent that even worshipping in one’s own house has become a dreaded proposition. The impunity with which fundamentalists attack churches and congregations in hordes even in the presence of the police sends out a clear message that they have the state’s backing. Speaking to a TV channel, the Archbishop of Bengaluru Rev (Dr) Peter Machado expressed his apprehension that once the anti-conversion law is passed in Karnataka, fundamentalists would feel adequately protected by the law to go about attacking churches and congregations. He opined that such a law should not be enacted lest Christians fear for their lives staying in the state. Role of the police Unfortunately, the police have played a dubious role. Instead of providing adequate security to Christians, they have been warning them not to congregate for meetings or prayers. At times, they have joined fringe elements and silently watched when the churches and congregations were attacked. How can they ask any community not to practise their religion? A false narrative has been propagated across the country that Christians forcibly convert people. Had the Christians been converting, their population would not have dwindled. Under the pretext of conversion, pastors and church leaders are being incarcerated. To harass Christians, one has to merely file a false complaint with the police and the ordeal begins. How is one to prove that he has not forced anyone to convert while the complainants spew blatant lies? In compliance with an order by a Karnataka Legislative Committee to conduct a survey, the tahsildar of Hosadurga taluk in Chitradurga district ordered an investigation in two villages and found that there was not a single instance of forced conversion. All Christian families confirmed that they had converted of their own volition and they attributed their wellbeing to the new religion adopted by them. Fully convinced that the allegations of conversion were fallacious, the tahsildar ended any further investigations into the matter and sent a report to the Committee. The police need to be reminded that they are to protect every citizen by enforcing the law and not the diktats of political bosses or fringe elements. The Gurugram police recently set a befitting example by deploying hundreds of policemen around the places where Muslims were offering their Friday namaz when certain elements of Bharat Mata Vahini attempted to disrupt it. They arrested a leader and sent him to judicial custody while 10 others were detained and later let off. An example that needs to be emulated by other police forces. (The writer is retired IGP, CRPF) Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/rising-intolerance-1060175.html
12-12-2021||First Edit||BBMP tenders must be floated||Over the years, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has gained notoriety for awarding contracts on a piecemeal basis, that is, breaking large projects into small bits in order to avoid calling for tenders so that works can be granted to certain favourite contractors.  Now, close on the heels of Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai ordering an audit into the spending of Rs 20,000 crore on the upkeep of Bengaluru’s virtually non-existent roads, BBMP has sought government exemption from floating tenders for works worth Rs 1,710 crore. The state had adopted the Karnataka Transparency in Public Procurement (KTPP) Act in 2000, to prevent irregularities in the procurement of goods and services and to streamline the tendering process. BBMP is obviously seeking to misuse Section 4 (a) which provides for an exemption from the Act “during periods of natural calamity or emergency declared by the government”.  The break-up of the works is as follows: road repair (Rs 600 crore), stormwater drain (Rs 411.33 crore), infrastructure (Rs 100 crore), solid waste management (Rs 50 crore)  and control rooms Rs 10 crore). Most roads were anyway in pathetic condition and in urgent need of repairs for long, even before the recent rains and the BBMP had enough and more time to call for tenders. While the government has not declared a natural calamity or an emergency following the rains, there are provisions under the Act to call for short-term tenders to meet certain exigencies. Thus, invoking Section 4 (a) is highly suspicious and gives rise to serious doubts that the intentions are not honourable. The recent letter to the Prime Minister by the Karnataka State Contractors’ Association that a bribe of up to 40% has to be paid for obtaining projects and getting the bills cleared has further strengthened such worries. Last month, the BBMP was accused of spending Rs 35.50 crore for white-topping just one kilometre of the road without calling for tenders. The government itself needs to be blamed for repeatedly transgressing the letter and spirit of the Act, thereby encouraging other bodies to follow suit. In July this year, the then Yediyurappa government had pushed through a controversial amendment to the Act which exempted the Karnataka Rural Infrastructure Development Corporation from calling for tenders for works up to Rs 2 crore, despite objections from the Advocate General, law and finance departments and anti-graft activities. If Bommai is really serious about stemming the rot in BBMP, he should refuse the exemption sought and direct it to call for tenders. Such exemptions on frivolous grounds defeat the very purpose of the KTPP Act and encourage opaqueness instead of transparency, thereby breeding corruption. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/bbmp-tenders-must-be-floated-1060172.html
12-12-2021||In Perspective||Farm laws needed to fill a void||Following Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement of the repeal of the three contentious farm laws on November 19, protesting farmers lost no time in coming up with a new charter of demands. The most potent of these is a legal guarantee for the minimum support price (MSP). Even as Modi proposed to set up a committee to recommend how MSP can be made more effective, farmers made it clear that they want nothing less than a Central law guaranteeing MSP.  To reinforce their demand, the farmers’ leaders also cited a report of a committee of chief ministers - about a decade ago - under Modi (then CM of Gujarat) which recommended ‘legal backing for MSP’. The million-dollar question is: Is the demand justified?  To assess it, we need to know the root cause behind an overarching concern of farmers, especially small farmers who constitute 86% of the total. The “Situation Assessment of Agricultural Households and Land and Livestock Holdings of Households in Rural India”, SAS in short, released by the National Statistical Office (NSO), covering the period July 2018 to June 2019, reveals widespread dissatisfaction among farmers with the price realised from the sale of their produce. Their highest dissatisfaction is with sales in the Agricultural Produce Market Committee mandi (marketplace notified under the state APMC Act) followed by sales in ‘private local market’. Nearly 83% of farmers sell their produce in these two outlets. The low price from sale in APMC has to do with state laws under which farmers can sell their produce only in ‘designated’ mandis. In the mandi, arthiyas – local term for commission agents (they arrange for auction and delivery of the produce) – and the licensed trader/buyer rule the roost. The duo ensures that the farmer gets a low price besides face other adversities viz. rejections, weighing less, delayed payment, etc. Levies such as market fee, arthiyas’ commission, rural development cess (RDC) etc further add to their woes.  As for sales in private local markets, though legally barred, small farmers who normally don’t have access to the APMC, are forced to sell to the very traders who dominate the mandi, at throwaway prices. The latter have the blessings of corrupt bureaucrats and politicians and hence, won’t face any action for violating the law. In short, under the existing state APMC laws, farmers face a raw deal. There can be two ways to address it. First, make a law to ensure that any purchase from the farmers will be done only at MSP. Second, open up the market allowing farmers to sell in other outlets. In the past, states had made some moves on the second. Twenty states have allowed contract farming; 23 states ‘direct purchase’ from farmers; 22 states/UTs allowed private wholesale markets while 15 have excluded fruits and vegetables from the APMC Act. But these are piecemeal efforts and are far from giving unfettered access, especially to small farmers who account for 86% of the total.  The three central laws fill the existing void as these legitimise sales on all non-APMC platforms without disturbing APMC mandis. These opened up unlimited opportunities for farmers to sell their produce, thereby helping them get higher prices, which can even exceed MSP depending on the demand-supply scenario. But thanks to the Supreme Court staying their implementation in January 2021 (the laws were enacted in September 2020), hardly any time was given to see their impact. Now, these have been scrapped. The first option is flawed. The government can’t force a private person to pay a certain price to the farmer. It won’t pass judicial scrutiny. Even so, given the risk of going to jail (inevitable if the price paid is less than MSP) which trader will dare buy? Yet, giving a legal guarantee means that the Government of India will have to buy all the quantities farmers offer to sell. At present, the Centre notifies MSP for 23 farm items. The Food Corporation of India (FCI) and other state agencies buy paddy and wheat (only 30% of production), besides a few other items such as coarse cereals and pulses where output bought is minuscule. These purchases are meant for feeding the beneficiaries/poor under the National Food Security Act (NFSA).  For these limited operations, the food subsidy bill is unsustainable (over Rs 5 lakh crore for 2020-21) even as storage facilities are overstretched leading to wastage. If the government were to buy (at MSP) all the output of 23 crops, this will increase subsidy payout manifold. The ball won’t stop here. There are 265 crops and the MSP guarantee will have to be given to farmers producing all these crops. This is the surest invitation to economic bankruptcy. Besides, India will turn into a blatant violator of its commitment under the WTO. Modi should not even touch it with a pole. Instead, he should try to convince farmers that the only way they can get a higher price is to give them more options to sell. Resurrecting the three new farm laws is the way forward. (The writer is a policy analyst) Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/farm-laws-needed-to-fill-a-void-1060173.html
12-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mangaluru: Four arrested for misbehaving with two students in bus||Four among a group of men who allegedly had misbehaved with students from different faiths travelling in a bus from Mangaluru on Friday were arrested by city police on Saturday. The arrested men were identified as Prakash, Raghavendra, Ranjith and Pawan. Meanwhile, a video clip showing five to six men questioning and creating an embarrassing situation for students in a public place had gone viral on social media. Mangaluru Commissioner of Police N Shashi Kumar said four men had been arrested so far. The students from a private college had boarded a bus plying to Udupi. The young girl hailed from Udupi and the boy from Shivamogga. When they were sitting inside the bus, five to six men stormed inside the bus and demanded their identity cards and address details. The men had also allegedly abused them. As soon as the video went public, Mangaluru South police registered a suo motu case later on Friday night and informed the family members of students. “We will be able to get full details about the incident once the students return to Mangaluru,” the Commissioner said. The men arrested were working in the bus and the police are checking their background. The police have booked cases under sections 143 (unlawful assembly), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 153 (provocation), 153 (A) (Promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion), 504 (intentionally insults, and thereby gives provocation), 506 (criminal intimidation) of IPC. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mangaluru-four-arrested-for-misbehaving-with-two-students-in-bus-1059985.html
12-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Belagavi church priest escapes sword attack by a whisker||In a shocking incident, an unknown person attempted to attack a church priest with a sword in Belagavi district of Karnataka, police said, adding that they have launched an investigation to hunt down the miscreant. Father Francis of Saint Joseph's 'The Worker Church' was attacked on Saturday evening and is said to be out of danger. The police said the incident took place at the residence of Father Francis, where the miscreant had been hiding. The attacker tried to slash Father Francis with his sword as soon as he (Father) came out of the house to check on a dog that was barking continuously. Father Francis informed the police that a man wielding a sword jumped from the compound wall and entered the first floor of the residence behind the church at about 3.15 pm. He was hiding in a room and attempted to assault the priest. However, the priest escaped by a whisker. Later, the culprit managed to flee by jumping over the wall. His entry and exit have been caught by the CCTV. The APMC police visited the spot. Further investigation is under way. Increase in church-related incidents The protesters claimed that as many as 200 people, including women and children from rural backgrounds, were put up in the building on the pretext of mass prayer for the purpose of religious conversion. (With inputs from DHNS and IANS) Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/belagavi-church-priest-escapes-sword-attack-by-a-whisker-1059990.html
12-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||JD(S) ex-MLA N H Konaraddi set to join Congress on Dec 14||JD(S) former MLA from Navalgund and National General Secretary N H Konaraddi is all set to join Congress, in the presence of the leader of opposition in Assembly Siddaramaiah and KPCC president D K Shivakumar, in Belagavi on December 14. Konaraddi is the latest among the series of JD(S) leaders who have jumped the ‘sinking ship’ of the JD(S) party. His departure will further weaken the JD(S) in the Kittur-Karnataka region. Confirming his joining to Congress, Konaraddi informed DH that the prevailing political situation has made it necessary for him to join Congress. “I have huge respect for JD(S) Supremo H D Deve Gowda and former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy. But in the changing political scenario this move has become necessary,” he said. Konaraddi, who has contested the Navalgund assembly constituency thrice from the JD(S) ticket, had managed to win the seat once in 2013 thanks to B S Yediyurappa’s rebel party KJP. And with now Shankar Patil Munenkoppa, who regained the Navalgund seat in 2018, becoming district in-charge minister it has become that much more difficult for Konaraddi to win the seat on JD(S) ticket. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/jds-ex-mla-n-h-konaraddi-set-to-join-congress-on-dec-14-1060130.html
12-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Hubballi-Dharwad, Mysuru in 2nd phase of mental health survey||The Phase-II of the National Mental Health survey covering six megacities, including Bengaluru and Hyderabad will begin in February 2022. Two Tier-II cities in Karnataka will also covered in the exercise. According to the National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences (Nimhans) 21,600 individuals will be interviewed for the survey. As many as 3,600 participants each in Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru, Chennai, Hyderabad, Kolkata and Tier-II cities - Hubballi-Dharwad and Mysuru in Karnataka - will be covered. The last time a Karnataka district was part of a National Mental Health Survey was in 2015 when the pilot study was conducted in Kolar district. That survey concluded that at any given point of time 13.1% of Indians in urban metros, 9.3% in urban non-metros, and 9.2% in rural areas, suffer from one or more mental disorders. In the current survey, apart from adults, 13- to 18-year-old adolescents will also be covered. “The survey will cover a wide range of conditions like depression, anxiety, schizophrenia, and bipolar disorders, among others by having individuals answer several questionnaires,” said Dr Aravind B A, Additional Professor, Department of Epidemiology, Nimhans.  Dr Prathima Murthy, Director, Nimhans said, “The survey would also look at memory disturbances, behavioural addiction such as social media and gaming addiction, anxiety, children’s issues, their mental wellbeing and impact of Covid-19 on people.” She said the Covid-19 pandemic has brought to the fore mental health concerns. “With the current rate of urbanisation and with ample evidence that urbanisation affects mental health, there is an immediate need to address mental health in cities of India,” she added. Nimhans, with support from Biocon Foundation, has released BUMHI (Bengaluru Mental Health Initiative) module, which aims to provide individuals with adequate skills regarding mental health first-aid through the development and implementation of mental health self-care and informal care programmes in the community. Dr G Gururaj, former director of Nimhans, said cities were associated with acute as well as prolonged exposure to stressors, which were closely linked to the urban environment. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/hubballi-dharwad-mysuru-in-2nd-phase-of-mental-health-survey-1060189.html
12-12-2021||Karnataka Politics||Anti-conversion law not intended to target Christians: Bommai||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said the proposed Anti-Conversion Law that the state government intends to introduce in the winter session of Assembly (scheduled to start from December 13) is not intended to target any community. Speaking to media persons here on Sunday, he said religious conversion is not good for society. “It (religious conversion) leaves behind a bad taste among the individual’s family and also the society,” he said, and added that the law is being brought only to prevent forced and luring conversion. Poor people and Dalits are being converted into other communities by some individuals taking advantage of the social and financial condition of such families. “The scrutiny committee of Law Department is preparing the draft of the bill. Once they submit it to the government, the cabinet will take a call and introduce the same in the winter session of the Assembly. Let there be a discussion on the subject,” he said. Allaying the fears of Christian Community members, the chief minister said that the proposed law will not affect their practices and traditions that are guaranteed under the Constitution. “I have assured the same to Christians who met me recently,” he said. Belagavi session Responding to a query on the Winter Session of Assembly in Belagavi, which is being held after two years gap, chief minister Bommai said the government has made all the preparations for conducting the session at Suvarna Vidhan Soudha. “More priority should be given to discuss issues related to the development of North Karnataka,” he said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/anti-conversion-law-not-intended-to-target-christians-bommai-1059978.html
12-12-2021||Mysuru||Omicron scare once again affect tourism sector in Mysuru||The Omicron scare appears to have affected the tourism and hospitality industry in the region creating concerns for stakeholders. The industry had picked up and almost returned to normalcy in the last two months in Mysuru region. The stakeholders feel that the new restrictions to contain fresh cases will affect the Christmas and new year celebrations. "We are opposed to the move to impose a night curfew," said Hotel Owners' Association President C Narayan Gowda. "There is no need for night curfew. The elections were conducted with the involvement of hundreds of people. Large gatherings were permitted," he said.  "The hotel and tourism industry will be worst affected if the night curfew is imposed. We were affected due to Covid-19 restrictions for the whole year and were on the path of recovery for the last two months after Dasara celebrations. The industry has seen a 50% drop in business in the last 10 days due to the Omicron scare," Gowda said. "The two waves of the pandemic adversely affected the industry. The industry witnessed cancellation of around 50% bookings," he explained. The industry normally registers good business between December 15 and January 5. The chances of tourists visiting the region this year looks bleak, according to the stakeholders. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/omicron-scare-once-again-affect-tourism-sector-in-mysuru-1060113.html
12-12-2021||National||Centre asks states to impose curbs if Covid positivity rate climbs||The Centre on Saturday asked states to impose measures such as night curfew and prohibit congregation in areas where Covid-19 positivity rate is more than 10% and there is a rise in demand for oxygen beds. While there are only eight such districts at the moment, states have been advised to keep a close watch on 19 additional districts, which have as many as 70 Covid clusters and a positivity rate between 5 and 10%. The directive comes amid the global scare over Omicron, which has now spread to 59 nations, and experts' fear over a possible rise in cases in India in January-February since this had been the experience of countries with high levels of vaccination such as Israel and the UK. The best risk-reduction strategies, according to them, still are mask-wearing, ventilation, physical distancing and stepping up vaccination. In a letter to state chief secretaries, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan advised them to impose containment measures in areas where the test positivity rate is equal to or greater than 10%, or where the occupancy of oxygen/ICU beds is more than 60%. A watchful eye is to be kept on the emerging severe acute respiratory illness (SARI) and influenza-like illness (ILI) situations as winter sets in. The government didn’t release any information of the list of the 70 clusters, but many of them would be in the 30-odd districts in six states, where new cases witnessed a sharp rise in the last two weeks of November. The increase was 726% in Kathua (J&K), 666% in Dhenkanal and 250% in Kandhamal (both in Odisha) and 152% in Tumakuru. Bengaluru Urban is also one of the districts flagged by the Centre. The curbs would include night curfews, curb on intermingling of people, prohibition of all types of congregations (social, political, sports, entertainment, academic, cultural, religious, and festival-related) and curtailment of attendees in marriages and funerals. The caution comes at a time when 59 countries including India have reported nearly 3,000 cases of the new variant. The 32 omicron cases found in India so far are mild in nature, but government officials and health experts are keeping their fingers crossed. “The next two weeks are important to know how much more they will spread in India,'' said a top ICMR official. Bhushan asked the states to ramp up testing and active-case search of all SARI and ILI cases through rapid antigen tests and retesting by RT-PCR of symptomatic RAT-negative tests. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-asks-states-to-impose-curbs-if-covid-positivity-rate-climbs-1059925.html
12-12-2021||National||Bodies of 10 remaining chopper crash victims identified, cremation of 5 held||The bodies of 10 remaining victims of the IAF chopper crash near Coonoor were identified and the last rites of five of them were conducted on Saturday at their native places with appropriate military honour. Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat, his wife Madhulika and his Defence Adviser Brigadier LS Lidder were among the 13 people killed in the crash on Wednesday. Gen Rawat, his wife and Brig Lidder were cremated at Delhi's Brar Square Crematorium Friday evening. The last rites of Junior Warrant Officer (JWO) A Pradeep, Wing Commander P S Chauhan, JWO Rana Pratap Das, Squadron Leader Kuldeep Singh and Lance Naik Vivek Kumar were performed in the afternoon while Lance Naik B Sai Teja will be cremated on Sunday. The mortal remains of the four other personnel were identified through DNA testing and they will be handed over to the family members on Sunday, an official said on Saturday night. The process of identification of these four bodies was completed in the evening. While the last rites of Lt Col Harjinder Singh are likely take place at Brar Square crematorium in Delhi on Sunday, the bodies of Havildar Satpal Rai, Naik Gursewak Singh, and Naik Jitendra Kumar will be transported to their home towns by military aircraft. Earlier, JWO Pradeep was cremated at the premises of his residence at Ponnukkara village in Kerala's Thrissur district with his son lighting the pyre. His mortal remains were brought to Sulur airbase in Coimbatore from New Delhi around 11 am and taken to Kerala by road. Thousands of people gathered on both sides of the National Highway to pay homage to the departed soul. Hundreds paid their last respects to the soldier when his mortal remains were brought to his school in Puthur around 3 pm. Later, the body was taken to his residence for cremation. Twelve-year-old Aaradhya lit the funeral pyre of her father, wing commander Prithvi Singh Chauhan, in Agra's Tajganj crematorium along with her brother Aviraj (7) and cousin Pushpendra Singh. She later said she wants to follow her father's footsteps and become an Indian Air Force (IAF) pilot too. Officials from the IAF, Agra administration and police among others, too, paid their tributes to the wing commander.  The mortal remains of Kuldeep Singh were consigned to flames in Rajasthan's Jhunjhunu district with his wife Yashwani lighting the funeral pyre. Earlier, the body reached Jhunjhunu airstrip in a helicopter where he was given floral tributes. A decorated truck of the IAF left for his village Ghardana Khurd with the mortal remains. Thousands of people reached the village to pay tributes. In Himachal Pradesh, Lance Naik Kumar was cremated with full state honours at his native village in Kangra district. People in large numbers bid final adieu to Kumar at the crematorium at Thheru village in Jaisinghpur. The mortal remains of JWO Das were consigned to flames at his native village in Odisha's Angul district. His body was brought to his village Krushnachandrapur near Talcher where thousands of people lined up on both sides of the road to pay respects. The funeral rites were held in the presence of family members including Das's old parents, IAF personnel, and hundreds of people at a crematorium in his native village. Mahanadi Coalfields Ltd had prepared the special crematorium at the village for his last rites. Sai Teja, hailing from Chittoor district in Andhra Pradesh, will be laid to rest on Sunday. His mortal remains were brought to Bengaluru, from where it would be taken to his native village, Yeguvaregadipalli for cremation. According to defence officials, Teja's body will be kept at the Command hospital in Bengaluru and will be taken to Chittoor on Sunday. During the day, the ashes of General Rawat and his wife were immersed in the Ganga in Haridwar by their daughters Tarini and Kritika. A wreath-laying ceremony was held at the National Defence Academy (NDA) in Pune in memory of its alumnus Gen Rawat, Brig Lidder and Wing Commander Chauhan. Air Marshal Sanjeev Kapoor, Commandant, NDA paid homage to the brave hearts, who lost their lives in the helicopter crash. The personnel whose bodies are yet to be identified are Lt Col Harjinder Singh, Havildar Satpal, Naik Gursewak Singh and Naik Jitender Kumar.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bodies-of-10-remaining-chopper-crash-victims-identified-cremation-of-5-held-1059941.html
12-12-2021||National||PM Modi's Twitter handle 'hacked', later restored||Prime Minister Narendra Modi's personal Twitter account was hacked briefly on Sunday morning, and it was immediately restored. "The Twitter handle of PM @narendramodi was very briefly compromised. The matter was escalated to Twitter and the account has been immediately secured. In the brief period that the account was compromised, any Tweet shared must be ignored," the Prime Minister's Office said in a tweet.   When the account was compromised, a tweet was sent wrongly saying that India had officially adopted Bitcoin as legal tender and that the country has officially bought 500 Bitcoins and is distributing them among its residents and shared a link, asking people to hurry up. "The future has come today," the tweet said.   Immediately, many users noted that the account seems to have been hacked. Some like Youth Congress president Srinivas B V took a jibe as he tweeted while posting the screenshot of the now-deleted tweet, "Good Morning Modi Ji, Sab Changa Si?"  In the brief period that the account was compromised, any Tweet shared must be ignored. #Hacked began trending in Twitter handles, in India as well. Reacting to the incident, the Twitter spokesperson said, "We have 24X7 open lines of communication with the PM's Office and our teams took necessary steps to secure the compromised account as soon as we became aware of this activity. Our investigation has revealed that there are no signs of any other impacted accounts at this time." This is not the first time that a Twitter handle associated with the prime minister has been compromised. In September 2020, the handle of his personal website was hacked and even then tweets promoting bitcoin, seen to be linked to a scam, were posted from @narendramodi_in. Modi's accounts are not alone in being targeted by hackers for pushing bitcoin, a cryptocurrency, as handles of several noted public personalities, including Barack Obama and Bill Gates besides those from other fields like entertainment, have been targeted in the past. Modi has been vocal about the risks associated with cryptocurrency. Even Union Finance Minister Nirmala Seetharaman recently said that the government has no plan to recognise Bitcoin as a legal currency. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modis-twitter-handle-hacked-later-restored-1059947.html
12-12-2021||National||Caste and religion should not be linked to terror, says RSS leader Indresh Kumar||Senior RSS leader Indresh Kumar claimed on Saturday that the erstwhile Congress-led United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government applied all its might to implicate him in cases of so-called saffron terror but failed. He was addressing an international conference jointly organised by the RSS-affiliated Muslim Rashtriya Manch, Vishwagram and the Forum For Awareness of National Security to deliberate on "Global Terrorism Vs Humanity, Peace and Possibilities". At its conclusion, the day-long conference passed a resolution demanding that the government ban linking of caste or religion to terror and declare it a punishable offence under the law. "Caste and religion should not be linked to terror as such linking is exploited by those perpetuating terrorism. It should be banned and made punishable offence under the law. Exploitation of anybody in the name of religion and caste must be stopped, condemned and punished under the law," Kumar said during the passage of the resolution. He also appealed to political parties to rise above vote bank politics and "say no to this crime". "The Government of India (when UPA was in power) spent Rs 300-400 crore in the name of 'bhagwa' (saffron) terror case against me. Even after deploying the entire government machinery, they could not get my name listed as accused.... The poor government was then voted out (in 2014 Lok Sabha elections)," he said. "My name did not figure in the list of either witnesses or accused. But the entire world was told that Indresh ji was involved, that there was a case against him. I have seen such a big lie...," he added. Referring to this episode, the RSS leader exhorted the participants not to fear raising their voice against what is wrong. "When you are honest and standing by the truth and humanity, no body on earth can do any harm to you." Noting that there won't be any jihad, lynching or communal riots if people pay respect to each other's religion, the international conference in its resolution also demanded that the United Nation declare acts of condemning others' religion a crime at global level. While moving the resolution for its passage, Kumar raised objection to the categoriation of religions as minority and majority in India, calling it "a peculiar situation". "Religion is for the development of human being, to instill humanity in human beings. Categorising religion as minority and majority is itself inhuman and a mischief. This is basically vote bank politics," he said. Such categorisation of religion should not continue as "it has divided our country", he said. Addressing the conference, senior BJP leader and former Union minister Prakash Javadekar listed the steps taken by the Narendra Modi government against terrorism, saying the situation has changed in past seven years. "See what has changed since 2014. Earlier, we witnessed series series of terror incidents, bomb blasts in Delhi, Assam, Jaipur, Pune were happening. In the last seven years, you have not heard of such news barring some places in northeast and Kashmir,” he said Maoist violence has also gone down, he said "Stone pelting doesn't happen now because their funding has stopped...India showed its capability in Balakot surgical airstrike. Pakistan is now realising that nothing can be done," he said. The conference resolved to work on the ground to ensure peace and harmony among people belonging to various religions in the country. The conference, which was organised in both online and physical mode, was attended by Union Minister V K Singh and Governor of Kerala Arif Mohammed Khan, vice chancellors and professors of various universities, former diplomats among other dignitaries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/caste-and-religion-should-not-be-linked-to-terror-says-rss-leader-indresh-kumar-1059949.html
12-12-2021||National||India adds 7,774 fresh Covid-19 cases, 306 deaths||With 7,774 people testing positive for coronavirus infection in a day, India's Covid-19 tally climbed to 3,46,90,510, while the number of active cases declined to 92,281, lowest in 560 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday. The death toll mounted to 4,75,434 with the addition of 306 new fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been recorded below 15,000 for the last 45 days now. The number of active cases has decreased to 92,281, comprising 0.27 per cent of the total infections, the lowest in 560 days, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.36 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the Health Ministry said. A decrease of 996 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 case count in a span of 24 hours. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 0.65 per cent. It has been less than two per cent for the last 69 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 0.70 per cent. It has been below one per cent for the last 28 days, according to the Health Ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 34122795, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.37 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 132.93 crore. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23; 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28; 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29; 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore Covid-19 cases on May 4 and three crore on June 23.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-adds-7774-fresh-covid-19-cases-306-deaths-1059957.html
12-12-2021||National||Congress on social media overdrive in poll-bound states||The Congress is on an overdrive in the election-bound states and its social media campaign has begun with the party's team setting up control rooms in Punjab, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, Goa and Manipur. The team constituted for each state has already moved to the respective state capitals and have started focusing on the work, trying to be ahead in the social media campaign of the party. Chairman of the parties social media department Rohan Gupta said: "Our campaign is handled by the party volunteers and we have not outsourced it. We are way ahead of other parties including the BJP and the AAP." Gupta claimed that the Congress is ahead of the AAP and the BJP in Uttarakhand, Punjab and Goa in social media outreach. The party has appointed Ruchira Chaturvedi for Uttar Pradesh, Hasiba Amin for Goa, Saral Patel for Uttarakhand, Gaurav Pandhi for Punjab and Pranav Vachharjani in Manipur as in-charges of the social media campaign. They have been given teams to work with them. The work will percolate from the state to the district and assembly levels and the party is making videos trending hashtags as #punjabchangasi, #uttrakhandmangejawab and such others. The teams have set up dedicated websites to highlight the Congress manifesto and get feedback from the public. The social media department has trained office-bearers in the states at the booth level and armed them with the latest techniques. It will also focus on countering any misinformation campaign on the social media at the source itself to curb its spread. The party has specially designed campaigns and live streaming of big programmes and speeches and press conferences of the party bigwigs like Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi which is getting good traction and also the people are interacting with the social media volunteers. The Congress social media team has started making videos for publicity and also to counter the BJP's narrative, said Gupta. The Congress had launched a 'Join Congress Social Media' campaign after which two lakh online 'warriors' have registered themselves. "We all know that the government is scared of social media. Those who are against the government are anti-nationals. Through this, we are going to give the youth and the people of the country a platform to raise their voice," Gupta said. The Congress is out of power in all the states except Punjab and the main rival is the BJP which is ruling the other states. The Congress started the social media campaign late but picked up gradually and now has full fledged social media teams in the states. It plans to make the teams dynamic at the assembly and booth levels. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-on-social-media-overdrive-in-poll-bound-states-1059960.html
12-12-2021||National||PM Modi greets Sharad Pawar on his 81st birthday ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi greeted Nationalist Congress Party president Sharad Pawar on his birthday on Sunday.  Pawar, one of the most seasoned and respected politicians, turned 81. Modi tweeted, "Birthday greetings to Shri Sharad Pawar Ji. I pray for his good health and long life. @PawarSpeaks." Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-greets-sharad-pawar-on-his-81st-birthday-1059974.html
12-12-2021||National||Virologist Gagandeep Kang announces Covid-19 vaccine booster study, seeks volunteers for clinical trials||Eminent virologist Gagandeep Kang took to Twitter on Saturday to announce a clinical trial of Covid-19 vaccine booster doses. Kang, a professor at Vellore's Christian Medical College (CMC), tweeted that she was looking for volunteers who were vaccinated with both doses of Covaxin between three to six months ago. "Need volunteers for a clinical trial. People with 2 doses of Covaxin 3-6 months ago are eligible to enrol in a booster dosing study. Folks in Vellore, Chennai, Bangalore or Delhi willing to consider participating please email mnm.cmcvellore@gmail.com. Please retweet-thank you," she tweeted. Need volunteers for a clinical trial. People with 2 doses of Covaxin 3-6 months ago are eligible to enroll in a booster dosing study. Folks in Vellore, Chennai, Bangalore or Delhi willing to consider participating please email mnm.cmcvellore@gmail.com. Please retweet-thank you While responding to a comment that suggested humans were not guinea pigs, Kang told the user that she was also a volunteer in a vaccine study and "so are several friends and family, including my mother." "Ready and willing to be, and have my family be, figurative guinea pigs any time if it advances our scientific knowledge, potentially helping others," she said. As India reports more cases of the Omicron variant, the government has so far yet to make an announcement on offering booster doses. The Union Health Ministry, along with the ICMR, has maintained that the priority lies in fully vaccinating the country's entire adult population against the coronavirus.  Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/virologist-gagandeep-kang-announces-covid-19-vaccine-booster-study-seeks-volunteers-for-clinical-trials-1059976.html
12-12-2021||National||India's Omicron tally rises to 36 as Andhra, Chandigarh report first cases||The Andhra Pradesh patient is a 34-year-old traveller from Ireland. The person, who first landed in Mumbai, was tested and found negative for Covid-19. He was then allowed to travel onward to Visakhapatnam on November 27. "On conducting a second RT-PCR test in Vizianagaram, he tested positive for Covid-19. His sample was then sent to the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology in Hyderabad for genome sequencing and the result came out as Omicron positive," the Public Health Director said in a release. The person, however, did not have any symptoms and a re-test on December 11 showed he was Covid-19 negative. "There are no other Omicron cases in the state," the Director said. So far, 15 foreign travellers who came to the state were found Covid-19 positive and all the samples were sent to CCMB for genome sequencing. "Of the 15, genome sequencing reports related to 10 cases were received and only one of them was confirmed Omicron positive," the Director added. The Public Health Director asked people not to worry but continue to follow Covid appropriate behaviour and take necessary precautions. The Chandigarh patient is said to be a 20-year-old man from Italy who landed in India on November 22 and was diagnosed for the viral infection on December 1. "He was currently living in Italy. He had come to see some of his relatives here recently… His report for whole genomic sequencing has been received late night on December 11 and has been found positive for Omicron variant," Director, Health Services, Chandigarh, Dr Suman Singh told PTI over the phone. The youth, who is fully vaccinated, is currently in institutional quarantine. The man, a resident of Italy, had landed in India on November 22, according to an official statement. "He had come to visit his relatives in Chandigarh. He was under home quarantine and was found Covid positive on retesting on December 1. "According to the protocol, he was then put under institutional quarantine. His Covid positive sample was sent for whole genome sequencing to NCDC, New Delhi. His seven high-risk family contacts were put under quarantine and were tested for Covid-19 by RT-PCR method. All of them tested negative," the statement added. It said the 20-year-old traveller has been asymptomatic throughout. "He is fully inoculated with Pfizer vaccine which he got in Italy. He has been kept in isolation for the last 11 days. "His report for whole genomic sequencing was received late night on December 11 and has been found positive for Omicron variant," the statement said. It further said he was tested for Covid-19 again on December 12 by RT-PCR method and the report is awaited. "If he tests negative, he will be put under home quarantine for seven days and if positive, institutional quarantine will continue till his report turns out negative," it said. His seven high-risk contacts were also tested on Sunday as a precautionary measure, the statement noted. The Health department appealed to all citizens to follow Covid appropriate behaviour and asked those who have not taken the coronavirus vaccine or have had only one dose to complete their vaccination at the earliest. (With agency inputs) Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-omicron-tally-rises-to-36-as-andhra-chandigarh-report-first-cases-1059983.html
12-12-2021||National||Big challenge before Rahul, Priyanka to revive Congress: Sanjay Raut||Amid disagreements and differences between opposition parties, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut said that the Gandhi siblings, Rahul and Priyanka, face a big challenge in reviving the grand old party and forging opposition unity. “Priyanka and Rahul Gandhi are two different personalities…their style of working is different…Rahul Gandhi faces a major challenge of reviving the Congress,” Raut wrote in his weekly Sunday column ‘RokhThok’ that appears in Shiv Sena mouthpiece Saamana. The statement of Raut, a close aide of Maharashtra Chief Minister and Shiv Sena President Uddhav Thackeray, assumes significance in wake of the his meetings with the Gandhi siblings in New Delhi over the past week.  Raut, who, along with Thackeray and NCP Founder-President Sharad Pawar, played a key role in the formation of the Maha Vikas Aghadi government that kept BJP out of power, has repeatedly asserted that an opposition coalition is not possible without Congress and there should be efforts to revive the UPA.  Recently, Raut had also taken exception to West Bengal Chief Minister and TMC chairperson Mamata Banerjee’s “there is no UPA." In his column, speaking about the Gandhi siblings, Raut further said: “…they (Rahul and Priyanka) has unanimity among themselves…f you expect a quick stand from her (Priyanka) in any political discussion...she says she will have to discuss with her brother….for the last two years, they are giving a lot of efforts”. Rahul is also expected in Mumbai on 28 December, when he is expected to address a rally on the occasion of the Foundation Day of the Congress.  Raut said that Priyanka told him that ever since she has taken up the Lakhimpur Kheri issue, her husband Robert Vadra has received 69 notices from the Income Tax department. “However, she is not going to backtrack and step up the fight,” he said.  About his discussions with Rahul, he said, “He said that the system of creating and building leaders has stopped in the Congress and that the latter never disrespected senior party leaders.” According to Raut, Rahul told him that the latter had requested senior leader Ghulam Nabi Azad to take charge of the Congress’ Jammu and Kashmir unit after his Rajya Sabha term expired, but the latter refused. “He can become the chief minister again after elections. But, he refused saying the Congress didn't exist there. Azad ji has been the chief minister there and he thinks the Congress does not exist there.” Raut claimed that Rahul admitted that during Captain Amarinder Singh's tenure as the chief minister of Punjab, the Congress's graph in the state had declined. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/big-challenge-before-rahul-priyanka-to-revive-congress-sanjay-raut-1059987.html
12-12-2021||National||ICMR develops testing kit to detect Omicron in 2 hours||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has developed a testing kit which can detect the new Omicron Covid-19 variant within two hours. The kit has been designed by a team of ICMR scientists from the Regional Medical Research Centre (RMRC) for the Northeast region led by scientist Dr Biswajyoti Borkakoty. "ICMR-RMRC, Dibrugarh, has designed and developed a hydrolysis probe-based real-time RT-PCR assay for detection of the new Omicron variant (B.1.1.529) SARS-CoV-2 that can detect the new variant within two hours. This is important because as of now a minimum of 36 hours is required for targeted sequencing and 4 to 5 days for whole-genome sequencing to detect the variant," said Dr Borkakoty. Generally, it takes three to four days to detect the Omicron variant in infected people. The kit is now being produced on a bulk basis by the WEst Bengal-based GCC Biotech on a public-private partnership (PPP) model. With the latest Omicron case detected in Delhi on Saturday, overall tally of persons infected by the variant has climbed to 33 in India. Delhi reported its second case of Omicron on Saturday after a fully vaccinated individual with a travel history to Zimbabwe and South Africa tested positive. Maharastra is on top of the list of states which have reported Omicron cases, followed by Delhi, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Karnataka. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/icmr-develops-testing-kit-to-detect-omicron-in-2-hours-1059988.html
12-12-2021||National||Varun Gandhi to bring private member bill seeking law on MSP||After backing farmers in their protest against the contentious bill, BJP MP Varun Gandhi has now put his weight behind a law for providing legal backing for Minimum Support Price for crops with an annual financial outlay of Rs one lakh crore through a Bill he proposes to place in Parliament. He placed the Bill, which he believes to be an "actionable piece of legislation", in public domain on Sunday and welcomed "any critique" of it. "India's farmers and her governments have long debated the agricultural crisis,in & out of commissions.The time has come for an MSP law.I have created and submitted to parliament what I believe to be an actionable piece of legislation," he said. Gandhi has been at the forefront in supporting the farmers in their protest against the now-repealed farm laws and was vocal in taking against Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra, whose son was arrested for his alleged involvement in the mowing down of protesting farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri. A day after announcing the repealing of laws, he also wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi saying many “innocent lives” could have been saved had the decision been taken earlier. The Bill proposed by Gandhi envisages guaranteed realisation of MSP for 22 agricultural commodities with an option of more inclusions on a need basis. The MSP should be set at a profit margin of 50 per cent over the comprehensive cost of production, which includes actual paid expenses on inputs, value of unpaid family labour, and foregone rentals on farmland and fixed agricultural assets, as recommended by the Swaminathan Committee in 2006, the Bill proposes.  The Farmers Right to Guaranteed Minimum Support Price Realisation of Agri-Produce Bill has been proposed by Gandhi against the backdrop of the farmers' demand and his belief that the efficacy of MSP has declined as most farmers do not receive the declared MSP, remaining at best limited to cereals within a handful of states. "A close look at acreage and declared MSP, especially for pulses and oilseeds in recent years, illustrate that MSP has limited impact on acreage under a crop, as farmers have inadequate information and Government procurement agencies have focussed comparatively more on selected crops in selected geographies," he says in the Statements of Object and Reasons of the proposed Bill. The Bill proposes price announcements two months before the start of the harvest season to help farmers plan their sowing in advance and a separate Department under the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare for the implementation of the law. It also demands establishing well-equipped procurement centres — one for every five villages — and creation of supply chain infrastructure helping farmers to seamlessly store and sell their produce during the post-harvesting season. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/varun-gandhi-to-bring-private-member-bill-seeking-law-on-msp-1060001.html
12-12-2021||National||'Apne senao par hei hame garv': CDS Bipin Rawat's last public message||"Apne Senao par hei hame garv, aao milkar manaye Vijay Parv (We are proud of our armies, let's celebrate victory together)" was the last public message by Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat, a day before his death in a helicopter crash. The Indian Army on Sunday released a 1.09-minute video clip in which Gen Rawat greeted the armed forces personnel on the occasion of the 50th anniversary of the 1971 war and paid tributes to the fallen heroes. Army sources said that the video was recorded on the evening of December 7. Gen Rawat, his wife and his Defence Adviser Brigadier LS Lidder were among the 13 people killed in the horrific helicopter crash at 12:22 pm on December 8 near Coonoor. In the video clip, Gen Rawat paid glowing tributes to the Indian armed forces personnel killed in the 1971 war with Pakistan and appealed to the citizens to join the celebrations of the 50th anniversary of the victory. The video was also played at the inaugural event of the 'Vijay Parv' celebrations at the Indian Gate complex. The event was attended by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and the top military brass of the country. Around 93,000 Pakistani troops had surrendered before the joint forces of the Indian Army and the "Mukti Bahini" on December 16, 1971, that paved way for the birth of Bangladesh. "I am extending heartfelt greetings to all the brave soldiers of Indian armed forces on the occasion of Swarnim Vijay Parv. We are celebrating the 50th anniversary of the victory in the 1971 war as the Vijay Parv," Gen Rawat said. India is organising a series of events to mark the stupendous victory of India over Pakistan in the war 50 years ago. "I am paying my tributes to our brave soldiers on this occasion, remembering their sacrifices. Several events are being organised at the India Gate between December 12 and 14. "It is a matter of great pride that Vijay Parv is being organised at the Amar Jawan Jyoti complex which was established in memory of our brave soldiers," Gen Rawat said in the message. "We invite all countrymen to participate in the Vijay Parv," he said. He ended by saying: "Apne Senao par hei hame garv, aao milkar manaye Vijay Parv." On January 1 last year, Gen Rawat took charge as India's first CDS with a mandate to bring in convergence in the functioning of the Army, the Navy and the Indian Air Force and bolster the country's overall military prowess. In the last two years, Gen Rawat carried out the extensive groundwork to roll out tri-services reforms. Known to be forthright, fearless, and blunt at times, the outstanding military commander ruffled many feathers with his controversial remarks during his tenure as the Army Chief as well as Chief of Defence Staff. ‍ In his role as Chief of Army Chief between 2016 and 2019, he strongly backed a policy of hot pursuit in dealing with cross-border terrorism and militancy in Jammu and Kashmir.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/apne-senao-par-hei-hame-garv-cds-bipin-rawats-last-public-message-1060008.html
12-12-2021||National||Central team visits Odisha’s cyclone Jawad affected districts||A six-member Central team led by a Joint Secretary in the Ministry of Home Affairs on Sunday left for the field verification to access the damages done to agriculture and others due to Cyclone Jawad, which reached near Odisha coast in the form of a depression before moving towards West Bengal early this month. The team members left to the affected districts after holding discussion with Special Relief Commissioner (SRC) P K Jena here. The team has been divided into three units. While one unit will visit Ganjam and Puri districts, the second one to assess losses in Jagatsinghpur and Cuttack districts. Another unit will visit the Jajpur and Kendrapara districts. The inter-ministerial central team led by Saurav Ray, Joint Secretary (CEPI), Ministry of Home Affairs, was apprised by the state government on the damages done by the calamity. Though there were no major damages to the electrical infrastructures and buildings, the extremely heavy rainfall during the calamity had severely damaged the standing crops. Jena said there has been no major damage to the infrastructure in the recent cyclone. “However, we have apprised the team that the maximum damage has been caused to the farmers in terms of crop loss. We have given them preliminary information in this regard,” he said. Stating that the loss assessment of agriculture is a little difficult task, Jena said the state government will submit a report to the team. After the field visit and preparation of the final assessment, the team is likely to submit its report within one week to the Disaster Management Division of the MHA for quick admissibility of central assistance. The team will also recommend whether the disaster can be considered to be of a 'severe nature', an official said. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/central-team-visits-odisha-s-cyclone-jawad-affected-districts-1060009.html
12-12-2021||National||Duty of courts to take into account not only crime but also criminal, his state of mind: SC||It is the duty of courts to take into consideration not only crime but also the criminal, his state of mind and his socio­economic conditions, the Supreme Court has said. A bench headed by Justice L Nageswara Rao said it is the duty of courts to take into consideration the probability of the accused being reformed and rehabilitated. "In view of the settled legal position, it is our bounden duty to take into consideration the probability of the accused being reformed and rehabilitated. "It is also our duty to take into consideration not only the crime but also the criminal, his state of mind and his socio­economic conditions," the bench also comprising Justices B R Gavai and B R Nagarathna said. The observations were made by the top court while converting death sentence awarded to a man, convicted for killing two of his siblings and his nephew over a property dispute, to life imprisonment for a period of 30 years. The top court said that the state (Madhya Pradesh) has not placed on record any evidence to show that there is no possibility with respect to reformation or rehabilitation of the convict. "The appellant comes from a rural and economically poor background. There are no criminal antecedents. The appellant cannot be said to be a hardened criminal. "This is the first offence committed by the appellant, no doubt, a heinous one. The certificate issued by the Jail Superintendent shows that the conduct of the appellant during incarceration has been satisfactory," the bench said. The apex court said it cannot, therefore, be said that there is no possibility of the appellant being reformed and rehabilitated foreclosing the alternative option of a lesser sentence and making the imposition of death sentence imperative. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/duty-of-courts-to-take-into-account-not-only-crime-but-also-criminal-his-state-of-mind-sc-1060017.html
12-12-2021||National||Need to adapt to changing socio-political scenario: Pawar tells NCP on his 81st birthday||As he turned 81, NCP president Sharad Pawar — one of the seniormost politicians in India — asked party workers to adapt to the changing socio-political scenario but also stick to the basics. The statement assumes importance as Pawar, who has relationships across party lines, is working with like-minded politicians and parties to forge an Opposition alliance ahead of the 2024 Lok Sabha polls. “The vision of Chhatrapati Shahu Maharaj, Mahatma Jotiba Phule and Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar, who followed the path of social reforms would continue to guide us,” Pawar said addressing a felicitation function on Sunday. Pawar said that while his party – that he formed in 1999 – may be small, it has aimed for big long-term programmes. “It is unique in many respects,” said the three-time Union minister and four-term Maharashtra chief minister. "Birthdays are an important milestone in one's personal life. My 50th, 60th and 75th birthdays have been celebrated publicly. Even though I didn't want a celebration on my 81st birthday, I have come (to the event) because the party wanted," he said. Pawar went on to add that December 12 is an important date for him. “Not only because it is my birthday, but because it is also my mother's birthday. December 12 is also the birthday of my nephew and niece. My wife Pratibha's birthday is on December 13," he said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/need-to-adapt-to-changing-socio-political-scenario-pawar-tells-ncp-on-his-81st-birthday-1060025.html
12-12-2021||National||4 dead, 7 missing after freighter capsizes off China coast||Rescuers are searching for seven crew members who went missing after their cargo ship sank on Sunday off the coast of Yantai City in China's Shandong province, which killed four people, authorities said. According to the Beihai Rescue Bureau of the Ministry of Transport, a total of 14 crew members were on board when the accident occurred, reports Xinhua news agency. The rescue bureau received a report of the accident at 4.43 am. So far, three people have been rescued. A rescue helicopter and a rescue vessel have been dispatched to search for the missing crew members. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/4-dead-7-missing-after-freighter-capsizes-off-china-coast-1060035.html
12-12-2021||National||India working on economic aid package for Sri Lanka: Report||By Anurag Kotoky, India is working on an urgent package of assistance for Sri Lanka to help the island nation out of an economic crisis, the Economic Times newspaper reported Saturday, citing officials that it didn’t identify. The measures will cover areas including food and health security, energy security and a currency swap, the officials said. The move follows a recent visit by Sri Lanka’s finance minister to India, the paper said. The plan is to extend credit lines for Sri Lanka to import food, medicine, fuel and other essential items from India. Sri Lanka is at risk of a possible default amid dwindling foreign-exchange reserves, even as its central bank governor said he’s confident the government will service all its overseas debt. It’s also trying to revive its Covid-hit tourism industry with the reopening of borders following extended pandemic lockdowns, and is expecting increased remittance inflows as more Sri Lankans head overseas to seek employment. The two countries have “identified ways and means through which the existing bilateral economic relationship between the two countries could be further broadened and deepened,” ET said, citing a statement from the Sri Lankan government. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-working-on-economic-aid-package-for-sri-lanka-report-1060038.html
12-12-2021||National||What scientists say about booster dose against Omicron||A booster dose against Covid-19 raises the number of circulating antibodies and is shown to increase protection from symptomatic infection with Omicron, scientists have said, underlining that boosters can be the simplest step forward, especially for the immunosuppressed. Reacting to the statement of the UK Health Security Agency (UKHSA) that booster dose of Covishield vaccine is effective against Omicron and a third booster dose of Covid-19 vaccine provides 70-75 per cent protection against symptomatic infection from the Omicron variant, the virologists and epidemiologists underlined that booster doses of any vaccine (except live attenuated like oral polio vaccine or OPV, measles) exponentially raises antibody level. Eminent virologist Dr Shahid Jameel said a booster shot after two doses increase the amount of circulating antibodies and is shown to increase protection against symptomatic infection with Omicron. "We don't know how well two doses continue to protect against severe disease," he told PTI. On what India should do where the majority of the population is vaccinated with Covishield, the former head of the advisory group to the Indian SARS-COV-2 Genomics Consortia (INASACOG) said it must be ensured that those who got only one dose of Covishield get the second dose in 8-12 weeks instead of 12-16 weeks. "Carry out lab studies with Omicron to learn how well sera from Indian vaccines of Covaxin and Covishield neutralise the virus. Make a policy on boosters. What vaccines to use? Who should get it? And when?  Make a policy and start vaccinating children starting with adolescents," he said. Jameel said in India, four vaccines can be used as boosters: Covaxin in people who got Covishield and vice versa, DNA vaccine ZyCov-D, Covovax protein vaccine from SII and Corbev ax-E protein vaccine from Biological E. The Health Ministry told the Lok Sabha last week that the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC) and the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI) are considering scientific evidence related to justification for booster doses against the coronavirus. Noted virologist Dr T Jacob John said booster doses of any vaccine (except live attenuated like OPV, measles) exponentially raises antibody level: "Pfizer vaccine some 40-fold high". "If we are interested in being cautious about the unknown risks of Omicron, boosters for as many as possible is the simplest step forward, especially for the immunosuppressed, seniors and those with co-morbidities. This is in the best interests of their welfare," he told PTI. John, the former director of the ICMR's Centre of Advanced Research in Virology, stressed that children must be vaccinated too since unvaccinated large segment of population can act as reservoirs -- "plus Omicron seems to go after children". "Better to prevent than to wait for evidence. Protection delayed can also mean protection denied," he said. Dr Giridhara R Babu, professor and the Head of life-course epidemiology at the Public Health Foundation of India, said the evidence is gradually mounting in stressing the need for boosters eventually to everyone. "However, data on physical outcomes are important in prioritizing the booster doses. Protection against hospitalisation or deaths is important in analysing the need for prioritising boosters compared to receiving only two primary doses," he said. Babu said for developing countries, the priority still remains to reach the unreached (providing two primary doses to those not already vaccinated). Among the fully vaccinated, the available evidence points to the usefulness of providing booster doses to the elderly and those at high risk, including immunocompromised, he said. Dr Chandrakant Lahariya, Physician epidemiologist and public policy specialist, however, said booster is not a priority for the country and at least for Indian context, Omicron has not changed anything and India should do to collect more indigenous data and evidence for decision making on booster. "The vaccines being used in India continue to protect against severe disease, hospitalisation and deaths. Therefore, the focus continues to be on administering first and second shot to as many adults as possible," he told PTI. Elaborating further, he said, "In current stage of pandemic, every study on vaccine effectiveness (in general and against Omicron) should be interpreted in the context of that setting". "What all vaccine effectiveness studies are pointing out is that existing vaccines continue to hold up against the key objective of Covid-19 vaccination drives that is to prevent severe diseases, hospitalisation and deaths. This holds true for the Omicron variant," Lahariya added. Lahariya said neutralising studies are also pointing out that hybrid immunity through natural infection and at least one shot of vaccine provides far greater protection than vaccines alone. India has the situation of hybrid immunity where high sero prevalence and one dose coverage give assurance that people are protected, he said. "Considering the effectiveness of the Covid-19 vaccines being used in India against all symptomatic diseases is unknown or very limited data is available, therefore, we should not use studies and arguments of administering booster doses to improve protection from symptomatic diseases. As preventing all symptomatic diseases is not, at least at present, the purpose of ongoing Covid-19 vaccine drive in India," he said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/what-scientists-say-about-booster-dose-against-omicron-1060039.html
12-12-2021||National||20 years of Parliament attack: Memories of horror still fresh||Twenty years ago, Parliament, the supreme legislative body of India, witnessed a dastardly terror attack that shook the conscience of the country to its core. The horror of the day, December 13, 2001, is still fresh in the minds of the people of the country. Five terrorists of the Pakistan-based militant groups Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) infiltrated the premises in a White Ambassador bearing fake stickers of the Home Ministry and Parliament itself. It would not be wrong to say that at the time, the security system at Parliament was as stringent as it is today. Carrying AK47 rifles, grenade launchers, pistols and grenades, the terrorists breached through security cordons deployed around Parliament complex. As they further drove the car inside, one of the staff members, Constable Kamlesh Kumari Yadav, became suspicious of their movement. Yadav was the first security official to approach the terrorists' car and, realising something suspicious, ran back to her post to seal the gate no 1 where she was posted. With their cover effectively blown, the terrorists opened fire on Yadav and fired at her 11 times. Yadav died on the spot, averting a suicide bomber among the terrorists to execute his plan. After killing Yadav, the terrorists moved forward, firing indiscriminately. The horror lasted for about 30 minutes during which a total of nine people were killed and 18 others injured. All the five terrorists were also neutralised outside the building itself. The anti-terror unit of the Delhi Police -- Special Cell -- which was set up in 1986 to prevent, detect and investigate cases of terrorism, organised crime and other serious offences in the national capital, took charge of the investigation. Recalling memories of the 20-year-old terror attack, the then Deputy Commissioner of Police Ashok Chand told IANS that he was at the office of the Special Cell when the carnage occurred. "As soon as we received information, I rushed with my team to Parliament," Chand said, adding that when he reached the spot, the attack was still going on. "The situation had not normalised, it was still fluid and by that time other teams of Special Cell also reached there," he said. In next few minutes, Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) personnel neutralised all the terrorists. Notably, the CRPF battalion posted at Parliament during the time of the attack had just returned from Jammu and Kashmir. "So they were prepared for such unforeseen events and knew how to react," said another officer privy to the development. Though it was the extreme bravery of the security forces to quickly contain the situation, the Watch and Ward staff of Parliament, too, played a vital role in saving several lives. "The Watch and Ward staff immediately after the attack began, closed all the doors of the Parliament building, thus preventing the terrorists from entering the house," said an officer. The Watch and Ward was renamed as Parliament Security Service in April 2009. Chand said that soon after the attack, the investigation was taken up. In just 72 hours, the Special Cell of the Delhi Police cracked the case and arrested four people -- Mohammed Afzal Guru, Shaukat Hussain, Afsal Guru and SAR Geelani -- in this connection. Two among them were acquitted, while Afzal Guru was hanged in Delhi's Tihar Jail in February 2013. Shaukat Hussain served his sentence at the jail. On the eve of the attack's 20th anniversary, the Delhi Police has also tightened its security arrangements in the national capital on Sunday. Just three months ago in September, the Special Cell busted a major Pakistan-based terror module and arrested eight people that were planning to carry out terror attacks in the country during the festival season. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/20-years-of-parliament-attack-memories-of-horror-still-fresh-1060051.html
12-12-2021||National||About 3 lakh account holders who lost money due to bank collapse will get it back soon: PM Modi||Attempting to cheer those who have lost their money due to failure of banks or financial institutions, Prime Minister Narendra Modi Sunday assured that about three lakh account holders will soon get their deposits with the banks that are under the RBI moratorium. He said over 1 lakh depositors have got about Rs 1,300 crore of their money with stressed banks in the past few days with the enactment of the legislation. Modi was speaking at an event on the safety of depositors' money in the bank – “Depositors First: Guaranteed Time-bound Deposit Insurance Payment up to Rs 5 Lakh”. Modi said earlier, out of the amount deposited in the bank, only up to Rs 50,000 was guaranteed. Then it was raised to Rs 1 lakh… but there was no time limit on when this money would be paid. “Understanding the concern of the poor, understanding the concern of the middle class, we increased this amount to Rs 5 lakh. Another problem was tackled by amending the law. Earlier where there was no time limit for refund, now our government has made it mandatory within 90 days. That is, even in the event of a bank sinking, the depositors will get their money back within 90 days”, he said. Parliament earlier this year passed the Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation (Amendment) Bill, 2021, ensuring that account holders get up to Rs 5 lakh within 90 days of the RBI imposing a moratorium on the banks. The enhanced deposit insurance cover of Rs 5 lakh came into effect from April, 2020. Before this, the increase was done in 1993, after a gap of 27 years. The deposit cover was then increased to Rs 1 lakh from Rs 30,000 in 1980. After the deposit insurance cover was raised, the fully protected bank accounts stand at 98.1 per cent of the total number of bank accounts, official data showed. This is 18 percentage points higher than the international benchmark of 80 per cent. This has been made possible only within one year of the Centre passing deposit insurance bill. The first tranche of interim payments has been released by the Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation recently, against claims received from depositors of 16 Urban Cooperative Banks which are under restrictions by the RBI. Payout of over Rs1,300 crore has been made to alternate bank accounts of over 1 lakh depositors against their claims. Deposit insurance covers all deposits such as savings, fixed, current and recurring deposits in all commercial banks, functioning in India. Deposits in state, central and primary cooperative banks, functioning in states and union territories are also covered. In a path-breaking reform, bank deposit insurance cover was enhanced from Rs 1 lakh to Rs 5 lakh. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/about-3-lakh-account-holders-who-lost-money-due-to-bank-collapse-will-get-it-back-soon-pm-modi-1060052.html
12-12-2021||National||Brakes on power sector reforms after agreement between farmers, govt||According to the agreement between Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) and the Centre, one of the consensus points is that the government will discuss the Electricity (Amendment) Bill 2021 with farmers before it is tabled in Parliament. This will put brakes and is likely to delay the power sector reforms, especially pertaining to distribution. The year-long agitation by the farmers at Delhi borders was called off after the Centre agreed to their major demand. However, farmers have threatened to return and resume protests if their demands, signed in a letter with an official letterhead by Sanjay Agarwal, Secretary to the Union Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers' Welfare, are unmet. The government has agreed to set up a committee over demand for minimum support price for crops, discuss the Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2021, compensate families of those who died and doing away with criminal cases registered during their protests. "The current agitation stands suspended The SKM dedicates the fabulous and historic victory of the struggle to around 715 martyrs of the movement, including those in Lakhimpur Kheri. SKM congratulates all the protesting farmers and citizens, and their supporters, wholeheartedly for waging an unprecedented struggle and for the glorious gains of the movement," a statement from SKM said. Swaraj Abhiyan said in a tweet: "After 1 Year and 15 days of magnificent struggle, farmers have emerged victorious. Farmers have shown extraordinary patience and courage during this andolan. We Congratulate Indian Farmers on this Magnificent Victory". SKM said it will regroup again on January 15 in Delhi to review the situation and whether the government has fulfilled its promises. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/brakes-on-power-sector-reforms-after-agreement-between-farmers-govt-1060053.html
12-12-2021||National||Plans afoot to have four cut-off dates for new voters to enroll, par panel told||Plans are afoot to have four cut-off dates every year for people to enrol as voters by amending the electoral law, a move which will eventually help have a common electoral roll for the Lok Sabha, Assembly and local body polls as also ensure that more eligible youngsters become part of the electorate. The Election Commission of India (ECI) had been pushing for multiple cut-off dates to allow more eligible people to register as voters. As of now, for an election to be held in a particular year, only an individual who has attained the age of 18 years as on January 1 of that year or before is eligible to be enrolled in the voters' list. The ECI had told the government that the January 1 cut-off date set for the purpose deprives several youngsters from participating in the electoral exercise held in a particular year. Due to only one qualifying or cut-off date, a person attaining the age of 18 years on January 2 cannot be registered. Therefore, a person who turns 18 after January 1 will have to wait for next year to get registered. The law ministry has told a parliamentary panel that "it is proposed to amend section 14(b) of the Representation of the People Act to insert four qualifying dates (or cut-off dates) -- January 1, April 1, July 1, and October 1 -- of every year". It said a comprehensive draft cabinet note "containing this proposal (of four qualifying dates) as well as a few other important electoral reform proposals taken up by the Election Commission is under preparation". The Parliamentary Standing Committee on Law and Personnel on Friday tabled its 109th report on "Action Taken on 107th report of the Committee on Demands for Grants (2021-22) pertaining to the Ministry of Law and Justice" in the Lok Sabha. The committee referred to its earlier observation where it had reiterated its recommendation for the implementation of a common electoral roll in the country and desired that "all-out efforts" should be made in this regard. Responding to the recommendation, the ministry said according to section 13D of the Representation of the People Act, the electoral roll for every parliamentary constituency should consist of the electoral rolls for all the Assembly constituencies within the Lok Sabha segment and it should not be necessary to separately prepare or revise the electoral roll for any such parliamentary constituency. "Therefore, there is a common electoral roll for both Lok Sabha and State Legislative Assembly elections as of now," the ministry noted. It said according to the information provided by the ECI, 25 states and eight Union territories are presently using the electoral roll data prepared by it for preparing their electoral roll for local bodies and panchayat elections. "The ECI had informed that one of the reasons for the reluctance of some states to use the EC electoral roll is that there is only one qualifying date for registration or updation of the roll prepared by the EC -- 1st day of January of every year, whereas some states have multiple qualifying dates. This ensures the updation of the (electoral) roll (or voters' list) four times in a year," the ministry said. In a bid to persuade the remaining states to use the electoral roll prepared by the ECI for holding local body elections, "it is proposed to amend section 14(b) of the Representation of the People Act, 1950 to insert four qualifying dates, i.e. 1st January, 1st April, 1st July, and 1st October, of every year...", it told the parliamentary panel. The committee observed that multiple qualifying dates will encourage the states to use common electoral rolls "so as to avoid preparation of separate voters' list, which causes duplication of the same task between two different agencies and undue expenditure". The respective state election commissions (SECs) hold the local body or panchayat elections in the states. The SECs are separate bodies and are not part or linked to the ECI. The ECI is mandated to hold the presidential, vice-presidential, Lok Sabha, Rajya Sabha, state Assembly and state legislative council polls. The legislative department in the law ministry is the nodal agency to deal with issues related to the the ECI.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plans-afoot-to-have-four-cut-off-dates-for-new-voters-to-enroll-par-panel-told-1060054.html
12-12-2021||National||Does Victorian morality hold India's legality of same-sex marriage at bay?||As the legality of same-sex marriage gets approval in Latin America's Chile, the 31st such country in the world, the stand of a diverse country like India is still not clear as the long-pending subject is lying in court while the LGBTQ community says that the country is still following the Victorian law introduced by the British which they themselves took away. A batch of petitions filed by the persons belonging to the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, and Queer (LGBTQ+) community seeking a declaration of recognising same-sex marriages under the special, Hindu and foreign marriage laws, is pending before the Delhi High Court. This includes the plea of a queer couple -- an Overseas Citizen of India (OCI), and a foreigner -- seeking recognition of same-sex marriage under the Foreign Marriage Act and Special Marriage Act and another was on live-streaming of same-sex marriage proceedings in the country. All these pleas seeking favour of same-sex marriage will be taken up by the High Court on February 3, 2022, as the court will also hear a plea opposing the registration of these marriages under the Hindu Marriage Act and seeking its registration either religion-neutral or under secular law. Centre's stand The apex Indian court, in 2018, in a case filed by dancer Navtej Singh Johar among other petitioners passed the landmark decision to scrap section 377 of the IPC, which decriminalised homosexuality. However, the latest reply of the government on the issue before the Delhi High Court was not in favour of Same-Sex marriages in the country. The Centre, on October 25, submitted before the court that "marriage" is a term associated with heterosexual couples and "spouse" means husband and wife, as it contended that there is "some misconception" regarding the order in Navtej Singh Johar case which decriminalised homosexual sex but does not talk about marriage. It was argued that Navtej Singh Johar's case does not talk about marriage, adding that marriage is permissible between a biological man and a biological woman. The Court's submission came in a petition for legal recognition of all same-sex, queer, or non-heterosexual marriages under secular legislation for marriage such as the Foreign Marriage Act, 1969 and the Special Marriage Act 1954. Countries that allowed Same-Sex marriage Two decades ago, marriage equality for same-sex couples was first legally acknowledged in the Netherlands on April 1, 2001. Same-sex marriage is legally performed and recognized--nationwide or in some parts -- in 31 countries. They are -- Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Colombia, Costa Rica, the Realm of Denmark, Ecuador, Finland, France, Germany, Iceland, Ireland, Luxembourg, Malta, Mexico, metropolitan Netherlands, metropolitan New Zealand, Norway, Portugal, South Africa, Spain, Sweden, Taiwan, the United Kingdom, the United States, and Uruguay. In Switzerland and in Chile, same-sex marriage will be performed from 2022. Same-sex marriage in the United States expanded from one state in 2004 to all fifty states in 2015 through various state court rulings, state legislation, direct popular votes, and federal court rulings. The fifty states each have separate marriage laws, which must adhere to rulings by the Supreme Court of the United States that recognise marriage as a fundamental right that is guaranteed by both the Due Process Clause and the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution, as first established in the 1967 landmark civil rights case of Loving v. Virginia. Chile is the ninth country in the Americas to pass marriage equality legislation, joining Canada, Argentina, Brazil, Uruguay, the United States, Colombia, Ecuador, and Costa Rica. Still following Victorian law, says LGBT community Talking to IANS, noted transgender activist Kalki Subramaniam said the Centre's stand seems India still follows the century-old Victorian law when it comes to same-sex marriage. Consensual sex between the same gender was earlier a crime, but not anymore, however, when it comes to marriage the views of the government are not favourable for the LGBT community, she said. Now more people are coming out and revealing their identity bravely in their workplaces, homes. The Government has to look into it more humanely as the togetherness between two persons and not just as two genders. Marriage is not just for reproduction, it is much more, she said, adding we are not just animals just to produce babies year after year and generation after generation. "We are a civilised society and we have the right to fall in love with the person who will take care and support each other and nourish a healthy relationship to a healthy society. The government and judiciary have to look into this aspect as simple as it is," she said. The government cannot decide who can fall in love with whom and it is nobody's business. "It's my own right and my own decision... it should be in that way... but the views of the authorities are unfortunate and we are going backward", she said. When asked if the same-sex marriage is really necessary, she said: "Personally, I do not believe in the institution of marriage. But my friends and other transgenders do. I will stand for their rights," she added. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/does-victorian-morality-hold-indias-legality-of-same-sex-marriage-at-bay-1060058.html
12-12-2021||National||Passport can't be denied on ground of pendency of appeal against acquittal: Allahabad HC||In a significant judgement, the Allahabad High Court has said that pendency of appeal against the acquittal of an individual in a criminal case could not be the ground for refusal of passport to him. A double bench comprising Justice Ashwani Kumar Mishra and Justice Vikram D Chauhan delivered the verdict on a petition filed by one Pramod Kumar Rajbhar, who had challenged the denial of passport to him on the ground that the state's appeal against his acquittal was pending in a higher court. The court said that Section 6 of the Passports Act,1967 laid down the provisions under which a passport can be denied to an applicant.  The court observed that the ''case of the petitioner would not fall in any of the category under which the passport could be denied inasmuch as there is already an order of acquittal passed in his favour which has not been reversed in appeal''. ''No order prejudicial to petitioner's interest otherwise has been passed. So long as the order of acquittal remains, the petitioner's innocence would be presumed and, therefore, petitioner's application cannot be declined merely on account of pendency of Government Appeal,'' the court said in its order. The petitioner had been charged under sections 354-A 9Sexual Harassment), 506 (Criminal Intimidation) and 376 (Sexual Assault) of the IPC. He was however acquitted by the lower court last year. After being acquitted, the petitioner applied for a passport but his application was withheld only because Government Appeal had been filed in the matter.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/passport-cant-be-denied-on-ground-of-pendency-of-appeal-against-acquittal-allahabad-hc-1060062.html
12-12-2021||National||Health groups lobby for higher tax on tobacco products||Public health groups, along with economists and doctors, have urged the government to increase excise duty on all tobacco products in the Union Budget of 2022-23 to generate additional revenue. In their appeals to the Finance Ministry, they have sought an increase in excise duty on cigarettes, bidis and smokeless tobacco.  According to them, increasing excise on all tobacco products can be a very effective policy measure to address the immediate need to raise revenue by the Central government. It will be a winning proposition for generating revenue and reducing tobacco use and related diseases as well as Covid related co-morbidities, they said. The tax revenue from tobacco could significantly contribute to the increased need for resources during the pandemic, including vaccinations and augmenting the health infrastructure, Bhavna Mukhopadhyay, Chief Executive, Voluntary Health Association of India, said in a statement. "Increasing excise duty on all tobacco products will fetch substantial revenue for Central government and make tobacco products less affordable, especially for youngsters. This will provide a solid foundation for reducing tobacco usage among vulnerable populations and have long-lasting impact on the lives of the country's 268 million tobacco users, deter children and youth from initiating tobacco use," Mukhopadhyay said. She requested the finance minister to augment revenue and reduce health harms, which would be appreciated by citizens. The Ministry of Finance, in its reply to a question in the ongoing Winter Session of Parliament, specified that the central excise and cess (NCCD) collected on tobacco products during 2018-19 was Rs 1,234 crore, in 2019-20, it was Rs 1,610 crore and in 2020-21, it was Rs 4,962 crore. The taxes collected from tobacco, similar to taxes collected from other sources, together form part of the overall Gross Tax Revenues (GTR) of the Government of India and are used to fund all its schemes and programmes, it said. The share of central excise duties in the total tobacco taxes has decreased from 54 per cent to 8 per cent for cigarettes, 17 per cent to 1 per cent for bidis, and 59 per cent to 11 per cent for smokeless tobacco products, on average, from 2017 (pre-GST) to 2021 (post-GST), Rijo John, health economist and adjunct professor, Rajagiri College of Social Sciences, Kochi said. Several countries in the world have high excise taxes along with GST or sales tax and they are continuously being revised. Yet, the excise duty on tobacco in India continues to remain extremely low, he said. "Tobacco industry in India has been virtually enjoying an extended tax-free season on tobacco products over the past four years since the introduction of the GST as there hasn't been any major increase in tobacco taxation during this time. This has made many tobacco products more affordable. It could turn out to be highly detrimental to public health and potentially reverse some of the tobacco use prevalence reduction India achieved during 2010 – 2017," John said. The Union budget must take a considerate view of public health and increase tobacco taxes significantly, especially on bidis, he said. The total tax burden (taxes as a percentage of final tax-inclusive retail price) is only about 52.7 per cent for cigarettes, 22 per cent for bidis and 63.8 per cent for smokeless tobacco. This is much lower than the World Health Organization (WHO) recommended tax burden of at least 75 per cent of retail price for all tobacco products, John said. According to the WHO, raising the price of tobacco products through tax increases is the most effective policy to reduce tobacco use. Higher tobacco prices, which decrease affordability, encourage quitting among users, prevent initiation among non-users, and reduce the quantity consumed among continuing users. "There is substantial proof that tobacco increases the risk for severe Covid infection and complications following it. Tobacco users have a greater risk of death following Covid. It is in the interest of users as well as the country to increase taxes on all tobacco products. This will reduce their affordability and consumption. It will then limit the vulnerability to Covid infection and its complications," said Pankaj Chaturvedi, Head Neck Cancer Surgeon, Tata Memorial Hospital. India has the second-largest number (268 million) of tobacco users in the world, with around 1.3 million deaths every year from tobacco-related diseases. Nearly 27 per cent of all cancers in India are due to tobacco, Chaturvedi said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/health-groups-lobby-for-higher-tax-on-tobacco-products-1060065.html
12-12-2021||National||Bengaluru head coach Pezzaiouli not unduly worried about Chhetri's goal glut in ISL||India captain Sunil Chhetri is yet to score a goal in six matches in the ongoing Indian Super League but his Bengaluru FC head coach Marco Pezzaiouli is not unduly worried about the talisman's form, saying "he is also a human being". Pezzaiouli conceded that "it's hard times" for Chhetri but said he has the support of the team. "He (Chhetri) is a human being. Sometimes you don't have luck going for you. With the national team, he had a lot of luck as the ball fell to him many times and he scored five goals," Pezzaiouli said after Bengaluru lost 1-2 to FC Goa on Saturday night. "In this hard time, he has the support of the team and also how he worked for the team was good. He needs more luck inside the box. It happens when you don't work but with him he is working and it will come back." Chhetri, who needs just two strikes to become ISL's all-time highest goal-scorer, has missed two penalties this season. He also missed a golden chance against FC Goa on Saturday as he blazed over from close range in the 18th minute. "Today he had a great chance and if he scores it's 1-1. Normally he would score that with his eyes closed," said Pezzaiuoli of Chhetri who played his 100th ISL match on Saturday. Asked if it's possible to look beyond Chhetri when it comes to selecting the playing XI, the head coach said, "I don't think we should be talking a lot about Sunil. I don't pick one player out. We lost today as a team and that I feel is the important part." Bengaluru FC have lost four out of their six matches they have played so far. They are currently at 10th spot out of 11 teams. Asked how difficult it would be for his team to make the top four, Pezzaiuoli said, "I think let's take small steps first. We missed two penalties. We lost some points there. Now we make stupid mistakes despite the numerical advantage. This costs points in the end. "But I still believe how we play and how we try to win the game. I see that we are getting better and better. This is a new team with new players and they need to find the chemistry." Bengaluru next play ATK Mohun Bagan on December 16. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bengaluru-head-coach-pezzaiouli-not-unduly-worried-about-chhetris-goal-glut-in-isl-1060069.html
12-12-2021||National||VP Venkaiah Naidu calls for proactive initiatives to translate literary works into Indian languages||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Sunday called for proactive and concerted efforts to increase the number of translations of literary classics in Indian languages. In this regard, he suggested leveraging technological advancements in translation to make the rich heritage of regional Indian literature accessible to people in their own mother tongue, an official release said. Naidu praised the efforts of institutions such as Potti Sreeramulu Telugu University in translating classics such as 'Amuktamalyada' by Sri Krishnadevaraya into other Indian languages. He called for more such efforts from similar universities to preserve and promote the use of different languages in India. Addressing the Foundation Day celebrations of the Telugu University, the Vice President lauded the university's commitment to preserving the Telugu language, literature and history through various research initiatives. Noting that globalisation has had a widespread impact, Naidu stressed that it must be ensured that the youth must not lose touch with their cultural heritage. Noting the importance of language in forming one's identity and boosting self-confidence in the youth, Naidu said people must take pride in their mother tongue. Naidu observed that the National Educational Policy, 2020, aims at promoting Indian languages and encourages primary education in a child's mother tongue. He said the medium of education must be in the mother tongue up to higher education and for technical courses too. In this regard, Naidu called upon the universities to undertake advanced research in languages and improve the scientific and technical terminology in Indian languages in order to facilitate their wider reach and use in academia. Naidu paid tributes to the former Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh, late NT Rama Rao, who took the initiative to establish the University. He also appreciated the efforts of the Telangana state government and Chief Minister K Chandrashekar Rao in developing the University and furthering the cause of Telugu language and culture. On this occasion, the Vice President presented awards to Kurella Vittalacharya, poet and critic and Kalakrishna, Kuchipudi dance proponent. Later, Naidu inaugurated the photo exhibition of 'Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat' at the Potti Sreeramulu Telugu University, another release said. Organised by the Regional Outreach Bureau, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, this exhibition highlights the various interesting aspects of the paired states of Haryana and Telangana like art forms, cuisine, festivals, monuments, tourism spots etc. Writing in the visitors' book, the Vice President appreciated the efforts of the organisers in showcasing the culture of the paired states of Telangana and Haryana. Encouraging people to visit the exhibition, he wrote that such initiatives will go a long way in propagating the rich cultural heritage of the paired states and promoting people-to-people contacts. Telangana Home Minister Mohammed Mahmood Ali, Telangana State Planning Board Vice Chairman B Vinod Kumar, attended the event, the release added. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vp-venkaiah-naidu-calls-for-proactive-initiatives-to-translate-literary-works-into-indian-languages-1060074.html
12-12-2021||National||BJP and AIMIM two sides of the same coin: Congress||The Congress in Maharashtra on Sunday alleged that the AIMIM and BJP are two sides of the same coin, a day after AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi slammed the grand old party and the NCP at a rally in Mumbai for "failing" to implement a 5 per cent reservation for Muslims in the state. Senior Maharashtra Congress leader Naseem Khan on Sunday wondered why the Owaisi-led All India Majlis-E-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) remained "silent" on the Muslim quota issue when the BJP government was in power in Maharashtra from 2014 to 2019. Khan, who had served as a minister in the then Congress-NCP government till 2014, said the quota for Muslims in jobs and education had been upheld by the Bombay High Court but not implemented by the erstwhile Devendra Fadnavis government. "When Congress was protesting against the Fadnavis government's inaction on quota implementation, the AIMIM remained silent. The AIMIM and the BJP are two sides of the same coin," Khan alleged in a statement. He said two MLAs of AIMIM in Maharashtra never raised their voice in the Legislative Assembly when Congress demanded implementation of the Muslim quota. On the contrary, the AIMIM legislators always supported the Fadnavis government, he claimed. Addressing the rally at Chandivali in Mumbai, Owaisi had said Congress and NCP joined hands with Shiv Sena for power and forgot the assurance of implementing a 5 per cent quota in jobs and education for the Muslim community. Alleging that the AIMIM's political stance has always been supportive of BJP, Khan said the Owaisi-led party remembers the Muslim quota only during elections. "Now also when civic and local bodies polls are due in Maharashtra, AIMIM is remembering the quota issue," he alleged. Khan said Congress is committed to implementing the Muslim quota. "What Owaisi and AIMIM have done for Muslims?" Khan asked saying the Muslim community knows the real face of AIMIM. Owaisi had also asked Muslims to shun "political secularism" saying it has not helped the socially and educationally backward sections of the community in getting a quota in jobs and education. The NCP and Congress are partners in the Sena-headed Maha Vikas Aghadi government, which came to power in November 2019 after the Maharashtra assembly polls. The erstwhile Congress-NCP government in Maharashtra had provided 5 per cent reservation to Muslims in jobs and education in 2014. The Bombay HC quashed the Maratha quota but upheld the Muslim quota in education. Opposition alleges that between 2014 and 2019, the issue of implementing this quota for Muslims was allegedly not taken up by the then BJP-Shiv Sena government.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-and-aimim-two-sides-of-the-same-coin-congress-1060078.html
12-12-2021||National||India tops list for most pro-vaccine nation||India is the most pro-vaccine country in the world with more than 98 per cent of the country's eligible population showing a willingness to get inoculated against the deadly Coronavirus, as per the findings of the IANS-CVoter Covid Vaccine Tracker. Mirroring the high acceptance levels of vaccination shown in CVoter Covid Vaccine Tracker, more than 89 lakh vaccines were administered in the past 24 hours, as per the data released by Health Ministry. India's cumulative Covid-19 vaccination coverage (Dose 1+ Dose 2) has now exceeded 133 crore. Of the 90 crore adult population of the country, more than 81 crore people have got their Dose 1 of the Covid-19 vaccine. According to the findings of the IANS-CVoter Covid Vaccine Tracker, of the remaining 9 crore unvaccinated, 7.5 crore want to their jab to get protection against the lethal virus. Only 1.5 crore people have shown either unwillingness or hesitancy to get their jab. The tracker also found that even those who had shown unwillingness or hesitancy to get vaccinated were not rigid against taking the jab. They had their reasons for not getting vaccine and a session or two of counselling by the health personnel may easily convince them to get vaccinated. As per the vaccination data released by Health Ministry, India is administering around 6070 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses every day. With this speed of vaccination, India will be able to vaccinate the whole of its adult population with the first dose by the end of this month. In the vaccination drive, the entire population may not be counted, as the eligible population is only above 18 years. Compared to India, vaccine hesitancy is much higher in European countries and US. Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-tops-list-for-most-pro-vaccine-nation-1060092.html
12-12-2021||National||Right to be considered for promotion a fundamental right: SC||The Supreme Court has said that the right to promotion can not be treated as a fundamental right, but consideration for promotion has now been evolved as a fundamental right.  A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud, Vikram Nath and B V Nagarathna pointed out that the top court had, time and again, laid emphasis on the right to be considered for promotion as a fundamental right. The Constitution bench had earlier said in the Ajit Singh case that if a person who satisfies the eligibility and the criteria for promotion is still not considered for the same, then there will be a clear violation of his or her fundamental right. The top court emphasised on the principle while setting aside an Allahabad High Court judgement of December 4, 2019, while rejecting a writ petition by a group of junior engineers having been denied promotion by the state government's minor irrigation department. The court said the seniority list in question must go. It said if the seniority list is allowed to be sustained, then the engineers who are more meritorious in the mechanical and civil streams than the junior engineers of the agricultural stream would be deprived of their right of being considered for promotion. In fact, their right would accrue only after all the junior engineers of the agricultural stream selected in the same selection are granted promotion, the court added. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/right-to-be-considered-for-promotion-a-fundamental-right-sc-1060096.html
12-12-2021||National||Channi arrives late for Congress rally in Jaipur; meets Sonia, Rahul at airport||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi could not attend a Congress rally in Jaipur on Sunday as his arrival in the city got delayed and he met party leaders Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi at the airport while they were returning to Delhi. "The chief minister got delayed by a few minutes due to some technical reasons related to the helicopter," a senior official at the CMO told PTI in a text message. Congress sources in Jaipur said Channi did not go to the rally venue. He met the top party leaders at the Jaipur airport while they were returning to the national capital, the CMO official said. Channi put out a tweet with photos of him meeting Congress president Sonia Gandhi and former party chief Rahul Gandhi. "With the backbone@INC India, Smt. Sonia Gandhi Ji and @Rahul Gandhi Ji, after the completion of a very successful, national and massive #Mehangai Hatao Rally, held in Jaipur to draw the country's attention towards price rise and inflation," he said in the tweet. The Congress had organised the rally in Jaipur against the rising inflation.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/channi-arrives-late-for-congress-rally-in-jaipur-meets-sonia-rahul-at-airport-1060097.html
12-12-2021||National||Less government interference increases potential of success for start-ups, says Goyal||The less the government interferes in the start-up ecosystem, the more potential it will have to become successful, Union minister Piyush Goyal said Sunday. But the government can play the role of a facilitator, he added. The Minister of Commerce and Industry was addressing a gathering during a visit to the Science and Technology Park at the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU). "Look at the IT sector. It is successful in India because the government has no role to play. Allowing entrepreneurs to operate with less amount of government interference or involvement will them help come up with cost-effective and affordable solutions, and to improve their quality and designs. Crutches only help them in the short run. If we really want to let this ecosystem grow and go to great lengths, then we have to let it work on its own," he said. "If I take the list of unicorns, almost none of them have taken government's support to become unicorns...Government can play a role in reducing taxes. We have reduced the charges for start-ups and women entrepreneurs in patent filing, etc. Government can be a good facilitator," he said. It is the enterprising spirit of the young boys and girls and entrepreneurs that truly defines success, he said. Unicorn is a startup company with a value of over $1 billion. According to Goyal, almost 46 per cent of start-ups registered with the DPIIT (Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade) have women entrepreneurs. "I like the idea of rating the incubators and escalating funding to those that do a good job. The Modi government recognised the power this country has and the Startup India programme was initiated. Today, we have grown to be the third-largest startup ecosystem in the world," he said. Goyal said that Pune occupies a unique position in the field of IT, industries and educational institutions. "Industry, academia and research will take the country forward. In terms of unicorns also India has done extremely well with 79 such setups. Every time I give a presentation, their number changes. Pune also has four unicorns, which is something to be proud of with many more in the making," he said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/less-government-interference-increases-potential-of-success-for-start-ups-says-goyal-1060112.html
12-12-2021||National||Parliament panel suggests increased subsidy for electric vehicles||A Parliamentary panel recommended the government increase subsidies and incentives to electric vehicles to accelerate the transition to electric mobility. India is primarily a two-wheeler driven market, with almost 22 million sales per year. The Government recently, under FAME-II [Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of Hybrid and Electric Vehicles in India] scheme, has increased the subsidy/incentive from Rs 10,000 per Kwh [Kilowatt hour] to Rs 15,000 per Kwh and an increase in the cap on incentive for electric two-wheelers from 20 per cent to 40 per cent of the cost of vehicles. The committee is hopeful that the increase in subsidy and the ceiling limit would help in demand creation in the electric vehicle segment, the panel said. The Department Related Standing Committee on Industry, in its report title 'Electric and  Hybrid Mobility-Prospects and Challenges in Automobile Industry' said that the scope of the FAME-II should be broadened to include funding/grants for electrified vehicle components development and R&D, development of components for charging infrastructure and capital subsidy/incentive for manufacturing electric vehicle components. On charging stations, the panel suggested that sub-meter or separate meter arrangements may be installed for billing the charging point used exclusively for EV charging by domestic consumers to keep the electricity bill affordable and encourage potential buyers to go for EVs. “To improve the mobility services, it is advisable to have a live database of active charging stations installed all over the country and the locations readily available for the consumers for their reference enabling them to easily track the nearest charging station at times of need while on the move. The committee, therefore, urges that the government may put in place such a facility for enhancing the e-Mobility services,” the panel said. To increase the number of charging stations, the government may explore installing smart meters on electric poles at dedicated locations and make small charging stations across the city/villages/highways and issue smart cards to the EV owners, who can charge their batteries anywhere, which can be a good booster for faster adoption of electric vehicles, the panel in its report said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parliament-panel-suggests-increased-subsidy-for-electric-vehicles-1060120.html
12-12-2021||National||Mortal remains of Army Havildar killed in chopper crash reach hometown in Bengal||The mortal remains of Army Havildar Satpal Rai, who died in the helicopter crash along with Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat, his wife Madhulika and 10 others, arrived at Bagdogra airport here on Sunday. BJP MP Raju Bista, former Bengal minister Gautam Deb and state government officials paid tribute to the deceased soldier, following which his remains were taken to his native village in Takdah, near Darjeeling town, in a flower-bedecked Army truck. Family sources said that the last rites of Rai, who was a part of the personal security detail of General Rawat, will be held on Monday. The soldier, who joined the Army in 2001, died in the helicopter accident in Tamil Nadu's Coonoor on Wednesday.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mortal-remains-of-army-havildar-killed-in-chopper-crash-reach-hometown-in-bengal-1060126.html
12-12-2021||National||BJP accuses Congress of 'celebrating' in Goa when CDS General Rawat died||Uttarakhand Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami on Sunday alleged that the Congress was celebrating in Goa when the rest of the country was mourning the tragic death of General Bipin Rawat and others in the IAF chopper crash in Tamil Nadu. Speaking at a programme in Lansdowne in Pauri district, where Gen Rawat was born, Dhami also said though Congress ruled the country for 60 years, it does not have any feelings for it. Gen Rawat, India's first chief of defence staff, his wife and 11 other defence personnel were killed on December 8 after the IAF helicopter in which they were travelling crashed in Coonoor in Tamil Nadu. The lone survivor, Group Captain Varun Singh, is undergoing treatment at a military hospital in Bengaluru. "For 60 years after independence, one party ruled this country. For 55 years out of those 60 years, one family was in power. However, at a time when the entire country was mourning the loss of CDS Gen Rawat, his wife and others in a tragic chopper crash, the Congress was launching its poll campaign in Goa and its workers were dancing and celebrating. It should be ashamed of itself," Dhami said. "It seems they (Congress) are only physically present in this country, their soul is somewhere else," he said. Dhami inaugurated and laid the foundation stone of development projects worth around Rs 90 crore at a college in Lansdowne. He made similar remarks while addressing a gathering in Haldwani's Ramlila Maidan, where he flagged off LED vehicles for creating awareness among people about the government's welfare schemes and policies. He said the Uttarakhand government declared three-day mourning following Gen Rawat's death. Even at the passing out parade at the Indian Military Academy, where President Ramnath Kovind was the chief guest, the usual celebrations were done away with. The chief minister asked people to contrast the Congress' insensitivity with the sensitivity of Prime Minister Narendra Modi who celebrates Holi, Diwali and his birthdays with soldiers on the country's borders. Describing Gen Rawat as everyone's favourite in Uttarakhand, Dhami said the CDS was like a guardian to him who always guided him. "Gen Rawat always dreamt of a developed Uttarakhand. We should vow not to leave any stone unturned to build the Uttarakhand of his dreams," he said. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra visited poll-bound Goa on December 10 and announced that if voted to power in the state next year, her party would ensure a 30 per cent quota for women in jobs and a grant of Rs 1 lakh for women self-help groups, among other things. She also visited Mopirla village in Goa and shared a video on Twitter in which she was seen dancing with tribal women.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-accuses-congress-of-celebrating-in-goa-when-cds-general-rawat-died-1060133.html
12-12-2021||National||State govts should make clear if they trust CBI: Jitendra Singh||Minister of State for Personnel Jitendra Singh on Sunday said state governments have to make clear whether they trust the CBI as they are withdrawing general consent given to the agency to operate in their jurisdiction but are allowing it in selective cases referred by them under public pressure. The minister also presented Police Medals for Meritorious Service to 47 CBI officials. CBI Deputy SP Seema Pahuja, who probed the Hathras rape case and Himachal Pradesh's Gudia rape case, received a gold medal for best investigation officer from the minister.  Addressing the 'Investiture Ceremony', the minister of state for personnel, public grievances and pensions expressed concern that states are withdrawing the general consent given to the CBI to investigate cases but they are, nevertheless, holding on to the prerogative to give selective consent where it suits them. Calling for wider introspection by the polity, the society and the nation at large, Singh asked whether this is the kind of propriety which is to be followed.  He said that states have to make it clear whether they trust the CBI or not, or whether they trust the agency selectively as they continue to give selective consent in cases which suits them. According to the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act which governs the CBI, the agency needs consent from the state governments to operate in their jurisdiction. However, this consent is not required when a case is entrusted to the CBI by a High Court or Supreme Court. Asking the state governments to "rethink" their decisions to withdraw general consent, the minister said state governments continue to refer cases to the CBI under public pressure which indicates that the people have greater trust in the agency. "Similarly, complex and urgent cases are also assigned to the CBI by the judiciary on many occasions," he added. The function was also attended by Chief Vigilance Commissioner Suresh N Patel and Secretary (Personnel) Pradip Kumar Tripathi.  Singh said that zero-tolerance for corruption, transparency and citizen centricity are the three main mantras that determine the administrative outlook of the government headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. He said that irrespective of ideological beliefs, it is the collective responsibility of all to strengthen institutions like the CBI as these institutions also contribute to strengthening the nation's resolve to achieve the ultimate goal of incorruptibility in society. Speaking at the function, CBI Director Subodh Kumar Jaiswal said the agency is trusted by courts, governments and the people at large.  For every serious crime, there is always a clamour for CBI investigation, he said.  "The success of the CBI is exemplified by the fact that it has over the years been able to achieve nearly 70 per cent conviction rate despite the fact that the accused are able to get the best of legal support. The CBI is committed to take forward the great legacy and adapt with time," he said. Jaiswal said the agency has initiated a comprehensive internal process of modernisation, upgradation of capacities, setting higher benchmarks for investigation and preventive vigilance and for leveraging cutting edge capabilities to combat new age crime.  He said the CBI has identified 75 practices which need to be discouraged so as to enhance efficiency of the organisation. The agency chief referred to a countrywide crackdown on online peddlers of child sexual exploitation material. He said more than 5,000 individuals from more than 80 locations in India and more than 100 countries across the globe have been identified during the operation. "We have taken note that the problems of today cannot be solved by using the skills and knowledge of yesterday," Jaiswal said.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/state-govts-should-make-clear-if-they-trust-cbi-jitendra-singh-1060141.html
12-12-2021||National||India may host five Central Asian leaders as Republic Day chief guests||India may host the leaders of the five Central Asian nations on the occasion of Republic Day on January 26 next year. New Delhi is planning to invite the presidents of Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan, Turkmenistan, Tajikistan and Kyrgyzstan to be the chief guests, but a final decision will be taken when External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar will host his counterparts from the five Central Asian nations on December 18 and 19, sources in New Delhi said. The government will also take into account the Covid-19 situation, which will determine the scale of the Republic Day celebrations. The 2021 Republic Day was a low-key event with no foreign leader being invited due to the pandemic. India has a tradition of hosting a foreign leader as the chief guest on the occasion of its Republic Day every year. But if it hosts the five Central Asian leaders for the ceremony on the Rajpath in New Delhi January 26 next year, it will only be the second time that multiple heads of states and governments will grace the event. Previously, leaders of the 10 Southeast Asian nations had attended the Republic Day ceremony on January 26, 2018. President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi will also hold bilateral meetings with President Sadyr Japarov of Kyrgyzstan, President Emomali Rahmon of Tajikistan, President Shavkat Mirziyoyev of Uzbekistan, President Kassym-Jomart Tokayev of Kazakhstan and President Gurbanguly Berdimuhamedow of Turkmenistan, if they are invited to attend the Republic Day ceremony. New Delhi is keen to step up its engagement with Central Asia as Pakistan is trying to get a strategic edge against India in the region after the Taliban’s return to power in Afghanistan. Pakistan’s “iron brother” China has also been expanding its geopolitical influence in the region. Modi’s National Security Advisor Ajit Doval hosted his counterparts from the five Central Asian nations as well as Iran and Russia in New Delhi last month for a consultation on the situation in Afghanistan. The first Republic Day chief guest for the Modi government was the then United States President Barack Obama in 2015, followed by then French President Francois Hollande and the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and de-facto ruler of the United Arab Emirates, Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, in 2016 and 2017, respectively. The ASEAN leaders and the Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro were the chief guests in 2018 and 2019, respectively. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-may-host-five-central-asian-leaders-as-republic-day-chief-guests-1060143.html
12-12-2021||National||Will never be showpiece to win Punjab elections, never lie to people for coming to power: Sidhu||Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Sunday said he will never be a showpiece to win elections and never lie to the people of the state for coming to power. The cricketer-turned-politician said he had never asked for any position from anyone in his life but always wanted Punjab's welfare. "Neither have I demanded anything in life nor will I ever do so. I have never even asked people for votes," Sidhu said while responding to a question from whom on whether he would be named as the chief minister by the Congress if it wins the 2022 Punjab Assembly polls. He was speaking at a public discussion programme --"Bolda Punjab"-- in Chandigarh. "Responsibility either makes you better or bitter. I have a bitter experience. I had a role in making three governments in Punjab. I was campaigning. But in this system, a good man is made a showpiece. He is only kept for winning elections. "I will never be a showpiece... I will also never lie to the people of Punjab for coming to power. Can anyone say that I have ever lied? Because I have nothing to lose," Sidhu said. Referring to his stint in the BJP before joining the Congress, he said he left a Rajya Sabha seat, was asked to contest elections from Kurukshetra and was also offered the post of Union information and broadcasting minister. "Then I was told that you become a face (of the Congress) in Delhi and was also told that I would be made a (party) general secretary by (late Congress leader) Ahmed Patel. I told him that had I wanted to become a (party) face in Delhi, I would have been a three-time minister in the BJP," Sidhu said. He further said he was committed to Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra. "I am committed to two people. I have seen them from very close and I have complete trust that they are good people and are not fake -- Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and Rahul Gandhi. "I gave my word to them and will stand by it. But I also stand by my words for the welfare of the people of Punjab, not for bringing anyone to power," the state Congress chief said. He asserted that he will perform whatever duty is given to him by the party but will never deceive the people of Punjab.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/will-never-be-showpiece-to-win-punjab-elections-never-lie-to-people-for-coming-to-power-sidhu-1060198.html
12-12-2021||National Politics||Owaisi slams Congress, NCP for not implementing Muslim quota||AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi on Saturday asked Muslims to shun "political secularism" saying it has not helped the socially and educationally backward sections of the community in getting a quota in jobs and education. Addressing a rally in suburban Mumbai, Owaisi said he believes in secularism enshrined in Constitution. "What did Muslims get out of secularism? We did not get a reservation in jobs and education. We didn't have participation in decision-making..no rights," the All India Majlis-E-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) president said, adding that the word secularism has harmed Muslims. In Maharashtra, only 22 per cent of Muslims take admission in primary schools while only 4.9 per cent of Muslims graduate. He said 83 per cent of Muslims in Maharashtra are landless. "Does the heart of Congress, NCP and Shiv Sena beat only for Marathas?" he questioned. The standard of living of Marathas is much higher compared to Muslims in Maharashtra, he claimed. Referring to the imposition of section 144 of CrPC in Mumbai, which was brought in to check the spread of Omicron variant of coronavirus, Owaisi questioned if prohibitory orders will remain in place when Rahul Gandhi visits the Maharashtra capital later this month. "That time it will not be Omircron but power.....," he said. The Hyderabad MP said Congress and NCP joined hands with Sena for power and forgot the assurance of implementing a 5 per cent quota in jobs and education for the Muslim community. "Congress and NCP blame AIMIM for cutting secular votes. Is Shiv Sena secular? When (Sena president and Maharashtra CM) Uddhav Thackeray says in the legislature that he is proud that Shiv Sainiks destroyed the Babri mosque then these two parties kept quiet," Owaisi said. The NCP and Congress are partners in the Sena-headed Maha Vikas Aghadi government. The erstwhile Congress-NCP government in Maharashtra had provided 5 per cent reservation to Muslims in jobs and education in 2014. The Bombay HC quashed the Maratha quota but upheld the Muslim quota in education. Opposition alleges that between 2014 and 2019, the issue of implementing this quota for Muslims was allegedly not taken up by the then BJP-Shiv Sena government. Speaking at the same rally, Aurangabad MP and Maharashtra AIMIM chief Imtiyaz Jaleel, who travelled to Mumbai by road from his constituency in Marathwada in 13 hours, alleged all attempts were made to stop him from reaching Mumbai. "Mumbai lo main aa gaya..." he told the charged audience. He thanked the police saying they were acting on orders from the top. "They were doing their job and I am doing my job," Jaleel said. "We have to question the government on (the failure to implement) 5 per cent quota (for Muslims) and irregularities in Waqf land," he said. Jaleel alleged that prohibitory orders in Mumbai are an excuse to stop the AIMIM rally. "Does the Omicron variant spread only on December 11 and 12? Will it go away on December 13?" he asked. Jaleel alleged that Muslims have been used as a "toy" for securing votes during elections. He said Muslims should learn from Marathas on the quota demand . Jaleel alleged that 93,000 acres of Waqf land have been misappropriated and that he has lodged nine FIRs so far as he is a member of the Waqf Board. "Despite the Bombay High Court upholding 5 per cent quota in education and jobs for Muslims, the decision hasn't been implemented. When Congress and NCP were in opposition, they would fight with BJP and Sena for implementing the quota for Muslims. But now despite being in power for two years, nothing has happened on the quota front," he said. Jaleel said heavy police deployment at Vashi while entering Mumbai made him think whether he was an MP or a terrorist. "I was stopped by a police officer asking me to remove the tricolour from my vehicle. I was told that I will not be allowed to proceed with the flag. I told the police that they can keep my vehicle. I will walk to Mumbai with the tricolour," he said. Jaleel said the country can't progress if Muslims are deprived of their rights. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/owaisi-slams-congress-ncp-for-not-implementing-muslim-quota-1059937.html
12-12-2021||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi to kick-start Uttar Pradesh campaign from Amethi||Former Congress President Rahul Gandhi will kick-start the campaign for UP assembly polls from his former Lok Sabha seat, Amethi. The date has not been finalized yet but it is said that Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra will be in Amethi and Rai Bareli on December 17 and 18. The Congress, which is weak at its own turf after lone Congress MLA Aditi Singh left to join BJP, has no legislative assembly member in both Lok Sabha seats as both the MLAs elected on Congress ticket in Rai Bareli have shifted to the BJP. The party is thinking of a good show in the assembly polls to retain the seats and increase its number in the next elections. Union Minister Smriti Irani, who had defeated Rahul Gandhi in Amethi in 2019, has also been working in Rae Bareli to widen the party base. Of the total ten Assembly seats in two Lok Sabha constituencies - Amethi and Rae Bareli, six are already with the BJP. Two Congress legislators from Rae Bareli -- Aditi Singh and Rakesh Singh - have switched over to the BJP, and so has Congress MLC Dinesh Pratap Singh from Rae Bareli. Aditi Singh had revolted against the Congress last year when she defied the party's whip and attended a special one-day session of the UP Assembly. Ever since she has been critical of the Congress leadership and has been praising the BJP. Her joining the BJP was expected for the past several months. The BJP has also won the control of Zila Panchayats in the two districts. In Rae Bareli, Irani replaced Sonia Gandhi as chairperson of District Development Coordination and Monitoring Committee, in July. Sonia Gandhi's prolonged absence from her constituency, mainly due to her health issues, has dampened the morale of Congress workers there. The desertion of some senior leaders, including two sitting MLAs, has damaged the party in the region that was once a Congress bastion. Priyanka Gandhi, who oversees Rae Bareli and Amethi, has also not been able to devote much time to the two constituencies due to her preoccupation with state-level issues. The BJP, on the other hand, has deployed well-oiled machinery to widen its reach. Congress does not have a single MLA in Rae Bareli and Amethi. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhi-to-kick-start-uttar-pradesh-campaign-from-amethi-1060000.html
12-12-2021||National Politics||Ahead of polls, AAP hits Punjab Congress where it hurts most||As elections to the Punjab Assembly near, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has intensified its attack on the Congress government in the state. The Kejriwal-led Aam Aadmi Party is focussing on two issues -- education and illegal sand mining -- in its fight against Congress. It all started with Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia's visit to a primary government school in Punjab's Chakalan village followed by another visit to Makrauna Kalan -- the village of Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi's maternal grandfather in his Chamkaur Sahib Assembly seat. There, Sisodia, who also holds the education portfolio in Delhi government, saw the dilapidated condition of the schools and said that if the Punjab government deems itself to have the best education system then it is lying and messing up with the future of millions of children and thereby, that of the country's. Both he and Punjab Education Minister Pargat Singh got into a war of words over the issue with the former challenging the latter to present a list of 250 schools within 24 hours that have undergone major reforms in terms of good infrastructure, enhanced curriculum, teacher training programmes and showed improved results under the Congress regime. "Punjab has the right to know the Congress party's contribution in the field of education in the state in the last five years," the AAP leader had said while releasing the list. The Punjab minister, on the other hand, failed to provide the list, giving the Delhi-based party an opportunity to attack the government. Since coming to power in Delhi in 2015, the AAP-led Delhi government has claimed it has transformed the education system there. The pass percentage of the 2016 batch of grade 12 CBSE students was 85.9 per cent. In 2017, it improved to 88.2 per cent; it then leapt from 90.6 per cent in 2018 to 94.24 per cent in 2019 to 97.8 per cent in July 2020. In fact, the government school results in Delhi reported a surge of 5.9 per cent in comparison to the private schools. "We achieved such a great result by improving school infrastructure, focusing on quality learning, investing in teachers by sending them for training to Cambridge University which opened their eyes to the global scale of teaching, involving parents in their child's development journey and introducing curriculum that helped children look within themselves and to understand the world in a better way via Happiness, Business Blaster and Deshbhakti Curriculum," Manish Sisodia told media repeatedly. Earlier on November 27, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal reached Mohali where he met contractual teachers, who were protesting for the regularisation of their services and said, "When AAP forms government in Punjab, like Delhi, all the issues of the teachers here will also be resolved," further alleging that both Akali Dal and Congress had 10 and eight years in government respectively, but neither did anything for the teachers. The AAP national convener made eight promises to the teachers guaranteeing them of changing the future of Punjab with good governance. He promised them that once in power all outsourcing and contractual teachers would be made permanent. He told them if the Channi government does not accept the demands of the striking teachers, then he (Kejriwal) will join them in their dharna. Kejriwal also promised them that a transparent transfer policy in Punjab will be implemented and non-teaching work burden will be taken off the teachers' shoulders, all vacancies will be filled, teachers will be sent abroad for training, promotion policy will be introduced and cashless medical facilities to teachers and their families will be provided. On December 4, AAP MLA Raghav Chadha, who is also the party Punjab Co-in-charge, alleged that illegal sand mining was being carried out in Chamkaur Sahib, Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi's constituency under the former's patronage. He tweeted along with a live video of sand being mined illegally, "Illegal sand mining in Charanjit Singh Channi's constituency has been exposed. It is the biggest expose which will shake Punjab's politics." "We are in Jindapur village, which is in the chief minister's constituency Chamkaur Sahib. Illegal sand mining is going on here openly. Sand is being illegally carried in trucks," it added. Chadha also wrote a letter to the forest officer on November 22. "Forest Range officer Rajwant Singh had informed Sub divisional Magistrate, Sri Chamkaur Sahib - about the illegal mining activities in CM Charanjit Channi's constituency. There was no action on the sand mafia, but Rajwant Singh soon received transfer orders," he tweeted. Chadha on Friday said that the AAP will reward Rs 25,000 to the Punjab Chief Minister if he acts against every site where illegal sand mining is being done as he has complete information about the whereabouts of illegal mining in his state. In response, Charanjit Singh Channi attacked Arvind Kejriwal by calling him a "power greedy outsider", who wants to rule the state and accused him of misleading the people of Punjab. "AAP supremo has little knowledge about the state and he was groping in the dark for fulfilling his lust of power," he added. Channi had also retweeted a blurred letter in Gurumukhi on his Twitter account saying that AAP can spread as many lies as it wants, but people of Punjab know the truth. Illegal sand mining has become a major political issue in Punjab along with the problem of liquor, and in view of this the Congress government recently introduced "Mission Clean". Earlier this year, a Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader too had captured the act of illegal sand mining in a Facebook live post that showed trucks loading sand at the Guru Nanak Dev Thermal Plant. The opposition party had blamed Congress leader and State Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal and his brother-in-law Jaijeet Singh Johal of being involved in illegal sand mining. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ahead-of-polls-aap-hits-punjab-congress-where-it-hurts-most-1060005.html
12-12-2021||National Politics||Tennis took Leander Paes 'away from his roots'; directs shot at new 'court' of politics||It was a case of game, set and match for tennis legend-turned-political debutante Leander Paes. The 48-year-old Olympic medalist who was born in Kolkata to a Goanese father, said he wanted to work for Goa where his roots lay, and knew TMC from his association with the City of Joy, and decided to give vent to his "passion" to work for people by joining the party ahead of elections to the tiny coastal state. “My profession took me away from my roots and now that I have returned after retiring (from tennis) I have got this opportunity from Goa," Peas told PTI in a telephonic interview. "My aim now is to do good for brothers and sisters of my country, I am starting that from Goa and I believe politics is the best way for that,” said the winner of numerous grand slam titles in tennis. Paes said that though there have been offers from several parties, he chose to join Trinamool Congress. “The opportunity of joining politics has been coming to me for many years. But this time, it was the right opportunity, the correct time, I was in the right position of my life where I have finished with my tennis career and have the time, space, mind(frame) and the passion to give to this (new career in politics),” said the alumni of Kolkata's prestigious La Martiniere School and St Xavier's College. Paes, whose father Vece Paes, played mid-field for the award-winning Indian field hockey team in the 1972 Munich Olympics, won the bronze at the 1996 Atlanta Olympics, the first Indian to win an individual medal after 1952. His decision to switch to politics, a quarter of a century after Atlanta, took many by surprise. "The reason I joined TMC Goa is because of its ideology," he averred. Several Congressmen who have also joined the TMC in Goa have spoken of the party's secular credentials as the reason for their choosing to go with party which has entered the state recently. The Trinamool Congress announced its presence in the former Potugese enclave by inducting ex-Congress leader Luizenho Faleiro and several Congressmen into its fold in September and October this year. Congress which had emerged as the largest single party in Goa in 2017, has since been hit by desertions to the BJP and now to the TMC. "I have been given the opportunity by `Didi' (TMC Supremo Mamata Banerjee). We have systematic plans to better the lives of the people of Goa. I feel with all the research we have done, Goa can really be a shining state of India,” the tennis star added. Paes said he chose Goa over Kolkata as he now lives in Goa, a place where his family has historical roots. “Now I live in Goa. My paternal roots are from Goa. My mother is from Bengal and she has Bengali heritage and my father from Goa and he has got Goanese heritage. It's lovely coming back to my roots," he said, adding "at the end of the day, I play for saffron, white and green (Indian colours)." Showering accolades on Banerjee for working to develop the state, Peas said, “West Bengal is really well sorted. Some wonderful governance is going on in West Bengal which is the safest state in the country for women. Now, in Goa there are some great opportunities to do good things and I feel that there is a need for good, conscientious and clean governance.” Paes said he was confident "about TMC's good show" in Goa and said among plans are to work for women's safety, safe drinking water, electricity, roads and employment opportunities. "One out of four persons in Goa does not have a job, and this can be systematically taken care of by the government creating opportunities here," he pointed out. “At TMC Goa we have prepared a systematic plan to better the lives of Goans. And good, systematic governance is not rocket science,” he claimed. TMC has among other things, promised that if voted to power it would roll out a guaranteed income support to women. Paes, who has already started campaigning door to door, meeting people from different walks of the society, said candidature issues will be "clear in a few days’ time." Asked how difficult it is for him to adjust to his new `passion', Paes said, “though politics is very different from tennis," there are "certain points I can relate to". These, he said, include "similar discipline, team game(smanship)." "It’s just the way I had played for the country in the Davis Cup ... there are similar traits needed," said the tennis star, better known for his drop shots and volleying, than for his mastery on the clay court of politics. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/tennis-took-leander-paes-away-from-his-roots-directs-shot-at-new-court-of-politics-1060007.html
12-12-2021||National Politics||God bless Goa!: Chidambaram on TMC's pre-poll promise||A day after the Trinamool Congress (TMC) promised a direct cash transfer scheme for women in Goa if it is voted to power, senior Congress leader P Chidambaram took a dig at the Mamata Banerjee-led party, saying "God bless Goa!" TMC leader Mahua Moitra on Saturday said under the scheme titled Griha Laxmi, Rs 5,000 would be transferred to a woman of every household per month as guaranteed income support to counter inflation once her party comes to power in the coastal state. Responding to the announcement, Chidambaram, who is the Congress' Goa poll in-charge, in a tweet on Sunday said, “Here is a math that deserves the Nobel Prize in Economics. A monthly grant of Rs. 5000 to a woman in 3.5 lakh households in Goa will cost Rs 175 crore a month. That is Rs 2100 crore a year.” “It is a “small” sum for the State of Goa that had an outstanding debt of Rs. 23,473 crore at the end of March 2020. God bless Goa! Or should it be God save Goa?,” the former Union finance minister said in another tweet. Here is a math that deserves the Nobel Prize for Economics. A monthly grant of Rs. 5000 to a woman in 3.5 lakh households in Goa will cost Rs. 175 crore a month. That is Rs. 2100 crore a year. The TMC has announced that it would contest all the 40 seats in the state Assembly elections due early next year. Earlier, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), which will also contest the Goa polls, had promised that it would increase the remuneration provided to women in the coastal state under the state-sponsored scheme and also promised financial assistance to women not covered under it, if it is voted to power. On Friday, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra promised 30 per cent quota in jobs for women in Goa if her party comes to power in the state. She had claimed that the ruling BJP's ideology was "anti-women", and asked people to check the track-record of the new parties coming from "outside" to the state. In the 2017 Goa Assembly polls, the Congress had emerged as the single largest party by winning 17 seats, but failed to form government. The BJP had then tied-up with some regional outfits and independents to form government. The Congress now has only three legislators in the 40-member House. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/god-bless-goa-chidambaram-on-tmcs-pre-poll-promise-1060012.html
12-12-2021||National Politics||BJP still cautious over farm issues amid Opposition attack||Though farmers have suspended their agitation and have returned home, the BJP is still treading cautiously and opposition is leaving no chance to attack it on the issue. Only after the government repealed the three farm laws and agreed to certain demands, the farmers have returned to their homes after suspending the 15-month-long agitation. The opposition has termed it as a victory of farmers and defeat of the government. But given the seriousness and sensitivity of the issue in the poll season, the BJP is reacting very cautiously to it. Though the BJP leaders have been claiming that the farmers' stir will not have any impact on the assembly polls, many say it is because of the agitation, they were not able to campaign according to their plan and agenda as the party has been setting the agenda for others to follow in polls. This time, the BJP faced several challenges due to the farmers' agitation, but now the most relieved is the saffron party as farmers have ended their over year-long agitation and gone back home. Soon after farmers suspended their stir, Union Minister Sanjeev Balyan expressed happiness, saying that he is elated as farmers will return home "satisfied". Balyan who is also Muzaffarnagar Lok Sabha MP and a senior Jat leader told IANS, "After farmers return to their homes, we will be able to reach out to people with our agenda. Earlier, everyone used to talk about farmers agitation and when it will be called off." "Now, we will go to people and tell them about the achievements of our government, steps taken for farmers' welfare and now will decide the agenda," he further said. How much the farmers' issue is important and sensitive for the BJP can be gauged from the fact that the government was nowhere seen playing from the front on the issue -- whether it is about the demands, government's proposal, letters sent to the farmers union, nothing was shared by the Centre, it was the farmers' leaders who shared the government's proposal with the media. This could be the reason the party is responding to the farmers' issue very cautiously even as the opposition is terming it as the BJP's defeat. BJP Kisan Morcha national president and Fatehpur Sikri MP Rajkumar Chahar said, it is not a matter of win or defeat but about honour and respect of farmers. He said Prime Minister Narendra Modi repealed the three farm laws keeping in mind the self-respect of the farmers. Demand regarding stubble burning was also accepted and a committee is being formed for the MSP, Chahar added. "The government's agenda is clear -- Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas and Sabka Vishwas, therefore, the government took this decision in the best interest of all," he claimed. The decision has nothing to do with the elections, Chahar opined. Though the farmers have returned home after suspending their agitation, the farmers' organisations said they will continue pursuing their demands and opposition parties will continue attacking the government, so it is clear that this issue is not going to die down soon. In western Uttar Pradesh, from where Rashtriya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait hails, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav and Rashtriya Lok Dal chief Jayant Chaudhary have said they will continue to flag this issue and in Punjab, the Congress and the AAP will continue to attack the saffron party over the same. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-still-cautious-over-farm-issues-amid-opposition-attack-1060027.html
12-12-2021||National Politics||TMC making false promises in Goa with eye on electoral gains: BJP||The BJP on Sunday hit out at the TMC over its promise to dole out Rs 5,000 a month to a woman member of a family in poll-bound Goa, stating that the Mamata Banerjee-led camp was giving "false assurance" to people there with an eye on electoral gains. The saffron party also pointed out that the TMC, however, "did not say much about job generation" in the western coastal state. The TMC on Saturday announced that it will launch 'Griha Lakshmi' scheme in Goa, if voted to power, much like 'Lakshmir Bhandar' in Bengal, and a woman member of every family will be provided income support of Rs 5,000 per month. Leader of Opposition in West Bengal Suvendu Adhikari and BJP National Vice-President Dilip Ghosh wondered why the TMC was willing to give Rs 5,000 per month to the women of Goa when the party is doling out just Rs 500 to Rs 1,000 for the beneficiaries of Bengal. "The promise of Rs 5,000 is a false one, made to bag votes in Goa. The TMC will never be able to fulfil it. The party will meet the same fate it did in Tripura. Also, where is this money coming from? "Strangely, there was no word about generating employment opportunities or addressing livelihood issues of people," Ghosh told reporters. Adhikari said the disparity in the amount promised by the TMC in the two states is "upsetting". "The TMC that gives Rs 500 to 1,000 to our mothers in Bengal is willing to provide Rs 5,000 for every mother in Goa? Isn't it insulting for the womenfolk of Bengal?" he sought to know. In a similar vein, CPI(M) central committee member Sujan Chakraborty said the "tall talk" by the TMC was aimed at garnering votes. "Also, we oppose this dole politics of the TMC," he added. The state spokesperson of the TMC, Kunal Ghosh, claimed that the BJP was "jealous" of his party's popularity in the western state. "We don't give false assurances. The promises made by the TMC in Bengal are being fulfilled by the party. The BJP is jealous of TMC's growing popularity in Goa," he added. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/tmc-making-false-promises-in-goa-with-eye-on-electoral-gains-bjp-1060093.html
12-12-2021||National Politics||Misgovernance order of the day under BJP, Modi does not respond to letters, claims Gehlot||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Sunday accused the Centre of misgovernance and alleged that Prime Minister Narendra Modi did not respond to letters sent by him. Whenever the state made a demand, the Centre did not care, Gehlot said addressing a Congress rally on price rise. Gehlot alleged that misgovernance has existed since the Modi government came to power. “When a letter is written to the prime minister, no reply comes. Narendra Modi would be the first prime minister in the country who is not answering the letters of a chief minister, guess in which direction this country is going,” he said. He said the country is passing through a serious situation. “Farmers were killed, the price of petrol, diesel, cooking gas and everything else has increased,” he said while holding policies of the Centre responsible for inflation. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/misgovernance-order-of-the-day-under-bjp-modi-does-not-respond-to-letters-claims-gehlot-1060125.html
12-12-2021||National Politics||UP Polls: BJP looks to strengthen party at booth-level, asks heads to get 100 voters each||As it gears for a tight contest in Uttar Pradesh, the Bharatiya Janata Party is centring its efforts from the booth level. The booth will be the focal point of the party’s massive outreach in the upcoming elections in India’s largest state, said leaders in the know. The party has deputed a member in each of the state’s 1.3 lakh booths. “There are anywhere between 900 to 1,000 voters in every booth. The booth committee president’s job is to bring in maximum votes for the party,” said a party functionary from the state involved in the efforts.  Apart from data collection and other activities, each booth president has also been deputed to get in 100 voters as party members to make the campaign a success, the functionary said.  The party’s decentralised organisational hierarchy has seen it through several elections, and the same will be up for the battleground in UP. The party has a position of panna pramukh, who is responsible for reaching out to over 48 households listed on a single page of the voter list. “Voter verification, strengthening the organisation at the booth level are part of the job of the panna pramukh,” said the functionary.  For Monday’s programme at the Kashi Vishwanath where the BJP is doing a show of strength, the booth committee presidents have been asked to go to various temples and view the live feed with people.   Party president J P Nadda, in his address during the party’s national executive in November, had said that while the party has committees in 85 per cent of the country’s 10.4 lakh booths, the deadline to finish the remaining 15 per cent was set at December 25 this year. He had also set a deadline for a panna pramukh for every page of the voter list by April 2022.   “The booth is the key to the party’s electoral campaigns. The motto is mera booth, sabse majboot,” said BJP spokesperson Gopal Krishna Agarwal. The party functionary said that each booth committee has a three-rung hierarchy and there is an effort to have a representative from different sets of voters. “The booth prabhari (president) is usually from the community that the booth represents,” said the functionary.  In UP this week, Nadda addressed booth presidents two days in a row, in Meerut on Saturday and at Etah a day later, just weeks after home minister Amit Shah addressed a similar gathering. More such plans are in the pipeline. In Meerut, where 22,000 booth presidents turned up, UP CM Yogi Adityanath reiterated that the booth is the key to electoral success. “If we strengthen the BJP at booth-level, then the party will win more than 325 assembly seats in the state,” CM Yogi told a gathering of BJP booth presidents in Etah Sunday.  Nadda told the booth presidents that apart from taking the message of the promises made by the BJP government in the Centre and the state, they must also convey the work done by the party leadership and crores of workers during the Covid-19 pandemic.  Other than the electoral jobs, the booth presidents have also been asked to ensure sit-in sessions of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s fortnightly radio programme, 'Mann Ki Baat'.    Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/up-polls-bjp-looks-to-strengthen-party-at-booth-level-asks-heads-to-get-100-voters-each-1060147.html
12-12-2021||National Politics||Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij hits back at Rahul's 'Hindutva' comment||Hours after Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said that India is a country of Hindus and not Hindutvadis, Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij on Sunday said that one who is not a Hindutvadi, even if he is a Hindu, is a fake Hindu. Addressing a rally in Jaipur, Gandhi said India is a country of Hindus and not Hindutvadis, and called for their ousting so that 'Hindus' can run it again. "One who is not a Hindutvadi, even though he is a Hindu, is a fake Hindu," Vij said in a tweet in Hindi.    जो हिन्दू होकर भी हिंदुत्ववादि नहीं है वह नकली हिन्दू है ।   Gandhi said if there is inflation in the country and there is suffering, then this has been done by Hindutvadis. "This is a country of Hindus, not Hindutvadis. If there is inflation in the country and there is suffering, then this has been done by Hindutvadis. Hindutvadis want power at any cost," he said addressing the rally against rising inflation. Describing Hindu and Hindutva as two different words, Gandhi said just as two living beings cannot have one soul, two words cannot have the same meaning. A Hindu is one who is not afraid of anyone, embraces everyone and respects all religions, the Congress leader said. He said Hindutvadis want power at any cost. Mahatma Gandhi was a Hindu and Godse was Hindutvadi, he said, stressing that a Hindu continuously searches for truth and spends his entire life in its search just like Mahatma Gandhi. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/haryana-home-minister-anil-vij-hits-back-at-rahuls-hindutva-comment-1060155.html
12-12-2021||National Politics||Shashi Tharoor takes a dig at BJP with his 'word of the day'||Senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor, known for his penchant for rarely used English words, took a dig at the BJP on Sunday with another head-scratcher — allodoxaphobia. Tweeting his "word of the day", Tharoor explained that allodoxaphobia means an irrational fear of opinions. Giving an example of how to use the word, the Congress leader wrote, "The BJP government in UP slaps sedition and UAPA cases on people because its leadership suffers from allodoxaphobia." "Word of the day, indeed of the last seven years: Allodoxaphobia. Meaning: an irrational fear of opinions. Usage: 'The BJP government in UP slaps sedition & UAPA cases on people because its leadership suffers from allodoxaphobia'," he tweeted.   Word of the day, indeed of the last seven years: *Allodoxaphobia* Meaning: an irrational fear of opinions. Usage: “The BJP government in UP slaps sedition& UAPA cases on people because its leadership suffers from allodoxaphobia.”(Greek: Allo=different, doxo=opinion,phobos=fear Explaining the word further, he wrote that in "Greek -- Allo=different, doxo= opinion, phobos=fear". This is not the first time Tharoor has sent Twitterati scurrying for their dictionaries. In the past, he has stumped people with rarely used English words such as "farrago" and "troglodyte". While farrago means a confused mixture, a troglodyte means a person regarded as being deliberately ignorant or old-fashioned. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/shashi-tharoor-takes-a-dig-at-bjp-with-his-word-of-the-day-1060190.html
12-12-2021||National Politics||BJP's apparel not Indian, ideals inspired by Hitler, Mussolini, says Baghel||Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel on Sunday said dictators Adolf Hitler and Benito Mussolini are the “ideals” of BJP whose ideology is “imported” and based on spreading false propaganda. In an apparent attack targetting RSS, the ideological mentor of BJP, the Congress leader said, “You can see their culture. They wear shorts and black hats and play the drums. These are not Indian costumes. They are inspired by the same (Hitler and Mussolini) and work accordingly.” Baghel was talking to reporters at the Swami Vivekanand Airport in Raipur after returning from Jaipur where he attended a Congress rally. When asked whether Rahul Gandhi has set a new narrative of Hindus versus Hindutvavadi, Baghel said, “The ideology of BJP is imported. Congress has derived its ideology from the tradition of rishi munis (sages). Be it Shankaracharya, Gautam Buddha, Guru Nanak Dev, Kabir or Guru Ghasidas, all our rishi munis have spoken about the truth. The same thing was written by Mahatma Gandhi in his autobiography- 'My experiments with truth'”. He alleged that BJP's foundation is based on lies and fraud and thus its ideals are Hitler and Mussolini. "Repeat a lie a hundred times and it becomes the truth. In the same way, they (BJP) have been indulging in misleading and deceiving the whole country. You must have remembered that a few years ago, Lord Ganesh ji's (idols) began drinking milk (offered by their devotees) all over the country. "Similarly, if hydroelectric power is generated through (moving) water, the water will lose its energy and if it is supplied to farms (for irrigation ) then such water will be useless. These are the people who had spread such false propaganda,” the CM added. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjps-apparel-not-indian-ideals-inspired-by-hitler-mussolini-says-baghel-1060197.html
12-12-2021||North and Central||Punjab moves SC against enhancing BSF jurisdiction||The Punjab government has approached the Supreme Court against the Centre’s decision to increase the territorial jurisdiction of Border Security Force from 15 kms to 50 kms off for bordering states, saying the development is likely to give rise to unrest among the populace, including the peasantry. The original suit filed by the Punjab government under Article 131 of the Constitution, challenged the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) notification of October 11, 2021.  The state government contended that the notification violated  Entries 1 (public order) and 2 (police) of List II (State List) of Schedule VII of the Constitution. The suit, filed through advocate Ashok K Mahajan, said, “the notification amounts to encroachment upon the powers and role of Punjab by the Centre in as much as more than 80% area of the border districts, all the major towns and cities including all the district headquarters of these border districts fall within 50 kms area from Indo-Pakistan international border”.   The suit contended that the notification is ultra-vires the Constitution, as it defeats the purpose of Entry 1 and 2 of List-II of Schedule 7 of the Constitution and encroaches upon plaintiff's plenary authority to legislate on issue which relate to or are necessary for the maintenance of public order and internal peace. The state government argued that Centre has departed from the principle of federalism, as it has no power to make any laws in respect of the matters enumerated in List-II of Schedule 7 of the Constitution. “The plaintiff further states that the unilateral declaration without consulting the plaintiff-state of Punjab or without conducting any consultative process is violative of the provisions of the Constitution”, added the suit. It further added that BSF jurisdiction in Punjab has remained 15 km from the border in all the previous notifications issued by the MHA since 1969.  The suit said Punjab's geography and concerns are strikingly different from other border areas like Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Gujarat and Rajasthan.  The Punjab government said the border area in the state is densely populated, whereas the same in Gujarat and Rajasthan comprises saline marshes and desert land respectively.  “In case of Punjab, the area is highly fertile, heavily populated and covers most of the physical areas forming part of the border districts of Pathankot, Gurdaspur, Amritsar, Tarn Taran, Ferozepur, Fazlika etc., More ever, geographically, the state of Punjab is small state, but has a very potent history and therefore, its case and concerns are distinguishable and no reason can justify the extension of jurisdiction to the belt of 50 kms," it said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-moves-sc-against-enhancing-bsf-jurisdiction-1059942.html
12-12-2021||North and Central||Newly recruited JeM militant killed in Kashmir||A newly recruited militant of Jaish-i-Muhammad outfit was killed in an encounter with security forces in Awantipora area of south Kashmir’s Pulwama district on Sunday. “#AwantiporaEncounterUpdate: 01 unidentified #terrorist killed. #Operation going on. Further details shall follow (sic),” Kashmir Zone Police tweeted. The gun fight broke out in Baragam area of Pulwama during wee hours today after the security forces cordoned off the area following inputs about the presence of militants there, reports said. A police official said as the security forces approached towards the suspected spot, the hiding militants fired upon them, which was retaliated, triggering an encounter in which one ultra was killed. The slain militant was identified as Sameer Ahmad Tantray of Bargam, Awantipora affiliated with the JeM. Tantary, according to police, had joined militant ranks on November 2 and was a C- category militant. 154 militants have been killed in the Valley so far this year, of which 132 were locals and 22 Pakistanis. In 2020, the number of militants killed in the Valley stood at 195. According to official estimates over 200 militants were still active in the Valley. “Among the active militants, 80 are believed to be from Pakistan and more than 120 are locals. Between January and July this year, 76 locals picked up arms and by now the number may have reached 100,” a senior police officer said. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/newly-recruited-jem-militant-killed-in-kashmir-1059954.html
12-12-2021||North and Central||No permission for 'aarti' at Mathura mosque||The Akhil Bharat Hindu Mahasabha has been denied permission to hold 'aarti' of Lord Krishna at the Shahi Idgah mosque in Mathura. In a letter sent to the national president of the organisation, Rajyashree Chaudhuri, the district administration said permission has not been granted "in the interest of law and order and peaceful atmosphere of the city. Section 144, prohibiting public gatherings, is in force in the city since November 24 and will continue till January 21". Chaudhuri said: "Earlier, the administration) refused permission citing communal harmony in the city. This time, they have said it would violate Covid norms. These are lame excuses." The Mahasabha has now announced that it would launch a 'referendum' for construction of the Krishna Janmabhoomi temple from January 26 at Kurukshetra, the land where Krishna gave 'Gita' sermons to Arjun. This is the second time in less than two weeks that the Mathura administration has stopped the Mahasabha from going ahead with their programme at the Shahi Idgah. The outfit had earlier announced it would install Krishna's idol at the Shahi Idgah on December 6. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-permission-for-aarti-at-mathura-mosque-1059964.html
12-12-2021||North and Central||Sonia, Rahul, Priyanka set to attend rally against price rise in Jaipur||Congress President Sonia Gandhi along with leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi will attend a national-level party rally in Jaipur against rising inflation on Sunday afternoon. Congress leaders from various parts of Rajasthan have already arrived in Jaipur to take part in the rally, which will be held at Vidhyadhar Nagar stadium. "Today is a historic day for Rajasthan when a national rally is being organized in Jaipur to protest against the rising inflation due to wrong policies of the central government, in which all the senior leaders of the party including the top Congress leadership are participating," Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot said in a series of tweets in Hindi. "I welcome Congress President Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi to the land of Rajasthan," he said. He said a message will be sent across the country from the rally that the time has come to oppose the wrong policies of the BJP government at the Centre. The rally will pave the way for the downfall of the NDA government, Gehlot said. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sonia-rahul-priyanka-set-to-attend-rally-against-price-rise-in-jaipur-1059965.html
12-12-2021||North and Central||All is not rosy at Corbusier's Rose Garden in Chandigarh||When Swiss-French urban planner Le Corbusier planned a 114-sq km landlocked Union Territory of Chandigarh as the joint capital of Punjab and Haryana, he promised the residents a rose garden, literally. But a majority of the roses have wilted and so has a blooming aspect of his heritage. Asia's largest rose garden, the Zakir Hussain Rose Garden, which came into existence in 1967 and was named after the third President of India, Dr Zakir Hussain, a keen horticulturist, is lying in a state of neglect. The maintenance of the garden, spread over 30 acres, seems not to be a bed of roses for the authorities. Weeds in the flower beds and the fallen leaves all around narrate a tale of neglect and callousness, say daily visitors. The authorities, however, insist this is the time when pruned plants rejuvenate. But nothing explains the feeling of utter disregard for the heritage site when one visits the garden included in the list of places of tourist interest. The rose garden, inaugurated by the city's first Chief Commissioner M.S. Randhawa, in the heart of the city in Sector 16, has over 50,000 roses of approximately 800 varieties, comprising exotic ones, in 1,400 flower beds. Officials told IANS that the rose garden was set up with the aim to flourish the existing varieties and develop new ones. Most of the varieties have been named after major leaders, Indian and international, as a tribute to them like President Giri, Queen Elizabeth. "This City Beautiful's heritage is fast deteriorating. And if do not care properly, it will no longer be the city we anticipated," remarked octogenarian Gurdev Bhullar, a retired government employee who has been visiting the garden almost daily for over four decades. Pointing towards the wilting roses, he said, "You can see lack of proper care with the mushroom growth of weeds on the beds with many of the plants withered and dead." "Let's keep its soul alive," he added while pleading with the authorities. Tourist Pallak Aggarwal, who visited the garden for the first time, said she was surprised by the callousness of the authorities towards Asia's biggest Rose Garden. "I was expecting to be greeted by blooming flowers. Most of the flowerbeds had no roses. Also, nothing has been done to treat mealybugs. The authorities need to get serious about how to keep the roses blooming throughout the season," she added. However, authorities blame lack of funds and regular employees for the maintenance of the garden that normally attracts hundreds of visitors for its bad condition. "The withering of flowers is a seasonal phenomenon. Every year in November-December we replace the wilted and old plants with the new ones. On an average 10 per cent of the plants need replacement and we are currently planting 5,000 new ones," a horticulture department official, requesting anonymity as he is not authorised to speak to the media, told IANS. He said most of the gardeners hired for its maintenance were only for a limited duration owing to lack of funds. "Earlier we used to have regular gardeners responsible for round-the-year care. Now we hire them on a daily basis and that too for a few months. Secondly, we used to prepare saplings in our nurseries. Now owing to shortage of regular gardeners and funds, the nurseries have shut. We are now depending on the private nurseries for the new and existing varieties," he added. The Municipal Corporation of Chandigarh has been holding a three-day Rose Festival in February -- a popular calendar event of the City Beautiful that sees flower competitions, rose quiz, rose prince and princess, rose king and queen, kite flying and on-the-spot painting contest. February 2022 will be the 50th festival with an outlay of approximately Rs 85 lakh. Of late, a helicopter joyride is one the most popular side events in the festival. The last festival was symbolic and largely muted owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. Anguished non-resident Indian Shveta Gujral, who is visiting her hometown after a decade and a half, added: "Once we felt like being lost in a mystical paradise in the Rose Garden developed in European style. It is sad to see plants withering and dying here and there. The branches need to be pruned and the soil changed." "The next time we will not stop here," her husband Abhijit Gujral added. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/all-is-not-rosy-at-corbusiers-rose-garden-in-chandigarh-1059977.html
12-12-2021||North and Central||Farmers' stir: The backroom team that bolstered the movement||The success of farmers' agitation that continued on the Delhi borders for almost 380 days can be attributed not only to the farmers alone but also to a backroom team that provided crucial support to the movement. Several people, coming from different walks of life, devoted their time to the movement to make it successful and that the message of farmers reaches the general public. They also looked after the arrangements for the people joining the movement. These people were instrumental in arranging several things for farmers at protest sites, be it langars or tents. It is this well-oiled machinery that facilitated the farmers to face the cold, heat, rain and storm. While farm leaders were leading from the front, sounding the bugle against the government, giving sound bytes to TV cameras, behind the scene were several others who were engaged in giving life to the movement. These comprised a wide range of people from football players to college students. While elderly farmers made strategies at the agitation sites, the young implemented them. The backroom team also looked after the replacement of damaged tents and other such paraphernalia, which played a key role in strengthening the movement and helped the farmers stay at the agitation sites. In the initial days, several rumours were spread against the farmers, and proving these wrong was a big challenge. After a few days, a young participant proposed to form an IT cell to tackle such rumours and to strengthen the movement, which the farmer leaders accepted. Baljit Singh, a resident of Punjab, created an IT cell for the farmers and helped churn out official statements as made by farmer organisations. The IT cell also ran social media campaigns to send farmers messages across the country and the world to counter misinformation. Baljit Singh told IANS, "In the beginning, wrong things were said about the farmers and we needed something to counter it. Also, there were several organisations in the movement, so it was also necessary to convey their statements through one platform. We created an IT cell and started running it." "Every morning we started posting things related to the movement, created hashtags which were also spread across the world. Attempts were made to shut out various social media accounts but all their efforts failed." Baljeet had several supporting hands who hid their identities to carry out the social media campaign. One young woman was assigned to gather information about the farmers who died during the agitation. Then Anuroop Sandhu and his associates started gathering information about all the farmers who died during the agitation. Sandhu informed that so far 714 farmers died. "We collected all the information from the public platform, wherein one of our colleagues also contributed a lot. With the help of death certificates and news reports, we together started compiling data of all the deceased farmers. Several farmers died of heart attacks, while many women farmers were crushed to death," Sandhu told IANS. "We needed a platform where we can give information about all the farmers so that they could be remembered in future and their contribution could not be forgotten." Although there was a problem of language in the beginning as people from various parts of the country came to the agitation sites. Their languages were different, due to which it became difficult for other farmers to make sense. But with efforts by some young farmers, the issue was resolved. Harinder Happy looked after the task of delivering farmers messages to the media. He brought with him people who could speak different languages and they worked to send press releases in Hindi, Punjabi and English to the media. He was accompanied by Sajanit Mangat who was good at making excel sheets. Happy told IANS, "Farmers from different parts of the country joined the movement, they came from Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Punjab, Haryana and other states - all communicated in different languages." "We thought of making press releases in Hindi, English and Punjabi because many reporters did not know Hindi and English, they knew only Punjabi, some knew some other languages, so we started sending information in all three languages." Medical facilities were also set up at borders to help ailing farmers. Dr Avtar Singh ran makeshift clinics at agitation sites. If a patient was sick, he was admitted and treated, and if his condition worsened, he was shifted to a proper hospital by ambulance. As elderly farmers were more in numbers, proper monitoring of their blood pressure, consultation and other assistance were provided by the doctors available at these medical camps, who supported the movement and kept serving the same farmers. There were some others who worked to strengthen the movement, fulfilling different responsibilities and according to them, they will continue to serve in the same way selflessly. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmers-stir-the-backroom-team-that-bolstered-the-movement-1059997.html
12-12-2021||North and Central||PDP youth convention disallowed, Mehbooba under 'house arrest'||Authorities on Sunday barred the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) from holding a youth convention here citing COVID-19 restrictions, with party chief Mehbooba Mufti describing the move as “sabotage”. The convention of the youth wing of the party was scheduled to take place at the PDP president's 'Fairview' residence on Gupkar Road here. However, all roads leading to the venue were sealed by the police and no movement was allowed on the road. Journalists were also barred from moving towards the venue. A PDP spokesperson claimed that Mufti was placed under house arrest. However, there was no official confirmation. In an order, the Executive Magistrate, First Class, South Srinagar said in view of the report received from the Senior Superintendent of Police and in view of COVID-19 restrictions in place, “it is hereby ordered that the scheduled youth conference that is to be held by PDP at Gupkar is hereby not allowed." The magistrate directed the station house officer concerned to "ensure" that no such event takes place "without the permission of the competent authority." PDP spokesperson Najam-us-Saqib said the party activists were barred from moving towards Mufti's residence. After the convention at Mufti's residence was foiled, the party tried to hold it at its headquarters near Sher-e-Kashmir Park here, “but the office was also sealed by the administration," the spokesperson said. He claimed that Mufti was placed under house arrest. In a video message put up on her party's Twitter handle, Mufti described the move by the authorities as “sabotage”. “I wanted to speak to the young people associated with my party. Now they (authorities) remember Covid and sabotage this event,” she alleged. The former chief minister of the erstwhile state of J-K charged that the government was looking for new ways to “deny rights” to the youth of Kashmir and to “pull them away from democracy and push them on the path to violence”. “So that it is easier for them to rough them up or throw them in jail. This is what they have been doing for the last three years,” she added. Mufti said the party's activists from all parts of the valley wanted to come and meet and have a conversation. “They wanted to talk about the situation in J-K.... They (the government) don't let young people leave their homes. If they do, they become victims of either the bullet or the baton or are thrown in jail,” she alleged. Mufti charged, that the government is “pushing you (youngsters) on purpose to a path of violence” so that “it is easy for them to fire at you, charge at you”. “But, we don't have to give up and we don't have to bend. I am proud of you because they are afraid of you, not me. They are afraid of your strength and your will," she said. The PDP chief said her party will continue the “struggle, peacefully and democratically, for J-K's prosperity, unity, dignity and to resolve the Kashmir issue”. She said that on the one hand, the prime minister talked to US President Joe Biden about India's democracy, but on the other, in Kashmir they have allegedly destroyed it. “We all have to come together, especially the youth. We have to show them that we are not afraid of them. If we were afraid, then we would also make compromises like other parties.  "If we had done that, we would not be denied permission to hold a meeting citing Covid. In the last week, all other leaders and parties are travelling to different parts and holding rallies. When PDP decided to do the same, we were denied. Why?” she said. Asking the youth to remain steadfast, Mufti said the authorities “may have shut the doors and barred you from coming here, but I will reach you to take forward the agenda for which PDP was created -- to resolve the Kashmir issue and restore our dignity”. “They've taken away everything from Kashmir. I am shocked that the government here is so afraid of the PDP. They are not afraid of other parties, so why us?” she said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pdp-youth-convention-disallowed-mehbooba-under-house-arrest-1060004.html
12-12-2021||North and Central||India won direct war in 1971, it will also win indirect war against Pak-induced terrorism, says Rajnath Singh||India won the direct war against Pakistan in 1971 and it will also win the ongoing indirect war against Pakistan-induced terrorism, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Sunday. The 1971 war showed that India's division -- at the time of its independence from the British rule -- in the name of religion was a "historic mistake", he said. "Pakistan wants to break India by promoting terrorism and other anti-India activities," the minister said in his speech at the inaugural ceremony of Swarnim Vijay Parv (Golden jubilee celebration) to commemorate India's victory over Pakistan in the 1971 war. The Indian armed forces defeated all its plans in the 1971 war and they are currently working to uproot the menace of terrorism, Singh noted. "We won the direct war and I can fully assure that we will win the indirect war too," he added. The minister said the Indian government had planned to conduct this Swarnim Vijay Parv in a more glorious manner. "However, due to untimely death of the country's first Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat, his wife and 11 other armed forces personnel, it was decided to conduct this event with simplicity," he mentioned. "Today, at this event, I remember each one of them and pay my tribute to them," he noted. Rawat, his wife and 11 other armed forces personnel were killed when a military chopper carrying them crashed near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu on December 8. One person -- Group Captain Varun Singh -- survived the crash. "Indian Air Force's officer Group Captain Varun Singh is getting his treatment at the Command Hospital in Bengaluru," Singh said. "I am continuously in contact with him and we are regularly in contact with his father. We all pray that he is relieved from hospital soon after becoming healthy and he does his duty as before," he mentioned. Because of General Rawat's demise, India has lost a courageous soldier, a capable advisor and a lively human being, he noted. "He was extremely excited regarding this Swarnim Vijay Parv's celebration. He discussed various issues related to the organisation of this event with me personally. Therefore, I miss him a lot today," he mentioned. The minister inaugurated the "Wall of Fame-1971 Indo-Pak war" at Sunday's event. He also visited the display of military equipment at the event. He said the valour that was shown by the Indian armed forces during the 1971 war has always been a subject of pride for every Indian. During the last one year, many events have been organised all across the country as a part of Swarnim Vijay Varsh celebrations (Golden jubilee year celebrations), he noted. "The 1971 war was not just against the Pakistani army but also against injustice and atrocities. It was not just a victory of India over Pakistan, but also of justice over injustice," he said. This war is an excellent example of our democratic traditions, just behaviour and ethics and everyone in the world knows that he said. "India has never attacked another country and never occupied a single inch of another country. India helped in the establishment of democratic traditions in Bangladesh and we are really helpful that in the last 50 years, it is moving really fast on the road of development," Singh noted. Bangladesh is a subject of inspiration for the entire world, he mentioned. "This (1971) war also shows that India's division on the basis of religion was a historic mistake. Pakistan's birth took place in the name of one religion but it couldn't remain as one," he noted. Since the 1971 war, Pakistan is regularly conducting an indirect war against India, he said. "The feeling of antagonism towards India is so deep-rooted in Pakistan that it can be seen in the name that it has given to its missiles," Singh noted. Pakistan's missiles have been named after the cruel invaders -- Ghauri, Ghaznavi and Abdali -- who invaded India, the minister added. "Someone should ask the Pakistan government that these invaders also attacked the people living in the geographical area of Pakistan," he said. On the other hand, India's missiles have been named such as Aakash (Sky), Prithvi (Earth) and Agni (Fire), he mentioned. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/india-won-direct-war-in-1971-it-will-also-win-indirect-war-against-pak-induced-terrorism-says-rajnath-singh-1060010.html
12-12-2021||North and Central||CDS chopper crash: Mortal remains Naik Gursewak Singh being taken to native village in Tarn Taran||The mortal remains of Naik Gursewak Singh, who died in the IAF chopper crash near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu, reached Amritsar on Sunday. The body is being taken to his native village of Dode Sodhian in neighbouring Tarn Taran district where the last rites will be conducted with military honours, officials said. Naik Singh had bid goodbye to his family last month in Dode Sodhian village when his leave ended. After the helicopter crash, the family waited for his return -- this time in a casket draped with the tricolour. The 35-year-old soldier was killed when a helicopter carrying Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat and 13 others crashed near Coonoor on Wednesday. General Rawat, his wife Madhulika and his Defence Adviser Brigadier L S Lidder were among the 13 people killed in the crash. The mortal remains of Naik Singh, which were transported to Amritsar by military aircraft, were identified through DNA testing. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cds-chopper-crash-mortal-remains-naik-gursewak-singh-being-taken-to-native-village-in-tarn-taran-1060011.html
12-12-2021||North and Central||Priyanka Gandhi slams Modi government at Jaipur rally||Attacking the Narendra Modi government at the Centre, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Sunday charged that the BJP government wants to sell to its industrialist friends whatever her party had built in 70 years. She said when elections come, BJP leaders talk of China or other countries, casteism, communalism but not about the struggles of the people and asked what the Modi government has done in seven years of its rule. “It is your responsibility to make the government accountable, it is your responsibility to ask why there is so much inflation,” she said while addressing a national level rally against inflation here. Gandhi alleged that the government is working for select industrialist friends instead of working for the good of the people and farmers of the country. "There are two types of government. The goal of the first type of government is service, dedication and truthfulness to the public and there is a government whose target is lies, greed and loot...The target of the present central government is lies, greed and loot,” she alleged. “The Modi government at the Centre repeatedly questions what Congress has done in 70 years. I say leave the talk of 70 years. Tell us what you have done in seven years?” she asked, She charged that whatever the Congress built in 70 years, the Central government wants to sell it to industrialist friends. Targeting the Uttar Pradesh government, Gandhi charged that the Yogi Adityanath dispensation is spending crores of rupees on advertisements but has failed in getting farmers fertiliser. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/priyanka-gandhi-slams-modi-government-at-jaipur-rally-1060013.html
12-12-2021||North and Central||Army officer shoots himself dead in Jammu & Kashmir's Ramban||An army officer allegedly committed suicide by shooting himself with his service weapon at a military camp in the Ramban district of Jammu and Kashmir, police said Sunday. Around 10.30 pm on Saturday night, the personnel at the Khari police post received information that an Army officer identified as Major Parvinder Singh of Priyadarshini Vihar, New Delhi, posted as Company Commander Alpha Coy Mahubal of 23 Rashtriya Rifles shot himself with AK-47 service rifle at his residential quarter in Army Camp, Banihal, Ramban. The reason behind the suicide was not known immediately. “No suicide note or any other document was found from the spot,” police said and added as the death has occurred under mysterious circumstances, inquest proceedings U/S 174 CrPC has been initiated to find out the reasons that led the officer to take an extreme step. Suicides and fratricide incidents were common among security forces personnel deployed in restive Kashmir from the early 1990s till 2010. A research carried by a leading sociologist of the valley in 2012 had revealed that 1,500-2,000 soldiers committed suicide from 1990-2011. The research, by the late Bashir Ahmad Dabla, then head of the Department of Sociology, Kashmir University, revealed that the majority of the soldiers who committed suicides were married persons. However, in 2006, recognising the rising fratricide and suicide cases among the armed forces, the then defence minister had constituted an expert group of psychiatrists under the Defence Institute of Psychological Research in order to suggest remedial measures to prevent suicide and fratricide incidents. Over the last decade, incidents of suicides and fratricide have reportedly reduced in the army as the force has taken measures to address the issue. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/army-officer-shoots-himself-dead-in-jammu-kashmirs-ramban-1060015.html
12-12-2021||North and Central||India a country of Hindus, not Hindutvadis, says Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday said India is a country of Hindus and not Hindutvadis, who want to be in power in any condition. He said if there is inflation in the country and there is suffering, then this has been done by Hindutvadis. "This is a country of Hindus, not Hindutvadis. If there is inflation in the country and there is suffering, then this has been done by Hindutvadis. Hindutvadis want power in any condition," Rahul said addressing a rally against rising inflation here. He targeted Prime Minister Narendra Modi, saying his friends have "ruined" the country. "Modi Ji and his three-four industrialist friends ruined the country in seven years," Rahul alleged. Describing Hindu and Hindutva as two different words, Rahul said just as two living beings cannot have one soul, two words cannot have the same meaning. A Hindu is one who is not afraid of anyone and embraces everyone, the Congress leader said. Mahatma Gandhi was a Hindu and Godse was Hindutvadi, the Congress leader said, stressing that a Hindu continuously searches for truth and spends his entire life for the search just like Mahatma Gandhi. But, in the end, one Hindutvadi fired three bullets in his chest, Rahul said. Hindutvadi spends his entire life for power whether he has to beat or kill someone, he said. "This is Sattagrah and not Satyagrah," Rahul said. "I am Hindu and not Hindutvadi," he added. He said, "Hindutvadis have to be ousted once again and the rule of Hindus have to be brought in the country." Earlier, speaking at the rally, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra slammed the Modi-led Union government, saying it wants to sell to its industrialist friends whatever her party had built in 70 years. She alleged that the government is working for select industrialist friends instead of working for the good of people and farmers. "There are two types of government. The goal of the first type of government is service, dedication and truthfulness to the public and there is a government whose target is lies, greed and loot...The target of the present central government is lies, greed and loot,” she alleged. “The Modi government at the Centre repeatedly questions what Congress has done in 70 years. I say leave the talk of 70 years. Tell us what you have done in seven years,” she asked. She said when elections come, BJP leaders talk of China or other countries, casteism and communalism but not about the struggles of the people and asked what the Modi government has done in seven years of its rule. "It is your responsibility to make the government accountable, it is your responsibility to ask why there is so much inflation," she said addressing the gathering. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/india-a-country-of-hindus-not-hindutvadis-says-rahul-gandhi-1060021.html
12-12-2021||North and Central||UP fully prepared for possible third wave of Covid-19: Yogi||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday said the government is fully prepared to tackle Covid-19 in case there is a third wave. He also said India has the "best" Covid-19 management system in the world and Uttar Pradesh managed the pandemic situation the best in India. "At a time when the world is apprehensive of a third wave of Covid-19, the Centre and the UP government are fully prepared. We are conducting free tests, giving free treatment and administering vaccines free of cost, besides running a campaign to provide free food grains," he said during the inaugural ceremony of Nishulk Ration Vitaran Mahaabhiyaan (free ration distribution campaign) here. The initiative intends to provide ration to about 15 crore people. Urging the people to get vaccinated, the chief minister said third wave in certain parts of the world has shown that those vaccinated against the virus were safer. "The vaccine is a suraksha kavach (safety cover)," he said. Taking a jibe at the opposition, Adityanath said, "Many people have run a propaganda against vaccination. They have weakened the country's fight against Covid-19. They have secretly gotten themselves vaccinated but are misleading the poor for political gains." He claimed, "The best Covid-19 management is in India, and in India, it is best in Uttar Pradesh," and urged the people to remain alert. Referring to the free ration distribution campaign, he said, due to the 'double-engine' government, the poor will get ration twice a month. He was also referring to the Centre's Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana. "Prior to 2017, food grains meant for the poor used be routed to other countries and to the mafia. The poor only waited but got nothing. The food grain scam of 2005 is known to all. There were hunger-related deaths even in 2015-16. But, our government understood the pain of the poor. Giving 'roti' (food) to the hungry person is a noble work," he said. Adityanath said the state government has decided to provide free edible oil and pulses to the people if their prices soar. "This will be effective from today," he said. Under the new initiative, beneficiaries will also get a kilogram each of edible oil and salt in addition to the food grains, he said. Antyodaya card holders on the other hand will get a kilogram each of sugar and pulses, the chief minister said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-fully-prepared-for-possible-third-wave-of-covid-19-yogi-1060032.html
12-12-2021||North and Central||Safeguarding depositors' money key to banks' prosperity: PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said safeguarding depositors money is the key and very crucial to the banks' overall prosperity. "Banks play a big role in the prosperity of the country. And for the prosperity of the banks, it is equally important that the depositors' money is safe. If we want to save banks, then depositors have to be protected," Modi said at an event here themed 'Depositors First: Guaranteed Time-bound Deposit Insurance Payment up to Rs 5 lakh'. During the event, Modi handed over cheques to a few depositors whose hard-earned money was stuck because of some banks going bankrupt. "Keeping the spirit of 'Depositors First', the name given to today's event makes it even more accurate. In the last few days, more than one lakh depositors have got their money back which was stuck for years. This amount is more than Rs 1,300 crore," Modi added. In India, an insurance scheme for bank depositors was first introduced in the 1960s with the security of up to Rs 50,000 which was later raised to Rs 1 lakh. However, there was no deadline for returning depositors' money. In 2020, the Centre increased the limit to Rs 5 lakh with a deadline of 90 days. "Understanding the concern of the poor and the middle class, we have increased this limit to Rs 5 lakh," Modi said. Modi added that 98 per cent of the total depositors are currently covered under the depositors' insurance scheme and the Centre is committed to safeguarding their money. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/safeguarding-depositors-money-key-to-banks-prosperity-pm-1060033.html
12-12-2021||North and Central||Gopal Rai to hold meet on December 13 to review air pollution situation||Delhi Environment Minister Gopal Rai will hold a meeting with senior officials on Monday to review the air pollution situation, an official said on Sunday. Officials from civic bodies, the fire department, the public works department and other departments concerned will attend the meeting, he said. Following directions from the Supreme Court, the city government had on December 2 announced the closure of all schools in the national capital till further orders in a bid to minimise the impact of air pollution on the health of children. It had earlier banned construction activities and the entry of trucks, barring CNG and e-trucks and those carrying essential commodities, till further orders. The apex court had asked the Commission for Air Quality Management on Friday to examine pleas for lifting the construction ban and relaxing restrictions on industrial units in Delhi-NCR within a week. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/gopal-rai-to-hold-meet-on-december-13-to-review-air-pollution-situation-1060036.html
12-12-2021||North and Central||Govt schools in Punjab are in bad shape, seek people's support for improving them: Arvind Kejriwal||Scaling up the inter-state spat on school education, AAP leader and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said government schools in Punjab are in a bad shape and sought people's support to bring his party to power in the state to improve the condition of the educational institutions. "In Punjab, the state of education is very bad. Government schools are in a bad shape. There is no study at all in government schools. Punjab's teachers are very good, but they are sad. In government schools in Punjab, 24 lakh students from poor, Dalit, SC community study. Think about what is the future of these children?” Kejriwal said in a video message. Punjab goes to polls early next year and Aam Aadmi Party is looking to wrest power from the ruling Congress. Notably, ruling Congress and AAP leaders have in recent weeks exchanged barbs on the state of education in their schools in Punjab and Delhi. Earlier this month, Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi had called his Delhi counterpart Kejriwal a "power greedy outsider" who wants to rule the state and accused him of misleading Punjabis. In his video message, in which he spoke in Punjabi, Kejriwal said earlier the condition of government schools in Delhi was also pitiable, “but we improved their condition”. "Now, those schools have improved to such a level that this year 2.5 lakh students of Delhi shifted from private schools to take admission in our government schools,” he said. "Shouldn't Punjab government schools be good like Delhi? But Channi sahib says that Punjab schools are very good when compared to the national-level and there is no need to improve them,” he said. Kejriwal asked the people whether they thought Punjab's government schools were the best in India. Without naming anyone, he said, "For 75 years, these political leaders and parties deliberately kept the government schools in a bad shape so that the poor and (people from) SC brotherhood cannot progress”. "I don't know politics, but I am worried about the future of 24 lakh students studying in Punjab government schools. We will not allow their future to be spoiled more. We will improve the condition of these schools and build grand ones." "We will give a golden future to these children. We only need your support,” he told people of Punjab. In a bid to woo the Scheduled Caste community ahead of the Punjab assembly polls, Kejriwal during his visit to Hoshiarpur district had on Tuesday promised to provide free education to their children, besides bearing their coaching fees for higher studies, if his party comes to power. Punjab has nearly 32 per cent Dalit population. Kejriwal, who has in recent weeks increased his visits to the poll-bound state, asked the gathering to vote for the Aam Aadmi Party once, saying they had given many chances to rival political parties, the Congress and the Shiromani Akali Dal.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/govt-schools-in-punjab-are-in-bad-shape-seek-peoples-support-for-improving-them-arvind-kejriwal-1060042.html
12-12-2021||North and Central||Delhi Metro installs improvised information signages at stations||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) has started installing a special kind of combined information signage at stations to provide all key information at one single point with better visibility for the passengers. The DMRC has installed these signages at all the interchange stations and will place them at the remaining stations of Phase I & II in a phased manner by March 2022. Over 400 such signages are being installed at 158 stations of Phase I & II and at interchange stations. These specific signages aim at helping the passengers with all Delhi Metro related information including ticketing; system map; first and last train timings; Do's and Don'ts; helpline numbers, facilities for Divyangjan; Lost and Found; and other statutory information. The bilingual signages in English and Hindi will be LED backlit for better visibility. All the elevated grade stations of Phase-I and Phase-II will also have similar non-backlit signages. These are being installed near the ticketing areas of the stations so that passengers have easy access to them and get benefited in terms of planning their journey. The information displayed in these signages have been divided into three portions. The left side frame contains Ticketing information and Benefits of Smart Cards, Time zone Information; while the middle frame has System Map-cum-Fare Chart, First and Last Train Timings and DMRC website and Application information. The right frame shows penalties under Delhi Metro Railway Act, 2002, Do's & Don'ts for passenger, Lost and Found Office, Missing Person Information, Facilities for Divyangjan, Information on DMRC's Claims Commissioner and Caution on CCTV Surveillance. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-metro-installs-improvised-information-signages-at-stations-1060043.html
12-12-2021||North and Central||Sitting MLAs from BJP, BSP jump ship, join SP||In what is considered to be a huge boost to Samajwadi Party (SP) supremo Akhilesh Yadav ahead of the forthcoming assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh, several high-profile Brahmin leaders, including an MLA each from the BJP and a BSP, mostly hailing from Gorakhpur, the home town of chief minister Yogi Adityanath, and adjoining districts, joined the SP on Sunday. Pandit Hari Shankar Tewari, one of the most renowned Brahmin leaders in 'Poorvanchal' (eastern region), a six-term MLA in the state assembly from Chillupar seat and hailed from Gorakhpur, and his two sons, one of whom was a BSP MLA and another a former MP, joined the SP in the presence of Akhilesh Yadav. Tewari's son, Vinay, was a BSP MLA from Chillupar seat in Gorakhpur district while his other son, Bhishma Shankar, alias Kushal Tewari, was an MP from Sant Kabir Nagar seat in 2007 and 2009 on a BSP ticket. Both Vinay and Kushal were expelled from the BSP three days ago.  Digvijay Narayan Chaube, the BJP lawmaker from the Khalilabad Assembly seat in the Gorakhpur division, also joined the SP along with several other prominent Brahmin faces from the eastern region of the state. Earlier, BJP MLA from Sitapur district Rakesh Rathore had also joined the SP. An elated Akhilesh later told reporters here that the BJP was staring at defeat in the next assembly polls. ''These are very important leaders of their respective regions,'' he said. The SP chief also claimed that the contest in the forthcoming assembly polls would be "one-sided". ''The people of the state are with us...we will sweep the polls,'' he asserted. The Brahmin leaders, who joined the SP, accused the BJP government of persecuting the community during its regime. ''This government works only for a particular community (Thakur)...members of only one community were appointed at Gorakhpur University...Brahmins were humiliated by the state government,'' Vinay Tewari said. Although the state BJP leaders sought to make light of the Brahmin leaders from the 'Poorvanchal' region joining the SP, sources in the saffron party said that the BJP should do "more" to "placate" the community. In the past, several Brahmin BJP leaders, including MLAs, had voiced concern over "persecution" of the community members under the party regime. A BJP legislator from Lambhua assembly seat in Sultanpur district Deomani Dwivedi, who hailed from the Brahmin community, had sought to know from the state government about its future plan to ensure the community's security. The legislator also wanted to know about the number of Brahmins murdered in the state since the BJP came to power in UP and in how many cases the police were able to arrest the culprits. The Brahmin community, who formed around ten per cent of the electorate in the state, were a deciding factor on around a dozen Lok Sabha and over 50 assembly seats. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sitting-mlas-from-bjp-bsp-jump-ship-join-sp-1060045.html
12-12-2021||North and Central||J&K Delimitation Commission to share progress with associate members on Dec 20||With an ongoing delimitation exercise taking a centre-stage in Jammu and Kashmir’s frozen politics, the Delimitation Commission’s December 20 meeting with its five associate members from the Union Territory (UT) in New Delhi has assumed significance. The Commission, headed by Justice (Retired) Ranjana Prakash Desai, called the crucial meeting with five Lok Sabha members from J&K, who are associate members of the panel, to discuss and share with them the progress achieved on the delimitation of 90 Assembly constituencies in J&K. It is widely speculated that the meeting has been called following uproar by political parties over uncertainty created by the Union Home Ministry’s recent reply on its deadline for submitting the report in the Parliament. On Wednesday, National Conference (NC) president and Lok Sabha member Farooq Abdullah had slammed the Centre for deviating from its promise and assurance that there will be no extension to the Delimitation Commission beyond March 6, 2022, for submitting its report to pave the way for elections to the J&K legislative assembly. The Commission was set up by the Union Law Ministry on March 6, 2020, with one-year tenure. However, with little work in a year, its term was extended by another year in March this year. Since it was constituted, the panel has made only one visit to J&K for four days from July 6-9 this year while it could hold only one meeting with the associate members on February 18 this year in New Delhi. The three MPs of the NC – Farooq Abdullah, Akbar Lone and Hasnain Masoodi – who are associate members of the Commission, had boycotted February 18 meeting in New Delhi on the pretext that the party has challenged J&K Reorganization Act-2019 in the Supreme Court under which delimitation of the constituencies has been taken up. However, it is unlikely that the NC will give a miss to the meeting this time as there is an overwhelming view within the party that it should associate itself with the  Commission to project its viewpoint and not leave the space open for the ruling BJP. While the Commission has not spelt out the agenda of the meeting, it is widely believed it could either discuss contours of the process with the associate members or could share a draft report with them for their comments. Sources said the Commission may consider giving representation to Kashmiri Pandits in the Assembly since it will be difficult for the community under normal circumstances to send its representative to the House. NC MP from Anantnag Lok Sabha seat Hasnain Masoodis said they are unaware of the proceedings of the panel. “Associate members have no role to disagree with any decision or viewpoint of the commission. Our role is confined to sharing viewpoints only,” he said. Both Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah have several times in the past stated that assembly polls in J&K will be held only after the completion of delimitation. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-delimitation-commission-to-share-progress-with-associate-members-on-dec-20-1060046.html
12-12-2021||North and Central||Delhi records season's lowest temperature||The national capital recorded its lowest temperature of the season at 6.4 degrees Celsius on Sunday morning, which was two notches below the season's average, the Met office said. The chilly morning gave way to a sunny and pleasant day as the maximum temperature settled at 23.9 degrees Celsius, a notch above the season’s average, it said. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), similar weather is expected on Monday. The sky will be partly cloudy on Monday morning and there will be shallow fog. The maximum and minimum temperatures are likely to settle at around 24 and 8 degrees Celsius, it said. The relative humidity at 5.30 pm on Sunday was 58 per cent, they said. On Saturday, the city recorded a low of 8.3 degrees Celsius, one notch below the average, while the maximum temperature had settled at 23.7 degrees Celsius, a notch above the season's average. Meanwhile, the air quality index (AQI) in the city at 7 pm stood at 264, which falls in the “poor” category. The AQI in neighbouring Faridabad (203), Ghaziabad (284), Gurugram (213) and Noida (218) was also recorded in the “poor” category. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered “good”, 51 and 100 “satisfactory”, 101 and 200 “moderate”, 201 and 300 “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe”. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-records-seasons-lowest-temperature-1060056.html
12-12-2021||North and Central||When Punjab farmers named a rice variety after Deve Gowda||Former prime minister H D Deve Gowda often championed farmers' causes and as a tribute to his commitment and initiatives towards the community, peasants of Punjab named one of the finest varieties of paddy after him, says a biography on him. Gowda is known to have never violated the decorum of the House as a legislator and parliamentarian. But only once in his long career did he violate this self-imposed principle, and it was when the welfare of his loyal constituency of farmers was 'threatened', writes journalist Sugata Srinivasaraju in his book Furrows in a Field: The Unexplored Life of H D Deve Gowda. Referring to incidents of July 31 and August 1, 1991 in Lok Sabha, the book recalls how during a heated discussion on Manmohan Singh's first budget, Gowda had rushed to the well of the house to pressure the government to rollback its decision to end subsidies for the farm sector for over a three-year period. "I am a farmer and a tiller's son and I will not allow this. I will sit on a dharna. I will not go out from this house. It is not for publicity's sake that I am doing it," he had said. In 2002, when farm suicides were being reported in big numbers from all across India, Gowda took a delegation of nearly 2,000 farmers from Karnataka by train to Delhi and got them an audience with the then prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee. "It was unprecedented, especially for a former prime minister to protest in this manner. People in Delhi were bewildered," the book published by Penguin Random House India says. "As a tribute to Gowda's lifelong commitment to the farmers' cause, and for his policy initiatives towards the peasant community, and the stellar pro-farmer budget of 1996-97, the farmers of Punjab named one of the finest varieties of paddy as 'Dev Gowda' (sic) after he stepped down as prime minister," Srinivasaraju writes in the book. "It is said the paddy variety was very popular for over two decades. Farmers who could not converse with Gowda in Punjabi, Hindi, Kannada or English had understood and acknowledged the man's intent. Ironically, this tribute too remained little known, and unsung like all other things associated with Gowda," he writes. "A usually well-informed Gowda was himself not aware of this paddy variety until Karnataka cadre IAS officer from Punjab, Chiranjiv Singh, wrote about it in his Kannada newspaper column in 2014," he adds. The association with paddy, the association with the soil, the association with a staple diet of a people was the most magical and original metaphors that could have been thought of for Deve Gowda, the author says. The book also says how in 1996, Mahendra Singh Tikait, farmers' leader from the same western Uttar Pradesh belt as Charan Singh, hailed Deve Gowda as the 'Choudhary Charan Singh of the south' at a meeting in Muzaffarnagar. Deve Gowda has been in public life for nearly seven decades. He started at the very bottom, as a member of the Holenarasipur Taluk Development Board and reached the very top as India's 11th prime minister, in 1996. In between, he was an independent legislator, spent long years as leader of Opposition in the Karnataka Legislative Assembly, had been an effective irrigation and public works minister, and chief minister in 1994 after many missed opportunities. Even 25 years after he stepped down as prime minister, he has remained relevant in Indian politics. The book also describes in detail interactions between Deve Gowda and Vajpayee among several other things. The two would not have interacted as much if they had not been prime ministers and former prime ministers, and if one had not preceded and succeeded the other, it says. Gowda succeeded Vajpayee immediately after his first 13-day brush with power, and there was the motion of confidence in which the two came face to face for the first time on the floor of the Parliament. "Gowda and Vajpayee were two very different people. Vajpayee was essentially a Hindi person, Gowda used English to communicate, which in reality was notches above Vajpayee's felicity. If Vajpayee was full of rhetoric, flourish, and pregnant silences, Gowda was always about dry details, documents and a kind of drawl," the author says. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/when-punjab-farmers-named-a-rice-variety-after-deve-gowda-1060057.html
12-12-2021||North and Central||Smuggling of narcotic drugs resulting in addiction among adolescents, students: Delhi HC||The smuggling of narcotics is resulting in drug addiction among a sizeable section of the public, particularly adolescents and students, the Delhi High Court has said. The menace has assumed alarming proportions in recent years and has a deadly impact on society, the court said while hearing the bail plea of a man, Ram Bharose, who was allegedly found in possession of 270 grams of smack, which is a commercial quantity. Dismissing the bail plea, Justice Subramonium Prasad said since the investigation is at a nascent stage, it cannot be said at this juncture that there are reasonable grounds for believing that the petitioner accused is not guilty of the offence. The court is not inclined to grant bail to accused Ram Bharose, he said. The court said the accused allegedly supplied drugs to peddlers for distribution. "It has been observed that organised activities of the underworld and clandestine smuggling of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances and illegal trafficking in (of) such drugs and substance is (are) resulting in drug addiction among a sizeable section of the public, particularly the adolescents and students of both sexes... "... the menace has assumed serious and alarming proportions in recent years, which has a deadly impact on the society as a whole," the court said. It noted that Bharose is also accused in another drug case and is likely to commit yet another offence while out on bail. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/smuggling-of-narcotic-drugs-resulting-in-addiction-among-adolescents-students-delhi-hc-1060072.html
12-12-2021||North and Central||Gen Rawat's PSO Jitendra Kumar cremated with full military honours, MP CM announces Rs 1 crore aid for his kin||The mortal remains of Naik Jitendra Kumar, the PSO of Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat and among the 13 people killed in a helicopter crash in Tamil Nadu's Coonoor last week, were cremated with full military honours at his native village in Madhya Pradesh on Sunday. Naik Kumar's one-and-a-half-year old son performed the last rites while sitting in his uncle's lap, as other relatives and residents of Dhamanda village in Sehore district bid him an emotional farewell. Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, who paid tributes to Naik Kumar at the village before the funeral, announced a financial assistance of Rs one crore for the soldier's family, a government job for his wife, a memorial to be built for him and a school in his native place to be named after him. The state government will also make arrangements for the education of Naik Kumar's children, the CM told reporters. Chouhan also met Kumar's family members and consoled them. The CM, a large number of people from different parts of the district and officials were present when Kumar's mortal remains reached his native village on Sunday from the state capital Bhopal, located about 65 km from Dhamanda. Earlier, state Medical Education Minister Vishwas Sarang, MLA Rameshwar Sharma and senior officials of the local administration along with elected representatives paid tributes to the deceased soldier in Bhopal. Several people stood on roadsides at various places as the vehicle carrying Naik Kumar's mortal remains travelled from Bhopal to Sehore. In Dhamanda village, residents stood on the roofs of their houses to pay respects to the departed soul. India's first Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) Gen Bipin Rawat, his wife Madhulika Rawat, Lt Colonel Harjinder Singh and 10 others, including Naik Kumar, were killed in the helicopter crash in Coonoor on December 8. “I pay tribute to Jitendra Kumar ji, who was martyred in the helicopter crash. His family will be honoured with Rs 1 crore, his wife Sunita will be given a government job, and a school will be named after Jitendra ji. A memorial will be built in the soldier's memory in Dhamanda village,” Chouhan said while talking to reporters. Earlier on Thursday, an Army team had collected the DNA samples of Naik Kumar's family members. Later, his mortal remains were identified through DNA testing and handed over to the family members on Sunday. Kumar, who joined the Army in 2011, got married in 2014. He is survived by his wife, four-year-old daughter Shravya, one-and a-half-year-old son Chaitanya and parents. His father Shivraj Verma is a farmer. Kumar had come to Sehore in August this year to get his daughter admitted to the Kindergarten at a private school in neighbouring Amlaha village. The school owner, Deepak Jaiswal, has announced free education for the soldier's daughter till Class 12 Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/gen-rawats-pso-jitendra-kumar-cremated-with-full-military-honours-mp-cm-announces-rs-1-crore-aid-for-his-kin-1060073.html
12-12-2021||North and Central||With 93% work done, National Highway 334B is set to be completed by January 2022, says Gadkari||Union Road Transport and Highways Minister Nitin Gadkari on Sunday said the National Highway 334B, which starts at Baghpat near the UP-Haryana border and ends at Haryana's Rohna, is set to be completed by January 2022. "NH-334B is nearing completion with 93% progress and is targeted for an early completion by 3 months in January 2022," he wrote on Twitter. NH-334B, which is a spur road of National Highway 34 and traverses Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, is expected to provide seamless connectivity from UP to Rajasthan via Haryana, ensuring users can bypass Delhi. Noting that national highways are coming up at an unprecedented pace under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, he said that the NH-334B also crosses NH-44, providing direct access to commuters between Chandigarh and Delhi. The distance between Chandigarh and Delhi is approximately 245 kilometres and a journey time of around five to six hours is expected to be shortened once the highway becomes operational. As the development of highways also leads to deforestation, Gadakri, recently in a written reply in Rajya Sabha, informed that the government is compensating the loss by planting trees. "Development of National Highways involves cutting of trees in the Right of Way acquired by the Ministry. It is, however, ensured that bare minimum tree felling is carried out for widening of existing National Highways," he said, adding, "to compensate the ecological loss, median and road-side plantation is being carried out either by the contractor as a scope of agreement or through Forest Department as deposit work". A total of 5.51 million plants have been planted in 94 projects that were completed by March 2021. In addition, plantation jobs are also being carried out by private agencies and NGOs through competitive bidding, apart from the compensatory afforestation carried out by the Forest Department for statutory compliance under FCA 1980 and local laws. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/with-93-work-done-national-highway-334b-is-set-to-be-completed-by-january-2022-says-gadkari-1060076.html
12-12-2021||North and Central||Chopper crash victim's daughter faces right wing trolls over old tweets, deactivates account||Right-wing trolls attacked the daughter of a Brigadier who lost his life alongside CDS General Bipin Rawat over a set of older tweets where she was critical of Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath, forcing her to deactivate her account altogether. The attacks on Aashna Lidder, daughter of Brigadier L.S. Lidder, began before the funeral pyre for her father was even lit up. According to a report by The Telegraph, the trolls branded Aashna as “woke”, “military brat” and "the next Gurmehar Kaur." The report quoted one of her earlier tweets, which read: “Woke up to watching Yogi Adityanath undermine the Opposition. I get it. This is politics. But it is cheap and absolutely not ok to say things like ‘she’s only capable of sweeping floor.’ I mean, wow, toothless tiger doesn’t stop roaring, truly. Yogi, clear the turmoil in UP first.” Along with the tweet, Aashna had attached a news report carrying a comment by the UP chief minister over visuals of Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi sweeping a room where she was detained by the State police. According to the publication, her tweets were dug up by @kashyap_1407, whose Twitter and linked Facebook profile introduce the user as "A.V. Kashyap, a food process engineer from Vijayawada." “This is what woke culture can do to you, even if you’re a military brat, more so if you’re a daughter of a fallen hero,” Kashyap, whose Twitter bio has a mention of “Hindutva”, posted. Kashyap later deleted the tweet, but many had already taken screenshots and shared them in support and condemnation. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chopper-crash-victims-daughter-faces-right-wing-trolls-over-old-tweets-deactivates-account-1060079.html
12-12-2021||North and Central||Prime Minister Narendra Modi to showcase Kashi's 'grandeur' to chief ministers, says official||After inaugurating the Kashi Vishwanath corridor on Monday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold an informal meeting with chief ministers on a river cruise and witness Ganga 'aarti' and festivities at Varanasi ghats, a top official said Sunday. Varanasi District Magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma said that Prime Minister Modi, who is the MP from the ancient city, had expressed his desire to "showcase the grandeur of Kashi" to the chief ministers. "The PM is expected to reach Varanasi airport on Monday morning, from where a helicopter will take him to the campus of Sampurnanand Sanskrit University, where a makeshift helipad has been made. He will then travel to Kal Bhairav Mandir for 'darshan' of the deity, and then travel by river to reach the ghat adjoining the corridor," he said. The mega corridor, whose foundation stone was laid by Modi on March 8, 2019, connects the main temple with Lalita Ghat, and grand gateways and ornamental arches have been built in heritage architecture style in four directions, facing the ancient temple at its core, officials said. "Prime Minister Modi will reach Kashi Vishwanath Dham from the ghat side, and then inaugurate the corridor. He will take a walk in the premises of the new corridor, and see the buildings erected. The event will take place in the presence of a large number of saints and seers from all parts of the country, many of whom have already arrived," the Varanasi DM said. "It was his desire to enter the corridor from the river, where all arrangements have been made. Rehearsal of river cruise is also under way. By evening, all arrangements should be done," he said. At Lalita Ghat, workers were busy with the erection of an earthen ramp to facilitate the movement of the prime minister from the cruise jetty to the starting point of the corridor. Over 3,000 seers, people associated with different religious mutts, artistes and other noted personalities are to assemble at the venue on December 13 to witness the inauguration. The programme will last about two to three hours. "In the evening, the PM will take part in an informal 'baithak' with CMs and deputy CMs on the river cruise. Being the MP from Varanasi, he had expressed his desire to showcase the grandeur of Kashi, situated on the banks of the river, to the chief ministers. Also, from his cruise, PM will witness Ganga 'aarti' and grand festivities on the ghats, which will culminate with fireworks and laser show," the DM said. Sharma said ghats are being decorated and the plan is to light up "five lakh diyas" on the ghats and observe the occasion on a scale of 'Dev Deepavali'. The prime minister will stay at the guest house on the Diesel Locomotive Works (DLW) campus after finishing his engagements on the first day of his visit. "Next day, he will take part in a formal meeting with chief ministers and other events, and later in the day will participate in an annual event of Swarved Mandir in Umraha," he said, adding his two-day engagement will end at around 5 pm on Tuesday. After laying the foundation stone of the corridor, Modi had said the project would be a model for "protection and preservation" of temples and a combination of modern technology with ancient faiths. He had also said this project would become a model for similar projects elsewhere and give a new global identity to Kashi. Posters have been put up on ornate lampposts in streets near the iconic temple -- one of the 12 Jyotirlingas -- hailing Modi for "realising the vision of this project". The current structure of the temple was constructed by Maharani Ahilyabai Holkar around 1780, and in the 19th century, Maharaja Ranjit Singh had got it crowned with golden 'shikhara'. A posse of police personnel is guarding the temple premises and public roundabouts and patrolling the streets ahead of the event. "Given the scale and importance of the programme, security has been stepped up across the city, especially in the areas surrounding the temple and the corridor. A large number of high-profile guests are slated to attend the event. And, a very large number of people are expected to attend it," a senior police official said. The city, the parliamentary constituency of Modi since 2014, has been decorated ahead of the mega event -- 'Divya Kashi, Bhavya Kashi' -- and the residents of the temple town eagerly await the arrival of the prime minister. Facades of buildings located on streets leading to the shrine have been painted in uniform light pink colour, and many buildings have been illuminated. Many hotels located near Godowlia Chowk have also been lit up by their owners to celebrate the occasion. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/prime-minister-narendra-modi-to-showcase-kashis-grandeur-to-chief-ministers-says-official-1060080.html
12-12-2021||North and Central||Khattar’s remarks clearly targeted one religion, says Omar Abdullah||National Conference vice president Omar Abdullah on Sunday condemned Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar's remarks that offering ‘Namaz’ in open spaces will not be tolerated, saying the decision was wrong and it clearly meant that one particular religion was being targeted. He said there is total freedom to practice one's religion in the country. “The Haryana CM's statement and his decision is totally wrong,” Abdullah told reporters after a party function in south Kashmir’s Anantnag district. “I would have accepted it had this ban been on every religion, but by this pick and choose, it is clear that the target is one particular religion which is not allowed by the Constitution of this country,” he added. Abdullah said “this was not the India” to which Jammu and Kashmir had acceded. “J&K had acceded to a secular, tolerant India,” he said, adding, “this (Khattar's) statement is highly condemnable”. Asked whether the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) -- the amalgam of six mainstream political parties seeking the restoration of the special status of Jammu and Kashmir which was revoked by the Centre on August 5, 2019 -- was united, Abdullah said, “It was united and will continue its struggle”. “The fight will continue. If there is a need to bring some changes in that, we will do that. There are no second thoughts that our rulers do not like the PAGD. There were attempts before as well to weaken the PAGD. One of our colleagues was separated from the PAGD on one pretext or the other,” he said, referring to Sajad Lone-led People’s Conference parting ways with the alliance earlier this year. He, however, said the rest of the constituents of the PAGD “understand these designs” and “will not allow them to succeed” Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/khattar-s-remarks-clearly-targeted-one-religion-says-omar-abdullah-1060086.html
12-12-2021||North and Central||Varanasi excited as Kashi Vishwanath Corridor set to be inaugurated by PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will dedicate to the people on Monday the ambitious Kashi Vishwanath Corridor in the heart of Varanasi, a mega project that is expected to boost tourism in the ancient city in a big way. The inauguration of the state-of-the-art infrastructure surrounding the historic Kashi Vishwanath Temple near the iconic Dashashwamedh Ghat comes ahead of the assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh early next year. The gateways and other structures have been built with stones and other material using traditional craftsmanship. There is a palpable excitement among majority of the residents of the temple town and domestic tourists flocking the holy shrine of the Hindus in the run-up to the high-profile event, in view of which the police security in Varanasi has been stepped up. From saints and seers to shopkeeper and hotel owners, there is a smile on people's faces as they await the inauguration day with visible excitement. In a statement, the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) said Modi will visit the temple at around 1 pm and inaugurate phase one of Shri Kashi Vishwanath Dham, constructed at a cost of around Rs 339 crore, after offering prayers. It was Modi's vision for a long time to facilitate pilgrims and devotees of Lord Shiva as they had to encounter congested streets and surroundings with poor upkeep while they went about the age-old custom of taking dip in the holy river, collecting its water and offering it at the temple. "To realise this vision, Shri Kashi Vishwanath Dham was conceptualised as a project to create an easily accessible pathway to connect Shri Kashi Vishwanath Temple to the banks of the river Ganga," it said. The prime minister took a keen and active interest at all stages of the project. Regular briefings, reviews and monitoring was done by him as he constantly gave inputs and insights to improve the project and make it more accessible for pilgrims, including the disabled, it added. A total of 23 buildings will be inaugurated in the phase one of the project. They will provide a variety of facilities to pilgrims, including 'yatri suvidha kendras', tourist facilitation crntre, vedic kendra, mumukshu bhavan, bhogshala, city museum, viewing gallery, food court among others. The project involved purchase and acquisition of more than 300 properties around the temple. Modi's vision to take everyone along was the principle based on which mutual negotiations were done for these acquisitions, it said, noting that around 1,400 shopkeepers, tenants and homeowners were rehabilitated amicably. The scale of the project was such it is now spread over a massive area of about five lakh square feet, whereas earlier premises were limited to just around 3000 square feet. Despite the Covid pandemic, the work on the project has been completed on schedule, the PMO noted. Posters have been put up on ornate lampposts in streets, near the iconic temple -- one of the 12 Jyotirlingas -- hailing Modi for "realising the vision of this project". The current structure of the temple was constructed by Maharani Ahilyabai Holkar around 1780, and in the 19th century, Maharaja Ranjit Singh had got it crowned with a golden 'shikhar'. According to the website of the Kashi Vishwanath Temple Trust, the famous religious site is also known as 'Golden Temple'. In many old maps, this name can be seen mentioned. The city, the parliamentary constituency of Modi since 2014, has been decorated ahead of the mega event -- 'Divya Kashi, Bhavya Kashi' -- and the residents of the temple town eagerly await the arrival of the prime minister. Facades of buildings located on streets leading to the shrine have been painted in uniform light pink colour, and many buildings have been illuminated. Many hotels located near Godowlia Chowk have also been lit been lit up by their owners to celebrate the occasion. Senior BJP leaders earlier had announced that Varanasi will host a month-long cultural exercise following the inauguration of the Kashi Vishwanath Dham, and all BJP chief ministers and deputy CMs will attend the ceremony which will be broadcast live from over 51,000 places nationwide. After laying the foundation stone of the corridor, Modi had said the project would be a model for "protection and preservation" of temples and a combination of modern technology with ancient faith. He had also said this project would become a model for similar projects elsewhere and give a new global identity to Kashi. The project had also drawn criticism from various heritage experts as a large number of old buildings were demolished to make way for the corridor that also provides a direct link from the temple to Ganga River. Early December, the architect of the project, Bimal Patel, had said the original structure of the temple had not been tampered with while developing the site, adding, apart from beautifying the area, tourist facilities have been enhanced. "The project includes the construction of Temple Chowk, Varanasi city gallery, museum, multipurpose auditoriums, hall, devotee facilitation centre, public convenience, salvation home, Godowlia Gate, Bhogshala, shelter for priests and sevadars, spiritual book space, and others," Patel had said in a statement issued by the Uttar Pradesh government. About 70 per cent of the 5.50 lakh sq ft area of the project have been kept for green cover, he said, adding, "We worked towards fulfilling the prime minister's vision of reorganising the temple premises to restore its grandeur." Varanasi Divisional Commissioner Deepak Agarwal had earlier said that 40 ancient temples were found following the demolition of buildings around the main temple. These centuries-old temples, which were earlier hidden, are now visible. They will be preserved and opened to the public. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/varanasi-excited-as-kashi-vishwanath-corridor-set-to-be-inaugurated-by-pm-modi-1060087.html
12-12-2021||North and Central||Kashi Vishwanath corridor approved by SP government, have documentary evidence, says Akhilesh Yadav||A day before Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to inaugurate the Kashi Vishwanath corridor in Varanasi, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Sunday claimed the project was approved during his term and there was documentary evidence for it. He alleged that the BJP government has lined up a series of programmes to herald the start of the corridor only to deflect people's attention from PM's failure to double the income of farmers. "All of you know who made the promise of doubling the income of the farmers. Today, due to price rise fertilisers are not available, so how will the income of the farmers be doubled?" "Just so that public does not ask this question, they are bringing Kashi Vishvanath corridor. And if there is any cabinet which passed the Kashi Vishvanath Corridor, it was Samajwadi Party's government's," Akhilesh told reporters. "We will provide you with the documents. Because this time, we will talk with proof,” he said. Akhilesh Yadav was the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh (UP) from 2012 to 2017 and was succeeded by Yogi Adityanath. The corridor has been built as a mega project and is expected to boost tourism in the ancient city, which is also the PM's Lok Sabha constituency. The inauguration of the state-of-the-art infrastructure surrounding the historic Kashi Vishwanath Temple near the iconic Dashashwamedh Ghat on December 13 comes ahead of the Assembly polls in UP early next year. The corridor project is the latest flashpoint between the BJP and the SP, which are locked in a fierce contest. Akhilesh in recent weeks has claimed that his government either started or approved projects being inaugurated by the BJP government, including Purvanchal Express and Saryu Canal Nation Project. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kashi-vishwanath-corridor-approved-by-sp-government-have-documentary-evidence-says-akhilesh-yadav-1060098.html
12-12-2021||North and Central||Terrorist killed in Kashmir encounter after refusing to surrender||A Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) terrorist was killed in an encounter with security forces in the Pulwama district of Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday, police said. Security forces launched a cordon and search operation in Baragam area of Awantipora in the south Kashmir district after specific inputs about the presence of terrorists there, an official said. “During the search operation, as the presence of the trapped terrorist was ascertained, he was given ample opportunities to surrender. However, he denied and fired indiscriminately upon the joint search party which retaliated, leading to an encounter,” a police spokesman said. In the ensuing encounter, the terrorist was killed and his body retrieved from the site of the encounter, he said. The spokesman identified the slain terrorist as Sameer Ahmad Tantray, a resident of Baragam. “As per police records, Tantray was a categorised terrorist linked with proscribed terror outfit JeM and was part of groups involved in several terror crime cases,” he said. Tantray was earlier a terrorist associate and was involved in providing logistical support to active terrorists in the area, the spokesman said. Tantray used to also paste posters of terror outfits in Awantipora and adjoining areas to threaten law-abiding citizens and keep them away from democratic activities, he said. Incriminating materials, including arms and ammunition, were recovered from his possession and taken into case records for further investigation, he said. Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/terrorist-killed-in-kashmir-encounter-after-refusing-to-surrender-1060103.html
12-12-2021||North and Central||Ayodhya temple will become symbol of Hindutva, like Vatican or Mecca, says VHP chief||Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) President Rabindra Narain Singh on Sunday said the Ram Janmabhoomi 'teerth kshetra' (shrine) in Ayodhya would be developed on the lines of the Vatican City and the Mecca, and would emerge as a symbol of Hindutva. Singh was in Nagpur in Maharashtra on Sunday to attend the groundbreaking ceremony for the construction of Vishwa Hindu Jankalyan Parishad's Vidarbha region office in the Dhantoli area. "The Ram janmabhoomi teerth kshetra in Ayodhya would be developed on the lines of the Vatican City (the headquarters of the Roman Catholic church) and the Mecca (the holiest city of Islam). It would become a symbol of Hindutva," Singh said, addressing a gathering of seers and VHP office-bearers. Speaking to reporters, he hailed the Narendra Modi government for tightening the noose on foreign funding aimed at religious conversion in India. He appealed to the Muslim community to join Hindus in the service of the nation. "Hindus think nothing will happen to them. We are facing challenges because of this mentality," Singh said. He accused Christian missionaries of running hospitals and schools in tribal areas for carrying out the religious conversion. “Missionaries are operating schools and hospitals in tribal areas with proper planning to uproot the Hindu dharma. Hindus need to become a united strong force to protect Hindutva and themselves," he said, adding that Indians seem more concerned about GDP these days than inculcating virtues in their children. He said the upcoming office of the Jankalyan Parishad would launch various welfare measures for Hindus across the Vidarbha region in east Maharashtra. Earlier in the day, the VHP chief visited the Smriti Mandir memorial in the Reshimbagh area dedicated to KB Hedgewar and MS Golwalkar, who were the first two leaders of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), headquartered in Nagpur. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ayodhya-temple-will-become-symbol-of-hindutva-like-vatican-or-mecca-says-vhp-chief-1060106.html
12-12-2021||North and Central||New India believes in solving problems, not avoiding them: PM Modi||Taking a swipe at previous regimes, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday that his government believes in solving problems and not avoiding them. He said this while speaking at a function on the theme "Depositors First: Guaranteed Time-bound Deposit Insurance Payment up to Rs 5 Lakh" here. Observing that any country can save the problems from getting worse only by their timely resolution, the Prime Minister said that for years there was a tendency to avoid problems. "Today's new India strives for solving problems, today India does not avoid problems," he said. There was a time when depositors would have to wait for their own money for ages from the stressed bank, he said, adding that the government by amending laws has made it mandatory for refund up to Rs 5 lakh of their deposits within 90 days of imposition of moratorium or restrictions. Recalling his days as chief minister of Gujarat, Modi said, he had to deal with so many depositors but could not do much for them. He said he had written many letters to the Government of India then about the plight of such hapless depositors and requested for raising deposit insurance cover to Rs 5 lakh from Rs 1 lakh. However, the previous regime ignored it, Modi said, adding, "the then government did not listen to people so they changed the government and brought me as the Prime Minister. I raised the deposit insurance cover in the interest of people". Deposit insurance up to Rs 5 lakh covers all deposits such as savings, fixed, current and recurring deposits in all commercial banks. Deposits in state, central and primary cooperative banks, functioning in states and Union Territories are also covered. With a deposit insurance coverage of Rs 5 lakh per depositor per bank, the number of fully protected accounts at the end of the previous financial year constituted 98.1 per cent of the total number of accounts as against the international benchmark of 80 per cent. Last year, the government increased the insurance cover on deposits by five times to Rs 5 lakh. The enhanced deposit insurance cover of Rs 5 lakh came into effect from February 4, 2020. Every bank used to pay 10 paise as an insurance premium per Rs 100 of deposit. It was raised to 12 paise per Rs 100 in 2020. It cannot be more than 15 paise at any point in time per Rs 100 deposit. It is to be noted that the enhanced deposit insurance cover of Rs 5 lakh is effective from February 4, 2020. The increase was done after a gap of 27 years as it has been static since 1993. Observing that banks play a major role in the prosperity of the country, Modi said, for the prosperity of the banks, it is equally important for the depositors' money to be safe. "If we want to save the bank, then depositors have to be protected," he said. Over the years, by merging many small public sector banks with large banks, their capacity, capability and transparency have been strengthened in every way, Modi emphasised. When RBI monitors co-operative banks, it increases the confidence of the common depositor in them, he said while talking about another legislation that brought cooperative banks under the control of the central bank. The Prime Minister said the problem was not only about the bank account, but also about the delivery of banking services to the remotest villages in the past. Today, in almost every village of the country, the facility of a bank branch or a banking correspondent has reached within a radius of 5 km, he said, adding, the common citizen of India is able to do even the smallest transactions digitally anytime, anywhere, 24 hours a day. Stressing that there are many such reforms that have helped India's banking system run smoothly even in the biggest calamity in 100 years, Modi said, “when even the developed countries of the world were struggling to provide help to their citizens, India provided direct help to almost every section of the country at a fast pace.” He said that measures initiated in the last few years have taken the facilities like insurance, bank loans and financial empowerment to a large underserved segment of the poor, women, street vendors and small farmers. Pointing that banking had not reached women of the country in a significant way earlier, the Prime Minister said this was taken as a priority by his government. Of the crores of bank accounts opened under Jan Dhan Yojana, more than half belong to women, he said. "The effect these bank accounts have on the economic empowerment of women, we have also seen in the recent National Family Health Survey.” Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/new-india-believes-in-solving-problems-not-avoiding-them-pm-modi-1060109.html
12-12-2021||North and Central||Himachal Pradesh govt committed to welfare of Gujjar community: CM Thakur||Himachal Pradesh Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur said on Sunday that his government is committed to the welfare and development of the Gujjar community and has started several schemes for them. Presiding over the 21st meeting of the Gujjar Kalyan Board here, Thakur said the Animal Husbandry Department must provide latest scientific technology to the Gujjar community members who are mainly associated with animal husbandry and milk production so that the economy can be strengthened. He directed officials to provide a better breed of cattle to the community so that they could get better income from their livestock. The chief minister urged the community members to pay special attention to the education of their children and directed officials to take immediate steps in this direction. Thakur said his government is committed to the welfare and development of the community and has started several schemes for their uplift. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/himachal-pradesh-govt-committed-to-welfare-of-gujjar-community-cm-thakur-1060115.html
12-12-2021||North and Central||Admission in central varsities via CET, DU to hold separate exam||The Ministry of Education has sent guidelines and communication to 45 central universities for admissions via Common Entrance Test (CET). For admission to Delhi University, however, a separate 'Central University Entrance Exam Test' will be conducted. Under the present system, most of the varsities prepare the merit list on the basis of marks scored in Class 12. The students have to fill admission forms for different universities on different dates. When the students do not get admission to their desired colleges, they turn to colleges where seats are vacant. As per UGC, admission in the central universities for the year 2022-2023 will be held through CET, which will be conducted by the National Testing Agency (NTA). Acting on the directions of the Education Ministry and the UGC, DU's Academic Council (AC) has passed a proposal for admission via CET. Before implementing the proposal passed by the DU, it has to get a nod from the varsity's executive council. The executive council of the varsity is likely to take an important decision on this matter on December 17. Delhi University Executive Council member Ashok Agarwal, however, is opposing the CET and is likely to protest against it in the scheduled meeting. According to Agarwal, the CET is being introduced without any preparation. It has many loopholes due to which poor students will have to face a tough time. Discussion should be held on the issue, and only after that, it should be implemented, he said. Delhi University Academic Council's former member Professor Hansraj Suman said that the varsity will conduct a separate CET. With this test only, admission will be possible in DU, he said. As per rules, which are being set by the DU, 50-50 per cent weightage will be given to marks scored in Class 12 and the CET. Hansraj Suman, who is also against the decision said, for admission in DU, coaching centres will mushroom to get wards qualify in the CET. Poor people will get out of the system, marks scored in Class 12 will not be of much help to them, Suman said. The UGC said the CET for undergraduate and postgraduate courses in the central universities will be conducted by the NTA for the academic session 2022-2023. The UGC said that for admission to PhD, NET score will be used. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/admission-in-central-varsities-via-cet-du-to-hold-separate-exam-1060122.html
12-12-2021||North and Central||Join hands to dethrone BJP, Baghel urges Opposition||Amid debate on opposition unity with Mamata Banerjee's Trinamool Congress charting its own course and not willing to accept a prime position for the Congress, Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel on Sunday urged the opposition parties to join hands to dethrone the BJP government. Addressing the Congress rally in Jaipur, he said that in a democracy, no one is more powerful than the people and the opposition should join hands to overthrow the BJP. "People voted against inflation in the by-elections, and on the very next day the Modi government reduced the prices of petrol and diesel." He said that in the five states where elections are being held, if the people defeat the BJP, then the price of diesel and petrol will come down to the level of the time of the UPA government. "If inflation has to be brought down, then BJP will have to be defeated," he said. He also made a veiled attack on Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union Minister Amit Shah and top businessmen. Baghel said that Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had repeatedly warned the government regarding demonetisation, GST, and coronavirus and also stressed that the government will be forced to take back the three farm laws. "The law had to be withdrawn after 14 months. This is the power of farmers and of Rahul Gandhi," he said. Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/join-hands-to-dethrone-bjp-baghel-urges-opposition-1060124.html
12-12-2021||North and Central||Rohtak Road at Tikri border open for traffic, other sites being cleared||A day after rejoicing farmers left for their homes, the Tikri border stretch of Rohtak Road was opened for vehicular movement on Sunday, while work was underway to clear protest sites at Ghazipur and Singhu borders of the national capital. According to police, barricades put up at one side of the carriageway on Rohtak Road were removed in October to allow movement of traffic. The other side of the carriageway, where the farmers were agitating, was completely cleared by the Delhi Police on Sunday, they said. The multi-layered barriers placed at the Rohtak Road have been completely removed after the departure of the farmers, a senior police officer said. "There is no obstruction in the way. The two sides of the road are completely open for vehicular traffic movement," he said. Thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh had laid siege on Delhi's borders on November 26 last year, demanding a repeal of three contentious farm laws of the Centre, which were repealed last month. According to farmer leaders, Singhu border site has been cleared by over 95 per cent and a cleaning exercise has been initiated by farmer groups and non-government organisations (NGOs) on Sunday. "Cleaning work is going on at the Singhu Border. More than 20 JCBs and over 100 volunteers are working here tirelessly to clear the stretch as soon as possible," a representative of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) said. He said that layers of barricades, boulders and barbed wires are being removed from the border. Another farmer leader and a member of the SKM, which was spearheading the agitation, Abhimanyu Kohar said that the Singhu border protest site has been cleared by over 95 per cent. "Several organisations are engaged in cleaning exercises there. Barring a few langars and 1-2 tents, most of the protest site at the Singhu border has been cleared. Langars are for the volunteers engaged in cleaning exercises. The stretch is likely to be cleared completely by tonight," Kohar said. At the Tikri Border, the protest site has been cleared of all tents and obstacles. "Barricades and other obstacles have been removed. The stretch (Rohtak Road) is ready for use," a farmer leader at Tikri Border said. At Ghazipur border, more than half of the farmers have vacated the protest site and left for their native places. The process of dismantling rest of the tents is underway. "A stage on one of the roads occupied during the agitation has been taken down. The remaining part of the road will also be cleared for traffic movement. Most of the farmer's have already left, while those associated with the BKU are still here and will leave as decided before December 15," said Atul Tripathi, a farmer and member of the BKU. Two langars are still functioning and they will be wrapped up when the rest of farmers leave, he said, adding that the road will also be cleared completely by then and all roads will be functional from December 15. The process of clearing roads is underway at the Singhu border. The roads are likely to be open for vehicular traffic by Monday evening, a senior police officer said. At the Ghazipur border, the roads will be completely clear only after all the farmers leave. According to information, the site will be completely vacated by December 15, said the officer. "Once the protest site gets cleared, the specific roads will be open to ensure smooth flow of traffic," he said. On November 29, a bill was passed in Parliament to repeal the laws, one of the main demands of the farmers. However, the farmers refused to end their protest, demanding that the government fulfil their other demands that included legal guarantee on the minimum support price (MSP) and the withdrawal of police cases against them. As the Centre accepted the pending demands, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM)suspended the farmers' movement and announced that they will be returning home on December 11 (Friday). Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rohtak-road-at-tikri-border-open-for-traffic-other-sites-being-cleared-1060135.html
12-12-2021||North and Central||Over 6 religious conversions in one-and-a-half months in Madhya Pradesh||Madhya Pradesh has witnessed over six instances of religious conversions of Hindu persons in a span of one-and-a-half month, triggering a controversy in different parts of the state. In all cases, Christian missionaries have been accused of the conversion. Following a fresh episode, the Madhya Pradesh police claimed to have arrested a couple in Barwani district for allegedly trying to lure tribal women to convert to Christianity. Those arrested for their alleged involvement in religious conversion, have been identified as Anar Singh Jamre, 35, and his wife Laxmi Jamre, 32, residents of Nawalpura village, the police said. The police told IANS that the couple has been booked under the provisions of Madhya Pradesh Freedom of Religion Act (MP-FRA). The police action was initiated following a written complaint filed by a resident of Barwani district on Friday. "As per the complaint, the couple had been luring the tribal women for conversion to Christianity by offering money, free education, free medicines, employment and other facilities after inviting them to their residence," a senior police official in Barwani district said, claiming that they have also seized some related literature, pen drives and other material from the couple's house. The amended Madhya Pradesh Freedom of Religion Act penalises religious conversions through fraudulent means including those for the sake of marriage. In cases involving religious conversion of members of Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and minors, a provision has been made for imprisonment of two to 10 years and Rs 50,000 fine. Recently, a school run by a Bhopal-based Christian missionary was vandalised in Vidisha district by a right-wing group accusing the school management of being involved in alleged conversion of Hindu children. However, the police had arrested five persons involved in vandalising and creating violence at school premises. The National Confederation for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) had also directed the district administration to investigate the matter. A similar case was reported on December 10 in Sagar district, in which a father of two children had alleged that Christian missionary school (St. Francis Sevadham) forced his children to "eat cow meat and read Bible". The NCPCR has directed district Superintendent of Police (SP), Sagar to investigate the issue, and take appropriate action. On November 10, the NCPCR had inspected a Christian missionary run women hostel in Raisen district in Madhya Pradesh and had claimed that it had uncovered an alleged conversion racket wherein Hindu girls were being converted to Christianity. Last month, the police in Madhya Pradesh had arrested 11 people including seven from Rajasthan and Gujarat, in two cases of religious conversion in Khargone and Jhabua districts. Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/over-6-religious-conversions-in-one-and-a-half-months-in-madhya-pradesh-1060140.html
12-12-2021||North and Central||State govts to decide on withdrawal of cases against farmers: Tomar||Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Sunday said since law and order is a state subject, a decision on withdrawal of the cases registered against farmers during their anti-farm laws protest will be taken by the respective state governments. Talking to reporters, he also welcomed the farmers' decision to call off the agitation. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an amalgamation of various farmer unions that spearheaded the protest against the three contentious farm laws, had on Thursday announced the suspension of its over a year-long agitation after they received a formal letter from the central government accepting their key pending demands including withdrawal of police cases against the protesters and on MSP. "The issue of law and order falls under the jurisdiction of state governments. So they will take a decision in this regard," Tomar said when asked about the withdrawal of cases registered against the farmers during their agitation. The letter sent to the SKM by the Centre said the governments of Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh and Haryana have agreed to withdraw cases against farmers with immediate effect. Cases registered against farmers in Delhi and other states will also be withdrawn, it added. Tomar said that he has been in contact with the farmers' leaders since the last more than a year. "I also talked to them today morning. We are saying that this is not a question of victory or defeat and you should also not see this issue like this," he said. Responding to a question about the delay in taking a decision on the farmers' agitation, Tomar said that this is not a hidden issue and everybody knows about it. "All farmers have welcomed the decision of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, which ensured the respect of the agriculturists. Now, farmers have ended their agitation and are returning home," he said. On November 29, a bill was passed in Parliament to repeal the contentious farm laws, one of the main demands of the protesting farmers. In reply to another question, Tomar said the supply of fertilisers to farmers is being ensured. Addressing a programme later, the minister said that all the money released by the Centre for the people is reaching the beneficiaries as the role of middlemen has been eliminated. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/state-govts-to-decide-on-withdrawal-of-cases-against-farmers-tomar-1060142.html
12-12-2021||North and Central||Varanasi decked up ahead of Vishwanath corridor inauguration by PM Modi||From massive murals depicting the artistic and cultural heritage of Benares to the illumination of several buildings near the Kashi Vishwanath temple site, Varanasi is all decked up to welcome Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday for a host of events. The main event will be the inauguration of the Phase-1 of the Kashi Vishwanath Dham, constructed at a cost of around Rs 339 crore. PM Modi will dedicate to people the ambitious Kashi Vishwanath corridor in the heart of Varanasi after offering prayers at the ancient temple. Even till late Sunday, construction workers were busy polishing stones, labourers were occupied decking up the temple premises with flowers, especially marigold, and staff rushing things up at Lalita Ghat to make it ready for the function. There is palpable excitement among a majority of the residents of the temple town and domestic tourists flocking the holy shrine of the Hindus in the run-up to the high-profile event, in view of which the police security in Varanasi has been stepped up. The excitement of the inauguration event, branded as 'Divya Kashi, Bhavya Kashi' reached a fever pitch, as a Shiv Barat procession was taken out in the streets near Godowlia Chowk, while owners of many hotels in the area have lit up their properties, with one saying, "It is a historic moment for Kashi and we are fortunate to be part of it". At the temple site, workers and Shri Kashi Vishwanath Temple Trust employees were also eagerly waiting for the day. Many were seen taking pictures against the backdrop of the old temple or the four new gateways that have been constructed using traditional craftsmanship. Anil Keshri, a retail garment seller, whose shop is at Godowlia Chowk, was brimming with excitement, watching the festooned streets and lit-up buildings. "Banares is a heart of culture, cradle of civilisation and Kashi Vishwanath ki Nagari. Look at the beautiful decoration, I am very happy and the new corridor will surely bring more tourism and greater glory for my city, and for India," he said, pointing to a 'shobha yatra' poster hung at the famous street intersection. Near the Varanasi airport in Babatpur, walls of a flyover have been decorated with murals portraying the Ganga aarti, Kashi Vishwanath temple, ghats of Benares and other heritage sites of the city, which is the Parliamentary constituency of Modi since 2014. Shrikant Mishra, the main priest of the temple, said, "The coming up of the new corridor is a miraculous moment. Nothing happens in this city without Kashi Vishwanath baba's permission. It's his city. Creation, destruction, recreation, all his will.” A total of 23 buildings will be inaugurated in the Phase-1 of the project, the Prime Minister's Office said in a statement. These will provide a variety of facilities to pilgrims, including suvidha kendras, tourist facilitation centres, vedic kendras, mumukshu bhavan, bhogshala, city museum, viewing gallery and food court, among others. The scale of the project was such it is now spread over five lakh square feet, whereas earlier premises were limited to just around 3,000 square feet. Despite the Covid-19 pandemic, the work on the project has been completed on schedule, the PMO said. Posters have been put up on ornate lampposts in streets near the iconic temple hailing Modi for "realising the vision of this project". The current structure of the temple was constructed by Maharani Ahilyabai Holkar around 1780; in the 19th century, Maharaja Ranjit Singh had got it crowned with a golden 'shikhara.' Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/varanasi-decked-up-ahead-of-vishwanath-corridor-inauguration-by-pm-modi-1060152.html
12-12-2021||North and Central||Couple found hanging from fans in Rajasthan's Bhilwara||A man and his wife were found hanging from ceiling fans in two separate rooms of their house in Rajasthan's Bhilwara district, the police said on Sunday. Prima facie, it appears to be a case of suicide, they said. The incident was reported from Beegod area, where Deepak Nagori (33) and his wife Kavita Nagori (30) were found hanging on Sunday morning, SHO Thakkar Ram said. Kavita was Deepak's second wife. He had two children from his first marriage. Nobody else was present in the house at the time of the incident, police said. A case of dowry harassment had been registered against her in-laws by Kavita's father. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/couple-found-hanging-from-fans-in-rajasthans-bhilwara-1060164.html
12-12-2021||North and Central||People will not forgive criminals who wore 'red caps, mesh caps': UP Dy CM Keshav Prasad Maurya||Uttar Pradesh deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya on Sunday said people will not forgive criminals elements under the “red caps” or the “mesh caps”, referring to the headgear worn by Samajwadi Party (SP) workers and many Muslims. But he made clear that he was not referring to the entire Muslim community when he mentioned the “Jaalidar” caps but only the criminal elements. “'Jaalidaar' caps should not be understood as the entire Muslim community. The criminal elements and those involving in corruption or the mafia will not be spared, and people will not forgive them,” Maurya said during an interaction with reporters after addressing a public meeting in Ghazipur. He said the SP thought it will come back to power “by applying some extra force” but has now come to realise it will be lucky to get the same number of seats as it did in 2017 election. “The same holds true for BSP and Congress," Maurya said. He also said the BJP has never indulged in the politics of appeasement and will not do it in future. “We are confident that our shortcomings in the 2017 UP Assembly elections in Ghazipur will be rectified, and ‘lotus’ will bloom on all seven seats of Ghazipur,” he said, adding that the BJP will bag more than 300 seats in the Assembly elections. Earlier addressing the public meeting, Maurya accused the previous governments of selective development and discriminating on the basis of caste. "In the previous government, development was done seeing the caste of the person, due to which development was confined to a few households and families. BJP is undertaking all-round development," he said. He also accused the SP and BSP of operating like “private limited companies” and said both have taken leave of “democratic traditions”. Maurya was here to inaugurate and lay foundation stones of projects worth Rs 177 crore.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/people-will-not-forgive-criminals-who-wore-red-caps-mesh-caps-up-dy-cm-keshav-prasad-maurya-1060182.html
12-12-2021||North and Central||Yogi's ‘bua’, ‘babua’ barb ahead of Kashi Vishwanath corridor inauguration||Uttar Pradesh (UP) Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday attacked rival political parties over the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor, saying the project could never have been completed under their government. The corridor is going to be inaugurated on Monday by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Earlier in the day, former UP CM and SP President Akhilesh Yadav had claimed that the approval for the project had come during his term. “Would Congress have built the Kashi Vishwanath Dhaam? Would 'Bua' (referring to BSP chief Mayawati) have built it? And whether 'Babua' (referring to Akhilesh Yadav) would have sung songs of Lord Shiv?” Yogi said while addressing a meeting of BJP workers in Etah. “If ‘Bua’ and ‘Babua’ were in power, the dream of Ram Temple and Kashi Vishwanath Corridor would have remained incomplete," he said. Yogi alleged that same political parties were not to be found anywhere during the Covid-19 pandemic when people needed them. “All of them were under home quarantine, taking rest in their homes. They were spreading propaganda and played with people's lives." The CM accused his rival parties of giving their patronage to mafia and saying they are worried now with his government cracking down on them. “Mafia is running for cover to save its life," Adityanath said. He said Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be laying the foundation of the Ganga Expressway on December 18. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/yogis-bua-babua-barb-ahead-of-kashi-vishwanath-corridor-inauguration-1060195.html
12-12-2021||North and Central||Gairsain Vidhan Sabha Bhawan be named after General Rawat: Congress||The Congress on Sunday suggested that the Vidhan Sabha Bhawan at Uttarakhand's summer capital Gairsain should be named after India's first Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat, who died in a helicopter crash recently. The advice came from people at a programme organised on Saturday in front of the Gairsain Vidhan Sabha Bhawan to pay tributes to General Rawat, his wife and 11 others killed in the crash, Congress general secretary and former chief minister Harish Rawat said. People want Gairsain Vidhan Sabha Bhawan at Bhararisain to be named after General Rawat, he said.  Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/gairsain-vidhan-sabha-bhawan-be-named-after-general-rawat-congress-1060196.html
12-12-2021||North and Central||Efforts on to make annual Amarnath yatra safe for pilgrims: J&K LG||Jammu and Kashmir Lt Governor Manoj Sinha on Sunday said continuous efforts are being made to make the annual yatra to the 3,880-metre-high holy cave shrine of Amarnath in the Himalayas “comfortable, modern and safe” for the devotees. He said his administration is committed to providing world-class facilities for the pilgrims besides facilitating langars and bhandaras (community kitchen service providers) during the yatra to the holy cave. The Lt Governor was interacting with the members of various associations of langars and bhandaras, which serves the pilgrims during the yatra, an official spokesman said here. The yatra takes place from the twin routes of Pahalgam in south Kashmir and Baltal in Ganderbal district of central Kashmir in summer. The official said as many as 20 members representing Shri Amarnath Barfani Langars Organization (SABLO) and Shri Amarnath Yatra Bhandara Organization (SAYBO) met the Lt Governor in Delhi and discussed various aspects of the smooth conduct of the yatra. The meeting was attended by Principal Secretary to the Lt Governor, Nitishwar Kumar, Additional CEO of Shri Amarnath Shrine Board Rahul Singh and Deputy CEO Vikas Anand, he said. “The holy yatra is a symbol of compassion, spirituality, service, and peace. Continuous efforts are being made to make the yatra more comfortable, modern, and safe for the pilgrims”, the Lt Governor said. Sinha informed the representatives of the associations about the substantial upgradation of facilities and infrastructure development for the yatris achieved in the past two years, the spokesman said. The Lt Governor observed that three Yatri Niwas are being created to provide better boarding and lodging facilities to pilgrims on their way to the cave shrine, he said. These include Chandarkote Yatri Niwas coming up at Ramban district, which would provide accommodation to around 3,200 yatris, besides Jammu Yatri Niwas and Srinagar Yatri Niwas with a capacity of accommodation of 3000 and 2250 yatris, respectively, the spokesman added. The representatives of the Langar associations appreciated the efforts of the UT administration and confirmed their active participation in the yatra arrangements, he said. They also offered their help through donations in terms of monetary as well as material resources required for the infrastructure, the spokesman added. Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/efforts-on-to-make-annual-amarnath-yatra-safe-for-pilgrims-jk-lg-1060199.html
12-12-2021||Oasis||Sad season for some||‘It’s the most wonderful time of the year!’ So begins a popular Christmas song. It describes the traditional activities associated with this month, but its primary focus is on get-togethers. All of us can relate to the lovely line, ‘Our hearts will be glowing when loved ones are near.’ Christmas means different things to different people, but it is often an occasion for fun-filled fellowship. Just as surely, this can be a sorrowful season. For thousands mourning the loss of family members, the sights and sounds of merriment accentuate their grief. It is not a happy holiday for those who have recently been bereaved. With aching hearts they recall the past, missing the familiar faces no longer in their midst. Even if one has faith and fortitude, the festival seems bleak. Christmas might once have entailed pleasurable preparations but, now, the will to cook and bake, adorn the house and shop for gifts is nonexistent. I did not understand this in March 1968, when my paternal grandmother passed away. December came round, and my father announced that Christmas would be quietly observed. We would go to church, but there would be no tree and the usual paraphernalia. My younger brother and I muttered bitterly to each other about this injustice. At 14, I should have known better, but I failed to see how our parents could deprive us of our eagerly awaited celebrations. 30 years later, I realised how my father had felt when I flew home to attend his funeral. It was only November, but Singapore’s Changi Airport was bedecked with beautiful Christmas-themed decorations. I viewed them through a mist of tears, and the bright lights increased my gloom. Although I claimed to believe in the joy of Christ’s coming, I was overwhelmed with grief. Let us reach out to friends for whom this is not a ‘wonderful time of year’. May we be harbingers of hope in this sad season for some! Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/sad-season-for-some-1060174.html
12-12-2021||Opinion||China and Xi make Australia find India, again||One curious fact emerged from Australia's 2016 census – Hinduism was the country's second-fastest-growing religion, behind Sikhism. Nearly half a million Hindus were Australian residents by then, and the most recent census will reveal a continuing trend. Underlining that growth is India-Australia government initiatives in defence, science, agriculture, industry and commerce, and private sector development boosted by state and federal Australia-India Business Council chambers. Two recent Australian High Commissioners to India have been of India diasporic descent: Peter Varghese (born in Kenya to Malayali parents) and Harinder Sidhu (born in Singapore). All that would have delighted Bertram Stevens, former premier (chief minister) of New South Wales who, in 1946, wrote "New Horizons: a Study of Australian-Indian Relations", envisaging enormous bilateral collaboration. The obvious question is why all this high-level interaction between Indian Ocean neighbours took so long, given the extensive history of more informal exchange. Indian graduates of Macquarie University may not know the institution is named for Lachlan Macquarie, a governor of convict New South Wales, who was at the 1799 Srirangapatna siege that overthrew Tipu Sultan and changed the course of Indian development. From the later nineteenth century onwards, Australian horse racing personnel made Indian fortunes, including in Bengaluru, where internationally famed jockey Ted Fordyce retired with dancer wife Danalakshmi, who opened one of the first commercial florist shops. More recently, Australian IPL players, coaches and official prominent have learned much more about India and lowered earlier prickly inter-team relations. Significant geographic, cultural and political reasons meant that a raft of goodwill went uncapitalised. After independence, for example, Jawaharlal Nehru's non-aligned stance distanced him from Australian leaders like Sir Robert Menzies, famously pro-British Empire and later Commonwealth, especially so during the 1950s and the Cold War when "socialism", to minds like Menzies', was essentially communism. The Soviet influence in India was viewed suspiciously. That geopolitical view was strengthened by Australia's post-World War II dual fixation with the United States across the Pacific and Britain back "Home". "Asia" collectively became what a later Australian prime minister described as the places one had to fly over to reach Europe. At the personal level, most young Australians are made for London rather than Bengaluru, Beijing or Bangkok. In there, too, was the persisting 1901-1960s "White Australia Policy" that banned immigration from Africa and Asia. That reinforced Australian racial stereotyping, broken down only slowly by the arrival of families like those of Peter Varghese, who all proceeded to make great social contributions. That privileging of Europeans and distancing of the "Other" delayed Australia's "discovery" of Asia until Prime Minister Whitlam's 1972 recognition of China, along with Australia being dragged into the Vietnam war by way of its hard-line American alliance. India was still curiously ignored by Canberra despite what came to be known as the Commonwealth and cricket connection – far more illusion than substance. In truth, until Jagmohan Dalmiya made Indian cricket a financial and playing powerhouse, Australian cricket authorities dismissed India and dreaded touring there. So what changed? While there were always Australian scholars and a few others who advocated stronger relationships with India, it was China and Xi Jinping who threw the switch in Australian policy thinking. The so-called "China Threat" is now a mantra in Australian defence and think tank land, and especially so in the media. The irony of Australia relentlessly attacking its major trading partner aside, the complexity in this has made "The Quad" (linking Australia, India, Japan and the United States) and creating the "Indo-Pacific" as a geopolitical zone necessary. Especially so now, China, largely in retaliation, has become much more active through the Pacific Islands, Papua New Guinea, and, more recently, the Solomon Islands. That pushed Australia to "Think West" as India was well into its "Act East" phase and prompted the spurt in commercial and policy cooperation. So, are Stevens' New Horizons finally here to stay? The signs are promising: rising numbers of Indian-origin CEOs, education and thought leaders, sportswomen and men; strong government rhetoric; youth dialogue sessions, and more. Yet signs of old order thinking remain. Gautam Adani's massive Queensland coal mine plan in Queensland has attracted criticism on environmental grounds but with signs, too, of an anti-foreign element, despite the fact Australia's steel industry was rescued by Sanjeev Gupta's Liberty House Group. And in Fremantle, Perth's Indian Ocean port city, the Western Australian government is planning a $100 million film studio complex. Its main target is Hollywood, twenty hours flying time back East and across the Pacific when Bollywood, let alone Tollywood, is just half as far and a much bigger market. There's still a way to go before Australia really "thinks India". (Brian Stoddart, Emeritus Professor at La Trobe University in Melbourne) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/china-and-xi-make-australia-find-india-again-1060003.html
12-12-2021||Opinion||Beijing Winter Olympics boycott: The wheel turns again||The diplomatic boycott that the US announced on December 6, followed by similar moves by Australia, Canada, Lithuania and New Zealand, suggests the list of countries intending to stay away from the games is growing. In a departure from past instances of Olympics boycotts, athletes would participate in the event, a concession to those who yearn for participation and glory at this most prestigious sporting spectacle. The Olympics, founded by French Baron Pierre de Coubertin, with the first edition of the Summer games staged in Athens in 1896, survived two World Wars. The US has decided to protest against China's "human rights abuses, and atrocities in Xinjiang" as domestic opinion builds around reports of treatment meted out to Muslim minority Uighurs in the region, a charge Beijing rejects. Opinion on the efficacy of a boycott of officials and diplomats as the one envisaged now or the earlier version where athletes were prevented from participation remains divided. The situation is still evolving in the current context, and days after Washington dropped anchor, France thought the decision was not worthy of emulation. French President Emmanuel Macron argued against the politicisation of the Games characterising the diplomatic boycott as "insignificant and symbolic". In the world of realpolitik, the decision by the French could be seen both from the prism of pragmatics since Paris will host the Summer edition of Olympics in 2024, and its emerging strains with the US over the creation of AUKUS, the military alliance between Australia, the UK and the US resulting in Paris losing a major submarine deal it entered earlier with Canberra. Russian President Vladimir Putin's announcement of his intention to travel to Beijing for the inauguration on February 4 is to send a strong show of solidarity with a country Moscow is working closely on issues of contemporary challenges. Countering the US moves, Beijing is garnering support. On November 30, the China-Africa Summit attended by 53 countries of the continent adopted a declaration supporting the Winter Games and were against politicising the event. Days earlier, the Russia-India-China Foreign Ministers expressed support to China to host the 2022 Winter Olympics and Paralympics Games in a joint statement. Ironically, these decisions came in and around the backdrop of a UN resolution, "Building a peaceful and better world through sport and the Olympic ideal". Adopted by consensus at the 76th Session of the United Nations General Assembly, the resolution co-sponsored by 173 of the 193 member states is a symbolic exercise undertaken since 1993. The document also called for observing the Olympics Truce for the 2022 Games from seven days before the start. The reference to Olympics Truce is historic. Established several centuries ago in ancient Greece, it allows all athletes and spectators from states in the state of conflict to participate in the Games. There were several such boycotts during the last century, but none so prolonged, marring four consecutive editions of the Summer Games between 1976 and 1988. At the Montreal Games, several countries from Africa did not take part after demanding that New Zealand be kept away as its Rugby team toured South Africa practising the policy of apartheid. The first significant political messaging of boycott came in 1980 when over 60 countries led by the US did not send their athletes to Moscow to protest the Soviet Union's action in Afghanistan. In many countries that did not send teams, the domestic opinion was upset over the denial of a once-in-lifetime opportunity for the sportspersons to showcase their prowess at these Games. The intended impact made little difference as the Soviets stayed put in Afghanistan until much later. The cycle continued, and expectedly countries in the Soviet Bloc retaliated and once against it resulted in a boycott of the 1984 Los Angeles Games on security concerns. By the time 1988 arrived, the then International Olympic Committee president Juan Antonio Samaranch brought his skills as a career Spanish diplomat to persuade countries to return to the 1988 Seoul Olympics. Barring a handful of countries, including North Korea, which had no diplomatic relations with South Korea and Cuba, the participation was a near full-house. Since then, the overwhelming opinion has been that boycotts do not serve much of a purpose, and the athletes are the ones who pay the price.  It also goes against the now modified "Faster, Higher, Stronger-Together" Olympic Motto adopted at the 2021 Tokyo Games staged in the pandemic era. Now that the US and a few countries have rekindled this form of protest, will it reignite yet another cycle of reprisals, or will the spirit of the Olympics return? The 2028 edition of the Summer Games to be hosted by Los Angeles should provide an answer. (The writer is a journalist based in Delhi) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/beijing-winter-olympics-boycott-the-wheel-turns-again-1060006.html
12-12-2021||Opinion||What 2021 has taught us about inflation||By John Authers, If 2020 was the year we all learned about epidemiology, 2021 has taught us more than we ever wanted to know about inflation. Price rises had remained calm and controlled for four decades, ever since the US Federal Reserve under Paul Volcker hiked interest rates aggressively in the early 1980s. Barely anyone working today has any practical memory of inflation as a serious and problematic reality. That explains the intensity of 2021’s year-long debate over whether new stirrings of inflation were merely “transitory,” or whether the US and global economies should prepare for a regime where inflation was once again a fact of life. At year’s end, US inflation has reached a stunning 6.8%, the fastest annual rate since 1982, and the Fed has admitted it is more than a passing side effect of the pandemic. The debate is effectively over. The question is whether — and how — we could have seen this coming. Earlier this year, we introduced Authers’ Indicators, a heat map to track and assess early signs of inflation. Now, the gauge accurately yields a week-by-week picture of growing inflationary pressures. But we can also see why the debate was so fierce. For several months, inflation could just as accurately be read as no more than a transitory phenomenon. Only in the last few months has it grown into a broad and persistent trend. In this heat map, squares darken as an indicator rises further above its norm for the previous decade (when inflation was thoroughly under control). Note that the entire map darkens as the year goes by. But,  in May, when alarm about inflation began to take hold, only a few indicators were extreme. Most had barely started to rise.  To better understand this dynamic, it is best to zoom in on two of the most reliable measures of inflation, the core and trimmed mean indices, both included in our heat map. The US Bureau of Labor Statistics calculates its price index, which is meant to capture a realistic ongoing cost of living, by continually surveying the prices at which more than 200 different goods and services are selling. It’s a massive undertaking. “Core” inflation takes the full basket of goods in the CPI and subtracts food and fuel, whose fluctuating prices are driven by factors largely beyond the reach of economic policymakers. Meanwhile, “trimmed mean” inflation is calculated by excluding the biggest outliers in both directions and taking an average of the rest. There will always be goods whose prices have moved sharply for some specific reason unconnected to the broader economy. Excluding them gives a clearer measure of underlying inflationary pressure. Historically, the distinction between these two measures has been little more than academic. They’ve tracked each other very closely.  That changed in the early months of this year. While “core” CPI shot upwards, the trimmed mean barely moved. The gap between them hit a record. The numbers revealed not only a historic resurgence of inflation, but a historically anomalous one.  This bolstered the “transitory” argument. While May’s headline number was shocking, the huge gap between the core and the trimmed mean showed that it was driven to an unprecedented extent by a few outliers. And there was a clear explanation for those outliers: Covid-19. Demand for things such as cars and hotels collapsed during the pandemic. Car rental companies sold off their fleets, while the major auto manufacturers cut back their orders of components as they anticipated buyers would delay purchases. When demand bounced back as vaccines were rolled out in the spring, rental companies and used-car dealers were left without any product, and prices skyrocketed. At one point, used-car inflation hit 112%. It seemed reasonable to expect that core inflation would eventually retreat, coming back into alignment with the trimmed mean. This is what happened the last few times a big gap has opened between them. And indeed, price rises for things such as used cars and lumber did prove transitory. Their shifts during the year (measured here in standard deviations compared to their averages for the previous decade) look like a drunkard’s walk:  But core inflation never fell. Rather, month after month, the trimmed mean rose steadily. It’s now even more extreme compared to its history than the eye-catching headline numbers.  Why did inflationary pressure broaden after the spring? The trend wasn’t foreordained by the pandemic or an inevitable result of policy missteps. Inflation is a complicated concept and a set of overlapping factors combined to entrench it. First, monetary policy acts with a lag. It was only after a matter of months that the true effects of Covid-19 stimulus and the runup in the stock market made themselves felt. If consumers are provided with more money, they will naturally bid up prices. Entering the year with record amounts in their bank accounts, Americans began to spend it once worries about the pandemic began to fade with the arrival of vaccines. Second, early signs of inflation — and the firestorm of commentary they provoked — helped to build expectations for future inflation. This encouraged many consumers to bring forward their purchases and drove workers to demand higher wages, putting further upward pressure on prices. Finally, inflation has not proved transitory because the pandemic has also not been transitory. Renewed interruptions to shipping caused by a Chinese Covid-19 outbreak in the spring and then the “delta” wave during the summer ensured that supply continued to fail to meet demand. To ration limited supplies, prices had to rise. You can see these effects gradually take hold using the indicators in our heat map. Official measures of inflation showed no reason for alarm in January. They rose sharply in May, thanks to transitory impact of the pandemic. Only then did price pressures steadily broaden.  The five specific inflation components we chose to follow also all rose during the second half of the year even if, as with college tuition fees or prescription drugs, the pandemic had tended to push prices down rather than up. The only exception was car rentals.  Commodity prices were harder to read; fast moving and volatile, they shift in response to big moves in global supply and demand. Early in the year, lumber prices skyrocketed, in a transitory effect of the pandemic. Gyrations in the oil price garnered much attention and fed into the extreme “headline” inflation numbers, but energy costs remained at or below the average for the previous decade. In hindsight, the price of basic industrial materials, not traded on futures markets, provided the most accurate gauge. Purely responsive to the ebbing of supply and demand within industry, not to animal spirits in financial markets, they rose steadily to a new all-time high in November.  We can also clearly see the gradual buildup of inflationary expectations in surveys of businesses, which showed concern as early as January. Managers had a privileged view of the problems that snarled supply chains would create and saw inflation coming. By May, businesses said they had a serious problem with rising costs, while consumers had also begun to brace for higher prices.  The next question is how bad the situation will get in 2022. If inflation is to become a part of the landscape, then wage rises, which have been very low ever since the global financial crisis, will need to start to take off. While still far from extreme, several measures of wage pressure increased steadily throughout the year to their highest levels of the post-crisis era, particularly for the lowest paid.  On the other hand, financial markets offer the most appealing evidence that a new era of inflation is not inevitable. As far as the bond market is concerned, inflation may be elevated for the next five years. But the prices of longer-dated bonds show that dealers haven’t wavered in their belief that it will come back under control after that.  If supply chains begin to move more smoothly — which looks as though it is already happening — at least one key pressure will be removed. Still, the task confronting the Fed and other policy makers remains frighteningly difficult. They will have to withdraw money from the system without prompting a downturn, convince consumers that rising inflation isn’t inevitable and, critically, persuade workers that they don’t need to raise their wage demands. With the US midterms approaching, and inflation now named by pollsters as the single most important issue, the battles over how exactly to do so will make this year’s inflation argument seem like a relaxed academic chat. One debate may have ended; another is just beginning.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/what-2021-has-taught-us-about-inflation-1060067.html
12-12-2021||Panorama||Fault lines in economic landscape and the great labour shakeup||In context to the global macro-economic scenario, and positioning India in it, there are three fault lines. How each nation understands and responds to them using an intersectional lens will shape the course of the future economic trajectory. To understand the first fault line, looking closely at the World Inequality Report 2021 data may help. The report highlights how the share of the bottom 50% of the world in total global wealth is 2% while the share of the top 10% is 76%. The wealth of the top 10% globally, which constitutes the middle class in rich countries and the merely rich in poor countries, is growing slower than the world average, but the top 1% captured 38% of the global increment in wealth while the bottom 50% captured 2%. Those in the top 0.1% saw their share of wealth rising from 7% to 11% in just a year. In context to India, the top 1% earned more than 21.7% of the country’s total national income in 2021 while the bottom 50% made 13.1% of the money. The authors argue that the ‘deregulation and economic liberalisation’ policies pursued since the 1980s in India resulted in one of the most extreme increases in income and wealth inequality.  In understanding the second and third fault lines, we need to dig deeper to study the global (national) labour market landscape — particularly from the last two years’ perspective. In a recent paper measuring German workers’ beliefs about rents and outside employment options authored by economists Simon Jager, Christopher Roth, Nina Roussille and Benjamin Schoefer, they find that 13% of jobs would not be viable at current wages, concentrated in the low-wage segment of the German job market. Most remain employed in undertaking low-wage work because of being ‘overpessimistic about outside (work) options’, and this belief tends to give ‘monopsony power’ (undue competitive advantage) to employers in context to low-paid workers. The only scenario under which such low-paid workers are forced to change their ‘misinformed conceptions’ about external employment scenarios and look for, say, better wage opportunities (or a wage-premia), would be a big enough shock that forces a massive shakeup of the entire labour market. Two years of Covid-19 — and its subsequent economic fallout — did just that. Most economists are now calling this ‘shakeup’ in the global labour market as a period of ‘The Great Resignation’. In the US, more than four million workers quit their jobs in the month of September, shattering the record for resignations previously set the month before. About 40% of the remaining employees are thinking of quitting too, according to a recent Microsoft report. In tech, more than 72% of US-based tech employees are thinking of quitting their job in the next 12 months.  So, what is going on here? Under normal circumstances, an exodus of ‘job-quitters’ signals a labour market to be dealing with a great shortage of jobs (a demand-side problem). But, the last two years haven’t been remotely normal; subsequently, a long cycle of mass resignations isn’t restricted to the US alone but is part of a cause for global concern. The ‘Work from Home’ (WFH) scenario (especially in tech, other service-based jobs) has changed the workers’ beliefs/expectations about their own job and the outside employment scenario. The ‘misinformation’, or ‘over-pessimistic’ attitude, which many low-paid workers earlier had, has been disruptively reoriented. The India picture In the Indian scenario, its abysmal labour market situation continues to gravitate towards a worse (pre-pandemic) state. The Periodic Labour Force Survey (PLFS) data for January-March 2021, released last week, show that unemployment rates were close to pre-Covid levels of 2020. And, women, as argued earlier in 2020, bore the brunt of the pandemic in terms of the economic fallout. Well-paying secured jobs in the macro-organised (secured) space have been shrinking for the educated workforce in India. This has obviously added to the ‘rising inequality concern’ amongst the middle (and lower-middle-income) classes too. Even during/since the second wave of the pandemic in India, only a select number of sectors (like construction) have added to temporal cycles of job creation as most service sectors struggled. This highlights the third fault line, the issue of weak work contracts, as some ‘job-creating’ sectors, too, continue to make the conditions of workers more exploitative. As per PLFS 2020 data, only less than 43% of all employment contracts in India’s organised workforce (employing less than 20% of the workforce) ensure provident funds/gratuity, healthcare and maternity benefits. The share of regular salaried workers, who have at least one social security benefit, i.e., ‘regular protected employment’, is 40% (as per 2019-20 data). Indian workers — in the areas of health, education, utilities too — are increasingly finding refuge in temporal ‘ad hoc work contracts’ while those in the lower-paid work category (plus low-end-manufacturing space) continue being absorbed by a swelling vulnerable, ‘unorganised’ sector. Those with capital and more privilege than informal workers are preferring to be ‘self-employed’ (under the sub-category of ‘Own Account Worker’), as reported by CMIE recently. Narrowing down the diagnosis of some of these crises at hand, from the Indian side, the issue appears to go much beyond any analysis that sees it as part of a ‘supply-side problem’ alone. Like Jager’s study, what’s needed is careful analytical scrutiny of the ‘demand-side’ problem in the labour market landscape through a deeper understanding of the psychology of worker expectations, which is centred around the changing composition of worker beliefs about rent (work-pay), housing, social security, care responsibilities, and outside (employment) options. This can help in undertaking (fiscal) policy interventions for minimising not just income and wealth inequalities but also ‘access inequality’. More importantly, seeing these fault lines intersectionally from both the global and national economic landscape’s perspective is critical for immediate and effective public policy intervention. (The writer is Director, Centre for New Economic Studies, O P Jindal Global University) Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/fault-lines-in-economic-landscape-and-the-great-labour-shakeup-1060169.html
12-12-2021||Right in the Middle||Anchored||I’m not a vessel floating along the waves on a pristine river or a raging ocean to prevent further drifting by anchoring me to a firm bottom. Half a century ago, my parents could’ve chided me for a surfeit of mischiefs and enforced ‘grounded’ to punish me; or into the future, a non-existent ride since I’m not yet a picture frame to be nailed for posterity, and hence remain unanchored. I do not have the exposure or the experience to anchor a television show, more so as a news anchor to pull off a mesmerising effect on my audience to impinge their mindset. However, the twists and turns in my story of impingement will reveal the truth, but until then, I need your patient read. Two months ago, a little niggle in the right shoulder made me believe that I can self-administer a few painkillers and rub some relief cream for respite. A few days of this self-treatment proved futile, and the orthopaedic clinic beckoned me. Orthopaedician made me swing my arms in all directions to diagnose my uneasiness and smilingly handed me a prescription for painkillers and physiotherapy treatment. My pain started to intensify, the physiotherapy notwithstanding. Normal sleep posture either flat on my back, or a right-side position was most painful and made the act of sleeping a torturous affair, despite a fortress of pillows around. This mandated a revisit to my Ortho, who, sensing my discomfort prescribed an MRI (Magnetic Resonance Imaging) procedure. The conclusion as ‘impression’ was tricky to decipher with the medical lingo. The sense I got was the right shoulder area was a mess with an RC (Rotator Cuff) tear, inflammation, tendonitis, and bursitis in adjacent areas with aggravated pain radiating into the neck region.   The MRI experience is worth a little paragraph. The sleep position mandated for precise imaging, the very reason I went back to my Ortho was ironically the position I had to lie still on my back for 22 minutes. With my right hand stretched and shoulder resting against support for better imaging, it was a journey in eternity. The claustrophobic feeling during the lie inside that tubular construct with a high-decibel noise and very cold temperature was exasperating, however, my meditation regimen kept me calm and composed. An experience worth an erase from my memory! Ortho concluded an arthroscopic surgery as a logical next step, and with all medical tests normal I was led to the Operation Theatre (OT) two weeks ago. A few holes in the shoulder area with probes fitted with miniature cameras to provide the best view of the inside mess, the Ortho sutured the tear and effected the mend as I lay sedated. The final report of the operation steps revealed that a tenotomy was done for the biceps and a swivel lock with Arthrex suture to bind and anchor the tear. I’m now looking forward to the physio for an extended recuperation. Meanwhile, in a pandemic-induced fear psychosis, I am Anchored! Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/anchored-1060176.html
12-12-2021||Second Edit||Growing inequality and rising poverty||Inequality is a fact of social and economic life all over the world. It pervades other areas of life too. There have been conclusions based on studies that show that primitive societies were less unequal and that civilisation and what is described as progress may have widened the gulf among people and groups of people. The idea has led to responses of various kinds at individual and collective levels, which range from altruistic sentiments to ideologies to political and social actions to policies and practices of governance that seek to reduce inequality. Inequality is also measured statistically now and the Gini coefficient, the globally accepted measure, has shown a progressive increase in inequality. India is among the most unequal societies in the world. The latest World Inequality Report shows that the top 10% of the country’s population holds 57% of the national income and the bottom 50% receives just 13.1%. The top 1% accounts for as much as 22% of wealth and income.  The report describes India as a "poor and very unequal country, with an affluent elite’". The middle class holds about 29.5% of the national income. The gap between the rich and the poor has grown over the years, especially after the 1980s, and the pandemic has made it wider. According to Pew Research, the middle class shrank by about 32 million people as a result of it. At the global level, the top 10% holds 52% of the world’s income and the bottom 50% about 8%. Developing countries, mainly in South America, Africa and Asia, account for a large part of the global inequality. Latin America, the Middle East and North Africa are the most unequal, with the bottom 50% owning just 1%. But that should be no consolation for India.  The usual excuses that inequality is a way of life and poverty has always been a fact of life cannot justify the deprivation suffered by many millions of people. About 25% of the people in India are absolutely poor and the country has been sliding on the hunger index. Even a fraction of a per cent means millions of poor and hungry people, and today’s one per cent is much more than a per cent some years ago. The report shows that the world is as unequal now as it was at the height of imperialism in the early 20th century. If today's poor man is as poor as his forefather was 100 years ago, what have liberation, development and progress done for him? Inequality has many dimensions in India because it is complicated by divisions based on religion, caste and other parameters. It should be realised that growing inequality and rising poverty will have serious consequences if they are left unaddressed. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/growing-inequality-and-rising-poverty-1060171.html
12-12-2021||South||Tamil Nadu CM Stalin greets Rajinikanth on his birthday||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin was among the first to convey his greetings to Rajinikanth on the occasion of the megastar's birthday, which falls on Sunday. The Tamil Nadu Chief Minister on Sunday expressed his heartfelt birthday greetings in Tamil to Rajinikanth, who he said was a "sweet friend" who moved with people with heartfelt affection. Stalin said he wished that Rajinikanth, who was setting foot into his 72nd year, entertained the Tamil people with his incomparable screen presence for several more years. 72-ஆவது அகவையில் அடியெடுத்து வைக்கும் அவர், இன்னும் பல ஆண்டுகள் தமிழ் மக்களைத் தன்னிகரற்ற தனது திரையாளுமையால் மகிழ்விக்கவும்; நல்ல உடல்நலத்துடன் திகழவும் விழைகிறேன். The Chief Minister also wished the superstar of Tamil cinema good health. Apart from Stalin, several film stars, directors and film technicians cutting across languages and industries greeted Rajinikanth on his birthday. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-cm-stalin-greets-rajinikanth-on-his-birthday-1059991.html
12-12-2021||South||CDS chopper crash: Mortal remains of Lance Naik Sai Teja sent to Andhra hometown||The mortal remains of Lance Naik B Sai Teja were on Sunday sent to his hometown Madanapalle from Bengaluru Command Hospital to be handed over to the family members. The officers of Indian Air Force (IAF) paid respects to the mortal remains of the young soldier at Yelahanka Air Base in Bengaluru. Later, they were taken to the Command Hospital on Old Airport Road. The mortal remains will be taken in a special ambulance to his home town Madanapalle in Chittoor district of Andhra Pradesh. Before leaving for Chittoor, army officers also paid respects to the mortal remains. Sai Teja is survived by his wife Syamala, two children -- son Mokshagna (5) and daughter Darshini (2) and his parents. He had joined the army through a recruitment drive in Guntur in 2012. He was appointed as the Personal Security Officer to Late Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat. Including General Rawat, 12 others died in the IAF helicopter crash in Tamil Nadu. The mortal remains of six jawans have been flown to the nearest airports to their native places. Teja was one among the 13 occupants of the IAF helicopter. Few hours before the chopper crashed, Teja made a video call to wife Syamala from New Delhi. He had told his wife that he was going to Tamil Nadu with CDS General Rawat and promised her that he would call back by evening. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/cds-chopper-crash-mortal-remains-of-lance-naik-sai-teja-sent-to-andhra-hometown-1059996.html
12-12-2021||South||PM extends birthday wishes to Rajinikanth||Born Shivaji Rao Gaekwad on December 12, 1950, he was given the name 'Rajinikanth' by ace Tamil filmmaker K Balachander in whose 1975 flick Apporva Raagangal the debuted in a supportive role. "A very happy birthday to @rajinikanth Ji. May he keep inspiring people with his creativity and phenomenal acting," Modi tweeted.  "May Almighty bless him with a long and healthy life," the prime minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/pm-extends-birthday-wishes-to-rajinikanth-1059999.html
12-12-2021||South||Ambedkar statue vandalised in Tamil Nadu; highway blocked by protesters||People, under the banner of several Dalit organisations, blocked at the Salem-Bengaluru national highway on Sunday after a statue of Dr B.R. Amedkar was found vandalised in Omalur town of Tamil Nadu's Salem district. The statue was found with the right hand missing on Sunday morning and the police suspect the incident to have taken place on Saturday night. Several Dalit outfits, including the VCK, blocked the road in protest of the vandalism of the statue of the Father of the Constitution. A strong police contingent reached the spot and held discussions with the leaders and registered a case. After that, the protestors dispersed. Police are on high alert in the area as recently in Myladuthurai, there was stone pelting when VCK activists erected a three feet tall portrait of Dr Ambedkar on his 65th death anniversary at Pattavarthi village which is predominantly having presence of Thevar community. There was a spate of beheadings in south Tamil Nadu during September in a span of two days, with both Thevars and Dalits targeting each other over minor disputes. Police are on high alert whenever minor incidents occur affecting Thevars and Dalits and here also a huge police contingent was deployed to prevent any untoward incident. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ambedkar-statue-vandalised-in-tamil-nadu-highway-blocked-by-protesters-1060061.html
12-12-2021||South||Puducherry's compulsory Covid-19 vaccination rule comes into effect||Lieutenant Governor of Puducherry Tamilisai Soundararajan said compulsory vaccination against Covid-19 became mandatory from Sunday and asked the people to carry with them the certificates of vaccination as there would be checking by the health authorities. Talking to reporters after visiting a Primary Health Centre (PHC) in neighbouring Villianoor to see for herself the implementation of the vaccination drive, she said, "The government is keen to ensure that Puducherry emerges as a fully vaccinated Union Territory." She said no stone was left unturned to reach the goal and vaccination was aimed at protecting the people against pandemic and also to prevent the occurrence of the new variant of the virus - Omicron. She was all-praise for the health staff in implementing the vaccination programme even on Sundays. "People should extend their cooperation," she said Secretary to Health Udhayakumar, Director of Health G.Sriramulu and a host of officials of the Department of Health were present. The Union Territory has so far administered the vaccine to 13,06,706 people, according to a press release. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/puducherrys-compulsory-covid-19-vaccination-rule-comes-into-effect-1060064.html
12-12-2021||South||AIADMK accuses DMK of taking credit for high number of MBBS seats in government sector||The main opposition AIADMK on Sunday listed 'achievements' made during its regime in increasing the number of MBBS seats in the Tamil Nadu government run medical colleges and hit out at the DMK dispensation for 'portraying' such progress as its own. During the 2011-21 AIADMK rule, as many as 3,000 more MBBS seats were added in the public sector, of which 1,650 were from 11 new medical colleges, the sanction for which was obtained in 2019 from the central government, party top leader O Panneerselvam said. As many as 700 seats were added by setting up six other medical colleges and creation of 650 more medical seats in existing state-run institutions further increased the availability of seats by 3,000 in the government sector, the AIADMK coordinator and former Chief Minister said. This is the factual position, Panneerselvam said and accused the DMK government of 'publicising' such progress as an achievement in view of the steps taken by Chief Minister MK Stalin. Projecting the achievement of the AIADMK regime as the DMK governemnt's accomplishment is 'strongly condemnable,' Panneerselvam claimed in a statement. "People will definitely give some thought about this, if it is possible to add up so many medical seats within 6 months of coming to power," he said. The AIADMK leader also cited a news report that appeared in a daily on availability of MBBS seats in Tamil Nadu. Quoting official statistics, the report said that there are 5,125 seats in public sector and in total, 10,375 including private institutions, the highest in the country. Pointing to such a high number of seats in the government sector, the AIADMK leader said this was made possible due to the "constructive efforts of the AIADMK government." The 11 new medical colleges sanctioned by the Centre are in Ramanathapuram, Virudhunagar, Krishnagiri, Namakkal, Nagapattinam, Dindigul, the Nilgiris, Tiruvallur, Tirupur, Ariyalur and Kallakurichi districts Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/aiadmk-accuses-dmk-of-taking-credit-for-high-number-of-mbbs-seats-in-government-sector-1060068.html
12-12-2021||South||Ireland returnee first Covid-19 Omicron case in Andhra Pradesh||A 34-year-old man who returned from Ireland via Mumbai airport has become the first case of Omicron variant in Andhra Pradesh. With this addition, the number of Covid-19 positive cases of Omicron strain went up to 37 in the country. According to the state health department, the person was tested upon his arrival at the Mumbai airport and was found to be negative for Covid-19 in an RT-PCR test. “So, he was allowed to travel and came to Visakhapatnam on 27 November. But an RT-PCR retest conducted at Vizianagaram showed him as positive for Covid-19. His samples were then sent to the Center for Cellular and Molecular Biology, Hyderabad. Genome sequencing declared him as infected by the Omicron variant,” said Dr G Hymavathi, director, public health, Andhra Pradesh. “However, he does not have any symptoms. He was tested again on Friday and the result was negative. There are no other Omicron cases in the state,” the top health official said. Five reports awaited In the past few days, i.e., the time the Omicron variant started worrying the AP health machinery, a total of 15 foreign travellers were found to be Covid-19 RT-PCR positive. All the samples were sent to CCMB for whole-genome sequencing to identify the strain. “Reports were received in 10 cases and only one of them was identified as Omicron. Public is advised not to be worried. They should not believe in any rumours but continue to take precautions and follow social distancing, wearing masks, washing hands regularly,” Dr Hymavathi said. The Medical and Health officer of Srikakulam district had to issue clarifications last week, after social media posts claimed that the returnees from Brazil and South Africa were tested positive with the Omicron variant. As of Sunday, AP has 1,912 active Covid-19 cases. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ireland-returnee-first-covid-19-omicron-case-in-andhra-pradesh-1060083.html
12-12-2021||South||IAF chopper crash: Lance Naik Sai Tej's body cremated with honours||Lance Naik Sai Teja, who died in the chopper crash along with General Bipin Rawat and 12 others last Wednesday, was cremated with military honours at his native village in Chittoor district. Thousands of people, majorly youngsters, took part in the final procession to the cremation in Teja's farmland at Eguva Regada on Sunday after his body was transported from from the Defense Hospital in Bengaluru. Teja (27) came from a family of farmers, with relatives saying that he nurtured a passion to join the army since childhood. He was recruited into the Indian Army as a jawan in 2013. Teja later made his way into the Para Special Forces and was appointed as Personal Security Officer to the Chief of Defence Staff based on his gallant performance. Teja's younger brother is also in the armed forces, serving in Sikkim. Teja is survived by his wife Shyamala and two children aged five and three. Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy had expressed shock over the tragic loss of lives and described Teja as “AP's brave son.” Panchayati Raj Minister Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy and Excise Minister K Narayana Swami visited Teja's family on Saturday and provided financial assistance on behalf of the state government. Peddireddy said the CM would consider the family's request for a job to Shyamala. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/iaf-chopper-crash-lance-naik-sai-tejs-body-cremated-with-honours-1060095.html
12-12-2021||South||Kerala government never desired post of Chancellor: Vijayan||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Sunday said that his government never desires the post of Chancellor of state universities and requested Governor Arif Mohammed Khan not to quit the post. Talking to reporters in Kannur, he said that the Chancellor's post was provided to the Governor by the Assembly. He also said that it was not the policy of the Kerala government to have any confrontation with the Governor and more discussions will be held with the Governor. Vijayan was responding to the letter written by the Governor on December 8, expressing concern over the state of affairs in the varsities and offering to quit as Chancellor. However, even as he requested the Governor not to relinquish the post of Chancellor, the Chief Minister also claimed that there seems to be "some intervention from outside putting the Governor under pressure". CPI-M cadres have already been criticising the Governor for acting at the behest of the Central government. Vijayan also said that the posting of Kannur University Vice-Chancellor was signed by the Governor as the Chancellor of the University and added he doesn't understand as to why Khan has taken a different position now. The Governor was briefed regarding the posting of the Kalady Sanskrit University Vice Chancellor before the posting was done and the state government never intervened in the matter of postings of Vice Chancellors, he added. Vijayan also said that the state government and the Governor were on good terms and he was having an excellent personal rapport with him. He said that he was not aware of the reasons behind the Governor's outburst and said that maybe outside interventions had taken place. Meanwhile responding to the Chief Minister from New Delhi, Khan said: "They may want me to continue in the Chancellor post as it is given by the Kerala Legislative Assembly to me but unfortunately, I am under extreme pressure in this post and can't discharge my duties properly." Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-government-never-desired-post-of-chancellor-vijayan-1060100.html
12-12-2021||South||IAF chopper crash: Phone of eyewitness sent for forensic examination||The mobile phone of a person who had videographed the helicopter crash, which led to the death of Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat and 12 others, has been sent for forensic examination, police said on Sunday. Joe, a wedding photographer from Coimbatore, had gone to Katteri area in the hilly Nilgiris district along with his friend Nazar and some of their family members to click photographs on December 8. Out of curiosity, he had recorded the video of the ill-fated helicopter on his mobile phone, apparently moments before it crashed. The video of the chopper disappearing into the fog has since gone viral on social media. The district police have collected Joe's mobile phone and sent it to a forensic lab in Coimbatore, as part of the investigation in the case. A probe is also under way to ascertain why the photographer and others with him had gone to the dense forest region, which is a prohibited area due to the frequent movement of wild animals, they said. Meanwhile, the police department has sought details relating to weather and temperature in the region on the day of the incident from the Meteorological Department in Chennai. Besides, police are questioning witnesses to gather clues about the crash, they said. General Rawat, his wife and 11 others were killed when the Mi-17VH helicopter crashed in a wooded valley at Katteri-Nanjappanchathram area in Coonoor on Wednesday. One IAF personnel survived the crash and is undergoing treatment in Bengaluru. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/iaf-chopper-crash-phone-of-eyewitness-sent-for-forensic-examination-1060102.html
12-12-2021||South||Kerala reports first Omicron case, India's tally reaches 38||The first Covid Omicron variant case in Kerala was reported on Sunday. A native of Ernakulam (Kochi) who came down from the UK last week was found to be infected with the variant. Kerala Health Minister Veena George told reporters that the person reached Kochi international airport on December 6. He was initially tested negative. But on a test conducted on December 8, he was found positive and further test confirmed that he was infected with the Omicron variant. His wife and mother were also tested positive and all were isolated. All were having no health issues. The person came by an Etihad Airways flight from the UK through Abu Dhabi. All the 149 persons in the flight were alerted, the minister said. The first Covid positive case in India was reported in Kerala on January 30, 2020, after a girl pursuing medical education in China tested positive. Kerala is now having 38,361 Covid active cases with 3,777 fresh cases being reported on Sunday. Tests positive rate of the state is around six per cent now. So far 51.87 lakh people got Covid infection in Kerala and 42,579 died. Around 68 per cent of people above the age of 18 in Kerala got both doses of Covid vaccines. Lockdown restrictions were almost relaxed and schools also reopened in the state. Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-reports-first-omicron-case-indias-tally-reaches-38-1060104.html
12-12-2021||South||Compulsory Covid-19 vaccination comes into effect in Puducherry amid Omicron scare||Vaccination against Covid-19 has become mandatory in Puducherry from Sunday, Lt Governor Tamilsai Soundararajan said. Addressing reporters, she said that she was keen that Puducherry emerge as a fully vaccinated Union Territory. She called upon the people to carry the vaccination certificate with them at all times as there would be surprised checks. Visiting the Viliannoor Primary Health Centre for a direct check on the vaccination drive, Soundararajan was full of praise for the health staff who were implanting vaccination even on Sundays. The Puducherry administration had issued a statement that vaccination was mandatory in the Union Territory and those who evade it would be penalised under the public health act. Soundararajan, who is also a medical doctor, said that people must never shy away from vaccination as it was intended to protect them from contracting the Covid-19 virus and now a new variant of the virus - Omicron - has emerged. She said that vaccination was the only known prevention from the pandemic and requested the people to make use of the facilities for vaccination. Senior Health Department officials including its Secretary, Udhayakumar, and Director of Health G Sriramalu were also present. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/compulsory-covid-19-vaccination-comes-into-effect-in-puducherry-amid-omicron-scare-1060110.html
12-12-2021||South||Now, digi lockers to protect key documents from calamities in Wayanad||Loss of valid documents due to natural calamities may soon become a thing of the past for the families in the tribal hamlets of Wayanad district of Kerala as a project to store valid documents in digital lockers has been launched. Impressed over the project, a couple of panchayats in neighbouring Kasargod and Kannur district are also implementing the project. During the natural calamities in Kerala in recent years, hundreds of families had lost all valid documents like the Aadhaar card, voter identity card and education certificates. This even affected payment of government assistance owing to the lack of identity proof. To address this issue, the Kerala State IT Mission (KSITM) — a state government agency — mooted a digital locker project. Wayanad district in Kerala has the highest tribal population of over 1.5 lakh (as per the 2011 census). Hence the project was piloted in the district with the support of the ST development department. The aim is to store at least one valid document of each tribal family in a digital locker. It is being offered free of cost to the tribal families. The project is being implemented through the Akshaya e-service centres of the state government and hence it has been named as Akshaya Big Campaign for Document Digitisation (ABCD). KSITM district project officer Nived S told DH that the project was launched in Thondernad panchayat in Wayanad last month and documents of around 400 people were so far secured in digital lockers. Campaigns to create awareness among the families in tribal hamlets about the project was also being initiated. Special counters have been set up at the Akshaya centres of the region for the scheme. Once the project is completed it would also make verifications for disbursing various benefits easier. Kanhangad panchayat in Kasargod district and Aralam in Kannur had also shown interest in the project and hence steps were being taken in this regard. After the 2018 floods and calamities that hit Kerala badly, there has been much demand for digital lockers as many families lots all valid documents. The government had even conducted camps for issuing duplicate documents.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/now-digi-lockers-to-protect-key-documents-from-calamities-in-wayanad-1060129.html
12-12-2021||South||Vaccine certificate now mandatory for entry to Tamil Nadu's Madurai Meenakshi temple||People visiting Tamil Nadu's famed Madurai Meenakshi temple from Monday will need to have a vaccination certificate, the state Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowment Department announced on Sunday. Joint Commissioner, Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments, Chelladurai said that devotees must have a copy of Covid-19 vaccination certificate for entering Madurai Meenakshi Sundareswar temple from Monday onwards, and those without it, would not be permitted entry. The Tamil Nadu government had made it mandatory to have vaccination certificates if they move in public places including shrines, shopping malls, and any other place where people converge in large numbers. Around 30,000 to 50,000 people frequent the famous Madurai Meenakshi Temple daily. In Rameswaram also, the authorities have erected hoardings at vantage locations directing the visitors and devotees to get vaccinated. The hoardings inform people that vaccines are ready and people were given the jabs on the spot. Around 50,000 people from all areas of south India reach the Sri Ramanathaswamy temple at Rameswaram on a daily basis. The noted Yercaud Dargah is also located in Rameswaram. The Tamil Nadu Health Department is conducting intense screening for people who arrive from Kerala even if they have taken two doses of vaccine. Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/vaccine-certificate-now-mandatory-for-entry-to-tamil-nadus-madurai-meenakshi-temple-1060134.html
12-12-2021||South||Tamil Nadu colleges directed to vaccinate eligible students against Covid-19||Tamil Nadu Minister for Medical and Family Welfare, Ma Subramanian on Sunday said all educational institutions in the state have been directed to ensure that students above 18 years of age are vaccinated, in order to be allowed to attend offline classes. The Minister's statement comes in the wake of clusters of Covid cases reported among students on the Anna University campus. "All the (college) department heads have been directed to ensure that eligible students whether in engineering, arts and science or veterinary, medical colleges, to get inoculated," he said. Subramanian was talking to reporters after taking part in the Rotary International event in Mahabalipuram near Chennai. Asked about the nine students of Anna University campus testing Covid-19 positive, he replied that they were fine and undergoing treatment at the King Institute of Preventive Medicine and Research in Guindy. Meanwhile, a medical bulletin by the health department said the state registered 674 new coronavirus cases aggregating to 27,35,389 while the toll mounted to 36,612 with 13 more deaths. Recoveries outnumbered new cases with 708 people getting discharged in the last 24 hours, aggregating to 26,91,054 leaving 7,723 active infections, it said. A total of 1,01,165 samples were tested in the last 24 hours, pushing the cumulative number of specimens examined to 5.54 crore. Chennai and Coimbatore accounted for the majority of new infections with 116 and 102 respectively, while the remaining was spread across other districts. As many as 22 districts reported less than 10 Covid-19 infections. Ramanathapuram and Tenkasi recorded zero cases, it added.  Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-colleges-directed-to-vaccinate-eligible-students-against-covid-19-1060153.html
12-12-2021||South||Army thanks Stalin for Tamil Nadu’s help in the aftermath of chopper crash||Lieutenant General A Arun, General Officer Commanding, Dakshin Bharat, on Sunday wrote to Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin thanking him for the help rendered by the state government to the armed forces in handling the situation following the tragic crash of an IAF helicopter in the Nilgiris on December 8. The crash killed Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) Gen Bipin Rawat, his wife Madhulika Rawat, and 11 Army officers and personnel. “Your act of rushing to Nilgiris immediately after coming to know of the crash and paying respects to those who lost their lives in the crash softened our hearts. You have secured a place in the hearts of thousands of army personnel, army officers and their families,” Lt. Gen Arun said. The Army officer, according to a press release issued by the Tamil Nadu government on Sunday, thanked the state government for rendering every possible help in its capacity. “Such support will encourage youngsters to join the Army in the future in the interests of the nation. Your actions have sent a message to soldiers that the Tamil Nadu government supports them,” the officer said. Stalin rushed to Nilgiris on December 8 evening and was briefed by officers from the Army at the Army Centre in Wellington. The next day, the Chief Minister paid his last respects to the deceased. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/army-thanks-stalin-for-tamil-nadu-s-help-in-the-aftermath-of-chopper-crash-1060200.html
12-12-2021||State||Khadi sector hopes for annual event to recover losses||The khadi and village industries, which faced the task of clearing nearly Rs 300 crore worth products remained unsold last year, thanks to Covid, are worried that the uncertainty caused by the third wave of pandemic may lay waste their efforts at recovery. In Feburary, the Karnataka State Khadi and Village Industries Board said that products worth Rs 280 crore had remain unsold, due to the pandemic and the reduced sales. Since then, efforts have been made to boost sales through local fares and exhibitions. However, officials at district-level said the damage caused to the sector will take longer to recover. “It’s a complex problem involving weavers, producers and marketing societies. What we have seen is that those manufacturing units well-connected with markets have recovered. However, that is not the case in many of the districts,” sources in the Board said. An official said that in districts like Chitradurga, Davangere, Raichur, societies have seen their revenue go down by 30% to 50%. “For such districts, the annual Khadi Mela in Bengaluru had been a major booster for business. In some districts, nearly 50% of the annual sales took place within the first two weeks of the annual Khadi Utsav held in Bengaluru that has not been held since January 2019,” an officialsaid. In Davangere, for example, the revenue has come down by 30% compared to the 2019 figures. “The spending power of the people has definitely come down. At Khadi bhandars, the footfall is negligible. Almost all of our sales can be attributed to the exhibitions and melas held in different districts. Chamarajanagar district doesn’t have khadi bhandar to sell the products made by local artisans,” an official said. Board Chairman Krishnappa Gowda N R acknowledged the problem. “Khadi and village industries were affected just like other sectors. The revival was slow. However, we have taken up several initiatives since October 2 to boost sales. We also have plans to set up plazas or upgrade the existing ones within the districts to make Khadi popular at local level,” he said. He said several works of the Board has been pending for decades. “We need to secure the CA sites and other properties of the Board in all the districts. These can be utilised to build office and shops or large exhibition halls in some districts. A proposal will be made to the government in this regard soon,” he said. Santosh Koulagi of the Janapda Seva Trust said the khadi industry in Karnataka has suffered due to lack of quality. “Over the last few decades, there is too much emphasis on marketing in the hope that it will create employment. There is a large-scale erosion of skills as well as the quality of the manufacturing. The Khadi Commission has reduced the sector into Khadi mark, which is being misused by large textile mills that have nothing to do with khadi,” he said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/khadi-sector-hopes-for-annual-event-to-recover-losses-1060193.html
12-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||'Religious conversion is a bigger problem than corona'||Vishwa Hindu Parishad and Bajrang Dal staged a protest demanding a thorough investigation into the death of four members of a family over alleged religious conversion.  Chilimbi Omsri Mutt seer Vidyananda Saraswathi Swamiji said that conversion has become a problem bigger than the Covid-19 pandemic. “It is a tragedy that we have to fight demanding anti-conversion law in India. We are ready to sit in front of Vidhana Soudha demanding law. Had the government introduced anti-conversion law, the family of Nagesh would have been saved,” he said. Vajradehi Mutt seer Rajashekarananda Swamiji also spoke.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/religious-conversion-is-a-bigger-problem-than-corona-1059918.html
12-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Hacker Sriki goes ‘missing’, cops to seek bail cancellation||The Bengaluru police are planning to approach the court seeking withdrawal of bail order of notorious hacker Srikrishna alias Sriki, who has gone “missing”. The cops are also planning to seek permission to take him into custody again. Sources in the Bengaluru City Police told DH that Sriki, currently out on bail, has violated bail conditions and gone “missing”. A senior police officer said that as per the bail conditions in a case registered at the Jeevanbima Nagar police station, Sriki was supposed to appear before the investigating officer (IO) every Saturday and sign on the register. “Since his release from jail three weeks ago, he hasn’t turned up before the police. He isn’t helping in the interrogation either,” an officer said. “We have to submit the investigation details to the court as the matter is being heard by the court. But for three weeks, we do not know where he is. If he has undergone any medical procedure or other emergencies, it has to be brought to the notice of the IO. But there has been no communication about his whereabouts. Hence, we have directed the investigating team to approach the court seeking withdrawal of his bail orders,” the officer added. The city police had, in fact, given the hacker security cover after Opposition leaders alleged that he had received life threats. The security police personnel are also in the dark about his whereabouts. Sriki was booked for assaulting hotel staff under the influence of narcotics. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/hacker-sriki-goes-missing-cops-to-seek-bail-cancellation-1059926.html
12-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Third Omicron Covid-19 infection in Karnataka: S Africa returnee tests positive||A 34-year-old Bengaluru native who returned to the city following a business trip in South Africa has officially become the third person in the state to be infected with the Omicron variant of Covid-19. The individual, who has since been isolated at Bowring and Lady Curzon Medical College and Research Institute, had flown into the Kempegowda International Airport on December 1 where he had been subject to RT-PCR testing and subsequently tested negative, according to the BBMP Special Commissioner (Health), Dr Thrilok Chandra. However, on the following day, after he had returned home, he developed a sore throat. When tested a second time, he was found to be Covid-19 positive. “His sample which was sent for genomic sequencing. The result came late last night,” Dr Chandra explained. In a tweet, the Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar said that “five primary and 15 secondary contacts have been traced.” The five primary contacts include members of the travellers’ family plus the cab driver from the airport. The remaining 15 contacts are friends and family, the BBMP said, adding that all contacts have tested negative for the disease so far. The anesthesiologist is said to be still positive for the virus despite contracting the disease over three weeks ago. Health officials said that members of his family, including his wife (an ophthalmologist) and two children continue to be in isolation at the hospital. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/third-omicron-covid-19-infection-in-karnataka-s-africa-returnee-tests-positive-1059998.html
12-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||They are forgiven, says Karnataka teacher who suffered bullying from students||A teacher in Karnataka suffered severe disrespect and bullying from six of his Class 10 students. They tried to assault him and even went as far as to cap a dustbin on the teacher's head. A video of the disturbing incident went viral on social media and drew criticism from authorities on various levels, with some seeking suspension of the students.  As for the 59-year-old Hindi teacher, Prakash Bogar, the misbehaving students are forgiven. The viral video was followed by so much outrage that it prompted a visit by Channagiri MLA Madal Virupakshappa and Deputy Director of Public Instruction (DDPI) G R Thippeshappa to the school in Davangere district.   The mischievous students later apologised to the teacher in the presence of police and parents and they also fell at the feet of the teacher.  At a meeting, Bogar reportedly said that the students were still young and had "made a mistake." “There is no need to hand them over to police or dismiss them from class. This is a lesson for them and they will be better," he said. The bullying of the teacher, however, did not come to light until the video went viral. Bogar, after suffering through the students' misbehaviour, remained quiet and did not inform anybody about the incident, not even his son. Thippeshappa, the DDPI, told the publication that they were worried about Bogar's health, particularly over some cardiac issues. "This incident has hurt the entire teaching fraternity,” he said.  The teacher's son, Deepak, who works in Bengaluru, has said that Bogar's health had deteriorated since the incident and that "he was in no position to talk."  "I spoke to him on Saturday and asked why he supported the students. He told me that he will be retiring next year, but those students still have a bright future, which he didn’t want to spoil,” Deepak said.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/they-are-forgiven-says-karnataka-teacher-who-suffered-bullying-from-students-1060019.html
12-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||BBMP reaches out to ICMR over effectiveness of rapid test at KIA||The BBMP has reached out to the civil aviation ministry and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for clarity on the effectiveness of the rapid test adopted at KIA.  This after the state’s third Omicron patient, a passenger from South Africa, tested Covid positive a day after testing negative at KIA (Kempegowda International Airport).  The 34-year-old passenger was tested on arrival at the KIA with the Abbott ID NOW Rapid RT-PCR test on December 1. He had tested negative. However, within a span of 24 hours, he tested positive with a conventional RT-PCR test.  By then, he had already come in contact with 20 people, including the cab driver who ferried him home from the airport. There was another case of a 60-year-old passenger from Germany, who tested positive at the airport. A subsequent (regular RT-PCR) test at Bowring and Lady Curzon Hospital, however, showed that the passenger is negative.  BBMP special commissioner (health) Dr K V Trilok Chandra said he has reached out to the Ministry of Civil Aviation and the ICMR. He will meet ICMR officials on Monday to bring the cases to their notice.  “We are awaiting confirmation from ICMR on the sensitivity of the test. Probably on Monday, we’ll hear from them and then take a call on the issue. On Saturday, I had also been in touch with the Ministry of Civil Aviation. They referred us to the ICMR as it is them who certify these technologies,” Dr Chandrasaid.   On a question about the possibility of adopting institutional quarantine for passengers till their conventional RT-PCR results come, Health Secretary T K Anil Kumar said, “We’re going by the ICMR protocol, which is the highest technical body. They asked for these machines (Abbott) to be used, for quick results.” “However, we’ve told the airport authorities to use three other sets of express test machines, which they’ve been told to procure. These tests are much cheaper than Abbott ID tests (Rs 3,000): Thermo Fisher Accula (Rs 1,500), Tata MD 3 Gene Fast/Tata MDXF (Rs 1,200), and Cepheid Gene Expert (Rs 2,750). We’ve been orally informed that this week, they will be deployed,” he added. Abbott Laboratories claimed on its website that the positive agreement (sensitivity) of the test is 94.7% and negative agreement (specificity) 98.6%.   An Abbott spokesperson in a statement over email on Tuesday (in response to DH's request for a comment on Sunday) said, “ID NOW is a fast, reliable and widely available molecular point-of-care device, that provides Covid-19 testing where and when it's needed most. Urgent care clinic studies show ID NOW test performance of ≥94.7% positive agreement (sensitivity) and ≥98.6% negative agreement (specificity), as compared to lab-based PCR reference tests. When proper sample collection and handling are used, ID NOW is a reliable tool in near patient settings and can help reduce further spread of Covid-19.” Dr Naveena J, professor of microbiology at Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research, said, “Reasons for false negative in Abbott ID NOW could be due to improper sample collection, which is called pre-analytical error. In Abbott ID NOW, the viral load should be around 125 genome equivalents of SARS-CoV-2/ml of the sample to flag a positive result, whereas RT-PCR requires 30-35 genome equivalent of SARS-COV-2/ml of sample.”   Dr C N Manjunath, state nodal officer for Covid-19 testing, said, “We need to check if the swab sample collection was done properly. Early in the incubation period, one can test negative. Here, it is just a span of 24 hours. If the test is done two to three days apart, there can be a difference in viral load.”     Check out DH's latets videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bbmp-reaches-out-to-icmr-over-effectiveness-of-rapid-test-at-kia-1060178.html
12-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||13th edition of BIFFes slated for February-end||The 13th edition of the Bengaluru International Film Festival (BIFFes) is scheduled for February 2022, after being cancelled in 2021, due to the second wave of Covid-19.  Traditionally, the annual film festival takes place in February-March. Early this year, officials had prepared a schedule for the screening of 250 films. But the festival was indefinitely postponed in March.  Applications are now being accepted for the 2022 edition. “The film festival will go on for 8 days and it will be conducted the same way it has been held all these years. However, Covid protocols will be in place,” said Suneel Puranik, chairperson of the Karnataka Chalanachitra Academy (KCA). He said the festival has received a green signal from the government and a core committee has been formed.  The academy had received more than 200 entries last year for the competition. Since these films could not be screened, the organisers are contemplating screening them along with the selected fresh submissions. No decision on awards yet “We are still not sure if we will give out awards separately for the entries from previous year and this year or collectively for both years,” Puranik said. If all goes as planned, the screenings will be held at three locations: VR Cinemas in Orion Mall, Ambarish Auditorium in Karnataka Chalanachitra Kalavidara Sangha in Chamarajpet and Suchitra Cinema and Cultural Academy in Banashankari in the last week of February. However, a final decision on the protocols and other aspects of the festival will be taken by the core committee after a meeting with the chief minister, the organisers said.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/13th-edition-of-biffes-slated-for-february-end-1060184.html
12-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Kids' issues form minuscule of questions in legislature||The government and the parties focused entirely on stepping up health infrastructure in the state, besides feeding the poor, during the pandemic. Due to this, political leaders hardly found time to debate and discuss other relevant issues such as malnutrition, as also the education, health and rights of children.  Even though the legislature met five times in 2020-21, discussions on education, rights and health of children took a backseat compared to the previous years, according to a finding by the Karnataka Child Rights Observatory (KCRO) — an umbrella organisation of child rights NGOs in Karnataka.  In the backdrop of the winter session of the legislature in Belagavi from Monday, an analysis of the last five sessions shows that the discussions on these topics have come down considerably. “The total number of questions pertaining to children in the Assembly was only 4.57%. Last year, the same stood at 5.4%. Out of the 7,491 questions that were asked during this period, only 342 pertained to children,” the report said.  Similarly, the Council witnessed a slump in the percentage of questions pertaining to children. “Out of the 5,289 questions, only 266 were about children and their rights accounting for just 5% of the total questions that were asked,” the report said. Council chairperson Basavaraj Horatti has assured the child rights bodies that the House would deliberate more on children-centric issues in the coming days. However, a few legislators have made continuous efforts to draw the government’s attention to child rights. Congress members Sowmya Reddy, N A Harris and JD(S) member H D Revanna have asked the maximum number of questions in the Assembly in this regard. While Sowmya has asked 11 questions, Harris and Revanna have asked 10 questions each pertaining to child rights. Mahantesh Kavatagimath, N Ravikumar of the BJP and U B Venkatesh (Congress) have asked the maximum questions in the Upper House on children’s issues. Kavatagimath stood in the first place with 36 questions, Ravikumar asked 14 questions, followed by Venkatesh with 13 questions in the last five sessions, the KCRO analysis shows.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kids-issues-form-minuscule-of-questions-in-legislature-1060186.html
12-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Social media slams 'sexist para' in CBSE English paper||The 'sexist content' in the CBSE class 10 English examination held on Saturday confused students and teachers, while creating a political furore across the country with many, including senior political leaders, slamming the CBSE officials. In the question paper, one of the reading comprehension passages was regressive portrayal of women and it was also not age appropriate. "We teachers were shocked to see such content in the paper," said one of the teachers from a school affiliated to CBSE in Bengaluru. The passage denotes male supremacy, she said. The passage read: “What people were slow to observe was that the emancipation of the wife destroyed the parent's authority over the children. The mother did not exemplify the obedience upon which she tried to insist. There was more room now for disagreement between the parents, enabling the child to appeal from one to the other, eventually ignoring both. In bringing the man down from his pedestal, the wife and mother deprived herself, in fact, of the means of discipline.” Soon after the examination, the content was viral on various social media platforms where users condemned the Central Board for Secondary Education (CBSE) and some even demanded an apology from the board for allowing such content. "The Board must take action against the paper-setters," said one person on Twitter. "The students were confused with the question and approached teachers who were on invigilation duty. And we, teachers were shocked to see such a paragraph," said a teacher who was on exam duty on Saturday. "Clearly, the BJP government endorses these retrograde views on women. Why else would they feature in the CBSE curriculum?" Several leaders, including an MP from Tamil Nadu, criticised the CBSE and said such a passage reflects poorly on the institution. The issue turned political on Twitter on Sunday evening. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/social-media-slams-sexist-para-in-cbse-english-paper-1060191.html
12-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Belagavi-Delhi flight 4 times a week from Dec 20||SpiceJet will operate the Belagavi-Delhi flight four times a week, starting December 20. The Gurugram-based airline used to provide air service between the cities thrice a week.  Belagavi Airport in a tweet informed that Spicejet will provide air connectivity to Delhi on Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday.  The low-cost airline launched air service on the Belagavi-Delhi route on August 13, 2021 by Boeing 737-700 aircraft. The service on the route has been patronised by the passengers with flight arriving and departing with near-full capacity. Presently as per the schedule flight departs from Delhi at 6.35 am and arrives in Belagavi at 9.30 am. The flight leaves Belagavi at 10 am and reaches Delhi at 12.30 pm on the select days. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/belagavi-delhi-flight-4-times-a-week-from-dec-20-1060192.html
12-12-2021||West||'Unfair playing field': Indian brands miffed at Maharashtra's excise duty cut on imported alcohol||The Confederation of Indian Alcoholic Beverage Companies (CIABC) has written to Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister and Finance Minister Ajit Pawar seeking immediate withdrawal of the excise duty reduction on imported products or extending the same to all of the IMFL sector. “Excise Duty reduction of such scale on imported products is disastrous for the Indian industry. It so distorts the playing field against the Indian industry, that consequences may be far-reaching leading to disinvestment, job losses and farmer discomfort…the (Maharashtra) Government should encourage products made in India which historically has been the main contributor to the state’s revenues and economic prosperity,” said the letter of the apex body of the Indian alcoholic beverage industry. While referring to the drastic reduction in excise duty for imported products (“BIO”) without similar relief to Indian made products (“IMFL”), CIABC Director-General Vinod Giri said it would create a very unequal and unfair playing field against IMFL products. “The Maharashtra Government has slashed excise duty on BIO products without giving any consideration to the interests of the Indian industry. The Government may have been misinformed about the premise and implications of this step which would severely hurt Indian liquor industry, employment, MSME sector and Indian farmers,” Giri added. Giri further said post the massive reduction of excise duty on imported liquor, the multi-national companies are likely to shift their production back to their home countries. Further, loss in sales will make even Indian manufacturers scale down production in the state, said a statement from the CIABC. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/unfair-playing-field-indian-brands-miffed-at-maharashtras-excise-duty-cut-on-imported-alcohol-1059975.html
12-12-2021||West||Nagpur reports first Omicron case; Maharashtra tally reaches 18||A 40-year old man from the orange city of Nagpur, who recently travelled to South Africa has tested positive for the Covid-19 variant Omicron phasing the tally of Maharashtra up to 18.  Nagpur is the third place in the state where the variant was found after the Mumbai and Pune metropolitan regions.  The man arrived from South Africa on 5 December and his report tested for Omicron positive, according to the lab test done at the Pune-based National Institute of Virology.  He has shown mild symptoms and is admitted to AIIMS in Nagpur.  Thirty close contacts were traced and tested and all of them were negative.  The patient had earlier tested positive for Covid-19 in April 2021 during the second wave - and has not been vaccinated.  As of date, the state had a total of 18 Omicron cases of which nine have recovered and their tests have been RT-PCR negative.  Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/nagpur-reports-first-omicron-case-maharashtra-tally-reaches-18-1060070.html
12-12-2021||West||Padma Shree awardee Tulsi Gowda to get Mother Teresa award 2021||An octogenarian environmentalist from Karnataka, Tulsi Gowda, will be conferred with the coveted Mother Teresa Memorial Award 2021 instituted by Mumbai-based Harmony Foundation.  The four awardees this time are Tulsi Gowda, the Paani Foundation launched by actor Aamir Khan and his ex-wife Kiran Rao, Aadya Joshi, and Subojit Mukherjee. Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari would present the awards at the Raj Bhavan on Monday. Tulsi Gowda, a recipient of Padma Shree is being awarded for her astounding and inspirational contribution towards the conservation of trees and her prodigious traditional knowledge of the same. “Each year, the Harmony Foundation identifies a theme for the Mother Teresa Memorial Awards and the Harmony International Conference that aligns with the need of the hour affecting humanity worldwide. This year we embark on the Awards’ 17th year of felicitating selfless individuals and organisations who work relentlessly in the realm of environmental sustainability,” said Dr Abraham Mathai, founder-chairman, Harmony Foundation. The next awardee of Mother Teresa Memorial Award 2021, Aadya Joshi is the recipient of the Children’s Climate Prize 2020. Joshi is the pioneer and founder of The Right Green initiative, an initiative that spreads awareness by educating children and municipal authorities about using native plants to create biodiversity-rich ecosystems in urban environments. Paani Foundation is being awarded for its impeccable and extraordinary mission to create a drought-free Maharashtra, which is ecologically as well as economically prosperous. Subojit Mukherjee is awarded for his exceptionally insightful efforts to amplify the green cover in and around Mumbai, and as a Jal Rakshak, for his leading innovations in rainwater harvesting. “A sustainable environment is monumental for the survival of humanity and other species of our planet. While humanity marches ahead in all spheres of what it terms progress, we forget our responsibility to its own future. After all, we do not inherit the Earth from our ancestors, we borrow it from our children. Unsustainable developmental practices have exerted traumatic pressure on the ecosystem and damaged it beyond repair,” Mathai said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/padma-shree-awardee-tulsi-gowda-to-get-mother-teresa-award-2021-1060081.html
12-12-2021||West||FIR against organisers of Owaisi's Mumbai rally for defying police order||The Mumbai Police has registered an FIR against the organisers of AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi's rally held in Mumbai the day before for allegedly violating Covid-19 norms and defying section 144 of CrPC, an official said on Sunday. The FIR registered by Sakinaka Police on Saturday late night named Sabre Alam and four others, all activists of the All India Majlis-E-Ittehadul Muslimeen. The case was registered against them under various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) including 188 (disobeying the order promulgated by public servant), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and provisions of the Disaster Management Act, he said. Mumbai Police had imposed section 144 of Crpc over the weekend prohibiting the gathering of more than four persons apparently in view of the new Omicron variant cases coming to the fore. The rally, held in Chandivali ahead of civic polls in Mumbai and other cities, was attended by thousands of people including AIMIM activists, who had travelled from Aurangabad in Marathwada led by the party MP Imtiyaz Jaleel. Owaisi had accused the ruling Congress and NCP of failing to implement a 5 per cent quota for Muslims in jobs and education. He had also appealed to Muslims to shun "political secularism".  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fir-against-organisers-of-owaisis-mumbai-rally-for-defying-police-order-1060139.html
12-12-2021||West||TMC, Congress spat escalates as Mamata arrives in Goa||With Mamata Banerjee arriving in Panaji for her second visit to Goa in two months, the spat between Trinamool Congress and the Congress over the poll-bound coastal state escalated on Sunday. Mahua Moitra, a Trinamool Congress member in the Lok Sabha, sharply reacted after senior Congress leader P Chidambaram took a dig at Mamata Banerjee’s party for its poll promise of transferring Rs 5,000 every month to the account of a woman of every household in Goa. “Here is a math that deserves the Nobel Prize for Economics. A monthly grant of Rs 5000 to a woman in 3.5 lakh households in Goa will cost Rs 175 crore a month. That is Rs 2100 crore a year,” tweeted the former Union Finance Minister. Here is a math that deserves the Nobel Prize for Economics. A monthly grant of Rs. 5000 to a woman in 3.5 lakh households in Goa will cost Rs. 175 crore a month. That is Rs. 2100 crore a year. He was referring to the 'Griha Laxmi' income support programme that the Trinamool Congress promised to launch for the women in Goa. Moitra, who is overseeing the Trinamool Congress’s campaign in Goa, tweeted the party’s latest poll promise for the women of the state on Saturday. The Trinamool Congress made the promise just a day after the All India Congress Committee (AICC) General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra visited the state pledged to ensure 30 per cent reservation for women in government recruitment if the grand old party was voted to power. Chidambaram, however, raised questions over the Trinamool Congress’s poll promise in Goa. He pointed out that Rs 2100 crore would be required annually to implement the scheme promised by West Bengal Chief Minister’s party in the coastal state. “It is a ‘small’ sum for the State of Goa that had an outstanding debt of Rs 23,473 crore at the end of March 2020. God bless Goa! Or should it be God save Goa?” tweeted the Rajya Sabha member. Moitra responded to Chidambaram on Twitter and dismissed scepticism about the Trinamool Congress’s poll promise. “Yes sir @Pchidambaram_IN ₹5000 to 3.5 lakh Goan households = ₹2100 crores is 6-8% of total budget which is perfectly doable. Good economics in depressed post covid scenario requires putting cash in hand & (and) liquidity into system.” Good economics in depressed post covid scenario requires putting cash in hand & liquidity into system. Goa, which is currently ruled by the Bharatiya Janata Party, is likely to go to polls in February to elect 40 members of the legislative assembly of the state. It is one of the states the Trinamool Congress targeted as it planned to expand itself beyond West Bengal after trouncing the BJP in the assembly elections in the eastern state in March-April this year.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/tmc-congress-spat-escalates-as-mamata-arrives-in-goa-1060177.html
