13-12-2021||Comment||Burden of going green||Speaking at a Constitution Day event last month, Prime Minister Narendra Modi held the "colonial mindset" guilty for stalling India's development journey. Among other things, he claimed that India is the only country that is in the process of achieving the goals of the Paris Climate Agreement ahead of time. Yet, in the name of the environment, he rued, various pressures are being created upon India. “To be net-zero for carbon, you must be net-positive for trees, and by 2030 we want to be planting far more trees across the world than we are losing,” British Prime Minister Boris Johnson said in August this year. The plea seemed to fall on deaf ears, as in the first six days of the CoP-26 itself, over nine million trees were cut down in the Brazilian Amazon. India, in its turn, promised to cut its emissions to net-zero by 2070 – which is a clean 20 years away from countries committing to reach the target by 2050. India has committed to reducing greenhouse gas emission intensity under its nationally determined contributions (NDC), made at Paris in 2015, to achieve which carbon sinks of 2.5-3 billion tonnes of CO2-equivalent have to be created, by increasing India’s forest and tree cover to 33% of its land area. But the problem of any climate conversation is that once it goes outside the pale of a climate meet deliberations, the enthusiasm fizzles out. The media, too, is wary of keeping the climate discourse alive round the year. Now, this pledge to increase India’s forest cover apparently makes it harder to access land for infrastructure projects by states and private entities. Efforts to bring more areas under the definition of ‘forest’ – even degraded land, once recorded as ‘forest’ in some land records, commercial plantations or ‘regions with trees of a certain canopy cover and density’ – are therefore afoot, alongside efforts to increase non-forest use of forest land. The Union Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEF&CC) released a consultation paper in October on the proposed amendments to the Forest Conservation Act (FCA), 1980, which proposes to allow private entities to lease forest land without the Centre’s prior approval – which is something the FCA requires. There is great apprehension that with the amendments the government aims to make the forests conducive for private corporations’ business. As per the provisions of the Act, prior approval of the central government is mandatory before a state government or UT administration makes an order for diversion, de-reservation or assignment of lease of any forest land. The proposed changes envisaged in the paper, in its thrust to prize economy over environment, look already suspect, going by the government’s predilections. The consultation paper proposed absolving agencies involved in national security projects, border infrastructure projects, land owned by the railways or the road transport ministry that was acquired before 1980 or when the Act came into force. “Development of infrastructure along the international border areas is crucial for keeping our borders intact and to uphold the sovereignty of the country”, the paper reads. But according to a working paper by the Vidhi Centre for Legal Policy, infrastructure development, for instance, in the ecologically fragile and biodiversity-rich regions (Himalayas and North-East India) is counter-productive because infrastructure and linear development activities involving blasting and excavation of hillsides, creating tunnels through hills, damming of water streams, etc., cause significant and irreversible damage to the ecologically sensitive landscape of the Himalayan regions. It argues that unfettered deforestation and infrastructure development in border areas are not just likely to increase the intensity of environmental disasters but also adversely impact defence infrastructures themselves. Be it the railways, National Highway Authority of India or the Public Works Department, any decision to grant them exemption from seeking permission calls for a review in view of the possible damage to ecological zones. The draft amendment to FCA, 1980, pending approval by the Union Cabinet and possibly the Parliament, with a spirit to provide greater leeway to use forest land for non-forestry purposes may dilute protection to forests. The British rulers in India passed the first Forest Act in 1865 which empowered the government by declaring any land covered with trees, brushwood, or jungle as government forest, provided that such notification should not abridge or affect any existing rights of individuals or communities. The Indian Forest Act has been in force since 1927, and was geared to allow the colonial administration to control the extraction of timber, not at preserving forests or addressing deforestation. The MoEF&CC in 2009 assessed that the Forest Rights Act, 2006, would require handing over 40 million hectares to village-level institutions. So, to go one up over the colonial piece of legislation that Modi thinks has stalled our development so far, any amendment has to factor in its citizens from tribal, rural and forest-based geographies (in collaboration with the Forest Rights Act, 2006) and must not capitulate to the commercial predators and pressure groups. How do things stand on the ground? The North-East region of India lost 79% of its tree cover in 2020, recording the biggest dip in the country, according to an analysis by Down To Earth. Over 110,000 hectares of tree cover vanished from the region last year, according to the University of Maryland’s forest change data. India lost close to 143,000 hectares of forest cover in 2020, when the overall forest area was 4.6% lower than in 2001, according to the report. The ‘seven sisters’ comprising Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Tripura, Meghalaya, Manipur, Mizoram and Nagaland individually were responsible for 5-14% each of the country’s loss in forest area from 2001 through 2020. Though the experts maintain that reforestation is not the only bulwark against the climate crisis, “nature-based solutions” as a means of fighting climate change alongside protecting biodiversity, tree-planting or reforestation are high on the agenda. Going green thus is neither a colonial diktat, nor a white man’s burden. It is a post-colonial imperative for our own survival. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/burden-of-going-green-1060476.html
13-12-2021||First Edit||Gujarat High Court called out a motivated campaign||The Gujarat High Court’s strictures against the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation over the latter’s campaign against non-vegetarian street food are as strong as they could come, and underline the importance of a basic right that is increasingly under attack. The court asked the corporation: “How can you decide what I eat?’’, and did some tough talking. It told the corporation clearly that citizens had the right to eat what they wanted to and the corporation could not impose its views on them. The orders were in response to petitions filed by some street vendors whose carts had been seized by municipal authorities for selling non-vegetarian food. The court ordered the return of the carts and other seized materials to the vendors with a strict warning against such drives “under the guise of implementing something.” The court’s questions were clear and direct: What is your problem?… Tomorrow you will decide what I should eat outside my house?… Why are you doing this?… How do you dare to indiscriminately pick up people like this?” The corporation told the court that the drive was to clear the “encroachments on the road, which is a hindrance to public traffic or absolute blockage of pedestrians”. This was a “guise’’ as the court noted; the action was actually directed against Muslims who dominate the street food business. The ban on non-vegetarian food and the seizures were effected even without proper official orders as part of a political campaign against the sale of meat and eggs. Four cities of Gujarat — Rajkot, Vadodara, Bhavnagar and Ahmedabad — implemented the plan, backing it up with spurious arguments. It was claimed that the sight of meat and eggs offended the religious sentiments of Hindus, that they had unpleasant smells and were against “Gujarat’s identity and Karnavati city’s cultural tradition” and that they had a negative impact on children's minds.  All these are bad and motivated arguments. Over 40% of the people of Gujarat are meat-eaters and it is wrong to call it a ‘vegetarian state’. Most people of the country are also non-vegetarians. There is no taboo against meat-eating. The campaign against it is of recent origin, and is driven by divisive politics. There is a bid to identify Hinduism with vegetarianism and other religions with non-vegetarianism. This is wrong, just as attempts to construct other divisive and opposing identities are. Various tastes, habits and traditions relating to food, dress, etc., exist in a diverse country like India and none of them is better or greater than the others. The State should not interfere with the personal choices of citizens in these matters. The court has made this clear.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/gujarat-high-court-called-out-a-motivated-campaign-1060471.html
13-12-2021||Hubballi-Dharwad||Karnataka State Law University: Health of protesting student deteriorates, admitted to hospital||A student of Karnataka State Law University, who was on a hunger strike for past five days, was admitted to the Karnataka Institute of Medical Science, Hubballi, after his health condition deteriorated on Monday. The students of the University are staging a protest since December 6 demanding that the university scrap the offline examinations and commence the odd semesters based on evaluation through assignments.  However, a recent order from a Dharwad High Court bench had made it mandatory for the university to conduct offline examination.  Hunger strike Five students of the third and fifth semester where on hunger strike for the past five days. However, on Monday morning, the health condition of Maltesh Chikkanavar deteriorated as he complained of chest pain.  Police sources said the student is suffering from dehydration and due to gastric issues, complained of chest pain. His condition is said to be stable. Gaurav Nayak, one of the protesting students, said that the health condition of two other students on hunger strike has also deteriorated and they are receiving treatment at the protest site.  VC house picket Following the deterioration of health condition of Maltesh, students barged into the compound of Vice Chancellor Eshwar Bhat's house and demanded an immediate rollback of its decision to conduct offline examinations.  The students charged that the vice chancellor was non-responsive to their demands.  Bhat, during MLA Prasad Abayya's visit, had expressed his inability to postpone the offline examinations as it would amount to contempt of court orders. The high court is expected to hear a petition of the students on Monday afternoon. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hubballi-dharwad/karnataka-state-law-university-health-of-protesting-student-deteriorates-admitted-to-hospital-1060306.html
13-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Black ink thrown at pro-Maharashtra leader by Kannada activist in Belagavi||Activists of Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti (MES) prevented personnel from Belagavi City Corporation from removing a stage installed on a road next to the Vaccine Depot ground for their convention opposing the winter session of the state legislative Assembly being held at Suvarna Vidhan Soudha. MES activists sat on the stage, creating hurdles for the personnel to clear the gathering. Earlier, MES president Deepak Dalvi, former MLA Manohar Kinekar and others were involved in an altercation with police and civic officials. The 'road-block' incident came as an embarrassment to the leaders of the pro-Maharashtra outfit. However, Kinekar denied that MES had encroached the road and said the presence of a Kannada flag flying in front of the Belagavi City Corporation office was an attempt to suppress the outfit. Soon after, a Kannada activist doused black ink on Dalvi near the stage. The activist, who was identified as Sampath of the Karnataka Nav Nirman Pade raised slogans in favour of the state. Police immediately detained Sampath and whisked him away from the spot. Meanwhile, the MES has called for a bandh on Tuesday to protest against the black facing of its president Dalvi. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/black-ink-thrown-at-pro-maharashtra-leader-by-kannada-activist-in-belagavi-1060278.html
13-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||This school's walls are a window into the world of stories||A trip to Dakshina Kannada Zilla Panchayat Higher Primary School at Bokkapatna-06 in Mangaluru takes visitors to a world of stories through its beautiful artworks on the walls of the school. This is thanks to the efforts of 17 drawing teachers of the district who came together to paint the walls of the school with the artworks that tell stories related to children. The school had remained closed due to Covid-19 pandemic for nearly two years. To attract students and to give a feeling of learning atmosphere for them, the drawing teachers came together to paint the walls of the school, Ambika, a drawing teacher at Dakshina Kannada Zilla Panchayat Higher Primary School at Bokkapatna, told DH. “We had organised ‘Pranathi Varna Sambhrama’ from October 27 to 29 to adorn the walls of the school with beautiful artworks,” she said. The drawing teachers Dinesh Shettigar, Sundar, Manjunath, Sudheer, Rajeshwari K, Shalini, Harsih Acharya, Channakeshava D R, Taranath Kairangala, Muralidhar Acharya, Murali Krishna Rao, Dhananjay P, Umesh, Balakrishna Shetty, Prasanna Kumar, Suchetha and Olavia participated in the initiative. Along with the teachers, even the students have drawn warli art, which they had learnt in the classrooms, on the walls. This gave them all together a new experience, explained Ambika. “The art works were made using oil paint. There is a huge butterfly and waterfalls paintings on the walls of the schools. Each painting is related to the activities of the children. When the children look at them, they tend to connect it with their lives,” said Ambika. A portion of the wall has a drawing of a train, which they have named as ‘Bokkapatna Express’. The train and the butterfly are the most sought after paintings among the students. The walls have paintings of scenery, lion, crow, children playing and also on themes related to moral stories, balance in nature, waterfalls in the evergreen forest, messages related to cleanliness, learning to gain knowledge and so on. Owing to Covid-19 pandemic, the students had remained away from the schools. The paintings on the walls aim at attracting the attention of the students and bring them back to the learning process, said Ambika. After viewing the walls of the school, the students retell what they saw on the walls in English and Kannada to their teachers, she added. “The donors, who normally help the school during the annual day celebrations, helped us in procuring the required materials, including oil paint for the paintings. Further, old students carried out shramadaan to clean the walls of the school,” Ambika added. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/this-schools-walls-are-a-window-into-the-world-of-stories-1060295.html
13-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Congress padyatra stopped near Suvarna Vidhan Soudha||Padyatra 'Suvarna Vidhan Soudha Chalo' organised by Congress to garner the attention of the government towards grievances of people from Khanapur taluk and to make basic infrastructure available was stopped by City Police near Suvarna Vidhan Soudha with prohibitory orders for the legislative session being in effect on Monday. Khanapur MLA Dr Anjali Nimbalkar had organised the padyatra from Khanapur to Suvarna Vidhan Soudha. Along with her supporter's, the lawmaker had left Khanapur on Sunday.Leader of Opposition in the Legislative Assembly Siddaramaiah joined the padayatra near Alarwad cross. When the padayatra neared Suvarna Vidhan Soudha, police stopped Congress leaders and asked them to proceed towards Suvarna Garden venue for protest. It led to verbal exchanges and Siddaramaiah even cautioned to move privilege motion against the officials. Later addressing Congress supporters Siddaramaiah accused the government of failing to come to the aid of flood-affected in the state and Khanapur taluk in particular. They himself has inspected the losses due to floods and rains in Khanapur. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/congress-padyatra-stopped-near-suvarna-vidhan-soudha-1060313.html
13-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Anti-conversion bill political gimmick by BJP: U T Khader||Mangalore MLA and former Minister U T Khader termed an anti-conversion bill which the state government planned to introduce in the winter session of the state legislature as an attempt to divert the attention of the people of the state from the failure of the state government. “It is the BJP’s agenda to divert the attention of the people and a political gimmick,” he told mediapersons in Mangaluru. “In the last two years, the BJP-led government in Karnataka failed to issue any BPL ration cards, sanction houses for the poor and disburse scholarships for the students. The government even failed to disburse compensation for the loss of crops. A sensitive issue like conversions needs to be discussed in length. What was the need for an urgency?” he sought to know. The government has failed to conduct a probe into the bitcoin scam. None of the political parties, religion will support forceful conversion. There are enough IPC sections to act against forceful conversion. There is a need to discuss the loopholes in the section if any, he said. The MLA said “Mughals had ruled the country for several centuries and British had ruled the country for over 200 years. Inspite of it, 80 per cent of the population in the country are Hindus. If there was conversion by the Christian Missionaries, then the students who studied in the schools and colleges run by the Missionaries in Mangaluru would have been converted by now. The Christian Missionaries have rendered services in the healthcare and education sector in Mangaluru,” he said. The government is trying to create confusion in the minds of the people when Christmas is nearing, he alleged. The state government had introduced anti-cattle slaughter law when the gram panchayat elections were nearing in the past. Take stern action The MLA condemned those miscreants who are allegedly indulging in spreading hate and celebratory messages on social media in connection with the tragic death of the Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat and 12 others in an army helicopter crash. “When the whole country is mourning the death, it is not right on the part of the people to post celebratory messages. The government should take stern action against such miscreants and reveal their true face to the people of the country.” Those who had posted such derogatory messages are anti-nationals and they should be externed. What is preventing the BJP-led government from acting against such miscreants. The Home Minister should answer, he demanded. Further, he urged the government to take the issue of helicopter crash seriously and conduct a probe. The government should inform the citizens of the country on the cause of the crash. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/anti-conversion-bill-political-gimmick-by-bjp-u-t-khader-1060339.html
13-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Manual scavenging survey in Karnataka to be completed by February: Kota Srinivas Poojary||A survey to identify manual scavengers will be completed by February, Karnataka Social Welfare Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary told the Legislative Council on Monday, assuring the House that the existing laws to prohibit the practice will be implemented strictly.  In response to a calling attention motion by Congress' BK Hariprasad, Poojary said the survey of 'safai karmacharis' is completed in 12 districts, and better steps for their welfare would be taken after completing the survey in the remaining districts by February-end. Under the Prohibition of Employment as Manual Scavengers and their Rehabilitation Act, 2013, some 5,080 people who were engaged in manual scavenging were identified in the state, and a rehabilitation programme is implemented for them. Since 1993, Rs 10 lakh compensation each was provided to 88 families for deaths while cleaning manholes. Criminal cases are booked against contractors or officials concerned in such incidents, Poojary said. A high-level committee comprising 'safai karmachari' representatives and different departments has to meet once in six months, the minister pointed out. "In some places, including BBMP, we saw negligence in calling meetings, and suitable instructions were given in this regard. A meeting will be convened by January 10, to strictly implement the laws,” he said. Hariprasad sought a separate Bill to totally prevent manual scavenging, having provisions of jail terms for those who encourage manual scavenging. Though it is prohibited, manual scavenging is still in practice in several districts, he lamented. He also charged that deaths in manholes are not reported as they are and shown as accidents to avoid paying compensation. "Nobody is convicted in such cases. What is the use of us being in positions if manual scavenging continues," he asked Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/manual-scavenging-survey-in-karnataka-to-be-completed-by-february-kota-srinivas-poojary-1060509.html
13-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Four farmers killed as truck turns turtle||Four farmers were killed, three of them on the spot, after a truck in which they were travelling along with onions turned turtle following tyre blast, near Alur Cross on NH-4 bypass in Hiriyur in the early hours of Monday. The deceased have been identified as Prashanth Hatti (36), Gurappa Erappa Hugara (30), Ramesh (26) and Suresh Kalakappa Hunugundi (30) - all residents of Huyilagola in Gadag district. The first three were crushed to death under onion bags while the fourth one died at the hospital. Seriously injured Sangappa Thippanna Hanchinal, also from Huyilagola and lorry cleaner Anand have been admitted at district hospital in Chitradurga.  Town police said that the farmers were transporting onion to Bengaluru market as they have to pay more for commission agents at Hubballi and Gadag markets. They were sleeping on the top of the onion load in the truck.  The accident also resulted in a serial mishap, which held the traffic on the busy highway for more than 30 minutes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/four-farmers-killed-as-truck-turns-turtle-1060516.html
13-12-2021||Karnataka Politics||Yediyurappa hopeful that anti-conversion law will be passed this assembly session||Former chief minister B S Yediyurappa said the state government will introduce the proposed anti-conversion law during the ongoing winter session of the assembly. Speaking to media persons at Hubballi airport on Monday, he said while he is not aware of the contents of the law, being prepared by the law department, he said the bill is expected to be introduced in the  assembly in the last two days of the session. "I am hopeful that the law will be passed during this session" he said and added that not just his opinion but the government has taken suggestions from MPs and other leaders. "There will be opposition from Congress. But the government is clear on bringing in the law as there has been demand from large section of society. Many states have introduced such laws and we will also introduce one to prevent forced conversions" he said. Majority Yediyurappa said he is confident of winning 15 of the 20 MLC seats that party contested. This will strengthen our party in council to pass laws, he added. He also rubbished Congress leaders charge that chief minister Basavaraj Bommai is not getting support from BJP leaders. Bommai enjoys complete support from BJP leaders and he will complete his full term as CM. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/yediyurappa-hopeful-that-anti-conversion-law-will-be-passed-this-assembly-session-1060308.html
13-12-2021||Karnataka Politics||Supreme Court sets aside Karnataka High Court's verdict in Prajwal Revanna case||The Supreme Court on Monday set aside a Karnataka High Court's judgement dismissing an election petition by BJP leader A Manju at "threshold" on "hyper-technical ground" against winning candidate fielded jointly by JD(S) and Congress, Prajwal Revanna, from Hassan Lok Sabha constituency. Prajwal, a grandson of former Prime Minister HD Deve Gowda, was accused of resorting to corrupt practices by allegedly not disclosing his complete assets in his poll affidavit. A bench of justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and MM Sundresh set aside the high court's decision of January 17, 2020. The high court had opined that the petition by Manju was not supported by an affidavit in Form 25, as prescribed under Rule 94A of Conduct of Election Rules, 1961, even though there were allegations of corrupt practices. "Whether the violation of rules is made out by Prajwal or not would be a matter of trial but certainly not a matter to be shut out at the threshold," the bench said. The court asked the high court to examine the matter afresh as more than two and half years had already elapsed since the polls.  The court also permitted Manju to file an appropriate affidavit within 15 days. "Further proceedings in the election petition are required to be taken up urgently as almost two and a half years have gone on the preliminary skirmishes rather than the meat of the matter, which we are sure the single judge of the high court would so do," the bench said. The HC had termed Manju's plea as "not maintainable” for it was filed without an affidavit and thus, incomplete. The top court said the single judge of the high court, examining the election petition, ought to have granted an opportunity to the appellant to file an affidavit in support of the petition in Form 25 in addition to the already existing affidavit filed with the election petition. In its judgement, the top court noted that the primary plea taken by Manju is largely that success in the elections was obtained by concealment of material, which would have been germane in determining the opinion of the electorate.  "In effect, were such material to be available with the electorate, they would have exercised another option on the basis of it. However, while the requirements to be met in the election petition may be technical in nature, they are not hyper-technical," the bench said. The court did not agree to a contention by Prajwal that permitting an affidavit to be filed at a later stage would provide an opportunity for the embellishment of the case and defeat the statutory requirement. The nature of allegations was related to undisclosed profits from commercial operations through a partnership, and receipt of money from a sitting Rajya Sabha member. The allegations were made without disclosing any sources of information by way of an affidavit in Form 25, Prajwal's counsel submitted. Prajwal was declared the winner with 6,76,606 votes. Manju came was the runner-up, with 5,35,282 votes.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/supreme-court-sets-aside-karnataka-high-courts-verdict-in-prajwal-revanna-case-1060452.html
13-12-2021||Karnataka Politics||MLC polls: HC allows EC to declare Bengaluru Urban seat result||A division bench of the Karnataka High Court on Monday permitted the Election Commission of India (ECI) to declare the results of Karnataka Legislative Council election from Bengaluru Urban local authorities constituency. The ECI had moved an appeal against the interim order passed by single judge bench that the votes cast by 15 nominated members of Bommasandra, Attibele and Anekal town municipal councils shall be kept in a separate ballet box, placed in a sealed cover, and that the result of the election shall not be declared without the leave of the court. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Ritu Raj Awasthi and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum modified the interim order to the extent that the result shall be subject to final decision in the writ petition before the single judge bench.   “Prima facie, we are of the considered view that the question of participation of the nominated members of the municipalities in the legislative council elections was the main question before the writ court which was required to be adjudicated finally. And as such there was no case for the interim relief. We therefore, modify the order dated December 9, 2021 passed by the learned single judge to the extent that the election to Bengaluru Urban local authority constituency to the legislative council shall go on uninterruptedly. The nominated members can participate in the elections and cast their votes. The result of the election shall be declared, which shall be subject to final decision in the writ petition,” the division bench said. The petition before the single bench was filed by Congress candidate Yousuf Sharif, on the ground that 15 members have no right to vote in the election, since they are nominated members of the municipalities.  The petitioners argued that Article 243R of the constitution debars nominated members from participating and casting their votes in the meetings of the municipalities. They said since they do not have any voting right in the meeting, they cannot be given the right to vote in the legislative council elections. Appearing for the ECI, senior advocate Dhyan Chinnappa argued that Article 243R has no applicability to the election for the legislative council and said that nominated members had also voted in the earlier elections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/mlc-polls-hc-allows-ec-to-declare-bengaluru-urban-seat-result-1060491.html
13-12-2021||National||DH Toon | PM Modi's Twitter 'briefly hacked'||Prime Minister Narendra Modi's personal Twitter account was hacked briefly on Sunday morning, and it was immediately restored. "The Twitter handle of PM @narendramodi was very briefly compromised. The matter was escalated to Twitter and the account has been immediately secured. In the brief period that the account was compromised, any Tweet shared must be ignored," the Prime Minister's Office said in a tweet.   When the account was compromised, a tweet was sent wrongly saying that India had officially adopted Bitcoin as legal tender and that the country has officially bought 500 Bitcoins and is distributing them among its residents and shared a link, asking people to hurry up||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-pm-modis-twitter-briefly-hacked-1060232.html
13-12-2021||National||Harnaaz Sandhu crowned Miss Universe 2021||Actor-model Harnaaz Sandhu made history on Monday as she was crowned Miss Universe 2021 -- beating contestants from 80 countries -- 21 years after India last brought home the title. Only two Indians before Sandhu have won the title of Miss Universe - actors Sushmita Sen in 1994 and Lara Dutta in 2000. The 70th edition of the event was held in Eilat, Israel, where the 21-year-old bagged the coveted pageant. The Chandigarh-based model, who is pursuing her master's degree in public administration, was crowned by her predecessor Andrea Meza of Mexico, who won the pageant in 2020. While Paraguay's Nadia Ferreira, 22, finished second, South Africa's Lalela Mswane, 24, came third. During the final question and answer round, Sandhu was asked what advice would she give to young women on how to deal with the pressure they face today. "The biggest pressure the youth of today is facing is to believe in themselves, to know that you are unique and that's what makes you beautiful. Stop comparing yourselves with others and let's talk about more important things that's happening worldwide. "This is what you need to understand. Come out, speak for yourselves because you are the leader of your life, you are the voice of your own. I believed in myself and that's why I am standing here today," she said to a thundering applause. Sandhu started her journey in pageantry when she won Times Fresh Face in 2017, representing Chandigarh at the age of 17. She later won the LIVA Miss Diva Universe 2021 title. Sandhu has also worked in a few Punjabi films, including Yaara Diyan Poo Baran and Bai Ji Kuttange. The ceremony was hosted by Steve Harvey and saw performances from American singer JoJo. The selection committee included actor and Miss Universe India 2015 Urvashi Rautela, Adamari López, Adriana Lima, Cheslie Kryst, Iris Mittenaere, Lori Harvey, Marian Rivera and Rena Sofer. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/harnaaz-sandhu-crowned-miss-universe-2021-1060253.html
13-12-2021||National||Meet Harnaaz Sandhu, this year's Miss Universe winner||Actor-model Harnaaz Sandhu made history on Monday as she was crowned Miss Universe 2021 -- beating contestants from 80 countries -- 21 years after India last brought home the title. Only two Indians before Sandhu have won the title of Miss Universe - actors Sushmita Sen in 1994 and Lara Dutta in 2000. “I am immensely grateful to the Almighty, my parents, and the Miss India Organization for guiding and supporting me throughout. Loads of love to everyone who prayed and wished the crown for me," Sandhu said. "Bringing the glorious crown back after 21 years to India is a moment of greatest pride," she said. The Chandigarh-based model, who is pursuing her master's degree in public administration, was crowned by her predecessor Andrea Meza of Mexico, who won the pageant in 2020. The 21-year-old, born into a Sikh family,  started her journey in her teens. In 2017, she won Times Fresh Face while representing Chandigarh at the age of 17. She later won the LIVA Miss Diva Universe 2021 title. In 2017, she won Miss Chandigarh. She also claimed the title Miss Max Emerging Star India in 2018. After winning two titles, Sandhu competed for Miss India 2019. She did not win the title but finished the race in the top 12. However, she had won Miss India Punjab in the same year. Sandhu has also worked in a few Punjabi films, including Yaara Diyan Poo Baran and Bai Ji Kuttange. She has also stared in The Landers music video Tarthalli "The stigma associated with mental health refrains the affected individuals to seek help from professionals, which in turn leads to more serious complications including suicidal tendencies. I realised that it is imperative to focus on mental health when I myself had to face adversities during the phase of my hospitalisation. I realized that mental health is intrinsically linked to physical health and that together, we can break the stigmas and help people realise the purpose of their existence to extract the best of their potential. I have been advocating about this issue in my circle of influence that distress and depression should not be a barrier to our growth, and letting go of it can lead us on the path towards our dreams," she had said.  Even in her winning answer for the Miss Universe pageant, the 21-year-old said, "The biggest pressure the youth of today is facing is to believe in themselves, to know that you are unique and that's what makes you beautiful." "Come out, speak for yourselves because you are the leader of your life, you are the voice of your own. I believed in myself and that's why I am standing here today," she said to a thundering applause Harnaaz describes herself as a quick learner, versatile, compassionate, and confident girl, who always carries her passion with a headstrong attitude towards achieving her goals. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/meet-harnaaz-sandhu-this-years-miss-universe-winner-1060255.html
13-12-2021||National||India logs 7,350 new Covid-19 cases, 202 deaths||India's coronavirus tally rose to 3,46,97,860 with 7,350 people testing positive for the infection in a day, while the number of active cases declined to 91,456, the lowest in 561 days, the Union Health Ministry data showed on Monday. The death toll from the pandemic has climbed to 4,75,636 with 202 new fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been recorded below 15,000 for the last 46 days now. The number of active cases has declined to 91,456, comprising 0.26 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.37 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the Health Ministry said. A decline of 825 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 case count in a span of 24 hours. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 0.86 per cent. It has been less than 2 per cent for the last 70 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 0.69 per cent. It has been below 1 per cent for the last 29 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,41,30,768, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.37 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 133.17 crore. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020; 30 lakh on August 23; 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28; 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29; 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore coronavirus cases on May 4 and three crore on June 23. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-logs-7350-new-covid-19-cases-202-deaths-1060258.html
13-12-2021||National||PM Modi wishes speedy recovery to South African President after he contracts Covid-19||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday wished a speedy recovery to South African President Cyril Ramaphosa after he tested positive for Covid-19. Ramaphosa is receiving treatment for mild Covid-19 symptoms after testing positive for the viral infection, his office said on Sunday. "Wishing you a speedy recovery my friend, President @CyrilRamaphosa," Modi tweeted. Minister in the South African Presidency Mondli Gungubele said in a statement that the President, who is fully vaccinated, is in self-isolation in Cape Town and has delegated all responsibilities to Deputy President David Mabuza for the week. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-wishes-speedy-recovery-to-south-african-president-after-he-contracts-covid-19-1060285.html
13-12-2021||National||To poll-bound UP, Modi gifts a revamped Kashi Temple||Prime minister Narendra Modi on Monday launched the first phase of the Kashi Vishwanath Dham project in his Lok Sabha constituency of Varanasi amid chanting of Vedic hymns and 'shlokas' hailing Lord Shiva and recalled the ancient glory of the town saying that the renovated Temple would enable the devotees to have a glimpse of the glorious past of the country. Clad in saffron clothes, Modi performed the rituals in the presence of a large number of saints from across the country after paying obeisance at the famous Kal Bhairav temple in the city. He had carried the holy waters from the Ganga and offered the same on the Shivalingam. He took a dip in the Ganga and also offered water to the Sun and puja of the holy river.  There were shouts of 'Bum Bum Bhole' (greeting Lord Shiva) from the crowds as Modi's cavalcade passed through on way to the Kashi Vishwanath Dham. Speaking after launching the Kashi Vishwanath Dham, which was spread over five lakh square feet and was equipped with all modern facilities for the devotees, said that the Dham was an example of the confluence of the ancient and the modern.  He said that Kashi (the old name of Varanasi) had been home to several iconic personalities, who enlightened the world with their wisdom. ''Kashi has witnessed many ups and downs....If people like Aurangzeb (one of the Mughal kings) made attempt to kill our culture, there also were people like Shivaji, who protected the same,'' Modi said. The prime minister said that despite efforts to destroy Kashi, the city had moved on and had been able to preserve its rich culture. The Kashi Vishwanath Corridor Project, whose foundation stone had been laid by the prime minister in March 2019, had a Vedic library, meditation platforms, virtual Vedic gallery, a cafeteria, food court and other facilities for the pilgrims. An estimated Rs. 1000 crore had been spent on the Project. The prime minister launched the first phase of the Project on Monday.  The Project was mired in some controversies also as a section of the people, whose shops and houses were razed to clear the way for the Temple, voiced their opposition to the same. Hundreds of smaller, ancient temples were also razed for the Project. The Temple had been renovated after 350 years, according to the officials associated with the Project. ''Rani Ahilya Bai had earlier renovated the Temple,'' said one of the officials of the Kashi Vishwanath Trust in Varanasi. The officials also said that care was taken to ensure that the ancient structure of the Temple was not demolished and its traditional form remained the same.  The launching, which came barely a few months ahead of the next assembly polls, was turned into a mega event by the Uttar Pradesh government, which had invited thousands of seers and saints from different parts of the country. The UP government would also hold its cabinet meeting here a few days later. The chief ministers of the BJP ruled states would also be visiting Varanasi on Tuesday.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/to-poll-bound-up-modi-gifts-a-revamped-kashi-temple-1060296.html
13-12-2021||National||SC allows Manju's plea challenging dismissal of election petition against Prajwal Revanna||The Supreme Court on Monday allowed a plea by BJP candidate A Manju challenging dismissal of his election petition by the Karnataka High Court against Prajwal Revanna who won from Hassan Lok Sabha constituency as a joint candidate of JDS and Congress in 2019. Revanna is the grandson of former Prime Minister H D Devegowda. A bench presided over by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul asked the High Court to expeditiously examine the matter afresh as more than two and half years had already elapsed since the polls. The court also permitted Manju to make changes in his petition. The HC had termed Manju's plea as "not maintainable” as it was filed without an affidavit and thus, incomplete in terms of the provisions of the Conduct of Election Rules, 1961. Manju had challenged 2019 election of Prajwal on the ground that there was allegedly non disclosure of assets held by him in his election affidavit. Prajwal was declared as the winner with 6,76,606 votes. Manju came as a first runner up with 5,35,282 votes.  The petition filed by Manju was dismissed by the HC on January 17, 2020. The top court had on March 2, 2020 issued notice to Prajwal.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-allows-manjus-plea-challenging-dismissal-of-election-petition-against-prajwal-revanna-1060299.html
13-12-2021||National||SC seeks Centre's reply on plea for social benefits to 'gig workers' of Zomato, Swiggy, Ola, Uber||The Supreme Court on Monday asked the Centre to respond to a plea seeking social security benefits for "gig workers" employed by online food delivery, taxi aggregators, courier applications such as Ola, Uber, Zomato, Swiggy etc. Senior advocates Indira Jaising and Gayatri Singh, appearing for the Indian Federation of app-based Transport Workers (IFAT), contended that at present these workers are not being provided with the benefit of social security under any of the labour legislations-organised or unorganised.  “Denial of the social security to the “gig workers” and the “platform workers” is an affront to the workers' right to life and right against forced labour that is secured by Articles 14, 21 and 23 of the Constitution," it added. The counsel sought a declaration that gig workers were entitled to protection as unorganised workers. After hearing arguments in the matter, a bench headed by Justice L Nageswara Rao issued notice on the petition. Jaising said that the drivers or delivery workers are actually workmen in the classical sense of the word. She said that worldwide for Uber they have been considered as workers.  During the hearing, the court cited the new legislation Social Security Code 2020 passed by the Parliament last year has a chapter on the welfare of "gig workers". The counsel submitted that under existing law, the gig workers fell under the unorganised worker. The plea, filed through advocate Nupur Kumar, said “The companies have been claiming that there exists no contract of employment and that their relationship with such workers are in the nature of the partnership. If such a claim were to be accepted, this would be inconsistent with the purpose of social-welfare legislations….” It further contended that the companies, which owns the apps, exercise complete supervision and control over the manner and method of the work with those who are allowed to register on the said apps.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-seeks-centres-reply-on-plea-for-social-benefits-to-gig-workers-of-zomato-swiggy-ola-uber-1060311.html
13-12-2021||National||SC refuses to entertain WB BJP plea for deployment of central forces for Kolkata civic polls||The Supreme Court on Monday declined to consider a plea by the BJP for deployment of central forces for the Kolkata Municipal elections. The top court told the party to approach the Calcutta High Court, "We cannot take decisions with respect to the requirement of central force. The High Court will be in a better position to know the situation," a bench presided over L Nageswara Rao said. Senior advocate Maninder Singh, appearing for the BJP, contended that there were widespread threats of violence and the BJP candidates were being threatened to withdraw from the contest and the police did not register any FIR.  The bench, however, said, "The problem is if we start taking this on Article 32 petition, there would be no end". On this, Singh withdrew the petition with the liberty to approach the High Court. The petition was filed by the BJP through Sukanta Majumdar, Member of Parliament. Acting on a petition by the TMC alleging violence, a separate bench of the top court had on November 25 ordered the Centre to deploy two additional company of central paramilitary forces in Tripura as expeditiously as possible for municipal elections being held on the day. Around 40.5 lakh voters of Kolkata will decide the fate of 950 candidates on December 19. The counting of votes in the 144 wards of the civic body will be held on December 21, according to the State Election Commission notification issued last month. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-refuses-to-entertain-wb-bjp-plea-for-deployment-of-central-forces-for-kolkata-civic-polls-1060318.html
13-12-2021||National||Govt provoking Oppn to disrupt House: Kharge in Rajya Sabha||Leader of opposition Mallikarjun Kharge on Monday alleged in the Rajya Sabha that by not considering revoking the suspension of the 12 MPs, the government is forcing the opposition to disrupt the House. Kharge said, "The government is not considering its decision, and as you (chairman) is the custodian of the House, we request that the suspension be revoked. The adamant view of the government is to force the opposition to disrupt the House, so we decide to walk out." Chairman M. Venkaiah Naidu adjourned the House till 12 noon and said both the sides should resolve the matter. "Is this the way to run the House? House adjourned till noon," he said. Earlier, Congress Deputy leader Anand Sharma said, "The leader of the House is here and we request that the suspension be revoked." This was supported by DMK MP Tiruchi Siva. The suspended MPs are Syed Naseer Hussain, Akhilesh Prasad Singh, Phulo Devi Netam, Chhaya Verma, Ripun Bora and Rajmani Patel of the Congress; Priyanka Chaturvedi, Anil Desai of the Shiv Sena; Elamaram Kareem of the CPI-M, Binoy Viswam of the CPI; and Dola Sen and Shanta Chhetri of the Trinamool Congress.   Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-provoking-oppn-to-disrupt-house-kharge-in-rajya-sabha-1060320.html
13-12-2021||National||President, Prime Minister lead nation in paying tribute to martyrs of 2001 Parliament attack||President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday led the nation in paying tributes to the security personnel who laid down their lives fighting terrorists during the 2001 Parliament attack. Kovind tweeted: "I pay homage to the brave security personnel who laid down their lives on this day in 2001, defending the Parliament of the world's largest democracy against a dastardly terrorist attack. The nation shall forever remain grateful to them for their supreme sacrifice." I pay homage to the brave security personnel who laid down their lives on this day in 2001, defending the Parliament of the world’s largest democracy against a dastardly terrorist attack. The nation shall forever remain grateful to them for their supreme sacrifice. Remembering the brave hearts, the Prime Minister tweeted: "I pay my tributes to the security personnel who were martyred in the line of duty during the Parliament attack in 2001. Their service to the nation and supreme sacrifice continues to inspire every citizen." I pay my tributes to all those security personnel who were martyred in the line of duty during the Parliament attack in 2001. Their service to the nation and supreme sacrifice continues to inspire every citizen. Paying homage, Home Minister Amit Shah tweeted in Hindi: "I salute the courage and valour of all the soldiers, who made their supreme sacrifice to protect the temple of Indian democracy, Parliament House, in the cowardly terrorist attack. Your unparalleled valour and sacrifice will always inspire us to serve the nation." भारतीय लोकतंत्र के मंदिर संसद भवन पर हुए कायरतापूर्ण आतंकी हमले में राष्ट्र के गौरव की रक्षा हेतु अपना सर्वोच्च बलिदान देने वाले सभी बहादुर सुरक्षाबलों के साहस व शौर्य को कोटिशः नमन करता हूँ। Defence Minister Rajnath Singh tweeted: "My tributes to those brave security personnel who sacrificed their lives during the attack on the Parliament House in 2001. The nation will remain grateful for their courage and supreme sacrifice in the line of duty." My tributes to those brave security personnel who sacrificed their lives during attack on the Parliament House in 2001. The nation will remain grateful for their courage and supreme sacrifice in the line of duty. On the 20th anniversary of the attack, a programme was organised on the Parliament premises to pay homage to the brave hearts who made the supreme sacrifice. Vice-President and Rajya Sabha Chairman Venkaiah Naidu, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, Defence Minister Rajanth Singh, Rajya Sabha Deputy Chairman Harivansh Narayan Singh, Congress MP Rahul Gandhi, Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge, Union Ministers Pralhad Joshi, Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi, Arjun Ram Meghwal, among others paid tribute to the victims of the attack. Families of the deceased were also present at the event. On December 13, 2001, five terrorists stormed the Parliament complex and opened indiscriminate firing. Nine people, including eight security personnel, were killed while fighting the terrorists. All five terrorists were neutralised by the security forces. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/president-prime-minister-lead-nation-in-paying-tribute-to-martyrs-of-2001-parliament-attack-1060321.html
13-12-2021||National||SC seeks Centre's reply on reviving PSUs in vaccine manufacturing||The Supreme Court on Monday sought a response from the Centre to a plea seeking to revive the public sector units for vaccine makers and utilise their full production capabilities with purchase orders. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and A S Bopanna gave the Centre four weeks time to for the purpose as Solicitor General Tushar Mehta said notice is not needed in the matter as this would be in the domain of policy decision. "We want to know what is the policy of the government," the bench said. The court allowed former IAS Amulya Ratna Nanda, All India Drug Action Network, Low-Cost Standard Therapeutics and Medico Friend Circle, who approached it with their plea, to file a rejoinder affidavit within three weeks.  The petitioners sought direction from the top court to grant functional autonomy to vaccine public sector units and put them to use especially after public funds were spent to make them Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP) compliant. The plea said these PSUs should be granted full autonomy as envisaged in the 2010 Javid Chowdhary report, on vaccine production in the public sector units to ensure their complete revival and smooth functioning in the future. It stated no PSUs should be excluded from producing any vaccine or from government vaccine procurement, as long as quality and affordability are ensured. Referring to a 2016 order of the top court, in which the government had agreed to take action to revive the PSUs, the plea said the vaccine manufacturing facilities that were catering to 80-85 % of the demand prior to their suspension continued to languish wastefully despite their modernisation and capacity expansion. According to the petitioners, India is home to the oldest vaccine PSUs, with 25 of them set up under the British Raj. By the 1980s, 29 PSUs were set up with the sole objective of self-reliance and self-sufficiency in vaccine production for the Universal Immunisation Programme introduced in 1986 to prevent mortality and morbidity amongst children in India as part of the global effort by the World Health Organisation. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-seeks-centres-reply-on-reviving-psus-in-vaccine-manufacturing-1060325.html
13-12-2021||National||Masks come off, rallies begin as Covid-19 numbers drop||India reported its lowest tally of active Covid-19 cases in 18 months on Monday, but a sharp drop in the use of protective face masks is causing concern after a rise in the number of infections with the Omicron variant. Many people have been standing or sitting close to each other without masks, or covering only their chins, at big rallies held by political parties in several states before elections. Something similar happened before the Delta variant ravaged India from April. Cases have come down sharply since then, with an active Covid-19 total of 91,456 as of early Monday, the lowest in 561 days, according to the Health Ministry. But cases of the Omicron variant have risen to at least 36 in India, and accounted for 3% of the virus sequences analysed in the country in the past two weeks, with Delta accounting for the rest. Health authorities have been urging people to cover their mouths in public. "The falling graph of mask use could cost us," Vinod Kumar Paul told a recent news briefing. "Mask is a universal vaccine, works on every variant." Mask-wearing in public has fallen to levels last seen in March, before the second wave of cases, data from the Institute of Health Metrics and Evaluation shows. Current mask-wearing is estimated at 59%, nearly the same as in March, having peaked at 81% in May. The country reported 7,350 new Covid-19 cases on Monday, taking the total to 34.69 million. Deaths rose by 202 to 475,636.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/masks-come-off-rallies-begin-as-covid-19-numbers-drop-1060332.html
13-12-2021||National||Modi advises Gujarat farmers to adopt natural farming to 'save Mother Earth'||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday appealed to farmers in Gujarat to adopt "natural farming" techniques as a way to serve Mother Earth. The PM said this in a recorded video address at the concluding function of the three-day foundation stone laying ceremony of the temple of Maa Umiya, the reigning deity of the Kadva Patidar farming community from north Gujarat. He said that the urge for higher yield within a short time has forced farmers to use fertilisers and chemicals without any care for Mother Earth, which has caused degradation of the soil quality. "I am here to request you not to forget Mother Earth while you serve Maa Umiya. The children of Maa Umiya have no right to forget Mother Earth. For us, both are the same...I would, therefore, request you to take a pledge in the presence of Maa Umiya that you will take north Gujarat towards natural farming," Modi said. Natural farming also means zero budget farming, he said and suggested farmers adopt it gradually by setting aside a portion of their land for the same or doing natural and regular farming every alternate year. "This will save costs and bring about changes, a new consciousness in Mother Earth, and you will do good work for the coming generations," he said. The PM said he will also speak on natural farming at an event in Gujarat on December 16. "I would request you all to understand, accept, and take natural farming forward with Maa Umiya's blessings," he said, adding that such new efforts will contribute to the development of Gujarat. Modi said that farming techniques like drip irrigation have brought about significant changes in districts like Banaskantha and Kutch, and also helped save water and agriculture. He lauded the Patidar community leaders for taking up the religious project of constructing Maa Umiya's temple along with the service to society, by preparing youth for the future through the construction of a 13-storey building adjacent to the religious structure to serve as a training centre and hostel. He asked them to also make arrangements to train youth in skill development. "There is a need to increase the importance of skill development," he added. Modi also thanked the community members for responding positively to his call for saving the girl child, as the area with the Patidar community dominance like Unjha had earlier reported a skewed sex ratio, which gradually improved over the years. He also thanked farmers of north Gujarat and Saurashtra for responding positively to his call for saving water, even when the water supply to their farms increased with the Narmada and Sujalam Sufalam projects. The three-day ceremony of laying the foundation stone for the Umiyadham temple began on Saturday. Union Home Minister Amit Shah had attended the inaugural function. Apart from the Maa Umiya Temple, the trust, which runs the main temple at Unjha in Gujarat's Mehsana district, will also build a 13-storey complex adjacent to the new temple to provide training as well as a hostel facility to Patidar youths to prepare for the UPSC and GPSC tests. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-advises-gujarat-farmers-to-adopt-natural-farming-to-save-mother-earth-1060334.html
13-12-2021||National||Kerala's ruling Left takes on Governor over university row||The ruling CPM-led Left Democratic Front in Kerala seems to be taking on Governor Arif Mohammed Khan politically by referring to his BJP links after the Governor caused much embarrassment by accusing political pressure in the selection of vice-chancellors of state universities. Meanwhile, the Pinarayi Vijayan government suffered further embarrassment on Monday as a letter sent by the Kerala Higher Education Minister R Bindu to the Governor recommending reappointment of incumbent vice-chancellor Gopinath Raveendran came out. Opposition party Congress-led United Democratic Front demanded the minister's resignation and Youth Congress workers waved the black flag at the Chief Minister. It was after Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan's attack against the Governor on Sunday raising suspicions of external influences on Khan that other left-front leaders also come out against the Governor on Monday. Senior CPM leader and former law minister A K Balan asked whether the BJP influenced the Governor with regard to appointments in the universities. CPI, the key coalition partner of the CPM, joined the issue with the party mouthpiece in Kerala, 'Janayugam', flaying the Governor over the issue in its editorial. It recalled the Congress and BJP connections of the Khan and alleged that many governors were acting as per the directions of the BJP. State secretaries of CPM and CPI, Kodiyeri Balakrishan and Kanam Rajendran respectively, had also accused the Governor. CPM's students' outfit Students' Federation of India maintained that the Chief Minister shall take out the chancellor post of universities. Meanwhile, Governor Khan is also drawing flak as he admitted that he had to succumb to political pressure with regard to the extension of service of Kannur university vice-chancellor. Even while staging a protest against the left-front government, the opposition Congress also flayed the Governor. Opposition leader V D Satheesan demanded that all the controversial appointments should be revoked and a judicial probe should be ordered. The BJP also demanded a judicial probe. Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala said that the Higher Education Minister had made serious violation by recommending reappointment of the Kannur University vice-chancellor by misusing her position as pro-chancellor. It amounted to nepotism and the minister had no right to continue as minister. He also said that he would move Lok Ayukta against the minister. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/keralas-ruling-left-takes-on-governor-over-university-row-1060341.html
13-12-2021||National||ED attaches over Rs 8-crore worth assets of ex-MP Ateeq Ahmad||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Monday said it has attached assets worth over Rs 8 crore of jailed Uttar Pradesh 'gangster' and former MP Ateeq Ahmad in connection with a money-laundering investigation against him. The agency said the provisionally attached properties "consist of land property and balances in bank accounts worth Rs 8.14 crore and they belong to ex-legislature cum mafia Ahmad and his wife Shaista Parveen." The action has been carried out by the Lucknow zonal office of the agency.  Joint Director of the zone Rajeshwar Singh confirmed the action to PTI and said the attachments have been done under sections of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). The ED, as per the order, has attached a land property situated at 'arazi no 386 and 387, mauza katka, paragana Jhunsi' in the Phulpur Tehsil of Allahabad and it is in the name of Parveen.  "This property was acquired by Ateeq Ahmad for a consideration of Rs 4.5 crore only, which is far below the government value of Rs 6.86 crore," the ED said. The attachment also included balances of Rs 1.28 crore lying in 10 bank accounts of Ahmad and an account of Parveen. Ahmad, 59, is currently lodged in the Sabarmati jail of Gujarat in judicial custody and the ED has questioned him and recorded his statement in multiple sessions over the last few months. He has also been charged under the Gangsters Act by the Uttar Pradesh government. The agency said its probe found that "Ahmad, through criminal activities, used to earn dirty money in cash and it was deposited/placed in his and his relative's bank accounts." "It has also been noticed by ED that funds are being credited in their accounts from various firms and companies being run by his aides," the statement said. It was found, it added, that these funds have been further utilised for the acquisition of land property in the name of his wife at the consideration price "far below" the government value. The agency said it obtained information about these assets and transactions from the Ministry of Corporate Affairs, the Income Tax Department and some other agencies. "Statement of accused are being recorded and inquiry is being made to ascertain the source of funds invested in these companies. Money trail of the proceeds of crime is also being established," it said. The agency said more such orders of attachment of assets could be issued against Ahmad and his aides in the coming days. Ahmad, a former Samajwadi Party MP, is being investigated by the ED on the basis of as many as 196 FIRs lodged against him by various police stations in Uttar Pradesh on charges of murder, extortion, cheating and land grabbing. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ed-attaches-over-rs-8-crore-worth-assets-of-ex-mp-ateeq-ahmad-1060342.html
13-12-2021||National||India's climate commitments ambitious yet achievable: Environment Secretary||India's targets to achieve net-zero carbon emissions and increase its share of renewables in the energy mix were "very ambitious yet very much achievable", environment secretary, Rameshwar Prasad Gupta, said on Monday. Separately, Britain's president of the COP26 climate conference, Alok Sharma, said he urged companies in India and in other countries to "bang the drum" on climate action and support efforts to achieve net zero emissions. Both Gupta and Sharma, were speaking at the CII (Confederation of Indian Industry) Partnership Summit 2021. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-climate-commitments-ambitious-yet-achievable-environment-secretary-1060343.html
13-12-2021||National||Rahul to hold 'padayatra' against price rise in Amethi on December 18||Top Congress leader Rahul Gandhi will hit the streets of Amethi again on December 18 along with his sister and General Secretary of Congress Priyanka Gandhi as part of their party's nationwide protest on price rise, in what is seen as an attempt to energise the cadre ahead of Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections. Rahul will participate in the 'padayatra' as part of 'Jan Jagran Abhiyan' that started on November 14 and is scheduled till December 28. Priyanka, who is in charge of the party in UP, will accompany the former Congress president who represented Amethi between 2004 and 2019, before he lost to Union Minister Smriti Irani. This is the second time Rahul will be visiting Amethi after his shock defeat in the Lok Sabha elections, the first being his thanksgiving visit in July 2019. Rahul's visit comes even as Congress Assembly legislators from Amethi and Rae Bareli have shifted to the BJP. Party sources said Rahul's visit to Amethi is "significant" and shows the party's "aggression" ahead of the polls. "One should not miss the message. Rahul-ji is doing a 'padayatra' in Amethi. That's a huge message for not only our opponents but to our party men too," a senior leader said. The initial plan was to hold 'padayatras' for two days, including in Rae Bareli, but finally, it was decided to hold padayatra in Amethi only. The visit will come close on the wheels of Rahul attending a Congress rally in Jaipur against price rise. The party panel to decide on protests headed by senior leader Digvijay Singh had taken up price rise as the first subject to be taken up. Sources said the second phase will be announced soon after Sonia gives her approval for the plan submitted by the panel headed by Singh. Choosing price rise as the first phase of agitation, the panel had felt that there was a need to "expose the gross mismanagement of the economy by the Modi government and make the people aware of the government's insensitivity in addressing the prevalent back-breaking inflation". "Ordinary people supporting the campaign also have been registering themselves for ongoing Congress Membership drive launched from November 1 through missed calls and other processes. The party has also tried to ensure a discussion on the issue in the ongoing winter session of Parliament," Congress General Secretary KC Venugopal said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rahul-to-hold-padayatra-against-price-rise-in-amethi-on-december-18-1060351.html
13-12-2021||National||Rahul Gandhi slams CBSE for controversial passage in class 10 exam||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday hit out at the CBSE over a comprehension passage in the class 10 English paper, terming it as "disgusting" and a "ploy" of the RSS-BJP to crush the morale and future of the youth. The comprehension passage in the CBSE class 10 English question paper has sparked a controversy for allegedly promoting "gender stereotyping" and supporting "regressive notions" prompting the board to refer the matter to subject expert. In a tweet, Gandhi said, "Most CBSE papers so far were too difficult and the comprehension passage in the English paper was downright disgusting. Typical RSS-BJP ploys to crush the morale and future of the youth".  Typical RSS-BJP ploys to crush the morale and future of the youth. Kids, do your best.Hard work pays. Bigotry doesn’t. "Kids, do your best. Hard work pays. Bigotry doesn't," Gandhi said. Congress chief Sonia Gandhi also raised the issue in the Lok Sabha. In the class 10 exam conducted on Saturday, the question paper carried a comprehension passage with sentences like "emancipation of women destroyed the parent's authority over the children" and "it was only by accepting her husband's way that a mother could gain obedience over the younger ones", among others. Various excerpts from the passage have gone viral on social media with users calling out the board for supporting "misogynistic" and "regressive opinions" and hashtag "CBSE insults women" trending on the microblogging site Twitter. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rahul-gandhi-slams-cbse-for-controversial-passage-in-class-10-exam-1060353.html
13-12-2021||National||BJP activist’s PSO goes missing with two service weapons in Kashmir||A personal security officer (PSO) of a BJP activist and his associate were reported missing along with two weapons on Sunday night in north Kashmir’s Kupwara district. Official sources said that during the intervening night of December 12 and 13, Saqib Ahmad Tantry, who was deployed as PSO with BJP activist Abdul Rashid Zargar, allegedly fled with two weapons. Zarger, a protected person, is putting up at the PWD building at Salkoot, Kupwara. Saqib’s associate, Arif Ahmad, a resident of Bohipora, Kupwara, is also missing, they said. A police official said that efforts were underway to trace the missing duo. “Saqib had come to his house and then left. His family told us that they are also searching for him,” he said. Although the police-militant nexus in Kashmir dates back to the early 1990s, the trend of cops deserting with weapons to join militancy emerged only after 2015. However, in the last two years, after authorities took several measures to prevent such incidents, the trend has declined. A few dozen incidents of policemen deserting the forces along with service weapons have been reported in Kashmir in recent years. Several policemen-turned-militants were later killed in encounters with security forces. In April 1993, a few thousand police personnel had reportedly rebelled out of anger at the death of a colleague, Riyaz Ahmed, allegedly while in army custody. The army and the paramilitary forces with the help of armoured cars in a pre-dawn swoop on the Police Control Room (PCR) in Srinagar had to disarm 1500 odd rebelling policemen. While the 1993 strike by the policemen was spontaneous, today the actions by cops are well-conceived. More than 100 members of the J&K police force face charges for abetting separatism and many more are said to believe in Kashmir’s right to political self-determination.  “This (running away with weapons) is a really worrisome trend and we are looking into it. Though some measures had been taken in the past to stop this trend, the latest incident is a wake-up call for the police force to take more preventive and corrective measures to stop this in future,” a senior police officer told DH. Asked what prompts policemen to leave lucrative jobs and join militant ranks, where death is evident, the officer explained: “Social media has made militancy a 24x7 lived reality for everyone. The pictures, videos uploaded by the militants glamorize jihad, ensuring that a steady trickle of the impressionable youth is taken in and join militancy. In some cases, a few policemen also fall prey to the propaganda.” However, among more than one lakh strong force which has been fighting militancy for the last almost three decades, only a handful of policemen will acknowledge anti-India or pro-separatist bias. Local police are the prime target of militants and hundreds of cops have been killed in Kashmir in the last 32-years. “You have to expect that some policemen will have to face internal ideological conflict. At one point, he’s a Kashmiri, second, he’s Muslim. Because of these two facets, he is in a moral dilemma. He has to oscillate between extremes,” the officer said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-activist-s-pso-goes-missing-with-two-service-weapons-in-kashmir-1060364.html
13-12-2021||National||Tribal environment activist Tulsi Gowda presented Mother Teresa Memorial Award||Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari presented the Mother Teresa Memorial Award for Social Change to a tribal environmental activist from Karnataka Tulsi Gowda at Raj Bhavan Mumbai on Monday.  Known as Encyclopedia of Forests, Tulsi Gowda is credited for planting more than 30000 trees. The Awards instituted by the Harmony Foundation were also presented to Paani Foundation, young environmentalist Aadya Joshi and founder of Mission Green Mumbai Subhajit Mukherjee. The award for Paani Foundation was accepted by Dr Avinash Pol. Chairman of Harmony Foundation and former vice chairman of State Minorities Commission Dr Abraham Mathai was also present. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tribal-environment-activist-tulsi-gowda-presented-mother-teresa-memorial-award-1060367.html
13-12-2021||National||India successfully launches Supersonic Missile Assisted Torpedo System||India on Monday successfully launched Supersonic Missile Assisted Torpedo System (SMAT) from Abdul Kalam island, formerly known as Wheeler Island, off the Odisha coast, the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) said. During the mission, the full range capability of the missile was successfully demonstrated. The system has been designed to enhance anti-submarine warfare capability far beyond the conventional range of the torpedo, the DRDO sai “This was a textbook launch, where the entire trajectory was monitored by the electro optic telemetry system, various range radars, including the down range instrumentation and down range ships. The missile carried a torpedo, parachute delivery system and release mechanisms,” said the DRDO statement. Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-successfully-launches-supersonic-missile-assisted-torpedo-system-1060382.html
13-12-2021||National||India’s latest religious and cultural flashpoint: Eggs||The raid came just after sunset. Plainclothes municipal workers swarmed into the busy neighbourhood, seizing contraband. The dealers ran or watched helplessly as the authorities took their illicit goods. And with that, the government had conducted a successful crackdown on eggs. Not just the eggs themselves, although city officials had confiscated hundreds of trays of those, too. Authorities grabbed everything — gas canisters, bread, vegetables, plates, glasses, stools — that one might need to run a food cart to sell eggs scrambled, fried or wrapped in a fragrant breading. On the curb, only broken shells remained. The food-cart operators who got away counted themselves lucky to have escaped. “We found out that the truck was approaching our location,” said Virendra Ram Chandra Singh, who added that he could prepare eggs 156 ways. “We ran home with our carts, pushing hard and fast.” The place of the humble egg in the street food culture of Gujarat, a state in western India where people take their snacks seriously, has become the latest flashpoint in the growing role of religion in everyday life. Under Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the national government has taken steps in recent years to promote the religion and to sideline Muslims and other groups. Emboldened local governments have followed suit, enacting rules in some places that adhere closely to Hindu doctrine. That is especially true in Gujarat, which Modi led for 13 years before becoming prime minister and which is often seen as a laboratory for pushing policies to reshape India along with his Hindu nationalist vision. These include tightening a ban on alcohol and adding protections against the slaughter of cattle, which many Hindus consider sacred. But even devout Hindus don’t always agree among themselves what practices the faithful should follow, a conflict that also raises issues of income and class. Hence the bitter disagreement over eggs. Many Hindus are vegetarian, particularly among the elite within India’s traditional caste system, and some of them consider eggs to be meat products. Citing complaints from Hindus as well as health concerns, local officials in Ahmadabad, Gujarat’s largest city, and at least four other cities in mid-November banned the sale and display of meat, fish and eggs on the street. The mayor of one city, Rajkot, told local news media: “Carts with nonvegetarian food can be seen everywhere in the city. The religious sentiments of the people are hurt by this.” Local authorities weren’t expecting the backlash. In recent days, facing a lawsuit and protests, officials in Ahmadabad relented and allowed sales of previously forbidden food to resume for now, although the dispute is being considered by the courts. They did not respond to requests for comment. Top leaders with Modi’s Bharatiya Janata Party, which dominates politics in Gujarat, deflected blame to local officials. “Some people eat vegetarian food,” the state’s chief minister, Bhupendra Patel, told local media. “Some people eat nonvegetarian food. The BJP government does not have any problem with it.” India has no shortage of feelings about food. Practices vary widely by region and by caste. In the northeastern state of Assam, Hindus tuck into fish Tenga curry, a sour and savoury treat tempered with tomatoes and elephant apples. In the southern state of Kerala, the appeal of a chicken roast — tender pieces of meat marinated in curd and red chilli powder — crosses religious and social lines. With Hindu nationalism on the rise, food has drawn more headlines. Hundreds of people lost their jobs when one of the BJP-led states in northern India began shutting down slaughterhouses. Muslims accused of slaughtering cows have been lynched by mobs. In the southern state of Karnataka, one Hindu leader has vowed to protest a plan by some local officials to provide eggs for school lunches. Those beliefs can run counter to India’s economic goals and changing social mores. Consumption of eggs in India has grown substantially in recent years as more families have entered the middle class. They now eat 81 per person per year on average. (Americans average more than twice that.) The central government hopes eggs will become a growing source of protein. Higher egg consumption could help the country’s troubled farm sector. Government forecasters have called for increased chicken and egg consumption, enough to double farmers’ income and prevent child malnutrition. India’s egg producers have pushed hard to win over a new generation. In a commercial for egg growers, the nutritional impact of eggs settles a dispute between Sunil Gavaskar, Rahul Dravid and Kapil Dev, three legendary Indian cricketers. The anti-egg campaign amounts to a pushback by conservative Hindus, particularly among the upper caste, who believe that consuming them isn’t conducive to spiritual progress. “They want people to believe that vegetarian food is the civilized food,” said Ghanshyam Shah, a retired professor of political sociology living in Ahmadabad. “That is part of their old culture.” Gujarat officials, he said, “have an agenda to make their state a Hindu first state” by dictating a unified cultural and value system. The ban on eggs certainly had its fans. Naresh Kansara, an official at a large Hindu temple in Ahmadabad, said it was wrong to sell nonvegetarian food nearby. “Why don’t they eat at a hotel, away from public view?” he said. “Why so openly?” Still, the egg ban caused an uproar. The confiscation of carts in November galvanized street vendors, who began protesting outside government offices. Singh, the Ahmadabad food-cart operator who escaped the November crackdown, migrated from poorer Bihar state in the 1990s during a period of economic liberation. Bit by bit, he built a name for himself on the versatility of his eggs. Singh boasts about the egg dishes his customers love the most. There is the John Paratha, a three-egg omelette topped with breadcrumbs to make it crispy and stuffed with mayonnaise, cheese, onion, tomato and coriander salad that is rolled up inside a soft Indian bread. Nargis, a dish named after a famous Bollywood actress from the 1960s, is made of mince of boiled eggs, softened with cream and served with buns and chapatis. The mahi roll masala is a three-egg omelette with cheese, onions, tomatoes and green chillies. He set up the cart across from a sprawling public park that attracted families and students. Demand led him to hire four employees. The president of the street vendors association in Gujarat, Rakesh Maheriya, said mostly Hindu vendors and customers were being punished. Many vendors are from the lower castes, a large voting bloc, and many Hindu customers were incensed as well. Dhara Patel, a 20-year-old engineering student who consumed her favourite dish, minced eggs, a few times a week in the roadside stalls near her college, said the meal was her only source of protein. “Why does the government have a problem if we want to eat eggs?” she said. “It’s also about the livelihoods of those street vendors.” Although the local government now says coercive action won’t be taken against egg sellers, municipal officials have yet to rescind their ban formally. Vendors said they had been given assurances that they could come back. Still, along the lakeside road where they once sold their eggs, the number of food carts has dwindled, a sign to them that the egg crackdown is far from over. “Who knows how long we will be allowed to be here?” Singh said. “They can do anything, anytime.” Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-s-latest-religious-and-cultural-flashpoint-eggs-1060391.html
13-12-2021||National||Govt brings bill in Rajya Sabha to hike pension of judges of high courts, Supreme Court||The government introduced a bill that proposes to amend the salaries and services acts of the judges of the Supreme Court and the high courts to bring clarity concerning the date of eligibility for an additional quantum of pension to a retired judge in the Rajya Sabha on Monday. Union Minister for Law and Justice Kiren Rijiju placed the High Court and Supreme Court Judges (Salaries and Conditions of Service) Amendment Bill, 2021 in the Upper House for consideration. The bill, which was passed by the Lok Sabha on December 8, will amend the High Court Judges (Salaries and Conditions of Service) Act, 1954 and the Supreme Court Judges (Salaries and Conditions of Service) Act, 1958. "This is a very limited amendment, which we have brought in the said Acts and for a limited purpose. It is not going to affect in any manner the judges' salaries. It is only related to a quantum jump in the pension of retired judges of the Supreme Court and the high courts," Rijiju said while placing the bill. Rajya Sabha Deputy Chairman Harivansh Narayan Singh, who was on the chair, called for a debate on the bill. However, Leader of Opposition (LoP) Mallikarjun Kharge urged him to take a decision on 12 suspended Opposition members first. He was supported by some other Opposition members, including the DMK's Tiruchi Siva. However, Singh said the chairman of the House had already requested all political parties to amicably solve the issue and called Amee Yajnik of the Congress to initiate the debate on the bill. Yajnik raised the issue of the huge backlog of cases pending in courts and problems faced by people when it comes to access to justice. "Is this government sensitive in filling the vacancies? We need so many judges at the high courts," she said and urged the law minister to get the backlog of cases cleared. Justice is a fundamental right and there is a backlog of four crore cases in the country, the Congress leader said, adding that appeals are not being heard. She said there is a need to look at the Law Commission reports calling for reforms in the judicial system and changes in the criminal laws and the criminal justice system. P Wilson of the DMK said the retirement age of high court judges should be increased from the present 62 years to 65 years and that of the Supreme Court judges from 65 years to 70 years. He said 57 lakh cases are pending before the high courts and around 75,000 before the Supreme Court. "Those who attain the age of 62 and 65 are well-experienced judges who will be well suited to tackle the pendency. Their invaluable experience gained over years at the bench cannot be substituted by fresh faces. With the improvement of technology and medicines, life expectancy has increased and people are more productive now," Wilson said. Even after retirement, some high court judges go for arbitration and practise in the Supreme Court but most of them are dependent on pension, which is not enough for sustenance, he said. "If you look at the US, there is a lifetime tenure of judges of its Supreme Court and Federal Court. In the UK, the age of retirement is 70 years and now, it is planning to increase it to 75 years," the DMK leader said, adding that the vacancies at the high courts are alarming. He pointed out that presently, there are 402 vacancies in the high courts out of a total sanctioned strength of 1,098 judges and that the law minister had recently said the delay in the appointment of judges was due to procedural reasons. Moreover, India has one of the lowest judges-to-population ratios in the world, which is just 21 judges per 10 lakh people, whereas in the UK, it is 51 judges and in the US, 107 judges per 10 lakh people, Wilson said. He also highlighted the lack of representation of all sections of the society in the higher judiciary. "For the last few years, we have witnessed a declining representation from all sections of the society in the higher judiciary. There is a diversity deficit in our courts and they are not indicative of the wonderfully diverse juristic society of India," the DMK leader added. Ramkumar Verma of the BJP said there is a need for social justice and economic justice for the poor and downtrodden people and the government is working in that direction through its schemes since 2014. He also expressed concerns over the pendency of cases in courts and said an honest effort by all concerned is the need of the hour to address the issue. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-brings-bill-in-rajya-sabha-to-hike-pension-of-judges-of-high-courts-supreme-court-1060395.html
13-12-2021||National||2 policemen killed, 12 injured in Srinagar terror attack||Two police personnel were killed while 12 others injured when militants attacked a bus they were traveling in near a police camp at Zewan on the outskirts of Srinagar on Monday evening. The attack happened near the Srinagar-Jammu national highway and was the second such incident in the same area. On September 1, 2017 a policeman was killed and seven others injured in a similar attack. Reports said two to three militants opened indiscriminate fire on the bus in the highly secure area that houses several camps of various security forces. The injured personnel were immediately shifted to nearby health facilities. However, two among them succumbed to their injuries in a hospital. The slain policemen were identified as assistant sub inspector Ghulam Hassan and senior grade constable Safique Ali. Earlier, police in a tweet said: “#Terrorists fired upon a police vehicle near Zewan in Pantha Chowk area of #Srinagar. 14 personnel #injured in the attack. All the injured personnel evacuated to hospital. Area cordoned off. Further details shall follow.” The area, which is barely a kilometer away from the strategic 15-Corps headquarters, has witnessed a number of militant attacks in recent years.  Zewan houses offices of one deputy inspector general rank officer and three commanding officers of Armed police battalions, besides a police hospital and several Army, CRPF and BSF camps. Since 2015 a number of deadly attacks on security forces' convoys have been reported on Srinagar-Jammu national highway. While the highway is 264 kms long, it is the 40-km stretch between Bijbehera town to Pantha Chowk on Srinagar outskirts that is turning out to be a death trap for security forces. Though CCTV cameras were installed at various points on the highway and deployment of forces on this vulnerable stretch was strengthened, militants still manage to make surprise attacks.  A senior police official said the latest deadly attack is a wake-up call for security agencies to conduct reviews. Meanwhile, PDP president and former J&K CM tweeted: Terribly sad to hear about the Srinagar attack in which two policemen were killed. GOIs false narrative of normalcy in Kashmir stands exposed yet there has been no course correction. My condolences to the bereaved families. (sic)” National Conference leader and another former CM Omar Abdullah in a tweet said: “Terrible news of a terror attack on a police bus on the outskirts of Srinagar. I unequivocally condemn this attack while at the same time send my heartfelt condolences to the families of the deceased & prayers for the injured.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/2-policemen-killed-12-injured-in-srinagar-terror-attack-1060398.html
13-12-2021||National||Over 1.22 lakh vacancies in three wings Indian military, RS told||There are over 1.22 lakh vacancies, including 8,362 in officer ranks, in the three wings of the Indian military, the government informed Rajya Sabha on Monday. This was disclosed by Minister of State for Defence Ajay Bhatt in a written reply to questions raised by CPI(M) MP Dr V Sivadasan. Bhatt said that it was the "endeavour" of the government to fill up vacancies in the armed forces in a "systematic and time-bound manner, which is a continuous process".   A total of 1,22,55 vacancies -- 9,362 in officer rank and 1,13,193 in other ranks -- in Army, Air Force and Navy. Army has the highest vacancies -- 7,476 in officer rank and 97,177 in other ranks. At the same time, it has 53,569 officers as well as 11,35,799 personnel in other ranks serving in its ranks at present. Air Force, which has 12,048 officers and 1,38,792 personnel in other ranks, has the least number of vacancies though it has more officers and personnel than the Navy. In Air Force, there are 621 vacancies in officer ranks while it is 4,850 for other ranks. When it comes to the Navy, it has 1,265 vacancies in officer rank while that of other ranks, it is 11,166. The Navy has 11,100 officers and 63,515 other personnel. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-122-lakh-vacancies-in-three-wings-indian-military-rs-told-1060406.html
13-12-2021||National||40% of commercial pilot licenses in India issued to cadets trained in foreign countries: V K Singh||Around 40 per cent commercial pilot licenses issued by Indian aviation regulator DGCA were to cadets trained in foreign flying schools, Minister of State for Civil Aviation V K Singh said on Monday. However, the Centre has taken certain steps to achieve increasing the number of Indian-trained pilots, Singh told Rajya Sabha. The minister, in a written reply, said the Airports Authority of India (AAI) had on September 25 last year come up with a liberalised flying training organisations (FTO) policy wherein the concept of airport royalty — revenue share payment by FTOs to AAI — has been abolished and land rentals have been significantly rationalised. He said the AAI issued award letters on May 31 and October 29 for nine FTOs to be established at five airports in Belagavi (Karnataka), Jalgaon (Maharashtra), Kalaburagi (Karnataka), Khajuraho (Madhya Pradesh) and Lilabari (Assam). Soft launch of two FTOs at Kalabuargi was done on August 15 under the liberalised policy, Singh said. "India's largest flying academy — Indira Gandhi Rashtriya Udan Akademi (IGRUA) at Amethi (Uttar Pradesh) — has been permitted to carry out pilot training in Gondia (Maharashtra) and Kalaburagi (Karnataka) to enhance its flying hours and aircraft utilisation, which get severely affected during winter months due to visibility issues," the minister said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/40-of-commercial-pilot-licenses-in-india-issued-to-cadets-trained-in-foreign-countries-v-k-singh-1060417.html
13-12-2021||National||Sergio Aguero set to retire after cardiac evaluation: Sources||Barcelona striker Sergio Aguero is set to announce his retirement from football this week following a cardiac evaluation, ending the Argentine's career at 33, Spanish newspaper El Periodico reported on Monday. Barcelona FC declined to comment and the player's agent and friends were not available to confirm the information. However, sources close to the situation confirmed to Reuters that a ceremony is being prepared by the club for Wednesday. The former Manchester City and Atletico Madrid player, who arrived at Barcelona on a free transfer in the close season, received medical assistance on the pitch after he complained of chest pain and dizziness during his team's 1-1 draw with Alaves in La Liga in late October and had to be taken to hospital. Barcelona announced days later that Aguero was ruled out for at least three months following cardiac analysis and reports appeared about his possible retirement in Spanish and Argentine media shortly after. "Aguero has been subjected to a diagnostic and therapeutic process by Dr Josep Brugada," Barcelona said in a statement in November. Aguero has made five appearances in all competitions so far in his short tenure as a Barca player, scoring one goal, in El Clasico against Real Madrid, after starting the season with a calf problem. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sergio-aguero-set-to-retire-after-cardiac-evaluation-sources-1060420.html
13-12-2021||National||COTPA amendment will hit millions of women involved in beedi industry, suggests study||The proposed amendment to the Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products (COTPA) Act puts the livelihood of millions of women, engaged in the beedi industry. in jeopardy with Section 10A(3) making it mandatory for persons to obtain licences, permissions and registrations for selling and distributing tobacco products. This amendment, if implemented, will make business tough for small vendors who do not have the competency or financial means to obtain such licences. Beedis are mostly sold by small vendors and hawkers who have a small scale set-up for selling tobacco products. Most of the sale of beedis take place from micro shops situated under trees and on pavements, which will not be recognised by the municipalities or given licences. A study by Vibha Vasuki, a human rights lawyer and Dr Siva Prasad Rambhatla, a senior professor of social anthropology titled 'A Study on the Status of Alternate Employment Schemes for Women Beedi Rollers' delves into the impact this COTPA amendment will have on millions of women beedi rollers in the country. The report says that until skill-building and alternative employment is provided on a large scale for their livelihood, beedi rolling is the only viable occupation for millions of women across India. The study states that beedis dominate tobacco consumption in India. They are thin, hand-rolled cigarettes that are wrapped in a tendu leaf and filled with tobacco. About 7.7 per cent of adults in India smoke beedis, which have a market share of 85 per cent of all smoking products in India. Any anti-tobacco legislation largely impacts the beedi industry. The manufacturing process is highly labour intensive. The over hundred-year-old industry employs workers in mostly the unorganised sector, comprising mainly of home-based women workers from poor households. Ninety-six per cent of the total beedi workers are home-based, while only 4 per cent work in factories. A majority (84 per cent) of home-based workers are women while only 16 per cent are men. As a member nation signatory to the WHO Framework Convention on Tobacco Control (FCTC), the Central government is obligated to promote and provide suitable alternative livelihoods for tobacco workers, including beedi rollers. Beedi workers are among the most marginalised communities in India. Despite legislation for their welfare, there is little evidence to suggest that much has been put into practice. There has been no allocation of welfare funds for beedi workers since 2017-18, according to reports. The study claims that since the passing of the Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products Act (COPTA) in 2003, there has been a decline in the beedi industry. Anti-tobacco legislations have made it harder for the beedi industry to survive, causing a direct impact on the livelihood of beedi workers. This book will be released on Tuesday, December 14, 2021 at India International Centre, New Delhi by Bhupender Yadav, Union Cabinet Minister for Labour and Employment, Environment, Forest and Climate change. The event will be presided over by Alejandro Simancas Marin, Cuban Ambassador. The Guests of Honour will be Rekha Sharma, Chairperson, National Commission for Women; Ashwani Mahajan, National Convener, Swadeshi Jagaran Manch, and B Surendran, All India Organising Secretary, Bhartiya Mazdoor Sangh. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cotpa-amendment-will-hit-millions-of-women-involved-in-beedi-industry-suggests-study-1060436.html
13-12-2021||National||CBSE committee to review question paper process after 'misogynistic' passage surfaces in class 10 exam||The CBSE on Monday decided to set up a committee to thoroughly review and strengthen the question paper setting process after outrage over a comprehension passage in class 10 English exam that allegedly promoted "gender stereotyping" and supported "regressive notions". The board said the passage was not in adherence with the guidelines issued by it and expressed regret over the incident. Earlier in the day, the board said it had dropped the particular passage and accompanying questions from the exam paper and announced that it will award full marks to students for the said questions. "CBSE is committed to equity and excellence in education and promotes inclusiveness and gender sensitivity. CBSE has dropped a passage and accompanying questions which were asked in English term 1 paper for class 10 as it was not in adherence with guidelines issued by the board for external paper setters. "CBSE regrets the unfortunate incident and is setting up an expert committee to thoroughly review and strengthen the question paper setting processes to avoid such occurrences in future," the board said in an official statement. The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) had referred the matter to subject experts on Sunday and sought their feedback. In the class 10 exam conducted on Saturday, the question paper carried a comprehension passage with sentences such as "emancipation of women destroyed the parents' authority over the children" and "it was only by accepting her husband's way that a mother could gain obedience over the younger ones", among others. Raising the issue in Lok Sabha, Congress chief Sonia Gandhi on Monday condemned the "blatantly misogynist" and "nonsensical" questions, saying those reflected "extremely poorly" on the standards of education and testing. She demanded an apology from the government and a review into this "gravest lapse". Congress leader Rahul Gandhi also took to Twitter to raise the issue. Excerpts from the passage have gone viral on social media platforms with users calling out the board for supporting "misogynistic" and "regressive opinions" and the hashtag "#CBSEinsultswomen" trending on Twitter.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbse-committee-to-review-question-paper-process-after-misogynistic-passage-surfaces-in-class-10-exam-1060440.html
13-12-2021||National||Collegium criticism, case backlog mark discussion on HC and SC Judges (Salaries and Condition of Service) Bill||Vociferous opposition to collegium system, backlog of cases, demand for return of National Judicial Appointments Commission, under-representation of underprivileged in higher judiciary and a dig at Justice Ranjan Gogoi were among the highlights of a debate on a bill on judges' salaries and condition of services in Rajya Sabha on Monday. Almost all MPs who participated in the debate also raised pendency of cases, vacancy of positions, lack of infrastructure in courts, need for subject and technical expertise in courts and regional benches of Supreme Court for appeals. Being a 'money bill', the High Court and Supreme Court Judges (Salaries and Condition of Service) Bill was returned by the Rajya Sabha to the Lok Sabha following a discussion and all parties supporting it. Law Minister Kiren Rijiju did not provide a clear commitment on bringing a law on NJAC, which was struck down by the Supreme Court earlier, but said the government would proceed only after "consultations" even as he said that even people in the judiciary have aired their support. Participating in the debate, CPI(M)'s John Brittas hit out at the collegium system of appointments of judges asking whether there is any system of appointment of judges in the world which is "completely shrouded in mystery, darkness and secrecy?" He alleged that it happens only in India and the law minister is a "mute spectator". "Are we creating a system of patronage or give and take? Are we creating an oligarchy? I am afraid we are creating an oligarchy," he said. Referring to the non-elevation of Justice Akil Qureshi, Brittas asked, "What was his crime? Was it because he sent one of the powerful people in this dispensation in the Sohrabuddhin Sheikh case to jail?" Justice Gogoi, who is now a nominated MP whose recent comments that he attends the House when he feels so attracted criticism, also faced the heat as some of the MPs referred to him. RJD's Manoj K Jha took a dig at him for choosing 'Justice for the Judge' as the title of his memoir, saying there is a lot of distance between Justice VR Krishna Iyer's book 'Judging the Judge' and that of the former Chief Justice of India. He said Justice Krishna Iyer, whom he described as a messiah of the downtrodden, had penned a book 'Judging the Judge' and now a new book has appeared with the title 'Justice for the Judge'. "The distance between 'Judging the Judge' and 'Justice for the Judge' is not progressive but regressive. This is a matter of concern. It has to be a matter of concern," he said. Jha said Justice Krishna Iyer belonged to a league of luminaries from across the world and he was considered the champion of underdogs. "Where have we reached now?" he said. While Congress' Amee Yajnik asked the government whether it was sensitive in filling the vacancies, DMK's P Wilson demanded that the retirement age of high court judges should be increased from 62 years to 65 years and that of the Supreme Court judges from 65 years to 70 years. Supporting the demand for increasing judges' retirement age up to 70 years, AAP's Sanjay Singh said there should be a cooling-off period of five years for judges to take up other assignments. Samajwadi Party's Ramgopal Yadav said equitable representation of the backward classes and SC-STs in the higher judiciary should be ensured, a demand which found echo in other lawmakers who participated in the debate. Yadav also demanded that the government should once again bring the NJAC Bill. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/collegium-criticism-case-backlog-mark-discussion-on-hc-and-sc-judges-salaries-and-condition-of-service-bill-1060449.html
13-12-2021||National||SC pulls up Gujarat, Maharashtra over Covid compensation disbursal||The Supreme Court on Monday pulled up the Gujarat and Maharashtra governments over the slow pace of disbursal of Rs 50,000 as ex gratia payment to the kin of Covid-19 victims as per its judgement. A bench of Justices M R Shah and B V Nagarathna said that the common man would struggle to learn about the compensation scheme, in the backdrop of lack of publicity given by state governments. The court took exception to the Gujarat government’s failure to give adequate publicity -- through print and electronic media -- to the Covid compensation scheme. The Gujarat government, in its latest affidavit, said to date it has received 22,557 applications for ex gratia compensation and sanction has been issued for payment in 16,175 cases and payment made in 14,215 cases. Notably, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare's website had recorded cumulative deaths of 10,098 in Gujarat. On a query, the Gujarat government counsel said that publicity of the scheme was given through All India Radio (AIR). To this, the bench said, “Who listens to AIR ? You must give advertisements to newspapers, especially vernacular dailies”. The counsel assured me these steps will be taken by Tuesday.  The bench told the counsel to use FM channels, local newspapers, and vernacular dailies to advertise the scheme regarding Covid compensation.  The court decided to hear the matter on Tuesday. During the hearing, the Maharashtra government counsel informed the top court that it has received 87,000 applications and to date, 8000 applications have been approved and disbursal was in process.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-pulls-up-gujarat-maharashtra-over-covid-compensation-disbursal-1060454.html
13-12-2021||National||India bans Kiwi fruit import from Iran on rise in pest infested consignments||India has suspended the import of fresh Kiwi fruits from Iran due to the rise in pest infested consignments from the middle eastern nation despite repeated warnings, according to the Union Agriculture Ministry.         Import of Iran's fresh Kiwi fruits has been banned with effect from December 7 by the nodal body National Plant Protection Organization (NPPO) under the Agriculture Ministry.         "The phytosanitary certificates issued by the NPPO, Iran from December 8, 2021, for fresh Kiwi fruits shall not be entertained from our end," the ministry said in a letter written to its Iranian counterpart in NPPO. Since October 2021, India has intercepted quarantine pest 'Aspidiotus netil' in 22 consignments and 'Pseudococcu Calceolariae' pest in two Kiwi fruit consignments, it said.         The pest infested consignments of Kiwi fruits from Iran have increased despite the repeated warning to take action to comply with the quality norms set by India, it said.         Earlier in 2019 too, India had intercepted a quarantine pest called 'Aspidiotus netil' from 13 consignments and a non-quarantine pest 'Aonidiella aurantii' from two consignments of Kiwi fruits from Iran, it added.         The ministry further said, "The non-compliance report has been sent on a regular basis to Iran for these consignments but so far no action has been taken nor the interception has decreased."         It said the introduction of any quarantine pests through infested import consignments is a threat to Indian biosecurity and is dealt with under the provisions of Indian regulation.           The Indian government has suspended the import of fresh kiwi fruits from India as each country has sovereignty and authority to protect itself, it said.       Iran government has also been requested to investigate the cases of non-compliance and submit an action taken report at the earliest with respect to remedial measures taken to avoid future interceptions.       Currently, India imports 4,000 tonnes of Kiwis from various countries, while the domestic production is about 13,000 tonnes, as per the government data. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-bans-kiwi-fruit-import-from-iran-on-rise-in-pest-infested-consignments-1060458.html
13-12-2021||National||India will produce five billion vaccine doses next year, says Goyal||Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal on Monday said India plans to produce five billion doses of Covid-19 vaccines next year and keep contributing to making the world a safer place to live in. India, the world's largest producer of vaccines, has resumed the supply of Covid-19 vaccines to other countries. It had suspended the export of vaccines in April this year to focus on inoculating its own population following a sudden spike in coronavirus infections. Speaking at the CII Partnership Summit 2021, Goyal said India is one of the shining examples of both vaccinating her own population as well as providing vaccines to the rest of the world. "We have been exporting in the past, we continue to export and we have offered to all the countries in the world that we will be willing to supply as many vaccines as other countries would require to ensure equitable availability at affordable prices for vaccines for all the countries in the world," he said. He also said that next year, India plans to produce five billion doses of vaccines. "... we hope to contribute to making the world a safer place to live in, particularly when we are grappling with this once in a century...Covid pandemic," he added. Goyal also told the gathering that the country has been working with other nations to help them with medical supplies and equipment, and acknowledged India too received support from many nations. India is celebrating 75 years of independence 'Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav' and will also be taking the G20 presidency in 2023. "In both these important elements, we hope to promote partnerships, camaraderie amongst nations, fair trade and democratic institutions," he said and added that at present, the world looks at India as a trusted partner. Further, the minister said the country is confident of increasing its non-fossil energy capacity to 500 gigawatts by 2030 and meeting 50 per cent of the energy requirement from renewable energy.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-will-produce-five-billion-vaccine-doses-next-year-says-goyal-1060464.html
13-12-2021||National||India, UK explore cooperation in outer space domain||India and the UK on Monday explored the possibility of cooperation in the outer space domain. The two sides exchanged views over it under the framework of India-UK Space Consultations. "The two sides exchanged information on respective national space priorities, prospects for bilateral collaboration, and deliberations in international forums in the outer space domain," the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said. Officials of the MEA, the Department of Space and the Indian Space Research Organisation were part of the Indian delegation. The British side comprised representatives from the UK Space Agency, the Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy, and Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-uk-explore-cooperation-in-outer-space-domain-1060466.html
13-12-2021||National||Pakistan criticises Defence Minister Rajnath Singh’s missile-naming remarks||Pakistan on Monday criticised as "unwarranted and provocative" the remarks of Defence Minister Rajnath Singh who attacked Islamabad for naming its missiles after those who invaded India. Speaking at the inaugural ceremony of 'Swarnim Vijay Parv' (Golden jubilee celebration) on Sunday to commemorate India's victory over Pakistan in the 1971 war, Singh said Pakistan's missiles have been named after the cruel invaders - Ghauri, Ghaznavi and Abdali - who invaded India. "Someone should ask the Pakistan government that these invaders also attacked the people living in the geographical area of Pakistan," he said. On the other hand, India's missiles have been named Aakash (Sky), Prithvi (Earth) and Agni (Fire), he added. Responding to Singh’s remarks, the Foreign Office (FO) here said: “Pakistan strongly condemns the unwarranted, gratuitous and provocative comments made by the Indian Defence Minister at an event in New Delhi on December 12, questioning established historical facts, levelling unfounded allegations in the context of terrorism, and hurling threats against Pakistan." The FO said that Pakistan was capable of thwarting India’s “aggressive” designs. It asked the BJP leaders to desist from any "ill-conceived misadventure” and stop dragging Pakistan into India’s domestic politics for electoral gains.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistan-criticises-defence-minister-rajnath-singh-s-missile-naming-remarks-1060488.html
13-12-2021||National Politics||Congress moves adjournment notice on inflation in RS||A day after a protest rally on inflation in Jaipur, Congress MP from Anandpur Sahib Manish Tewari on Monday gave an adjournment notice in the Lok Sabha to raise the issue of inflation. Tewari in his notice wrote, "The high rate of inflation has hit the weaker section of the country, prices of oil and vegetables have skyrocketed and fuel is breaking new records almost everyday." For some time now, oil marketing companies (OMCs) have kept prices of diesel and petrol unchanged across major Indian cities. Diesel and petrol prices in Delhi stood at Rs 86.67 per litre and Rs 95.41 per litre, respectively, and in the financial capital Mumbai, the prices were unchanged at Rs 94.14 and Rs 109.98. But the prices of vegetables and mustard oil are soaring high each day and the government is unable to check prices, said Tewari. The Lok Sabha is likely to discuss and pass the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (Amendment) Bill, 2021, which was introduced on December 6. Union Minister Nirmala Sitharaman will move the Bill to further amend the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985, to be taken into consideration. She will also move that the Bill be passed by the House. The opposition members, however, will move a statutory resolution that this House (Lok Sabha) disapproves of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (Amendment) Ordinance, 2021 promulgated by the President on September 30, 2021.   Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-moves-adjournment-notice-on-inflation-in-rs-1060263.html
13-12-2021||National Politics||LS likely to discuss Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (Amendment) Bill on Monday||The Lok Sabha on Monday is likely to discuss and pass the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (Amendment) Bill, 2021. The government had introduced the Bill in the lower House on December 6. Union Minister Nirmala Sitharaman will move the Bill to further amend the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985, and to be taken into consideration. She will also move that the Bill be passed by the House. The Opposition members will, however, move a statutory resolution that this House (Lok Sabha) disapproves of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (Amendment) Ordinance, 2021 promulgated by the President on September 30, 2021. Under rule 193, further discussion in the Lok Sabha will take place on climate change, which was raised by Kanimozhi Karunanidhi last week. Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan will move a motion for election of two members to the Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru from the Lok Sabha. Labour Minister Bhupender Yadav will move a motion to elect one member to the Employees State Insurance Corporation from the house. Minister of state Rajveen Chandrasekhar will make statements regarding the status of implementation of the recommendations contained in the various reports of the Standing Committee on Labour, Textiles and Skill Development pertaining to the Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship. Several ministers will lay papers related to their ministries. Reports of various standing committees will be also tabled in the Lok Sabha. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ls-likely-to-discuss-narcotic-drugs-and-psychotropic-substances-amendment-bill-on-monday-1060269.html
13-12-2021||National Politics||Reflection of falling standards of education: Sonia Gandhi on 'sexist para' in CBSE paper||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Monday raised the issue of questions in the Class 10 CBSE boards exam in the Lok Sabha. Reading from a passage, Gandhi said the material was "regressive" and "misogynistic", and demanded an apology from the Centre.  The question, which appeared in the reading and comprehension section of the Class 10 exam on December 11, contained what Gandhi claimed were “atrocious statements”. She read out two such statements. ‘Women gaining independence is the reason behind a wide variety of social and family problems,’ Gandhi read from the question. ‘Wives stop obeying their husbands and that is the main reason children and servants are indisciplined,’ was another statement she read from the question paper.    “The entire passage is riddled with such condemnable ideas, and the questions that follow are equally nonsensical. I add my voice to the concerns of students, parents, teachers and educationists and I raise strong objections to such blatant misogynist material finding its way into an important examination conducted by the CBSE,” said Gandhi.  Gandhi further said that the question reflected poorly on the falling standards of education and went against all norms of a progessive and empowered society.  Gandhi demanded that the Ministry of Education and the CBSE immediately withdraw the question and issue an apology, and conduct a “thorough review into this egregious lapse”.   Watch the latest DH Videos here: Gandhi demanded that the ministry of education and the CBSE immediately withdraw the question and issue an apology, and conduct a “thorough review into this egregious lapse”. Gandhi also said that the ministry of education must carry out a review of gender sensitivity standards of the curriculum and testing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/reflection-of-falling-standards-of-education-sonia-gandhi-on-sexist-para-in-cbse-paper-1060294.html
13-12-2021||National Politics||For every Aurangzeb, a Shivaji has also emerged: PM Modi at inauguration of Kashi Vishwanath Dham||Whenever an Aurangzeb has arisen in India, a Shivaji has also emerged as the soil of this country is different from the rest of the world, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Monday after he inaugurated the first phase of the Kashi Vishwanath Dham here. Addressing the gathering, Modi lauded the civilisational heritage of Varanasi, and said many sultanates rose and collapsed but Benaras remained. "Invaders attacked this city, tried to destroy it. History is witness to Aurangzeb's atrocities, his terror. He tried to change civilisation by the sword. He tried to crush culture with fanaticism. But the soil of this country is different from the rest of the world. Here if an (Mughal Emperor) Aurangzeb comes, a (Maratha warrior) Shivaji also rises," Modi said. "If a Salar Masud marches ahead, warriors like Raja Suhaldev make him realise the power of our unity," he said. Modi said the whole new complex of the Kashi Vishwanath Dham is not just a grand building, but a symbol of the "Sanatan culture" of India, our spiritual soul and India's antiquity and traditions. The temple area here, which was only 3,000 square feet, has now spread to about five lakh square feet, Modi said. Now 50,000-75,000 devotees can come to the temple premises, he said. He said "new history" was being created and "we are fortunate to have witnessed it". Modi also spoke in local dialect during his speech. After arriving in the holy city, also his parliamentary constituency, Modi paid obeisance at the Kaal Bhairav Temple and then took dip in Ganga from where he collected holy water for worship at the Kashi Vishwanath Temple. People chanted hymns as the prime minister's carcade rolled through the city. Modi also stopped at some places to accept felicitation. Before the inauguration, Modi attended a prayer ceremony and later showered workers involved in building the project with flower petals in a gesture to acknowledge their work. He also sat with them for a group photograph. Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, BJP President J P Nadda and a large number of saints from across the country attended the ceremony.   Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/for-every-aurangzeb-a-shivaji-has-also-emerged-pm-modi-at-inauguration-of-kashi-vishwanath-dham-1060333.html
13-12-2021||National Politics||Congress fertilised ground for Hindutva: Owaisi objects to Rahul Gandhi's comments on Hindus||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi's comment that India is a country of Hindus and his definition differentiating between Hindu and Hindutva has triggered a major controversy. Elaborating the difference between Hindu and Hindutvawadi, Rahul Gandhi at a Jaipur rally on Sunday said, "Two words cannot mean the same thing. Every word has a different meaning. In our country's politics today the meaning of Hindu and Hindutva is the same. These are not the same thing, they are two different words and they mean completely different things. I am a Hindu but not a Hindutvawadi. Mahatma Gandhi was a Hindu and Nathuram Godse was a Hindutvawadi, he added. "No matter whatever happens, Hindu seeks and spends his whole life in search of truth whereas Hindutva spends his whole life in search of power and getting empowered. He will kill anyone for the sake of power. The path of Hindu is 'Satyagraha' while the path of Hindutva is 'Sattagraha.' Clarifying Rahul's comments, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot said, "A person who believes in truth, non-violence, love, brotherhood and tolerance is a Hindu. Hindus do not hate anyone and respect all religions. However, Hindutva believes in spreading violence, intolerance and hatred. The difference between a Hindu and a Hindutvawadi is the same as that between Gandhi and Godse," he said. Gehlot further said, "In real sense, Hindus believe in truth, non-violence and harmony. Bigotry and extremism is not acceptable in any religion. Rahul Gandhi's thinking is that the politics of hatred and violence being done by BJP-RSS in the name of Hindutva by spoiling the basic nature of Hindu religion should be ended in the interest of the country." Owaisi raised the issue to target the Muslim-minority votes, a traditional vote bank of the Congress. Earlier, BJP too attacked the Congress after Rahul Gandhi's speech and said that his perception of Hindu and Hindutva is beyond comprehension. BJP state president Satish Poonia said, "Rahul Gandhi gave a strange interpretation of Hindu and Hindutva. Everyone knows that Hindu philosophy is a way of life, it is a matter of pride for any Indian to be Hindu and Hindutvawadi." "Maharana Pratap, Shivaji, Maharaja Suraj Mal, who fought against the Mughals, were Hindutvawadis. There were many names and unnamed martyrs who fought against the British also." "This peculiar interpretation of Rahul Gandhi about Hinduism and Hindutva is beyond comprehension. We are all proud to be Hindus and Hindutvawadi. The way Rahul tried to create a divide seems that he is against Hindus, Hindutva and nationalism," he further added. Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat also attacked Rahul Gandhi for his comments and said that Rahul Gandhi does not know the difference between Hindu, Hindutva and Hindutvawadi. It is like calling a human being a human being. He is calling Hindutvawadis as killers and terrorists. Which Hindu will accept this allegation, he asked. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-fertilised-ground-for-hindutva-owaisi-objects-to-rahul-gandhis-comments-on-hindus-1060349.html
13-12-2021||National Politics||AAP refuses to take in 4 of Punjab Congress ministers over sand theft allegations||AAP has refused to take on board four Punjab Congress ministers, who have been intending to join the party ahead of the 2022 Assembly polls, due to their alleged involvement in the illegal sand mining activities in the state. "Four senior ministers of Punjab Congress have been approaching Aam Aadmi Party for a while now, but we have refused to accept them as serious allegations of sand theft have been raised against the four-time and again," AAP MLA and party's Punjab Co-in-charge Raghav Chadha said in a virtual brief on Monday morning. Aam Aadmi Party is an honest party and it does not need sand mafias, he added. Illegal sand mining is a major political issue in Punjab against which the Kejriwal-led party has been constantly attacking the Congress government there. In order to counter the problem of sand theft and liquor in the state, the Punjab government has introduced "Mission Clean". On December 4, Chadha posted a tweet, alleging that illegal sand mining was being carried out in Chamkaur Sahib -- Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi's constituency under the former's patronage. "Illegal sand mining in Charanjit Singh Channi's constituency has been exposed. It is the biggest expose which will shake Punjab's politics," his tweet along with a live video of sand being mined illegally read. On Friday, he also announced that the AAP will reward Rs 25,000 to the Punjab Chief Minister if he acts against every site where illegal sand mining is being done, alleging that Channi has complete information about the whereabouts of illegal mining in his state. Punjab, along with the states of Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Gujarat and Goa are slated to go to the polls for 117 seats in early 2022. In the 2017 Punjab Assembly elections, Congress had bagged a clear majority by winning 77 seats, while the AAP had got 20, BJP 3, SAD 15 and Lok Insaaf party 2 seats. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/aap-refuses-to-take-in-4-of-punjab-congress-ministers-over-sand-theft-allegations-1060354.html
13-12-2021||National Politics||Ahead of Goa polls, lone NCP MLA merges party's legislative wing with TMC||Ahead of the Goa Assembly polls, the NCP's lone MLA in the state, Churchill Alemao, on Monday claimed he has merged the party's state legislative unit with the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress. Alemao (72), who represented the state's Benaulim Assembly segment, also told reporters that he will formally join the TMC later in the day in the presence of Mamata Banerjee, who is on a two-day visit to the coastal state. The TMC has already said it would contest all the 40 seats in the state Assembly elections due early next year. Alemao (72) met Assembly Speaker Rajesh Patnekar on Monday and informed him that he has merged the Nationalist Congress Party's (NCP) Goa legislative wing with the TMC. “Why should I resign as MLA? I continue to be the MLA. I have merged the party's legislative wing with the TMC,” he told reporters after meeting Patnekar. Alemao claimed that being the lone NCP MLA, he represents 100 per cent of the party's legislative wing and hence, the merger is valid as per the 10th Schedule of the Indian Constitution. “More than two-thirds of the members can merge the party's legislative unit. Here, I am hundred per cent,” he said. Speaker Patnekar was not available for comments. When contacted, NCP's national spokesperson Nawab Malik told PTI over the phone that people often quit one party and join another during election time. "If he (Alemao) wants to go to the TMC, that is his choice. He had joined our party in the last election…How does it matter whether he resigns or not at this juncture since the polls are around the corner,” the Maharashtra minister said. In the 2017 Goa Assembly polls, the Sharad Pawar-led NCP had bagged one seat in the 40-member House. The Congress had then emerged as the single largest party in Goa. But, the BJP tied up with some regional outfits and independents to form government in the coastal state. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ahead-of-goa-polls-lone-ncp-mla-merges-partys-legislative-wing-with-tmc-1060359.html
13-12-2021||National Politics||MPs suspension: Opposition to take protests to streets||Opposition is taking the protest against the suspension of 12 MPs outside Parliament with lawmakers from both Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha holding a joint march on Tuesday and a protest meeting in Jantar Mantar expected either on Wednesday or Thursday with national leaders in attendance. The decision, which was taken at a meeting of opposition floor leaders chaired by Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge, comes as several opposition parties were upset with the pace of the protest and were not happy with the way it was coordinated. On Friday, CPI(M) Rajya Sabha floor leader and suspended MP Elamaram Kareem had said that the protest needs to be taken out of Parliament and suggested that a protest meeting should be held in Jantar Mantar in the presence of national leaders as well as a seminar of Constitutional experts to explain the "illegality" in the action against them. Sources said the meeting on Monday decided that all opposition MPs will march to Vijay Chowk and address the media there on Tuesday. While the plan is to hold the protest at Jantar Mantar on Wednesday, sources said that if permission does not come early, they may organise it on Thursday. Trinamool Congress, which has not been part of any meetings called by Congress, will attend the events. Opposition leaders are also not enthused at the government's response in dealing with the issue. Kareem told DH, "the suspension happened 15 days ago and the sit-in protest now entered the 13th day. Till now, neither the Chairman nor the Leader of the House has called an all-party meeting to find a solution. I am not saying they should do what we say. The point that they are not even ready to listen to us or explore options shows that they are not interested." Sources said a section of opposition leaders are also not happy with some among them advocating the need for resolving the crisis through expressing regret. "Why are some leaders so keen? Our side telling them that we are ready to regret gives an impression that we are weak. I don't think that is not a good start for negotiations," a senior leader said. Inside Rajya Sabha, opposition MPs continued their protest during the morning session leading to two adjournments but allowed the High Court and Supreme Court Judges (Salaries and Conditions of Service) Bill, 2021. Kharge said the opposition was "repeatedly requesting" the government to find a solution but it was "adamant" and forcing it to disrupt the House proceedings. "The government cannot dictate what should (we) do, what should (we) not do? They are repeatedly refusing to concede our request and they are putting blame on us. So it is not good. Therefore, I can say that the government is adamant and...they are provoking us to disrupt the House. So, in protest, we will walk out," Kharge said. Congress Deputy Leader Anand Sharma said the Chairman had last week urged the government and opposition to find a constructive solution to the matter that is acceptable to both the sides. DMK's Tiruchi Siva supported Sharma, and said the opposition was interested in the smooth functioning of the House, but it is the government's responsibility. Chairman Naidu said if both sides could come together and find a way out, then the House can go on smoothly. "I hope everybody will understand," he said. While some MPs moved out, some Opposition lawmakers argued with Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu forcing an adjournment till noon. "Don't further complicate the matter. You are defending the undefendable...The House is not able to function. So I adjourn the House till 12 pm," Naidu said. Congress Rajya Sabha Chief Whip Jairam Ramesh tweeted, "This morning in Rajya Sabha the Opposition raised the issue of unconstitutional and illegal suspension of 12 of its MPs, and announced a walkout so that Zero Hour could continue. But somewhat mysteriously, the House got adjourned yet again!"   This morning in Rajya Sabha the Opposition raised the issue of unconstitutional and illegal suspension of 12 of its MPs, and announced a walkout so that Zero Hour could continue. But somewhat mysteriously, the House got adjourned yet again! When the House re-assembled, Goyal said, "They (opposition should not think that we have not responded. We constantly tried speaking to the Leader of the Opposition and members but they are making statements that they will not apologise as they have not done anything wrong." He said, "They are not feeling sorry for their conduct displayed in the previous session. They had insulted the chair, staff, marshalls, the House and the entire country." As the opposition protests continued, Deputy Chairman Harivansh adjourned the House till 2 pm.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mps-suspension-opposition-to-take-protests-to-streets-1060362.html
13-12-2021||National Politics||Rohit Sharma hopes to end India's world title drought||India's new limited-overs captain Rohit Sharma said he hopes to win a world title for the cricket-crazy nation, an achievement that eluded his sacked predecessor Virat Kohli. During Kohli's five-year tenure India rose in the one-day, Twenty20 and Test rankings but missed out on securing a single international tournament. India, who last won a world crown -- the Champions Trophy -- in 2013, failed to make the semi-finals in this year's T20 World Cup and got knocked out in the last four of the 2019 50-over showpiece event. The team also lost the inaugural World Test Championship final to New Zealand in June. "The last ICC trophy we won was in 2013, since then we haven't won but I don't think we did anything wrong after that," Rohit, 34, said in a video on the Board of Control for Cricket in India's official website on Sunday. "We played as a team, we performed as a team, it's just that we couldn't get that extra inch that we look forward to," he said. "There is a lot of World Cup coming up. India will definitely be eyeing to do well in all those World Cups." Kohli was fired as captain of India's ODI side last week, a month after he stepped down as the T20 leader following the T20 World Cup. But the 33-year-old remains Test captain and will lead India in three Tests in South Africa starting on December 26. Rohit praised Kohli for his leadership since he took over the limited-overs job from M.S. Dhoni in 2017. "He has put the team in a position where there is no looking back. Those five years that he has led the team, he led from the front every time we stepped onto the park," Rohit said in the BCCI video. "There was clear grit, determination to win every game. That was the message to the entire squad and we had a great time playing under him." Kohli's removal copped criticism from pundits and fans, especially after the announcement came in one line at the bottom of a press release about the squad for the South Africa tour, which will also include three ODIs. But BCCI president Sourav Ganguly defended Kohli's ouster, saying the management wanted one white-ball leader. "I personally requested him (Kohli) not to give up the T20I captaincy," Ganguly told News 18. "Obviously, he felt the workload. Which is fine, he has been a great cricketer, he has been very intense with his cricket. He has been captained for a long period of time and these things happen. "Also, they wanted only one white-ball captain. And that's why this decision."  Rohit has led his Indian Premier League side Mumbai Indians to a record five titles and captained India to an Asia Cup triumph in the absence of Kohli. Rohit said he and new coach Rahul Dravid, who took over from Ravi Shastri last month, aimed to have good communication with the players in the three ODIs in South Africa starting January 19. "I have had very little opportunities to lead Team India, but whenever I have gotten an opportunity, I have tried to keep one thing in common, which is clear communication to the players," said Rohit. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rohit-sharma-hopes-to-end-indias-world-title-drought-1060371.html
13-12-2021||National Politics||At Kashi Vishwanath Dham launch, Modi reinforces BJP's commitment to Hindutva||It was an event that had every ingredient to send a clear message to the majority community about the BJP's firm commitment to the Hindutva ideology and Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the saffron party's tallest leader, made no attempt to hide it while he launched the first phase of the Kashi Vishwanath Dham Project in his Lok Sabha constituency of Varanasi on Monday. Modi, who was clad in saffron clothes, performed 'Surya Arghya' (offering water to the Sun), worshipped the Ganga and carried its sacred waters to the Kashi Vishwanath Temple, one of the most revered places of worship for the Hindus. Speaking after his rituals, he referred to the Mughal ruler Aurangzeb over the demolition of a large number of Hindu temples in the country, dropped ample hints about messages to send across to the majority community in the country in general and to the people of poll-bound Uttar Pradesh, in particular. The reference to Aurangzeb was significant as the saffron outfits as well as the BJP claimed that the Shrikrishna Janmabhoomi had also been demolished by the former. The saffron party leaders have been making a renewed clamour to remove the Shahi Idgah Masjid adjoining the Shrikrishna Janmabhoomi. "Ayodhya, Kashi Jari hai, Mathura ki Tayari hai (constructions are on in Ayodhya and Kashi and now prepare for Mathura)," UP Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya had recently said. Political analysts were of the view that Modi wants to tell his party core vote bank that the BJP is committed to the ideology of Hindutva. "BJP will certainly take credit for the grand Kashi Vishwanath Dham...it will definitely reassure the Hindus about the party's commitment," said veteran political analyst JP Shukla.  He also said that Kashi Vishwanath Temple was one of the most revered places of worship for the Hindus and the BJP's aim of finishing the project is to bring different sections of the majority community, if not all, to rally behind it in the polls. Speaking to DH, Shukla also referred to Modi's lunch with the artisans who had worked in the project and said that it was intended to send across the message that the BJP did not believe in caste-based differences.   Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/at-kashi-vishwanath-dham-launch-modi-reinforces-bjps-commitment-to-hindutva-1060378.html
13-12-2021||National Politics||Opposition MPs submit privilege notice against Justice Ranjan Gogoi||Congress and Trinamool Congress MPs on Monday submitted privilege notices against Rajya Sabha nominated MP and former Chief Justice of India Ranjan Gogoi for his remarks that he attends the House when he feels so, saying these were against the dignity of the House. Justice Gogoi attended Rajya Sabha on Monday, only the seventh time since he was nominated in March 2020. Sources said Trinamool Congress' Mausam Noor and Jawahar Sircar as well as a couple of MPs from Congress submitted the notice. Noor also wrote separately to the Ethics Committee of Rajya Sabha on the issue. Justice Gogoi, during the promotion of his recently released memoir 'Justice for the Judge', told NDTV, "I go to the Rajya Sabha when I feel like, when I think there are matters of importance on which I should speak. I am a nominated member, not governed by any party whip. Therefore, whenever the bell rings for the party members to come, it does not bind me. I go there of my choice and come out on my choice. I am an independent member of the House." He said he had given a letter to the Rajya Sabha informing it about not attending the Session and that he was "not comfortable going there" as he could enter the Rajya Sabha only after getting an RT-PCR test. He also said that social distancing norms were "not being observed" in Rajya Sabha and he did not find the sitting arrangements very comfortable. He said in the interview, which was quoted in Noor's notice, "what is this magic about RS? I would have been better off in terms of pay, emoluments if I had been a chairman of a tribunal. I am not taking a penny from the Rajya Sabha." The MPs found breach of the Council in his statements as they "undermine the dignity" of the Rajya Sabha and wanted it to be forwarded to the Committee of Privileges. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/opposition-mps-submit-privilege-notice-against-justice-ranjan-gogoi-1060386.html
13-12-2021||National Politics||Clarify stand on cryptocurrency, PM's Twitter hack: Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury||Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury on Monday demanded that the government clarify its stand on cryptocurrency and said the hacking of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Twitter handle in connection with the issue raised serious security concerns. Raising the issue during Zero Hour in Lok Sabha, Chowdhury said if the prime minister’s Twitter handle was not safe, how can the Twitter accounts of a common person be secure. “At a time when the government is considering a ban on cryptocurrency, the prime minister’s Twitter handle is compromised and tweets are posted about government accepting cryptocurrency as legal tender and had purchased 500 Bitcoins for distribution among citizens. This is the biggest security issue before the nation,” the Congress leader said. He demanded that the government clarify in Parliament whether it is planning to recognise cryptocurrencies. Chowdhury also said that the government should make a statement in Parliament to explain how the prime minister’s Twitter handle got compromised twice in the past two years. “If the prime minister’s Twitter handle is compromised twice in two years, how can we be assured of the security of the nation? India’s security is under threat. Government should make a statement in the House,” he said. Chowdhury’s remarks came a day after the prime minister’s Twitter handle was briefly compromised but restored quickly. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/clarify-stand-on-cryptocurrency-pms-twitter-hack-adhir-ranjan-chowdhury-1060405.html
13-12-2021||North and Central||Babri Mosque was demolished as Hindus felt being deceived through legal process, says RSS leader||The 1992 Babri mosque demolition was a result of the Hindu society feeling that they were being deceived through the legal process pertaining to the construction of the Ram temple at the disputed site, RSS leader Arun Kumar said Sunday. Speaking at an event organised to unveil a book, 'Sabke Ram', he said the 38-year-long movement for the construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya was a "positive and constructive" one with objective to bring a change in the society. "It was not a reactionary movement. It was a positive and a constructive movement to bring a change in the society," he said. The RSS Sah Sarkaryavah (joint general secretary) termed the movement "amazing" and said it awaken the Hindu society and changed the beliefs that Hindus are "coward" and that they cannot come together and become one. "It was a common belief that Hindu society cannot come together and become one because of various castes, languages, regions, small groups and their respective differences. Another belief was that it (Hindu society) cannot join a struggle because its coward. “And the third belief was that its glory was lost with the influence of western education and values on new generation the past 20-25 years," he said. “This movement changed all these three beliefs.” The "storm" of the Ram temple movement "reignited the fire" and the Hindu society "rose up from the ashes more firmly than in the past", he added. "For 33 years, Hindu society kept patience thinking that there is rule of law and justice in this country and that they will get justice. In 1992, when the Hindu society felt that they are being deceived through the legal process, it woke up and showed that its sentiments cannot be ignored by people," The RSS functionary said. The movement "eventually" succeeded because of the "purity in its objective" and the strong will and commitment of those who spearhead it "selflessly", he said. The process for the construction of "a magnificent" Ram temple in Ayodhya began last year following the Supreme Court verdict in its favour, said Kumar, who is an interface between the RSS and the BJP for political issues and also coordinator with the saffron party. "It was firm there in the minds of those spearheading the movement that this is one country, one people one culture despite varying methods of worship followed by the people, different languages spoken. They were working with a dream of having a harmonious society," he said. The RSS leader said the construction of "a magnificent" Ram temple in Ayodhya will soon be completed "as per the expectations and aspirations" of the Hindu society but there is still more to be done in next 25 years. "We have to establish Ram in everybody's heart and in their lives to achieve the dream of Ram Rajya (in India) in next 25 years. We need everybody's support in this," he said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/babri-mosque-was-demolished-as-hindus-felt-being-deceived-through-legal-process-says-rss-leader-1060240.html
13-12-2021||North and Central||Digvijaya Singh invites Munawar Faruqui, Kunal Kamra to host show in Bhopal; BJP MLA says won't allow||Senior Congress leader Digvijaya Singh on Monday invited stand-up comedians Kunal Kamra and Munawar Faruqui to hold a programme at Bhopal in the BJP-ruled Madhya Pradesh after they were recently denied permission for shows in Bengaluru. Hitting out at Singh, BJP MLA from Bhopal Huzur Assembly constituency, Rameshwar Sharma, said he will not allow shows of anyone who has disrespected Hindu deities not only in Bhopal but also in the rest of Madhya Pradesh. "Digvijaya Singh is wishing to invite Pakistan's terrorists to his home for a biryani party. This doesn't mean that we all will accept it," the MLA said. Faruqui was last month denied a nod to hold a show in the Karnataka capital amid protests by some right-wing outfits. A few days later, Kamra, a vocal critic of the government, said his stand-up shows, scheduled to be held in Bengaluru, were cancelled after the organisers received threats. Earlier this year, Faruqui had spent a month in jail at Indore after a BJP MLA's son lodged an FIR in January accusing the comedian of hurting religious sentiments through his show. "I will organise a show for you Kunal and Munawar in Bhopal. All responsibility will be mine. The only condition is that the subject of comedy will be Digvijaya Singh. Sanghis (RSS cadre) should not object to this!! Don't be afraid!! Give the date and time as per your convenience. All your conditions are accepted," Digvijaya Singh tweeted on Monday. In his post, the Congress Rajya Sabha MP also tagged a news article related to Kamra. Responding to Singh's appeal, Kamra tweeted, "Sir thank you for the kind invitation. Checking if we have life insurance and getting back to you ASAP". Meanwhile, BJP MLA Rameshwar Sharma said shows of these comedians will not be allowed in Bhopal and the rest of Madhya Pradesh. “Digvijaya Singh is wishing to invite Pakistan's terrorists to his home for a biryani party. This doesn't mean that we all will accept it. Those who disrespected Lord Ram and Sita and our country will not be allowed to hold a show in Bhopal and MP,” Sharma said. He accused Congress and Digvijaya Singh of playing divisive politics. Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/digvijaya-singh-invites-munawar-faruqui-kunal-kamra-to-host-show-in-bhopal-bjp-mla-says-wont-allow-1060257.html
13-12-2021||North and Central||Is Congress wooing military families in Uttarakhand?||With a large number of people from Uttarakhand serving in the military, Congress is making special efforts to woo voters from such families in Uttarakhand in the run up to Assembly polls. Top Congress leader Rahul Gandhi will address a rally in the state on December 16 to celebrate the Bangladesh War veterans as well as pay homage to country’s first Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat, who died in a chopper crash last week. The Vijay Samman Rally scheduled for Thursday at Dehradun will have in attendance a large number of 1971 war veterans and other military veterans. Sources said the rally will also pay homage to Gen Rawat, who hails from Pauri in Uttarakhand. This is part of Congress’ plans to hold programmes across India on December 16 to celebrate the victory over Pakistan in the 1971 war. It was on 16 December, 1971, Pakistan signed the Instrument of Surrender, leading to the creation of Bangladesh. The rally in Uttarakhand comes a day after Congress president Sonia Gandhi attends a function in New Delhi that concludes the year-long celebration of 50th Anniversary of Bangladesh Liberation War. Uttarakhand is home to a sizable section of veterans as well as serving military personnel and Congress is attempting to woo them as the state is heading to Assembly polls early next year. Congress General Secretary (Organisation) K C Venugopal said programmes like honouring war veterans and war widows and commemorating the Bangladesh Liberation War-1971 should be conducted in a befitting manner at district level across the country. He said the Congress’ programmes on the 1971 War celebrations, which were delayed due to Covid-19, started in mid-July with a district level meeting in Haryana’s Panchkula on July 10. District and block levels in some of the "soldier states" like Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan could be continued beyond 2021, he said. Maximum district meetings have been held in Madhya Pradesh, Bihar and Tamil Nadu. Congress has so far organised over 100 such meetings throughout the country. State-level functions started on November 16 with a meeting in Nagaland capital Kohima followed by other states. Venugopal also directed the states, which have not concluded their state level functions, to organise such meetings up to December 31.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/is-congress-wooing-military-families-in-uttarakhand-1060262.html
13-12-2021||North and Central||Nation shall forever be grateful to security personnel who died defending Parliament: President Kovind||President Ram Nath Kovind on Monday paid homage to brave security personnel who laid down their lives while defending the Parliament against a dastardly terrorist attack on this day in 2001, saying the nation shall forever remain grateful to them for their supreme sacrifice. Nine people, including eight security personnel, died in the attack by terrorists belonging to Pakistan-based outfits. All five terrorists were killed by the security forces. "I pay homage to the brave security personnel who laid down their lives on this day in 2001, defending the Parliament of the world's largest democracy against a dastardly terrorist attack. The nation shall forever remain grateful to them for their supreme sacrifice," Kovind tweeted. I pay homage to the brave security personnel who laid down their lives on this day in 2001, defending the Parliament of the world’s largest democracy against a dastardly terrorist attack. The nation shall forever remain grateful to them for their supreme sacrifice.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nation-shall-forever-be-grateful-to-security-personnel-who-died-defending-parliament-president-kovind-1060265.html
13-12-2021||North and Central||PM Modi pays tribute to security personnel killed in 2001 Parliament attack||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday paid tributes to security personnel who made the supreme sacrifice while fighting terrorists during the Parliament attack on this day in 2001. All five terrorists involved in the attack and eight security personnel besides a gardener had died in the incident which brought India and Pakistan to the brink of war.  "I pay my tributes to all those security personnel who were martyred in the line of duty during the Parliament attack in 2001. Their service to the nation and supreme sacrifice continues to inspire every citizen," Modi tweeted. I pay my tributes to all those security personnel who were martyred in the line of duty during the Parliament attack in 2001. Their service to the nation and supreme sacrifice continues to inspire every citizen.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-modi-pays-tribute-to-security-personnel-killed-in-2001-parliament-attack-1060272.html
13-12-2021||North and Central||Ancient Kashi Vishwanath Temple gets a new look||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is set to inaugurate on Monday the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor that connects the ancient Kashi Vishwanath Temple in Varanasi to the ghats of the Ganga. The project, officials deem, is close to Modi's heart and that the latter wants better conditions for devotees visiting the revamped temple. Here are the key new features of the PM's Rs 800-crore 'dream project': 1. The temple now has a 20-foot-wide corridor connecting its Mandir Chowk to the holy Ganga's Lalita Ghat, offering direct visibility of the temple from the ghat. The temple, till now, was ensconced in the tiny lanes of Varanasi and access to the same was invariably a problem -- especially on special occasions when the crowds swelled. The temple now has an area of its own with a giant courtyard. 2. The move is in line with Modi's vision to boost tourism in the ancient city in a big way.  3. While the renovation of the Kashi Vishwanath temple remains top on the list of the projects completed in the Prime Minister's constituency, the Rudraksh Convention Centre that is designed like a Shivalinga with a seating of 1,200 people, with 108 Rudrakshas on its facade, is another major highlight. The centre has divisible meeting rooms, an art gallery, and pre-function areas. 4. The Godowlia Multi level parking, Panchkosi Parikrama Road (for pilgrims), Ro-Ro Vessels for tourism development on Ganga River and three-lane flyover bridge on the Varanasi-Ghazipur Highway, Rs 111.26 crore for constructing 47 rural link roads of 153 km, Lahartara-Chaukaghat flyover replete with a food court and open cafe, road connecting Babatpur airport to the city have given a new identity to Varanasi. 5. The city's infrastructure has witnessed an upgrade with roads being improved. The Ring Road, with two rail overbridges and a flyover, will allow traffic on NH 56 (Lucknow-Varanasi), NH 233 (Azamgarh-Varanasi), NH 29 (Gorakhpur-Varanasi) and Ayodhya-Varanasi highways to bypass Varanasi, thereby reducing traffic congestion in the city. The Ring Road will provide convenient access to Sarnath, an important site for Buddhist pilgrimage. 6. The Manduadih railway station in Varanasi has been revamped into a world-class station. Equipped with the latest amenities like air-conditioned waiting lounge, stainless steel lounges, LED lights, the station also has a cafeteria, food court, booking and reservation office, waiting rooms and more. 7. There are LED screens that have been installed in the city. They will provide tourists with information that is inclusive of Kashi's history, architecture, and art. Screens placed across the city will also display the famed Ganga Aarti and the aarti at the Kashi Vishwanath Temple. 8. Built over 5.5 lakh square feet, the corridor has decongested the temple complex, which was earlier surrounded by buildings on three sides. 9. A gallery devoted to 40 'lost temples' like Gangeshwar Mahadev and Manokameshwar Mahadev that were discovered during the demolitions of buildings has been set up at Delhi's National Museum. 10. 'Smart signages' have also been set up in Varanasi to provide informatiom about the cultural importance of heritage sites and 84 ghats in the city known for 'antiquity and architectural significance'. Wach the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ancient-kashi-vishwanath-temple-gets-a-new-look-1060275.html
13-12-2021||North and Central||12 BJP CMs to attend 2-day Varanasi conclave||Chief Ministers of 12 BJP ruled states and nine Deputy Chief Ministers will attend a two-day conclave in Varanasi scheduled to begin on Monday The inaugural session will be addressed by BJP chief JP Nadda, while Prime Minister Narendra Modi will give the valedictory address. According to BJP National Secretary Arun Singh, the 12 participating Chief Ministers are from Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Goa, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Manipur, Tripura, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand. Both the Deputy Chief Ministers in Bihar and the Deputy Chief Minister of Nagaland will also be in attendance. "From the hill states to coastal states, from the northeast to southern India, from the western-most part of India to the eastern-most and the heart of India, the conclave will encapsulate the diversity of India," Singh said. He added that the conclave will witness extensive and fruitful deliberations on a wide range of subjects relating to good governance and the pro-people initiatives being undertaken in line with the BJP's focus on all-round development. "Best governance related practises from the states will also be showcased by the various Chief Ministers. The conclave will provide the Chief Ministers the opportunity to learn and grow from the others and highlight the good they are doing." Singh pointed out that Prime Minister Modi himself has served 13 years as a Chief Minister and thus is sensitive to the aspirations of the states. "As Prime Minister, he has always worked in line with the mantra of cooperative federalism. Through the Covid-19 pandemic, regular meetings were held with Chief Ministers and they were consulted on different aspects of fighting the pandemic," he said. The conclave's proceedings will begin after the Kashi Vishwanath Dham corridor is launched by the Prime Minister. The Chief Ministers will also join various cultural and spiritual programmes, including a visit to the Ghats' and witness Ganga Aarti by boat. Besides Nadda and Modi, BJP National General Secretary (Organisation) B.L. Santhosh will also join the deliberations. Union Minister Bhupender Yadav and former BJP national vice president Vinay Sahasrabuddhe, who has been associated with the PARTY's 'Good Governance Department', will also be present. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/12-bjp-cms-to-attend-2-day-varanasi-conclave-1060276.html
13-12-2021||North and Central||How terrorists infiltrated India's citadel of democracy in 2001||Twenty years ago, Parliament, the supreme legislative body of India, witnessed a dastardly terror attack that shook the conscience of the country to its core.  Even after two decades, the horror of the day, December 13, 2001, is still fresh in the minds of the citizens. The ill-fated morning of December 13, 2001 On the morning of December 13, 2001, five terrorists of militant groups Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) infiltrated the premises in a White Ambassador bearing fake stickers of the Home Ministry and Parliament. Carrying AK47 rifles, grenade launchers, pistols and grenades, the terrorists breached through security cordons deployed around the Parliament complex.  As they further drove the car inside, one of the staff members, Constable Kamlesh Kumari Yadav, became suspicious of their movement. Yadav was the first security official to approach the terrorists' car and, realising something suspicious, ran back to her post to seal gate no 1 where she was posted. With their cover effectively blown, the terrorists opened fire on Yadav and fired at her 11 times. Yadav died on the spot, averting a suicide bomber among the terrorists to execute his plan. After killing Yadav, the terrorists moved forward, firing indiscriminately.  The horror lasted for about 30 minutes during which nine people were killed and 18 others injured. Around 100 ministers and MPs who were present in the Parliament were unhurt. All the five terrorists were also neutralised outside the building. What happened after that? On the same day, the police lodged an FIR, recording the attack on Parliament. The anti-terror unit of the Delhi Police-- Special Cell, arrested the four other individuals named Mohammed Afzal Guru, Shaukat Husain Guru, Afsan Guru and SAR Geelani, who was involved in the attack, through the leads of the car that was used and cellphone records. Mohammed Afzal Guru was a former militia of the Jammu Kashmir Liberation Front (JKLF) who had surrendered in 1994 and SAR Geelani was a lecturer of Arabic at Delhi University. Later, on December 29, Afzal Guru was kept in police remand. The trial court acquitted Afsan Guru, however, Geelani, Shukat and Afzal Guru were sentenced to death by the trial court.  In 2003, SAR Geelani was exonerated. In 2005, Supreme Court upheld Afzal Guru's death sentence but Shaukat was sentenced to 10 years of rigorous punishment. On September 26, 2006, the court ordered that Afzal Guru be hanged.  In October the same year, Afzal Guru's wife, Tabassum Guru, filed a mercy petition which was dismissed by the Supreme Court. On February 3, his mercy petition was rejected by then President Pranab Mukherjee.  On February 9, 2013, Afzal Guru was hanged in Tihar Jail and his remains were not handed over to his family but buried in Tihar jail. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/how-terrorists-infiltrated-indias-citadel-of-democracy-in-2001-1060280.html
13-12-2021||North and Central||Sanjay Raut booked by Delhi Police for alleged derogatory remarks against BJP members||Delhi Police have registered an FIR against Shiv Sena's Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Raut for his alleged abusive remarks against BJP members. The FIR was registered at the Mandawali police station in the national capital on the complaint of BJP Mahila Morcha national general secretary, Deepti Rawat Bhardwaj on Sunday. Bhardwaj, in her complaint, alleged that Raut during an interview to a Marathi news Channel made shocking comments about the members of BJP. Further accusing Raut of using 'abusive words' against the BJP workers, Bhardwaj alleged that the Shiv Sena MP also threatened the workers with their life. "Raut said he will literally bury them (BJP workers) all. Needless to say the same constitutes offence punishable under sections 354, 500 and 504 of the Indian Penal Code," according to the FIR. The women wing of the BJP also took strong objection to the alleged objectionable remarks made by Sanjay Raut. "It is not only derogatory to women, rather it also outrages the modesty of BJP's women workers," the complaint read. The police, based on Bhardwaj's complaint, registered an FIR under sections 500 (punishment for defamation) and 509 (word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman) of the Indian Penal Code. Raut said that the case registered against him is "nothing but an attempt to pressurise him". FIR registerd agnst me for the use of word Chutiya,tht means Stupid as per hindi dictionaries.Inspite of ths,if a case is registrd thn it's nothing bt an attmpt to pressurize me! BTW,sm BJP leadrs hv usd more objctionble words agnst women leadrs,hvn't heard of such FIR agnst thm Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sanjay-raut-booked-by-delhi-police-for-alleged-derogatory-remarks-against-bjp-members-1060281.html
13-12-2021||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh BJP to start 5 yatras from December 19||The Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) in Uttar Pradesh will launch five 'Jan Vishwas Yatras' from different places in the poll-bound state on December 19. The sixth yatra will start on December 20. Senior BJP leaders will flag off the yatras from Bijnor in western Uttar Pradesh, Mathura in Braj, Jhansi in Bundelkhand, Ambedkar Nagar and Ballia in eastern Uttar Pradesh. The sixth yatra will be launched from Ghazipur, also in eastern Uttar Pradesh. Vidya Sagar Sonker, the in-charge of these yatras, said: "These yatras will cover all 403 Assembly constituencies of the state. We are connecting with the people and will tell them about our government's achievements." The party has not yet announced the leaders who will flag off these yatras. But sources said that BJP chief JP Nadda, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, Union Home Minister Amit Shah, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, Deputy Chief Ministers Keshav Prasad Maurya and Dinesh Sharma, along with state party chief Swatantra Dev Singh and the state's election panel head Dharmendra Pradhan, will flag off the yatras. Meanwhile, a joint rally of the BJP and its ally Nishad party is scheduled to be held In Lucknow on December 17. Nishad party leader and MLC Sanjay Nishad said that Shah will attend the rally in which an announcement regarding providing reservation under the scheduled caste (SC) category to Nishads, members of the riverine community, is expected. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-bjp-to-start-5-yatras-from-december-19-1060282.html
13-12-2021||North and Central||PM Modi arrives in Varanasi to open Kashi Vishwanath Dham||The stage was set for the inauguration of the first phase of the ambitious Kashi Vishwanath Corridor project on Monday, with Prime Minister Narendra Modi arriving here. Modi also took part in a 'cruise baithak' and enjoyed watching fireworks and festivities to be hosted at ghats of the ancient city. He also took holy dip in River Ganga at Varanasi.  PM Narendra Modi and CM Yogi Adityanath arrive at Lalita Ghat Modi, on his two-day trip to the holy town, first visited Kal Bhairav Mandir for 'darshan' of the deity, and then travelled by river route to reach the ghat adjoining the corridor. After dedicating the Kashi Vishwanath Dham to the people in the afternoon, PM Modi, later in the evening will take part in an informal 'baithak' with state chief ministers and deputy chief minister, onboard the river cruise. "Being an MP from Varanasi, he had expressed his desire to showcase the grandeur of Kashi, situated on the banks of the river to the chief ministers. Also, from his cruise, the PM will witness Ganga 'aarti' and grand festivities being hosted on the lines of 'Dev Deepawali' on the ghats, which will culminate with fireworks and laser show," the DM said. (With inputs from PTI) Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-modi-arrives-in-varanasi-to-open-kashi-vishwanath-dham-1060283.html
13-12-2021||North and Central||Uttarakhand BJP MLA Harbans Kapoor passes away||BJP MLA Harbans Kapoor passed away at his residence here in the early hours of Monday. He was 75. An eight-time MLA, Kapoor was one of the seniormost members of the Uttarakhand Assembly. A former Speaker, Kapoor represented the Cantt assembly seat of Dehradun district in the House. Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami visited Kapoor's residence to pay tribute to the departed leader and console the bereaved family.   PM Modi also tweeted his condolences. Saddened by the passing away of our senior Party colleague from Uttarakhand Shri Harbans Kapoor Ji. A veteran legislator and administrator, he will be remembered for his contributions to public service and social welfare. Condolences to his family and supporters. Om Shanti. Winning assembly polls eight times proves his popularity, Dhami said, adding he was always vocal about the development of his constituency.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-bjp-mla-harbans-kapoor-passes-away-1060289.html
13-12-2021||North and Central||Gunfight breaks out in Srinagar||A gunfight erupted between terrorists and security forces in Srinagar district's Rangreth area on Monday, officials said. The firefight broke out after a joint team of the police and the security forces cordoned off the area and launched a search operation on the basis of specific information about the presence of terrorists. As the security forces zeroed in on the spot where terrorists were hiding they came under a heavy volume of fire that triggered the encounter. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/gunfight-breaks-out-in-srinagar-1060298.html
13-12-2021||North and Central||PM Modi condoles death of veteran Uttarakhand MLA Harbans Kapoor||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday condoled the death of veteran Uttarakhand leader and BJP MLA Harbans Kapoor. Kapoor passed away at his residence in Dehradun here in the early hours of Monday. He was 75. An eight-time MLA, he was one of the seniormost members of the Uttarakhand Assembly. Modi tweeted, "Saddened by the passing away of our senior Party colleague from Uttarakhand Shri Harbans Kapoor Ji. A veteran legislator and administrator, he will be remembered for his contributions to public service and social welfare. Condolences to his family and supporters. Om Shanti." Saddened by the passing away of our senior Party colleague from Uttarakhand Shri Harbans Kapoor Ji. A veteran legislator and administrator, he will be remembered for his contributions to public service and social welfare. Condolences to his family and supporters. Om Shanti.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-modi-condoles-death-of-veteran-uttarakhand-mla-harbans-kapoor-1060300.html
13-12-2021||North and Central||Statues of Shankaracharya, Ahilyabai, Bharat Mata installed at Kashi Vishwanath Dham||A stone-made sculpture of Bharat Mata against the symbolic backdrop of India, and statues of Maharani Ahilyabai Holkar and saint Adi Shankaracharya have been installed in the sprawling campus of the Kashi Vishwanath Dham, which has been bedecked with flowers for its inauguration on Monday. In a few hours from now, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will dedicate to the people the ambitious Kashi Vishwanath Corridor in the heart of Varanasi, a mega project that is expected to boost tourism in the ancient city in a big way, after offering prayers at the ancient temple that draws a massive number of visitors from India and abroad. The Prime Minister's Office tweeted around 10:45 am that "The Prime Minister landed in Varanasi a short while ago". Uttar Pradesh Governor Anandiben Patel and Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath welcomed him at the airport. The mega corridor, whose foundation stone was laid by Modi on March 8, 2019, connects the main temple with Lalita Ghat via a corridor, and grand gateways and ornamental arches have been built in heritage architecture style in four directions, facing the ancient temple at its core. The corridor project is now being referred to as Kashi Vishwanath Dham. "Prime Minister Modi will reach Kashi Vishwanath Dham (Corridor) from the ghat side, and then inaugurate the corridor. He will take a walk in the premises of the new corridor, and see the buildings erected. The event will take place in the presence of a large number of saints and seers from all parts of the country, many of whom have already arrived, and some will arrive tomorrow morning," Varanasi District Magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma said on Sunday. The current structure of the temple was constructed by Maharani Ahilyabai Holkar around 1780, and in the 19th century, Maharaja Ranjit Singh had got it crowned with golden 'shikhar'. Huge posters of Maharani Ahilyabai have been put up in the premises of the corridors on the occasion, paying tribute to the Holkar queen. Inside Benaras Gallery, part of the new corridor project, there is a giant mural of Ahilyabai, while on the right side of the route of the corridor emerging from the ghat, a statue of the queen, in a sitting posture, has been installed. The statue of Adi Shankaracharya has also been put up near her statue. The sprawling corridor, now also has a stone sculpture of Bharat Mata, with ornamental carvings, and holding a tricolour, standing against the backdrop of 'India'. The map of India has been depicted on a metallic surface with the art and cultural heritage of the country being depicted on it. The back of the sculpture faces an old temple, which in turn faces the River Ganga. The city, the home constituency of Modi since 2014, has been decorated ahead of the mega event --  'Divya Kashi, Bhavya Kashi' --  especially the streets leading to the holy site, in and around Godowlia Chowk. Facades of buildings located on streets leading to the shrine have been painted in uniform light pink colour and many buildings have been illuminated. A total of 23 buildings will be inaugurated on Monday in phase one of the project,  the Prime Minister's Office said in a statement on Sunday. They will provide a variety of facilities to pilgrims, including 'yatri suvidha kendras', tourist facilitation centre, vedic kendra, mumukshu bhavan, bhogshala, city museum, viewing gallery, food court among others. The project is spread over a massive area of about five lakh square feet, whereas the size of the earlier premises was limited to just around 3,000 square feet. Despite the Covid pandemic, the work on the project has been completed on schedule, the PMO said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/statues-of-shankaracharya-ahilyabai-bharat-mata-installed-at-kashi-vishwanath-dham-1060302.html
13-12-2021||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir Delimitation Commission ready with report on resizing of constituencies||The Delimitation Commission set up by the Central government to redraw assembly constituencies of Jammu and Kashmir is reportedly ready with its draft report on allocation and resizing of the constituencies including reserved seats. The Commission, headed by Justice (Retired) Ranjana Prakash Desai, might share it during its meeting on December 20 in New Delhi with five associate members, who are member parliaments (MPs) from J&K. “The Commission is also close to the identification of seats reserved for Scheduled Castes (SCs) and Scheduled Tribes (STs),” officials privy to the development told DH. This will be the second meeting of the Commission with associate members. The first meeting on February 18 this year was boycotted by three NC members but attended by two BJP MPs. Meanwhile, two associate members from the NC – Akbar Lone and Hasnain Masoodi – have shot off a letter to the Panel on Sunday seeking the agenda of the meeting saying they have received an invitation without agenda. Besides Masoodi and Lone, NC president Farooq Abdullah is also an associate member of the Commission while BJP has two associate members including Union minister Jitendra Singh and MP Jugal Kishore Sharma. “We have sent a letter to the Delimitation Commission and we have asked them to make us aware of the agenda items and all the material concerning that (the agenda items),” Masoodi said. The Commission has been mandated to delimit the constituencies of the Union Territory in accordance with the provisions of the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation Act, 2019 and Delimitation Act, 2002, by the Union Ministry for Law and Justice on March 6, 2020. However, with little work in a year, its term was extended by another year in March this year. Since it was constituted, the panel has made only one visit to J&K for four days from July 6-9 this year. The erstwhile state of J&K had 87 seats in the assembly and six in Parliament, which got reduced to 83 and five, respectively, after it was bifurcated to make Ladakh a separate UT. So effectively, the seats will go up from 83 to 90 for J&K. People and politicians in Kashmir view the exercise as a move to tilt the balance of power towards Jammu, by increasing the assembly seats in Jammu. However, in Jammu it is being regarded as a move correcting Kashmir’s historical ‘dominance’ over Jammu. Both Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah have several times in the past stated that assembly polls in J&K will be held only after the completion of delimitation. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-delimitation-commission-ready-with-report-on-resizing-of-constituencies-1060307.html
13-12-2021||North and Central||Two LeT militants killed in Srinagar shootout||Two militants, including a foreigner, affiliated with Lashker-e-Taiba (LeT) outfit were killed in a brief shootout with security forces in Rangreth area on the outskirts of Srinagar city on Monday, police said. A police spokesperson said the militants were killed in a brief ‘chance’ encounter at Rangreth. “Based on a specific input regarding movement of militants in Rangreth, surprise naka checking points were established,” he said. “Two suspected persons on noticing a police team fired indiscriminately upon them. However, the fire was effectively retaliated, leading to a brief encounter, in which two militants were neutralised on the spot,” he added. He identified one of the slain militants as Aadil Wani of Daramdoora from south Kashmir’s Shopian district, who he said was a Pakistan-trained ‘A’ category ultra. The other slain militant, as per the credible sources is a foreigner, yet the same is being further ascertained and both were affiliated with LeT outfit. Both of them were involved in a number of recent killings in Srinagar, police said. The latest shootout in Srinagar comes less than three weeks after three militants, including teenager Mehran Yasin Shala, who police said was involved in targeted civilian killings in October, were killed in a similar shootout in uptown Rambagh area of Srinagar on November 24. The militancy related incidents have seen a sharp jump in Srinagar this year with targeted killing of civilians, off-duty policemen and grenade attacks on rise. Over a dozen militants were also killed in Srinagar in several encounters this year. According to police, the activities of hybrid or part-time militants are rising in Srinagar which they say is difficult to track and poses a challenge to the security forces. Last year in July, the police had declared Srinagar ‘militant-free’. However, the latest encounters, killings and attacks come as a reminder from the militants that its presence has increased in the city, which not long ago was considered as a zero-militancy zone till 2019. Even as militants fired gunshots or lobbed grenades at some places, there was no major militant strike in 2018 or 2019. The worry for the security agencies is that the latest encounters and attacks occurred in the city at a time when militants are on the defensive in south Kashmir, where they have suffered heavy losses in the recent years. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-let-militants-killed-in-srinagar-shootout-1060310.html
13-12-2021||North and Central||NGT allows Delhi-Dehradun Expressway, forms panel to ensure no environment damage||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) on Monday allowed the Delhi-Dehradun Economic Corridor Expressway and set up a committee to ensure no damage is caused to the environment. A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said that the corridor is vital for Strategic defence purposes for timely and seamless movement of Army/warheads to higher reaches of the Himalayas. The NGT said that the Committee should ensure that no unscientific muck dumping or obstruction of animal corridors on the Ganeshpur-Dehradun Road (NH-72A) stretch. The Tribunal appointed an independent twelve-member expert committee to be headed by Chief Secretary, Uttarakhand with nominees of Wildlife Institute of India, Central Pollution Control Board, Uttarakhand State PCB and others. While asking all stakeholders to represent the panel if there are any grievances, the NGT said that the committee may meet within two weeks to take stock of the situation and plan a further course of action. The Committee may thereafter meet at least once in a month or at such earlier intervals as found necessary. Upholding the forest clearance given to the project, the Green Bench said that the Delhi Dehradun Highway including NH-72A is an important highway connecting Delhi, Haryana and Western UP to Dehradun and higher reaches of Himalayas through Dehradun. The bench said that the travel time between the two cities on the existing Highway (NH-72A) currently is 6-7 hours in the Non-Peak Hours and more than 8 hours during the Peak Hours. "Longer Travel time of vehicles in forest zones means a longer time of disturbance to wildlife also. Another major reason necessitating the development of the project site is the poor geometrics of the existing road which leads to the occurrence of road accidents in this stretch," the bench said. The NGT said that the committee should monitor including cordoning of elevated roads and other ecological sensitive stretches with proper barriers to absorb light and noise, fitting of cameras at strategic locations to monitor the protection of wildlife movement and their habitats, a mechanism for rescuing animals in case of any accidents, awareness for care and protection of wildlife. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ngt-allows-delhi-dehradun-expressway-forms-panel-to-ensure-no-environment-damage-1060316.html
13-12-2021||North and Central||Inter-faith marriage: Woman complaints against her family in UP||A 22-year-old woman, who had eloped and married her Muslim friend, 27, in February, has now sought police protection from her family as she is pregnant. Her parents had registered an FIR under sections of 'abduction and unlawful conversion'. The woman told the police that she feels threatened and persecuted by her family. The woman has also requested the police to record her statement in the court and close the case against her husband as she had married the man willingly and embraced Islam. The woman told reporters, "I married the man of my choice. My parents lodged a fake complaint that I was kidnapped and forced to marry, which is incorrect. I got married on February 22 in Bareilly and I am happy with my husband and want to spend the rest of my life with him." The woman had filed a petition in the Allahabad High Court for relief and got protection from the arrest of her husband and his family members on September 21. "But my husband's family members are still being harassed by the police and my family. I am pregnant. My husband and in-laws receive threats from my father and brother regularly and we want police protection. I have met the SSP in this regard," she said. Additional SP (rural) Rajkumar Agarwal said, "The woman's family had alleged that their daughter was sedated, kidnapped, married and converted to Islam. An FIR was registered under sections 363 (abduction) and 366 (abducting a woman to compel her marriage) of IPC and the anti-conversion law at Bhuta police station. Police had to take action as per law and only those who were made accused in the complaint were questioned." The ASP added that the police later followed the directives of the high court in the matter. "The woman has now come forward and we have recorded her statement and forwarded an application in court to record her statement under 164 CrPC. We'll take further steps as per the court's order," he said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/inter-faith-marriage-woman-complaints-against-her-family-in-up-1060317.html
13-12-2021||North and Central||PM Modi's 3 commandments to Kashi||After gifting poll-bound Uttar Pradesh a revamped Kashi Vishwanath Temple, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that many ancient temples lost in its vicinity have been restored again.  "Earlier, the temple area which was in only 3,000 square feet has now become about 5 lakh square feet. Now 50 to 75 thousand devotees can come to the temple and temple complex. That is, first the darshan-bath of Mother Ganga, and from there directly to Vishwanath dham", PM Modi said. PM Modi urged people to make a commitment to 'swachhta', 'srijan' (creation & innovation), 'aatmanirbhar' India.  The prime minister said, "God is the only 'sarkar' (government) in Kashi." He added that nte new complex reflects our history, culture - where the old and new co-exist. "I thank Yogi Adiyanath and the artisans who worked tirelessly to finish the corridor despite the pandemic," PM Modi said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-modis-3-commandments-to-kashi-1060324.html
13-12-2021||North and Central||Kejriwal launches 'Delhi ki Yogshala' for free guidance to people||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday inaugurated a yoga and meditation programme 'Delhi ki Yogshala' aimed at providing happy, healthy and illness-free life to the people of the city. To bring in social reform through yoga and meditation, the Delhi government has trained nearly 400 teachers who would guide and help Delhiites practice yoga from January 2022 onwards, he said while launching it. "This is yet another one-of-a-kind of an experiment by the Delhi government to ensure that people of Delhi live a happy, healthy and illness-free life. Yoga is India's gift to the world and it has been accepted worldwide, but people in our country have stopped following it despite its numerous benefits. Nearly 400 teachers have been trained for this purpose, who will start by training about 20,000 people in a lot of 25 or more people from January onwards," Kejriwal said. Citing a common example of road rage, he said: "We have seen how easily people lose their cool on road due to minor incidents. With regular yoga and meditation, people will remain calm, happy and thereby healthy. We have noticed similar results from our Happiness Curriculum. Parents too told us that their children have become more mindful since the introduction of this curriculum." Under this programme, Delhiites would need to form a group of at least 25 people and decide a commonplace for the session to take place, which could be a park or community hall. "Delhi government will provide them with a teacher free of cost. All they need to do is give us a missed call," the CM added. Kejriwal said that this training programme was conceptualised in February this year. On Gandhi Jayanti, Kejriwal had announced to make yoga and meditation a "public movement" by making it a common practice across the city. On International Yoga Day observed on June 21, 2021, the state government also launched a one-year diploma course in 'Meditation and Yoga Sciences'. The government said that around 450 candidates have enrolled themselves in the course. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kejriwal-launches-delhi-ki-yogshala-for-free-guidance-to-people-1060330.html
13-12-2021||North and Central||Will impose curbs if need arises: Kejriwal on Omicron outbreak||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday said that the national capital is prepared to tackle the threat posed by the new Omicron Covid-19 variant, adding that his government will impose certain restrictions in the city if the need arises. "We are ready to tackle the Omicron threat. If required, we will impose necessary restrictions. Currently, there is no such need," he said. The Chief Minister added that several review meetings have been held for the availability of beds, oxygen cylinders and medicines in the hospitals. "We don't want Omicron to hit Delhi. But if it comes, we are ready for it. If it is needed for the safety and health of the people of Delhi, then we will definitely impose restrictions with experts' recommendation," said Kejriwal. He urged residents of Delhi to avoid crowds and large gatherings in markets. So far, Delhi has reported two Omicron cases. However, the Omicron infection tally in the country has climbed to 38 after Andhra Pradesh, Chandigarh and Kerala reported their first infections and Maharashtra and Karnataka also recorded one each on Sunday. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/will-impose-curbs-if-need-arises-kejriwal-on-omicron-outbreak-1060335.html
13-12-2021||North and Central||Gender-stereotyping row: CBSE drops passage from Class-10 English exam, to award full marks||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Monday dropped a controversial question from a paper in the Class 10 board exams after a row erupted over it and the board was accused of reinforcing gender stereotypes. The CBSE said it will award full marks for the question to students and announced that an expert committee will review the question setting process to avoid such lapses.  In a statement that it tweeted later in the day, the CBSE regretted the “unfortunate incident”, saying it is “committed to equity and excellence in education and promotes inclusiveness and gender sensitivity”.  The controversial question, which appeared in the reading and comprehension section in the english language and literature paper, carried passages about how wives being disobedient to their husbands inculcate indiscipline among children. “Women gaining independence is the reason behind a wide variety of social and family problems,” said one of the passages from the paper. “Wives stop obeying their husbands and that is the main reason children and servants are indisciplined.”  “... the emancipation of the wife destroyed the parents’ authority over the children,” read another.  The exam was conducted on Dec 11 and in the notice issued by the CBSE’s Controller of Examinations Dr Sanyam Bhardwaj, the education body said that after feedback from stakeholders it sent the matter to a committee. It said the question was not “in accordance with the guidelines of the Board”.   The question led to a major row. Congress president Sonia Gandhi raised the issue in the Lok Sabha and said the material was “regressive”, “misogynistic” and demanded an apology from the Centre.  “The entire passage is riddled with such condemnable ideas, and the questions that follow are equally nonsensical. I add my voice to the concerns of students, parents, teachers and educationists and I raise strong objections to such blatant misogynist material finding its way into an important examination conducted by the CBSE,” said Sonia.  She further said that the question reflected poorly on the falling standards of education and went against all norms of a progressive and empowered society.    Congress MP Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi were among the several politicians who raised the issue on Twitter. “Typical RSS-BJP ploys to crush the morale and future of the youth,” tweeted Rahul.  Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/gender-stereotyping-row-cbse-drops-passage-from-class-10-english-exam-to-award-full-marks-1060336.html
13-12-2021||North and Central||Ban continues on entry of trucks, construction and demolition activities: Delhi government||Delhi Environment Minister Gopal Rai on Monday said the ban on the entry of trucks, barring CNG, e-trucks and those engaged in essential services, will continue till further orders in view of a forecast about further deterioration of air quality in the national capital. Rai also said the government will review the ban on construction and demolition activities on December 16. The minister said the education department has sent a proposal to the environment department, seeking immediate reopening of schools and coaching centers for students in Class 6 and above, and in colleges. For children of Class 5 and below, the education department has suggested reopening schools from December 20, he said. The proposal will be sent to the Commission for Air Quality Management, which has been mandated by the Supreme Court to take a call on the reopening of schools and colleges, Rai said.  The minister said Delhi's air quality index remained between 250 and 325 from December 1 to December 12. But experts have forecast a slight deterioration of air quality in the next three days, he said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ban-continues-on-entry-of-trucks-construction-and-demolition-activities-delhi-government-1060340.html
13-12-2021||North and Central||Priyanka slams Yogi govt over condition of 'gaushalas' in UP||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Monday attacked the Yogi Adityanath dispensation over the condition of 'gaushalas' (cow shelters) in Uttar Pradesh and asked if Prime Minister Narendra Modi would demand accountability from the state government over the issue. Her attack came over media reports claiming that cows from a 'gaushala' in Banda were buried alive. "..@myogiadityanath ji, your government's administration buried hundreds of cows alive in Banda. In your government, cows are victims of cruelty and inhumanity in gaushalas," Priyanka Gandhi alleged in a tweet in Hindi. "@narendramodi ji, you are in UP today. Will you demand accountability from the UP government over the plight of gaushalas?" the Congress general secretary said. Banda District Magistrate Anurag Patel had earlier said 134 cows and other cattle were taken from the temporary 'gaushala' in Naraini and shifted to four other temporary cow shelters on Saturday. On Monday, a report of these animals being buried alive in the forest of Madhya Pradesh was published in a newspaper. The Uttar Pradesh government has suspended an official in connection with the alleged burying alive of cows and other cattle.   Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/priyanka-slams-yogi-govt-over-condition-of-gaushalas-in-up-1060345.html
13-12-2021||North and Central||Recording wife's telephonic conversation without her knowledge is infringement of privacy: Punjab and Haryana HC||Recording of wife's telephonic conversation without her knowledge is infringement of her privacy, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has observed. The court of Justice Lisa Gill passed the order last month on a plea filed by a woman who challenged a 2020 order of the Bathinda family court. The Bathinda family court had allowed the woman's estranged husband to prove a CD pertaining to recorded conversations between him and his wife subject to the condition of its correctness. "Recording of telephonic conversation of the wife without her knowledge is a clear cut infringement of her privacy," observed the high court. "Furthermore, it cannot be said or ascertained as to the circumstances in which the conversations were held or the manner in which response elicited by a person, who was recording the conversations, because it is evident that these conversations would necessarily have been recorded surreptitiously by one of the parties," it further observed. The husband had submitted a petition in 2017 seeking a divorce from the woman. Their marriage was solemnised in 2009 and the couple had a daughter together. During cross-examination, an application was moved by the husband in July, 2019, seeking permission to submit his supplementary affidavit by way of examination-in-chief along with the CD and transcripts of conversations recorded in memory card or chip of the mobile phone. In 2020, the family court allowed the husband to prove the CD subject to the condition of correctness and also observed that strict principles of evidence were not applicable to the proceedings before it, keeping in view Section 14 and 20 of the Family Court Act. Thereafter, the wife approached the high court. The counsel for the wife argued that the evidence sought to be led by the husband is completely beyond pleadings, therefore, absolutely impermissible. It was contended that the pleadings do not refer to any such conversations which are sought to be proved. "Therefore, this evidence has been wrongly accepted. Furthermore, the said CDs are a clear-cut infringement and downright invasion of the wife's privacy, thus, a violation of Article 21 of the Constitution of India, as the conversations have been recorded without knowledge, what to say of consent of the petitioner," the counsel argued. The counsel further contended that the family court has given a complete go bye to Section 65 of the Indian Evidence Act, because if recordings were done through a mobile phone, CDs of the recording and transcripts thereof in any case cannot be accepted as evidence. The counsel for the petitioner submitted that the husband, being very well aware of the conversations allegedly held years prior to filing of the divorce petition, was at liberty to have incorporated them in his pleadings at the very first instance. Though the veracity of such conversations cannot be vouched for, even if taken to be correct, they are not admissible in evidence as they have been recorded without the consent or knowledge of the petitioner, the counsel submitted. The counsel for the husband refuted the arguments and submitted that there was no question of infringement of the right of privacy and in any case, the husband can always be subjected to cross-examination. It is vehemently argued that conversations so recorded are not beyond pleadings as it has always been the husband's case that he was treated with cruelty by his wife. Though specific conversations are not mentioned in the petition, it has been clearly mentioned that the wife used to treat him in a cruel manner, his counsel argued. The recorded conversations are only an attempt to prove the same, therefore, it cannot be said that they are beyond pleadings, the counsel argued. The high court set aside the Bathinda family court order. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/recording-wifes-telephonic-conversation-without-her-knowledge-is-infringement-of-privacy-punjab-and-haryana-hc-1060347.html
13-12-2021||North and Central||Diwali is over, no reason to continue with plea against Delhi government's firecracker ban: HC||The Delhi High Court on Monday disposed of a plea, filed before Diwali, against a complete ban on the sale, storage and use of firecrackers here, saying there is no reason to continue with the petition as the festival is over. The plea sought a modification to a September 15 Delhi government order that imposed a ban on all kinds of firecrackers on account of pollution concerns. The petitioners' counsel had said instead of the absolute ban, authorities ought to opt for green crackers or a graded regulation. The order imposed the complete ban ahead of Diwali, which was celebrated on November 4 this year. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh said the petition was filed before the Diwali festival which is now over and added that "we see no reason to continue with the petition". "The petition is disposed of," the bench said The high court was hearing the plea of Rahul Sanwariya and Tanveer, who had claimed that the Delhi government's decision of imposing the complete ban was an "overreach" as the Supreme Court had never ordered an absolute ban on the sale of firecrackers in the national capital. The petitioners, through advocate Gautam Jha, said they were seeking a modification of the September 15 order which imposed a complete ban on the storage, sale and bursting of all kinds of firecrackers during the festival of Diwali on account of pollution concerns. Instead of an absolute ban, the authorities ought to opt for green crackers or a graded regulation, the counsel had earlier said. The petitioners have contended that the ban was arbitrary, unreasonable and excessive. "The action of the respondent (Delhi government) must be no more intrusive than is necessary to meet an important public purpose. No doubt Article 25 of the Indian Constitution is subject to Article 21 and it is not contested by the petitioners, however, it is submitted by the petitioners that the extent of the interference of the respondent by its decision/ order is not proportionate to the ultimate aim and objective, that is, to curb pollution in the NCT of Delhi," the petition said. It claimed that pollution in Delhi was attributable to vehicles and biomass burning, among other issues, and the complete ban on firecrackers, one and a half months prior to the festival of Diwali, has hurt the sentiments of millions of people. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/diwali-is-over-no-reason-to-continue-with-plea-against-delhi-governments-firecracker-ban-hc-1060348.html
13-12-2021||North and Central||Amarinder Singh, Kirron Kher, Harsimrat Kaur Badal congratulate Miss Universe Harnaaz Sandhu||Former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh, Chandigarh MP Kirron Kher and former union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal on Monday congratulated Harnaaz Sandhu for becoming Miss Universe 2021. “Congratulations to Harnaaz Sandhu on being crowned as #MissUniverse2021. Once again a daughter of India makes the nation proud. Best wishes for all your future endeavours beta!,” said Amarinder in a tweet. Sandhu made history on Monday as she was crowned Miss Universe 2021 -- beating contestants from 79 countries -- 21 years after India last brought home the title. Only two Indians before Sandhu have won the coveted title - actors Sushmita Sen in 1994 and Lara Dutta in 2000. The 70th edition of the event was held in Eilat, Israel, where the 21-year-old model-actor was crowned the winner. Kher in a tweet said, "Such a proud moment for India as the crown comes home after 21 years!" Former union minister and Bathina MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal too congratulated 'Punjab Di Beti' for her achievement. “Congratulations to 'Punjab Di Beti' #HarnaazSandhu for being crowned as #MissUniverse2021. Your hard work & dedication are an inspiration for all the girls as well as the youth of our country. It's a proud moment for not only Punjab but the entire nation,” she said in a tweet.   Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/amarinder-singh-kirron-kher-harsimrat-kaur-badal-congratulate-miss-universe-harnaaz-sandhu-1060356.html
13-12-2021||North and Central||Delhi riots: Court imposes fine after prosecutor fails to appear for 10 months, seeks inquiry||Noting that the prosecutor has not appeared in a Delhi riots case for the last ten months, a court here imposed a fine on the State and directed the police commissioner to conduct an inquiry to fix the responsibility for the imposition of costs on him and ordered it be deducted from the salary of the person responsible. Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Arun Kumar Garg imposed a fine of Rs 3,000 after an adjournment request was made during a hearing in a riots case due to the unavailability of the Special Public Prosecutor (SPP). The court was slated to hear the arguments on charges. The judge, while allowing the request for adjournment, said the SPP has not appeared “even once” since the date of filing of the charge sheet in the case on January 30, 2021. “Request for adjournment is allowed subject to cost of Rs 3,000­ to be deposited by the State in the court,” he stated in an order dated December 10. “This court is not oblivious of the fact that the burden of the cost shall fall on the public exchequer and hence I deem it appropriate to direct Commissioner of Police Delhi to conduct an inquiry for fixing the responsibility for imposition of the cost and to order to deduction of same from the salary of the person responsible,” the judge added. CMM Garg further directed the copy of the court's order to be sent to the Deputy Commissioner of Police (northeast district) as well as the Police Commissioner with a direction to ensure the presence of the prosecutor. A day prior to this, another court hearing the riots cases expressed concern over the delay in disposal of riots cases due to the non-appearance of Special Public Prosecutors and directed the Delhi Police to appoint more prosecutors to represent the State. “This is the state of affairs with regards to these riot cases, which are very sensitive in nature and for which this special court was set up. These cases were assigned to a panel of special PPs formed by the police so as to ensure proper and effective prosecution,” Additional Sessions Judge Virender Bhat had said. He added that the special PPs to whom the cases are assigned do not appear in the court in several cases on account of which cases have to be adjourned without conducting any proceedings thereby resulting in the delay of their disposal. Communal clashes had broken out in northeast Delhi in February 2020, after violence between the Citizenship (Amendment) Act supporters and its protesters spiraled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and over 700 injured. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-riots-court-imposes-fine-after-prosecutor-fails-to-appear-for-10-months-seeks-inquiry-1060368.html
13-12-2021||North and Central||Mahatma Gandhi's dream of grand Kashi Vishwanath Dham fulfilled: Yogi Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday said Mahatma Gandhi had dreamt of a grand Kashi Vishwanath Dham, which could be realised only under the leadership of PM Narendra Modi. The chief minister said Gandhi had expressed pain at seeing narrow lanes and filth here almost 100 years ago. "Today, the dham of Baba Vishwanath is in a new form. And, it has become a medium to remove that pain of Mahatma Gandhi, which he had expressed almost 100 years ago after seeing narrow bylanes and filth," he said on the inauguration of the first phase of the Kashi Vishwanath corridor. Adityanath said many people came to power using the name of Gandhi but it is for the first time that his dream of a grand Kashi Vishwanath Dham is coming true. Praising the PM, the CM said, "Be it the tradition of yoga or the recognition of the Kumbh, establishing the sanatan (eternal) values and culture of India on the global stage are part of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's campaign." He said erstwhile Indore ruler Ahilyabai Holkar constructed the temple and Maharaja Ranjit Singh made his precious contribution but the grand look of the site could be realised only under the leadership of PM Modi. Adityanath said every Indian in the country or abroad is happy today their "penance" of thousands of years is "getting fulfilled" today. Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mahatma-gandhis-dream-of-grand-kashi-vishwanath-dham-fulfilled-yogi-adityanath-1060375.html
13-12-2021||North and Central||Nadda thanks PM for 'reviving' Kashi, spiritual heritage||BJP national president J P Nadda on Monday thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the "revival" of Kashi and the cultural and spiritual heritage of "sanatan" religion. He termed the inauguration of the Kashi Vishwanath corridor here as a "historic" moment and congratulated people for it. In a series of tweets in Hindi, Nadda, who was also present on the occasion, said he thank the PM for "reviving the divine, wonderful, unimaginable and grand form of Kashi" besides the spiritual and cultural heritage of "sanatan dharma". The BJP chief said the soul of every Indian resides in Kashi and he thanks the PM on their behalf. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nadda-thanks-pm-for-reviving-kashi-spiritual-heritage-1060385.html
13-12-2021||North and Central||Firing at Madhya Pradesh marriage function over godman's discourse: 1 dead, 3 held, main accused on the run||A man who was shot following an argument at a marriage function over a discourse of jailed self-styled godman Rampal being shown on an LCD screen in Mandsaur in Madhya Pradesh has died, police said on Monday. The incident in Bhainsoda Mandi village , some 150 kilometres from Mandsaur district headquarters, had taken place on Sunday under Bhanpura police station limits, and cases were registered against 15 persons, three of whom have now been arrested, an official said. Rampal, who had an ashram in Barwala in Hisar in Haryana, was held in November, 2014 following allegations of murders in the premises and was later sentenced to life imprisonment without remission in 2018 for murder, wrongful confinement and criminal conspiracy. "Main accused Shailendra Meena, who had shot 55-year-old Devilal Meena, former sarpanch of Jamonia village, during the dispute is still absconding. Devilal was declared dead by doctors after being referred to a hospital in Kota in Rajasthan. A case was registered against 15 people and three have been arrested," Bhanpura police station in charge Gopal Suryavanshi said on Monday. The arrested accused have been identified as Kamal Patidar, Lalit Suthar and Mangal, he said. Earlier on Monday, Superintendent of Police Sunil Kumar Pandey had said some 200 people attended the marriage function, and a group of villagers opposed the discourse of Rampal being shown on an LCD screen, leading to an argument and firing. A video of the incident has also emerged in which the accused is seen holding a gun. Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/firing-at-madhya-pradesh-marriage-function-over-godmans-discourse-1-dead-3-held-main-accused-on-the-run-1060408.html
13-12-2021||North and Central||Varanasi chants 'Har Har Mahadev' as PM gets 'pagdi'||Amid chants of Har Har Mahadev, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday was showered with rose petals and unbound adulation as he travelled through the Varanasi streets, which have been plastered with huge posters bearing his image and greetings. In the presence of a large number of seers and noted public personalities, Modi inaugurated the first phase of the Kashi Vishwanath corridor project, after taking a holy dip in the Ganga and offering prayers at the temple. After arriving in the town in the morning, he first visited the Kal Bhairav temple, fondly called Kashi ka Kotwal and paid his obeisance to the deity. Amid tight security, his convey then moved out of the area as local residents chanted Har Har Mahadev and Modi, Modi. While many showered rose petals, others waved Tricolours from their balconies and verandahs as his car slowly wended its way through narrow streets the river side to take a cruise to Lalita Ghat. The streets posed a challenge for both the SPG and local police forces but amid this a man sought to offer a pink-shade pagdi to PM Modi near Kal Bhairav Mandir as security personnel tried to push him away. Modi then motioned from inside the car and the man was allowed to come near and offer the pagdi to him. The man, wearing a saffron robe, then offered a pitambari (saffron angvastra) to the PM, which he accepted with folded handed and a smile. Alok Mishra, 30, who runs a saree shop at Kachori Gali that leads to Manikarnika Ghat said, "I went there in the morning only and waited for arrival of Modiji. The man who offered ‘pagdi' to the PM near Sonawala Jewellers, is a Brahmin, who lives in the area only." Modi at times, also walked the streets of Varanasi, acknowledged the cheers and greetings of people. After inaugurating the new corridor, Modi in his address lauded the heritage of Varanasi and said many sultanates rose and collapsed but the town remained. He said the whole new complex of the Kashi Vishwanath Dham is not just a grand building but a symbol of the "Sanatan culture" of India, our spiritual soul and India's antiquity and traditions. The temple area here, which was only 3,000 sq feet, has now spread to about five lakh sq feet. Now 50,000-75,000 devotees can come to the temple premises, he said. He said a "new history" was being created and "we are fortunate to have witnessed it". As Modi's programme was broadcast live, the narrow gullies of Varanasi rang with Sanskrit shlokas and percussion sound of drums ('damrus') as people were glued to their TV sets and mobile handsets to watch the event unfolding. When Modi arrived in the corridor carrying Ganga water in an ornamental urn, he was welcomed with a sonorous beating of the drums by a group of drummers, wearing saffron 'dhoti' and white vest. Modi halted a couple of times on the red carpet that was laid out for him to enjoy the beats of the drums and even raised his hand in an appreciative gesture. The coverage of the event, Divya Kashi, Bhavya Kashi--was streamed live to people's homes in high-quality video as 55 high-definition cameras, four jimmy jibs and one huge drone were deployed by Doordarshan team for the coverage. Omkar Dikshit, 37, who runs a perfume ship in Kachouri Gali, was among those watching the programme live but with some reservations. He claimed he had a shop in the area neighbouring the temple premises, which was acquired for the project and later demolished. "So, we moved to this place. Yes, a majority of people are celebrating but for people who have lost their houses or properties in the project, are not so happy," Dikhshit said. Prime Minister Modi in his address during its foundation-laying on March 8, 2019 had said it was difficult to take people into confidence to give their properties and ensure the project did not take a political colour. "I thank people of Kashi, who gave their properties for Baba. This is the biggest daan they have given for Baba," the prime minister had said. A large number of cut-outs of Modi and huge posters carrying his image in a devotional posture along with Kashi Vishwanath temple photo have also been mounted throughout the city. Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/varanasi-chants-har-har-mahadev-as-pm-gets-pagdi-1060441.html
13-12-2021||North and Central||Bajrang Dal sets afire banner announcing Pakistani food festival by restaurant in Surat||Activists of right-wing Bajrang Dal on Monday took down and set on fire a huge flex banner announcing a 'Pakistani food festival' to be organised at a restaurant in Gujarat, a senior office-bearer said and claimed that the concerned restaurant has accepted its "mistake". This banner, put up atop a building housing the restaurant in the Ring Road area, was taken down and set blaze amid chants of "Jai Shri Ram." The said food festival was supposed to be organised at the Taste of India restaurant between December 12 and 22. South Gujarat Bajrang Dal President Deviprasad Dubey said the member activists took down the flex banner from the building and set it on fire because they are against such an event. "We ensured that such a festival is not organised at that restaurant. No such festival will be tolerated. The restaurant has accepted its mistake," he said. Sandeep Dawar of Sugar N Spice Restaurants, which operates Taste of India, said they will continue to serve the Mughlai cuisine and will strike out the word "Pakistani" from the food festival as it hurts the sentiments of some people. "We will not use the word 'Pakistani' anymore in the food festival as it hurts the sentiments of some people. When we were using that word we felt that some people might not like it, but we did not know it would turn out like this...We are just serving cuisine which has nothing to do with Pakistan as such. The second name of Mughlai cuisine is Pakistani food," Dawar said. No police case was lodged. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bajrang-dal-sets-afire-banner-announcing-pakistani-food-festival-by-restaurant-in-surat-1060457.html
13-12-2021||North and Central||Sidhu made chairman of Congress's Punjab election panel||The Congress on Monday appointed the party's Punjab unit chief Navjot Sidhu as chairman of the state Election Committee. The members of the all-important Punjab Pradesh Election Committee include chief minister and CLP leader Charanjit Singh Channi, Ambika Soni, chairperson of the coordination committee, Sunil Jakhar, chairman of the campaign committee, and Pratap Singh Bajwa, chairman of the manifesto committee. "Congress president has approved the proposal of the formation of Pradesh Election Committee of Punjab Congress with immediate effect, with PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu as its chairman,"  an official statement from the party said. All MPs from Punjab, both in Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha, are also members of the panel, besides all ministers of the Punjab government. Former chief minister Rajinder Kaur Bhattal and former PPCC chiefs HS Hanspal and Mohinder Singh Kaypee have also been included as members of the panel. AICC Secretaries KL Sharma and Raminder Singh Amla, besides Punjab Congress senior vice president Lal Singh and working presidents of PPCC Kuljit Nagra, Sukhvinder Danny and Pawan Goyal are among the members of the panel. Former ministers Balbir Singh Sidhu, Shyam Sunder Arora, Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi, Sadhu Singh Dharamsot and PPCC vice president Gurpreet Kangar and MLAs Ajaib Singh Bhatti and Navtej Singh Cheema have also been made members of the panel. Chairman of SC department Raj Kumar Chabeewal, President of Punjab Mahila  Congress Balbir Rani Sodhi, Punjab youth Congress chief Barinder Dhillon and Punjab unit chief of NSUI Akshay Sharma, besides chief organiser of Punjab Seva Dal Nirmal Khaira and Hamid Masih have also been included the committee. The panel will take all election-related decisions of the party ahead of the Punjab assembly elections, which are slated early next year. Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sidhu-made-chairman-of-congresss-punjab-election-panel-1060463.html
13-12-2021||North and Central||Angry over forced sex, MP woman cuts off husband's genitals||A woman severed the genitals of her 26-year-old husband after he allegedly forced her to have sex, police in Tikamgarh in Madhya Pradesh said on Monday. The incident took place in Ramnagar area on December 7, a Jatara police station official said. Jatara Police station in charge Trivendra Trivedi said a man had complained on Sunday that his 24-year-old wife chopped off his genitals when he tried to establish sexual relations with her against her will. The man and woman had married in 2019 but had separated earlier due to quarrels before getting back together for some time now, he said. "The man lodged a delayed complaint because he had to undergo surgery. A case under IPC section 324 for voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means has been registered and further probe is underway," Trivedi added. Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/angry-over-forced-sex-mp-woman-cuts-off-husbands-genitals-1060467.html
13-12-2021||North and Central||After victory, farmers on thanksgiving mission||After a protracted battle with the Centre that eventually forced the Modi government to repeal the three farm laws, Punjab and Haryana farmers are now reaching out to people expressing gratitude to all those who lend a helping hand during their yearlong protest movement. Altruists, hoteliers, village panchayats, jewelers, doctors, industrial unions and many others are a part of the thanksgiving list of people being honored by farmers and farmer unions. Farmers from Punjab and Haryana manifested unprecedented bonhomie during the protest movement, something that was earlier unseen owing to the contentious SYL canal issue. As farmers head back abandoning the Tikri and Singhu borders that had been their sojourn in make-shift tents all through the movement, farmers are trying to cement their bond with people built during distress times. Farmer unions have felicitated US-based Dr Swaiman Singh’s team of doctors who were stationed at the protest sites in medical camps set up to provide rapid medical assistance to farmers braving odds. Representatives of farmers’ unions have been visiting areas near the Tikri and Singhu border areas felicitating individuals. Farmer union members visited the Rathee family in Bahadurgarh to thank them for providing a 1,500 square yard building for them to stay. The building would fetch the family a monthly rental of Rs 70,000, which was given free of cost to protestors. A village panchayat was felicitated for providing a Dharamshala to protesting farmers. Maruti workers’ unions in Manesar and elsewhere were honored by farmers’ unions for providing all possible support. A jeweler in Bahadurgarh was felicitated for providing space to farmers. The management of an electric crematorium has also been honoured for their support.  BKU Ekta Ugrahan secretary SS Mann said farmers received a lot of love and support from various quarters during the trying times. It’s payback time and unions need to express gratitude to people with folded hands, he said. Ram Singh Rana of the Sanyukht Kisan Morcha said a hotelier in Kundi near the Delhi border has been honoured for supporting the farmers’ movement in all possible ways. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/after-victory-farmers-on-thanksgiving-mission-1060503.html
13-12-2021||North and Central||People stay in Kashi 'when the end nears', Akhilesh on PM's visit to Varanasi||As Prime Minister Narendra Modi kickstarted his visit to Varanasi, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Monday remarked jeeringly that people stay in Benaras "when the end nears", sparking condemnation from the BJP which said his taunts were "cruel" and equated the former chief minister with Mughal emperor Aurangzeb. On the first day of his two-day visit to his Lok Sabha constituency, Modi inaugurated the first phase of the Kashi Vishwanath Dham , a project that connects the temple premises to the River Ganga besides providing several facilities to devotees, paid obeisance at the Kaal Bhairav Temple and then took a dip in the Ganga from where he collected holy water for worship at the Kashi Vishwanath Temple. Yadav's taunts aimed at Modi came when he was told by reporters in Etawah in Uttar Pradesh that the prime minister is in Varanasi and that there are plans to hold month-long cultural events in the temple town. "Bahut achhi baat hai. Ek Maheena nahin, do mahina, teen mahina wahin rahein. Woh jagah rahene wali hai. Aakhri samay par vaheen raha jata hai, Benaras mein," he said. (It is a very good thing. Not just one month. He should stay there for two months, three months. That's the place to stay. When the end nears, that's where one stays - in Benaras). Yadav's remarks are expected to raise the political heat in UP ahead of the Assembly polls early next year. According to Hindu beliefs, it is considered auspicious for people to spend the last days of their lives in the holy city of Benaras. Union minister Pralhad Joshi slammed Yadav, saying his party's government had fired on kar sevaks in Ayodhya and that "such cruel and uncivilised comments show his mindset". "If he had any empathy about Hindu beliefs, he would have welcomed the inauguration of Kashi Vishwanath Dham. But all he is bothered about is his vote bank. Political differences are one thing but to wish for someone's end is condemnable. People will teach him a lesson," he told reporters in Delhi. Union minister Arjun Ram Meghwal said Yadav spoke from the same mindset which had fired bullets on kar sevaks. Aurangzeb had tried to destroy the Vishwanath Temple, and Yadav now stands with him, he alleged. BJP's IT department head Amit Malviya slammed Yadav's comments as "shameful", and said he has lost his mental balance at the prospects of losing the upcoming assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh. Wishing Modi's end on a day when such a grand work has been accomplished shows his distorted mindset, he alleged. BJP spokesperson Shehzad Poonawalla said the former chief minister's comments should surprise no one as he believes in the mindset and actions of Aurangzeb. "The manner in which he has disrespected his own father is known to everybody. This is something reminiscent of the manner in which people who share Aurangzeb's mindset behave, be it with their father or someone elder," he said, noting that Yadav had also recently lauded Pakistan's founder MA Jinnah. UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh said it is a matter of shame that the SP chief has made such bad remarks on the prime minister. "This shows that his mentallity is that of Aurangzeb and (Mohammad Ali) Jinnah." Varanasi is the Lok Sabha constituency of Modi and part of the Purvanchal region, which has 160 seats in the 403-member UP Legislative Assembly. At his media interaction, Yadav also accused the BJP of telling lies, and said they should "avoid telling lies" before the god. "They are good at telling lies in front of you and me. But, one should avoid telling lies in front of the god," he said. He hit out at the BJP for claiming the credit of developmental works, which he claimed were done by his government. On Sunday, Akhilesh Yadav had claimed that it was during his tenure that the Kashi Vishwanath corridor project was approved, for which he has "documentary evidence". The Samajwadi Party(SP) was in power in the state from 2012 to 2017 before the BJP came to power.  Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/people-stay-in-kashi-when-the-end-nears-akhilesh-on-pms-visit-to-varanasi-1060510.html
13-12-2021||North and Central||Gujarat admits to around 6,000 more Covid-19 deaths than official tally||Gujarat has acknowledged more Covid-19 deaths than its official tally, according to a court document filed on Monday, lending weight to fears that the country's actual toll was much higher than reported. Reuters and other media have reported, based on figures collected from crematoriums and cemeteries, that during India's record second wave of cases between April and June, states including Gujarat undercounted deaths as many people died at home due to a severe shortage of hospital beds and oxygen. Gujarat, Prime Minister Narendra Modi's home state, told the Supreme Court it had received 22,557 applications as of Thursday from families of the dead seeking compensation and 16,175 had been approved, according to an affidavit seen by Reuters. Its reported death count is 10,099, according to the state's latest health bulletin. A Gujarat official with direct knowledge of the matter said applications had now swelled to more than 40,000 and nearly half had been approved. All of them would get Rs 50,000 each. India has reported a total of 475,636 Covid-19 deaths, including many revised figures from states that have come under pressure from courts to accurately represent the scale of the disaster. Opposition Congress said it believed the actual death toll to be still higher. "We have been saying from the beginning that the Gujarat government has been underreporting Covid-19 cases and deaths," said Manish Doshi, chief spokesperson of Gujarat Congress, adding its surveys had shown at least 55,000 deaths. Gujarat Revenue Minister Rajendra Trivedi, whose department is paying the compensation, did not respond to requests for comment. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/gujarat-admits-to-around-6000-more-covid-19-deaths-than-official-tally-1060511.html
13-12-2021||North and Central||Delhi BJP urges NDMC to rename Akbar Road in honour of General Bipin Rawat||Delhi BJP's media head Naveen Kumar has requested the New Delhi Municipal Council to rename Akbar Road after the country's first Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat, who recently died in a helicopter crash in Tamil Nadu. In a letter to the NDMC chairman, Kumar last week urged that Akbar Road in Lutyens Delhi be renamed as General Bipin Rawat Road. "You are requested to attach a permanent memory to country's first CDS Bipin Rawat, by renaming Akbar road after General Bipin Rawat which be a true homage to him by the council," Kumar said in his letter written in Hindi. NDMC vice chairman Satish Upadhyay said the civic body is "very keen" on having a road named after General Rawat in the area under its jurisdiction. "Naming of a road under NDMC follows a procedure. We will discuss how to go about it and which road to name after General Rawat," he said. The NDMC has received several requests in the past few days to name a road in memory of General Rawat, he added. Akbar Road originating from India Gate circle connects to Teen Murti roundabout. Many landmarks, including Congress party's headquarters, is situated along the stretch. There have been attempts before to rename Akbar Road. In October, members of an outfit defaced a signboard by scribbling 'Samrat Hemu Vikramaditya Marg' on it Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-bjp-urges-ndmc-to-rename-akbar-road-in-honour-of-general-bipin-rawat-1060514.html
13-12-2021||Oasis||A virtue worth reviving||A picture of a great personality paying respects to his mother was truly refreshing at a time when giving respect is at a premium in contemporary society. A culture that reveres anything that blesses their life in any form, living and non-living things, finds this trend unpalatable. A generation that takes pride in getting respected finds this change indigestible. Age, abilities, knowledge, sacrifices in life, contribution to community etc, are some of the deciding factors for respect; thus, a teacher is respected for the knowledge he or she has acquired and imparts a religious leader for his sacrifice in life for the sake of others, and his enlightenment, a doctor for saving lives and his dedication for humanity, parents for bringing us into this world and making us worthy for the world. But these factors are slowly being replaced by a misplaced sense of equality, egos, and one-upmanship. Ironically and unfortunately, equality, a leveller, often is misconstrued to mean ‘none is superior or worthier than me’. Like many other virtues, the rat race of busy work schedules to meet material and professional deadlines leave no time or energy for subtleties of life. An anecdote about a famous religious guru says, a disciple once asked “Swamiji, are you god?” “Yes,” was the guruji’s reply, followed by “So are you!” Respect is not all about touching feet or prostrating. It creates a healthy fear, admiration and love for the respected that could lead to emulation and correction. The ambit of respect should be widened to include social values, relationships, the privacy of others, respect for flora and fauna, institutions, public property, Country’s rules and regulations. This way, probably, respect for social values will enable a smoother running society, the institution of marriage and family will see fewer divorces. Our elderly, in their twilight years, will be more tolerated and understood and will find themselves happier in their own homes, need for old age homes will naturally diminish, conformity to society’s rules and regulations might bring down crimes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/a-virtue-worth-reviving-1060475.html
13-12-2021||Opinion||New Zealand is banning tobacco. Will anyone follow?||By David Fickling If you’re a smoker who wants to indulge your habit while gazing over the mountains of the South Pacific, you’d do well to move fast. New Zealand last week announced plans to become the first nation in the world to ban tobacco. The prohibition won’t happen overnight. Instead, the country will raise the legal smoking age each year, so that people born after 2008 will never be allowed to puff. That will eventually mean that tobacco smoking — a practice that’s been prevalent in the Americas for thousands of years, and spread around the world after Christopher Columbus introduced it to Europe — may finally start disappearing from one corner of the planet. This may be a taste of things to come. The Netherlands will ban supermarket sales of tobacco starting in 2024, and the Medical Journal of Australia last month called for a New Zealand-style phaseout policy in that country. One in four Americans supported a total smoking ban in a 2018 survey by Gallup. I confess to having distinctly mixed feelings about this. Smoking kills more than eight million people every year, making it a scourge at least on the scale of Covid-19, which has caused about 5.3 million recorded deaths over the past two years (alcohol, far more widespread, contributes to about three million annual deaths). That alone is reason enough to restrict the practice. I’ve never been a smoker, but am old enough to remember the time when an evening out in my birth country, the UK, would leave your clothes stinking tar. Thin-end-of-the-wedge arguments were trotted out before a 2007 law there banned smoking in all indoor workplaces. They came out again before a 2012 law in my current home of Australia, which mandated unbranded, and deliberately repellent, packaging for all tobacco products. In fact, both countries are far better off for the measures that have been introduced. The worst that can be said of them is that, while they’ve accelerated the decline of tobacco consumption, it’s still pretty widespread. At the same time, we’re now at the point where the thick end of those wedges is hoving into view. If you’d suggested 14 years ago that banning smoking in pubs might ultimately lead to states prohibiting adults from undertaking activities that only harm themselves, it would have been dismissed as alarmist. But that’s what we’re looking at now. Restrictions on indoor smoking and packaging protect bystanders from passive fumes and reduce the marketing power of cigarette businesses — outcomes that serve to enhance the welfare of all individuals. Further restrictions to limit the exposures of children and fellow householders to second-hand smoking in the home and private vehicles might be justified on the same grounds, even if they would be challenging to enforce. Outright bans, however, limit the scope of choice that the generation of New Zealanders who grow into this new law will be allowed to make. That sits oddly with the current shift toward more liberal policies on similar matters. More than half of US states have now legalized or decriminalized cannabis for recreational uses. Portugal and Oregon have even decriminalized possession of hard drugs. A referendum on legalizing cannabis only narrowly failed at New Zealand’s election last year, and another on euthanasia passed with a hefty majority. It’s hard to justify that differential treatment on harm grounds. Cannabis use disorders are roughly as common among users as tobacco addiction is among the general population. The links between pot smoking and the respiratory, lung and heart problems associated with cigarettes are surprisingly weak, and there’s a dearth of good quality studies that aren’t confounded by the fact that most cannabis smokers use tobacco, too. However, there are much clearer correlations between cannabis use and mental health problems including schizophrenia and psychosis, as well as educational under-attainment.  Society may deem those risks an acceptable price to pay for the pain relief benefits and enjoyment that many people get from cannabis — but with the speed at which the drug is being decriminalized, there’s been precious little discussion of the issue. The New Zealand policy won’t eradicate nicotine addiction. Vaping devices, which are used by New Zealand teenagers at a rate two to three times higher than smoked tobacco, won’t be affected. As with any prohibition, it also runs the risk of encouraging organized crime. Illegal consumption of tobacco in Australia has been slowly but surely ticking up for several years now in response to that country’s punitive tobacco tax policies, providing a steadily rising stream of black-market revenue. What’s clear is that the current breed of tobacco control policies aren’t succeeding in bringing down voluntary smoking fast enough without harmful side effects of their own. The very high taxes imposed in New Zealand and Australia — a 25-stick pack of Marlboro Gold at my local supermarket costs A$48.95 ($35) — don’t seem to be enough to break the power of addiction. Ultimately, they mean the underprivileged communities who still smoke at the highest rates have to pay regressive taxes on top of their other problems. In New Zealand, for instance, smoking is far more common among the Indigenous Maori and Pacific Islander people than the general population. That suggests a change of direction toward a limited and gradual, but ultimately more absolute measure like that being introduced in New Zealand is worthwhile, even just so the rest of the world can see whether it’s a success or a failure. Smokers themselves, few of whom feel great loyalty to their self-destructive habit, are often supportive of tobacco control policies. A 2019 survey in Sweden found former users were only slightly less in favour of such laws than the general population, while one recent study of 6,014 smokers in Pakistan found that 82 per cent supported a complete ban. Liberal societies will rightly seek to enhance individuals’ sovereignty over their bodies, and tread carefully when they take those freedoms away. Addictive drugs already violate that sovereignty, though, by making it physically or psychologically painful to give them up. Tobacco prohibition in New Zealand will certainly infringe on people’s freedoms. Tobacco addiction, however, has been doing that for centuries. Bloomberg Philanthropies — the foundation run by Michael Bloomberg, owner of Bloomberg LP and Bloomberg Opinion — has invested $1.1 billion in fighting tobacco use globally. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/new-zealand-is-banning-tobacco-will-anyone-follow-1060247.html
13-12-2021||Opinion||India's banking revolution started without the banks||By Andy Mukherjee No deposit-taking institution in the world is trusted more by savers and enjoys bigger cachet with investors than HDFC Bank Ltd. What this plenitude has done to India’s most valuable lender is make it so lethargic — literally, with its digital services suffering repeated tech outages — that it had to be banned from issuing new credit cards for eight months. But a regulatory slap on the wrist is no durable solution. Bank licenses are permits to make money out of thin air. The prospect of sharing the privilege with a new breed of digital rivals will be more effective at keeping HDFC Bank and other traditional financiers on their toes. On valuation metrics, HDFC Bank’s price-to-book multiple of four is way ahead of much bigger lenders in China, the US, Japan, Australia,  Europe, Singapore and Hong Kong. Some Indonesian, Middle Eastern and South Korean peers, and even a couple of Indian rivals including the Mumbai-based Kotak Mahindra Bank Ltd., are more expensive on a per-share basis, but none can boast HDFC Bank’s $189 billion deposit base.   And yet, such is the inertia inherited by new Chief Executive Officer Sashidhar Jagdishan that he had to thank the regulator for the ban on credit-card issuance and new digital initiatives. “This rap has opened our eyes to the world of possibilities,” he told employees in August, as the restrictions were being eased. But instead of patting itself on the back for waking the sluggish lender, the Reserve Bank of India should ask why it has to do the market’s job of pushing firms to embrace best-in-class technology. The country’s licensing policy for financial institutions is past its sell-by date. Innovative solutions are out there but require regulation. New technologies are reshaping the financing landscape. From nothing five years ago, Indians now pay and receive Rs 7.7 lakh crore  ($102 billion) a month via apps running over a shared public utility. Soon 440 million owners of cheaper feature phones will be able to conduct cashless transactions. But because innovation originated in payments, financiers didn’t pay attention. As Uday Kotak, chairman of Kotak Mahindra Bank, said recently in a speech, “Bankers were short-sighted. Their standard response was, ‘Oh, there’s no money in payments.’” But there is now. About 20 per cent of online payments over the shared public network are being collected by merchants. They’re shunning costly credit-card systems, but are keen to use their online sales data as information collateral to get working-capital loans. Fintech players seized this chance, with deposit-taking institutions passively supplying the funds. “The principal beast of burden for credit delivery and issuance of demand deposits, i.e. the incumbent bank, has remained undisrupted,” says NITI Aayog, the government's think tank. That needs to change. The NITI discussion paper on digital banks argues that the funding cost of India’s top nonbank consumer lender last year was more than 7 per cent, while it was less than 4 per cent for a well-capitalized bank. Why not license internet-only banks to take advantage of low-cost deposits, too, especially if they can use technology to fill $400 billion in unmet credit needs of small business owners? If banks keep squatting on their entitlements, customers will up and leave. Walmart Inc.’s PhonePe app moves 47 per cent of online money in India, while homegrown Paytm has a 10 per cent share. Alphabet Inc.’s Google Pay, which controls 37 per cent of the market, is using its search expertise to influence customers’ choice of bank deposits. HDFC Bank and its bigger state-owned rival State Bank of India still have a stranglehold on savings. So they’re the top remitters by default in phone payments. However, when it comes to receiving money, the leader is Paytm Payments Bank. It’s a narrow bank with a limit on deposits per customer. It can neither make loans, nor issue credit cards, though it has finally got access to the central bank’s emergency liquidity window. Not allowed to function as a proper bank, Paytm hawks credit for others. Last quarter, third-party loans disbursed by the unprofitable fintech jumped six-fold from a year earlier. Still, the Paytm stock is languishing 27 per cent below its recent initial public offering price. Instead of earning fees by creating $1 billion in yearly credit opportunities for partners like HDFC Bank, the app may be more valuable as a digital bank, lending on its own.   A licensing regime that has fallen behind technological innovation has caused a regulatory vacuum. An RBI working group estimates the number of illegal digital lending apps in India at 600. Many of them “are collecting users’ entire phone contacts, media, gallery, etc.” and using that information “to harass borrowers and their contacts,” the group said. The outmoded licensing regime in India needs to be brought up to date with digitization trends in the broader economy. It’ll force traditional players to shed their lethargy, and show a a more certain path to profitability to well-capitalized fintech. Small businesses will get cheaper credit, and savers won’t be left at the mercy of blackmailers masquerading as lending apps.   Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/indias-banking-revolution-started-without-the-banks-1060254.html
13-12-2021||Panorama||‘No spread of Omicron seen despite testing over one lakh a day’||Amidst the Omicron scare in the country, the chairman of the Karnataka Covid-19 Technical Advisory Committee, Dr M K Sudarshan tells DH’s P Suraksha that the state is prepared in terms of hospital facilities in case of a third wave of the pandemic.    Despite the detection of three patients with the Omicron variant, no clusters have been seen in Bengaluru. What does this mean for the city and the state at large?  It is good that no more cases of Omicron have been seen despite a good testing rate of over one lakh per day, tracing, tracking and follow-up genomic sequencing as per national guidelines. It means there has been no spread or occurrence of new cases of Omicron.  Should we be worried about community transmission as one of the three with Omicron, a doctor, did not have a travel history, and the civic body is nowhere close to detecting the source of his infection?  The said doctor had attended an international conference previously, and also, it may not be possible to identify the source when the cases occur sporadically. Hence, absence of evidence is not evidence of absence!  Should the state be worried about other likely new variants that might emerge?  Virus mutations are a normal phenomenon and the SARS-CoV-2 virus is no exception. However, there is now a fairly well-established good genomic surveillance in the country that has the ability to catch a new variant quite quickly. That should not be a worry.  In South Africa, where the Omicron outbreak was first detected, hospitalisations and ICU admissions have risen in the last week. What is the likely impact of such heavily mutated viruses on the daily life of societies?  Virus mutations do not always result in severe disease and death. We have the examples of flu, SARS and H1N1 before us. Also, in South Africa, the cases of Omicron that have needed acute or intensive care is lower than during the previous waves of the pandemic (caused by other variants of the virus). Besides, the two-dose vaccination coverage in South Africa is lower (27 per cent) than that in India (37 per cent).   What are the precautions one can take apart from double-masking, getting fully vaccinated, social distancing and maintaining hand hygiene?  Firstly, there is no need for double-masking by general public. Wearing a clean, right-fit face mask correctly, covering the mouth and nose, is good enough. It is generally advisable to have natural ventilation and avoid air conditioning. Also, one should avoid indoor congregations of persons for long durations involving singing, loud talking, such as at social get-togethers, music concerts, marriages, etc., and in closed spaces, where there is poor air circulation. One should avoid non-essential travel, and moving in crowds, particularly in poorly ventilated areas like closed spaces, narrow passages, etc.  What is the clinical preparedness of the state in the light of Omicron, in terms of beds, equipment, drugs, training of nurses, and doctors?  Following the second wave of Covid-19 in the state, at the behest of the TAC, the Karnataka government in June constituted an expert committee under the chairmanship of Dr Devi Shetty that provided the guidelines of clinical preparedness for a possible third wave in the state. Based on this report and further expert deliberations, the state is well geared-up to face any situation.  Out of 6,273 samples sequenced over the past five months, as many as 4,524 were sequenced at two private labs and 1,749 at NIMHANS and NCBS. Will genomic sequencing of Covid samples take a hit, considering that the government has mandated sequencing to be done in Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genetics Consortium (INSACOG) labs alone? The INSACOG network has not inducted any private labs so far.  The inclusion of private laboratories in the INSACOG network is to be decided on in Delhi by the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) and the Government of India. The decision will apply to the whole of the country.   Recently, the Union government pulled up the state for an uptick in cases in several districts. Is this the beginning of a third wave? Do you find the prediction made by an expert from IIT Kanpur that the third wave is likely to begin in February credible? The model is under criticism for predictions made on limited data.  When something new happens, there is a buzz and sometimes mass frenzy, more so in the case of Covid-19, following the unprecedented bad effects on the life and livelihoods of the people, not only in India but the world over. Moreover, a model is as good as the data that is used to generate the output. As Omicron is known to be highly infectious and has popped up on the horizon just when a third wave is anticipated in India, it is quite natural that all kinds of predictions are made about the third wave.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/no-spread-of-omicron-seen-despite-testing-over-one-lakh-a-day-1060478.html
13-12-2021||Panorama||Exercise can help your heart to be healthy||A few recent celebrity deaths led to extreme emotional reactions and almost cast a negative light on exercise activity in general. However, the incidence of exercise-related sudden cardiac death is low and the benefits of regular exercise on both physical health and psychological well-being far outweigh the risks. The heart is the hub of response to exercise. Exercise increases cardiac output and blood pressure. To meet the demands of skeletal muscle (most muscles of arms, legs, back) blood pumped from the heart should increase and blood flow from inactive organs should get redistributed to active skeletal muscles. While at rest, muscles receive about 20% of the total bloodflow, during exercise, the this increases to more than 80%. Longer the duration of exercise, the greater the burden on the heart. For example, a full marathon is more stressful than a 100-metre dash. The lungs are also under stress during exercise as oxygen consumption and carbon dioxide production are increased. Oxygen consumption increases exponentially during the first few minutes of exercise and maximal oxygen uptake is dependent on an individual’s gender, height, weight, lung function, fitness level, genetics and type of activity. Trained athletes can have higher oxygen uptake and consumption because of increased cardiac output and better heart function. The heat produced by the increased metabolism during exercise must be lost to prevent a dangerous increase in core temperature. When warm blood passes close to the body surface blood vessels dilate and the heat is lost through radiation and conduction. Evaporation of sweat causes fluid and electrolyte loss. Dehydration may lead to impaired cognitive and exercise performance. Neurological adaptations and hormonal changes too matter. Sports paradox Exercise-related sudden cardiac death is defined as death happening during or within one hour of physical activity. Age, gender, duration and intensity of physical activity, family history and underlying medical conditions are important factors that determine negative events during exercise. Serious events including sudden cardiac arrest occurring after sports or exercise are about 5%. In fact, the incidences of heart attacks are significantly lower in persons exercising more than 5 times per week as against sedentary persons exercising less than once per week. Coronary artery disease is the most common cause. Other causes include hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, dilated cardiomyopathy, myocarditis, arrhythmogenic dysplasias and valvular heart disease. Inherited genetics, as well as environmental risk factors - diet, lifestyle, and smoking, are considered the reasons. INTER HEART study indicated that the age of onset of disease in parents and whether parents are affected are also valuable. Exercises for heart health Aerobic exercises: Improve circulation, thereby reducing blood pressure and heart rate. They increase aerobic fitness, reduce the risk of diabetes. About 30 minutes per day and 5 days a week is good and examples are brisk walk, running, swimming, cycling, and tennis. Resistance training: Resistance training reduces fat, results in leaner muscle mass. Free weights workouts, hand weights, dumbbells, push-ups, squats are some types of resistance training. Strength, flexibility and balance: It’s critical to maintain aerobic exercise and resistance training. Flexibility exercises like stretching and yoga should be done daily before and after exercise/workout. Athletes, persons even in their 30s and 40s wanting to do moderate to heavy exercises need to know their risk factors for developing cardiovascular disease and have those addressed. Given the extensive cardiovascular benefits of exercise, a minimum of 30 minutes of moderately intense physical activity (continuous or 10-minute increments) on most days of the week is recommended. This equals roughly 1.5 miles/day brisk walk. No doubt, habitual exercise is a “pill” to be taken daily for a healthy life. For improved survival in exercise-related sudden cardiac arrest, the most important factor is the time from collapse to defibrillation (achieve regular rhythm). Advanced life support in the field is the key. Installations of Automated external defibrillators (AEDs) and CPR (cardiopulmonary resuscitation training) programs in exercise facilities/ gyms are recommended. (The writer is a heart specialist at a hospital based in Mysuru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/exercise-can-help-your-heart-to-be-healthy-1060483.html
13-12-2021||Right in the Middle||To beat a shadow||As octogenarians, we rejoiced the lifting of Covid-related curbs by braving to watch an open-air shadow play at the Indian artisan flea market; Karnataka Chitra Kala Parishat. Ambling through colourfully decked up shops on both sides of narrow lanes with masks and hand sanitisers we reached the rocky open-air theatre area much ahead of time. The ambience was jubilant for the oncoming festive season. People of all ages thronged the venue seating on the rocks to watch the shadow play. The anticipation was palpable with kids getting restless for the show to begin. Waiting for the skies to darken, as a prelude to the actual show, a magic show and ventriloquy were lined up. The audience settled down to witness rope tricks which commanded thunderous applause and that helped the kids to settle down a bit. Perhaps we were the senior-most in the audience but we felt so young at heart regressing for the evening entertainment! Finally, the Sunlight dimmed. Scattered clouds threatened with droplets of rain tingling our skin. Children looked up and down with worry saying “Rain, rain go away, Come again another day!” Surely, just in time, clouds cleared off and pin-drop silence prevailed with all eyes set on the makeshift screen. We have all played with our body shadows in our childhood. Beating our own shadows used to be a fun game on our terraces and open areas. It was quite nostalgic. But what the artist Prahlad Acharya projected moving his fingers between a light source and a screen was very simple yet mesmerising. The principle is similar to an eclipse in our solar system creating Umbra-penumbra. Shadow plays are ancient techniques of entertainment that originated in India and China. And now there are various kinds of shadow plays, puppets, masks and other mediums from various countries set to music. To begin with, he introduced many historical personalities of our country with their photographs besides — kings, queens, freedom fighters, and national heroes. It created awe and respect. Trees swayed, birds chirped, peacocks and butterflies moved about gracefully, animals roamed around freely as the artist moved his palm and fingers deftly. The Indian artisan Bazar venue was transformed into a fairyland with his gesturing and narration of poet B V Sri’s "Dharani mandala madhyadolage" story. It is a moving episode of the mother cow’s principles of keeping up a promise to return to the tiger after feeding her calf. This is the easiest but effective technique of entertainment! Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/to-beat-a-shadow-1060481.html
13-12-2021||Second Edit||Democracy summit was a damp squib||American President Joe Biden’s Summit for Democracy was expected to underline the idea that democracy is the right form of government and it needs to be protected against threats and challenges. Biden had promised to hold such a summit during his election campaign and he has delivered on it with a two-day virtual meeting in which leaders of over 100 countries participated. The initiative has been criticised on many grounds. It has been seen as an attempt to highlight the US’ leadership of the “free world’’ and not an affirmation of the value of democracy. The invitees’ list itself raised questions. Countries like Pakistan, the Philippines and Poland, whose democratic credentials are questionable, were invited for the summit, probably because they have a role in the US foreign policy scheme. Better functioning democracies like Sri Lanka, Bangladesh and Bhutan were excluded. Pakistan, however, declined the invitation, probably because of pressure from China, which was not invited.   It was because the summit was seen primarily as a US foreign policy event and not an occasion for genuine commitment to the values of democracy that it became a damp squib. When the idea was mooted by Biden, there was the claim that it would reconnect the world to the hopeful era after World War II which envisaged a new world order based on freedom, universal rights, individual and national autonomy and international cooperation. But the summit divided the world into two camps, both claiming to be more democratic than the other. The participating leaders used the platform to praise themselves and their countries for their democratic conduct. The US announced a democratic agenda, including a fight against authoritarianism and corruption, promotion of human rights and support for free media and fair elections. Prime Minister Narendra Modi talked about India’s ancient democratic traditions and commitment to the principles of inclusion, pluralistic ethos and transparency. Other countries also spoke of their strengths and some mentioned new challenges like social media and climate change.  There is no perfect democracy and it is futile to imagine that there would be any. But no country accepts any democracy deficit and none look at their own flaws. Some claim to be democracies simply because they hold periodic elections, but elections by themselves do not make a democracy. Some of the essential features of democracy are individual liberties, civil and human rights, rule of law, secularism, independence of institutions, accountability of governments, non-discrimination and respect for persons and parties in the Opposition. Democracy becomes real only when there is an attempt to practise these ideas. There are signs that it is sliding the world over, and words from a summit will not impart it strength. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/democracy-summit-was-a-damp-squib-1060470.html
13-12-2021||South||CDS chopper crash: Coimbatore college registers case against Kerala-based YouTube channel||A Coimbatore-based college has registered a case against a Kerala-based YouTube channel for having aired fake news over the death of Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat. The channel, according to the Coimbatore-based college in its complaint, had aired a three-minute video depicting students of a particular community studying in Coimbatore college celebrating the death of the General and other Armed Forces personnel in the crash. After the video went viral, the police commenced an investigation on the same. College management, however, clarified that the video was shot on December 7, a day prior to the crash which took place on December 8 and that the students were celebrating the fresher's day in College. The management also clarified that on December 9 the whole college had mourned the sad demise of CDS General Rawat and other personnel. The Tamil Nadu Police have started an investigation against the Kerala-based YouTube channel based on the complaint filed by the Coimbatore college on Sunday. The police have already communicated to the Kerala Police on the channel and a team of Tamil Nadu Police is to travel to Kerala in a few days' time for investigating the case. A senior officer with the Coimbatore police told IANS, "It is totally fake news and how can someone air such news depicting students of a particular community celebrating the death of the General and others in the crash. It would lead to communal polarisation and stringent action will be taken against the channel office-bearers." Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/cds-chopper-crash-coimbatore-college-registers-case-against-kerala-based-youtube-channel-1060273.html
13-12-2021||South||Kerala Congress plays waiting game in Governor vs CM tiff||The Congress-led Opposition in Kerala has decided to play the waiting game in the ongoing tiff between Kerala Governor Arif Mohammed Khan and Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan over the functioning of universities in the state. The disagreement between the two began after Khan went public to say that the higher education sector in the state has gone to the dogs as there is massive political interference in appointment of Vice-Chancellors and in teaching posts. He went to on say that he now regrets putting his signature in the re-appointment order of the Kannur Vice-chancellor and hence does not wish to continue as chancellor and asked Vijayan to pass an ordinance to that effect and take over the post. On Monday, Khan reportedly asked his staff not to accept any files which comes to him in the capacity of chancellor. A media critic on condition of anonymity said that if the Congress does not play its cards well in the present fight between two top echelons in power, it will end up cutting a sorry figure. "There are limits to which a Governor can go, but for a democratically elected Chief Minister, he can play the political card at will and it's here that the Congress knows, if it for obvious reasons supports the Governor, who has been a handpicked person by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, they could burn their fingers. Khan and the Vijayan government had had aberrations earlier too, but they patched up quickly. So this time, they will play the waiting game," said the media critic who did not wished to be identified. Vijayan was quick to retort and said it's surprising that after initially putting his signature and then going back on it means he (Khan) has come under some sort of duress and also added that the government has no plans to take over the post of chancellor from the Governor. Meanwhile, in a guarded statement, the Leader of Opposition V.D.Satheesan demanded a judicial probe done into all the appointments in Universities. "We are happy that the Governor has realised what we had pointed out when all these appointments were being made. For us the tiff between the Governor and the Chief Minister is not an issue as there are 'people' in Delhi who will settle things, like they did in the past, when a tiff broke out between the two here," said Satheesan. Joining the issue was the BJP, when Union Minister of State for External Affairs V.Muraleedharan asked Vijayan to correct himself saying it's very clear he has violated his oath of secrecy as appointments have been gifted to pro CPI-M people, which is what the Governor pointed out. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-congress-plays-waiting-game-in-governor-vs-cm-tiff-1060279.html
13-12-2021||South||Karuvannur bank scam: Former Board of Director member gets bail from Kerala HC||The Kerala High Court has granted bail to a former member of the Board of Directors of the Karuvannur Co-Operative bank in six cases arising out of the over Rs 100 crore loan scam in the CPI(M)-controlled bank. The conditional relief was granted to the accused as he was suffering from various ailments including Glaucoma and had also undergone a throat surgery. "Therefore, taking into account his health condition, I am inclined to release him on bail," Justice Shircy V said. The high court granted the relief to 62-year old Jose CA subject to his executing a bond of Rs 5,00,000 with two solvent sureties for the like sum in each of the six cases in which he is an accused. It also directed him to deposit a sum of Rs 2,00,000, in each of the six cases, in the jurisdictional court within two weeks of his release. Additional Director General of Prosecution and senior advocate Grashious Kuriakose and government pleader CK Suresh, appearing for the state of Kerala and the police, told the court that the accused colluded with the other co-accused "with a dishonest intention to cheat the bank as well its depositors." They also told the court that the accused deliberately violated the provisions prescribed in the Kerala Co-operative Societies Act and Rules and the provisions of the bank's bye-laws, committed forgery and siphoned off huge amounts from it. "They (all the accused) have created fake membership forms and granted more than one loan to the same person upon the mortgage of a single property lying beyond the jurisdiction of the Bank showing highly inflated market value. They also illegally released the mortgage of the properties before settlement of the loans violating the rules for unlawful gain. "Thus by committing criminal breach of trust, cheating and forgery they have gained pecuniary advantage of approximately Rs 100 crore and caused corresponding monetary loss to the bank and its genuine customers," Kuriakose and Suresh told the court. They also strenuously opposed the accused' bail application, contending that the directors board had approved the applications submitted for 279 loans violating all the norms and a detailed investigation was required as huge amounts were involved in this scam. "As the involvement of this petitioner has emerged upon investigation if the bail application is allowed, the investigation could not be proceeded with smoothly and effectively," they told the court. The lawyer appearing for Jose told the court that his client was innocent and he was falsely implicated due to political pressure. "The loans were sanctioned without the recommendation of the Director Board members and the entire malpractice was committed by the accused Nos.1 to 6 without the knowledge of the Board of Directors," the petitioner's lawyer told the court. The court, after hearing both sides, said there was no doubt that the nature and gravity of the accusations leveled against the petitioner-accused were "very serious and grave." "Prima facie it is revealed that this petitioner, a member of board of directors has colluded with the other accused to commit forgery, manipulation of accounts and to cheat the bank for wrongful gain. Since huge amount is involved in this scam the investigating agency require time to unearth all the details involved in the case. "Scientific examination with the help of technical experts is also required to ascertain the real gravity of the offence alleged against this petitioner as well the other accused," the court said. However, in view of his health condition, the court granted him bail. Police had registered a case against six bank officials and launched an investigation after the scam was detected. After several people, including local customers raised apprehensions about the bank's functioning, an audit had been conducted in which the charges were reportedly found to be true. During the inspection, it was also found that loans were sanctioned on the property pledged by local customers without their knowledge and the loan amount was credited multiple times to the selected accounts. The case was registered against bank officials, including the secretary of the bank, who were already placed under suspension following the allegations. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/karuvannur-bank-scam-former-board-of-director-member-gets-bail-from-kerala-hc-1060331.html
13-12-2021||South||Kerala HC seeks details of criminal cases withdrawn against MPs, MLAs since September 16 last year from govt||The Kerala High Court has directed the state government to furnish details of all the criminal cases relating to MLAs and MPs which were withdrawn after September 16 last year with the reasons for the same. The details have been sought by the high court pursuant to a direction by the Supreme Court to all the High Courts to examine the "legality, propriety and bonafides" of withdrawals made after September 16, 2020, in cases relating to former and sitting legislators. "Respondents (state government and police) are directed to furnish the details of the criminal cases withdrawn after September 16, 2020. Respondents are further directed to furnish a consolidated statement, explaining the reasons for withdrawal of the cases registered against MPs/MLAs (sitting/former)," the high court said. With the direction, the court listed the matter for hearing on January 5, 2022. The apex court in August this year had directed that prosecution against the lawmakers under the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) cannot be withdrawn without prior sanction from the respective high courts. In its August 10 order, the apex court had directed that no prosecution against a sitting or former MP/MLA shall be withdrawn without the leave of the High Court in the respective writ petitions registered on their own pursuant to the Supreme Court order. The High Courts are requested to examine the withdrawals, whether pending or disposed of since September 16, 2020, in light of guidelines laid down by this court, the top court had said. The order came on a PIL of 2016 filed by lawyer and BJP leader Ashwini Upadhyay on fast-tracking of criminal trials against MP and MLAs besides seeking a life ban on convicted politicians from contesting polls. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-hc-seeks-details-of-criminal-cases-withdrawn-against-mps-mlas-since-september-16-last-year-from-govt-1060363.html
13-12-2021||South||Telangana CM K Chandrashekhar Rao leaves for Tamil Nadu, to meet counterpart MK Stalin||Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrashekar Rao, who has taken a strident anti-BJP stance recently, will meet his Tamil Nadu counterpart MK Stalin at the latter’s residence on Tuesday. The political situation in the country is likely to come up for discussion during the meeting on Tuesday, sources said.  Rao, who is in Tamil Nadu with his family to offer prayers at Sri Ranganatha Swamy Temple in Srirangam near Tiruchirappalli, will meet Stalin for the first time after the DMK stormed to power in May this year. Rao had met Stalin twice – in 2018 and 2019 – as part of his efforts to form an anti-BJP, anti-Congress front but the DMK maintained arm’s length distance from such initiatives citing its alliance with the Congress.  Rao’s TRS, which has now taken a strident anti-BJP stance, attended meetings of opposition leaders called by the Congress in Parliament during the Winter Session.  After assuming office as Chief Minister, Stalin reached out to Rao seeking his support over NEET for admissions into medical and dental colleges. “It is a courtesy call. The two leaders have met in the past, and there is no room for any speculation. The meeting was sought from KCR’s side, and the appointment was granted immediately,” a senior DMK leader told DH. KCR’s meeting with Stalin assumes significance in the wake of West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee taking the lead in “uniting” the opposition parties ahead of the 2024 Lok Sabha polls. Rao is likely to be accompanied by his son and Telangana Industries Minister KT Rama Rao, who had expressed interest in studying the party infrastructure of the DMK and AIADMK, the two regional parties that have ruled the state alternatively since 1967. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-cm-k-chandrashekhar-rao-leaves-for-tamil-nadu-to-meet-counterpart-mk-stalin-1060372.html
13-12-2021||South||'Are you ashamed of PM?': Kerala HC asks petitioner over plea against Modi photo in vaccination certificate||Examining the maintainability of a plea seeking removal of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's photograph from the Covid-19 vaccination certificate, the Kerala High Court on Monday asked the petitioner whether he was ashamed of the PM. Justice PV Kunhikrishnan said the Prime Minister was elected to power by the people of the country and therefore, what was wrong with having his photograph on the vaccination certificate. When the petitioner's counsel told the court that in other countries there was no such practice, the judge orally remarked, "They may not be proud of their PMs, we are proud of our PM." "Why are you (petitioner) ashamed of the Prime Minister? He came to power through the mandate of the people... We may have different political views, but he is still our PM," the court further said. The counsel for the petitioner, Peter Myaliparampil, said that the certificate was a "private space" with personal details on record and therefore, it was inappropriate to intrude into the privacy of an individual. He contended that adding the PM's photo to the certificate was an intrusion into an individual's private space. To this, the court said that the more than 100 crore people of the country do not appear to have a problem with having the PM's photo on the vaccine certificate, "why do you?" The court said it will examine whether the plea has any merits and if not, it will dispose of the matter. During the more than an hour-long hearing, advocate Ajit Joy, appearing for the petitioner, said that whether to be proud of one's PM was a personal choice. Joy also told the court that it was not a matter of political differences, as the Supreme Court has laid down guidelines for advertisements and campaigns using public money. He said having the photo on the certificates would also influence the minds of voters and this issue was raised during the recent state assembly elections. The Central government opposed the plea saying it was a publicity interest litigation. The petitioner, a senior citizen, has contended in his plea that the PM's photo on his vaccination certificate was a violation of fundamental rights. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/are-you-ashamed-of-pm-kerala-hc-asks-petitioner-over-plea-against-modi-photo-in-vaccination-certificate-1060394.html
13-12-2021||South||IIT-Madras sees record number of placements in Phase-1||The Indian Institute of Technology-Madras (IIT-M) has recorded a “historic high” in the number of students getting placed in various companies across the globe with 73 per cent of those registered for the placement drive getting jobs in the first phase.  As many as 1,085 offers were made by companies that included Microsoft, Amazon, American Express, and Larsen and Toubro (L&T), in Phase-1, which is the highest-ever, which also saw 45 international offers, another high for the institute.   Combined with the 231 pre-placement offers (PPOs), which arise from Internships and are made before Phase-1, the total number of job offers stands at 1,316 at the end of Phase-1. A total of 1,500 students registered for Phase-1 placements of 2021-22, the IIT-M said.  While the first phase concluded on December 10, the second phase will begin in the second half of January 2022.  A total of 45 international offers were made in Phase-1, of which 11 offers came from Rakuten Mobile, Inc. Other international offers came from Glean, Micron Technologies, Honda R&D, Cohesity, Da Vinci Derivatives, Accenture Japan, Hilabs Inc., Quantbox Research, MediaTek, Money Forward, Rubrik, Termgrid and Uber. “The quality of academic training and the overall development of students during their program at IIT Madras are reflected in this year’s exceptional Phase-1 placements. The Institute Placement team thanks companies who have made offers to our students and looks forward to working with more companies in Phase-2,” Professor CS Shankar Ram, Advisor (Placement), IIT-M, said. American Express and Microsoft India Private Limited made the highest job offers with 16 each, while Baja Auto Limited and EXL Service recruited 15 students each.  IQVIA (14), EXL Service (13), Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC (13), ICICI Bank (12), Larsen & Toubro (12),  Amazon (11), Deloitte India (11), Rakuten Mobile, Inc (11),  Tiger AI (11), Axis Bank Ltd (10), Bain and Company (10), EY India (10), and Intel (10) are other top brands that recruited multiple students during the Phase-1 of placements.         The sector-wise break-up showed data science and analytics firms recruiting 19 students, core engineering and technology recruiting 42, financial services 7, IT and software development 18, management 6, and, research and development 8.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/iit-madras-sees-record-number-of-placements-in-phase-1-1060402.html
13-12-2021||South||Tamil Nadu Assembly session to be back at Fort St George||After one-and-a-half years, the iconic Assembly Hall inside Fort St. George, the seat of power of the Tamil Nadu government, will host its first assembly session in January 2022. The first session of the Assembly in 2022 will convene on January 5 with a customary address by Governor R N Ravi, which will be his first after assuming charge in September.  “The assembly session will be held in the old Assembly Hall at Fort St. George. The first session of the New Year will convene at 10 am on January 5, 2022,” Speaker M Appavu told reporters here on Monday. The assembly was shifted to a large hall in Kalaivanar Arangam, a few km away from Fort St. George, in September 2020 to ensure social distancing in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak in the state. The new DMK government too continued with the practice of holding the sessions at the Kalaivanar Arangam in May, June, and August this year. However, the session will return to its traditional venue at the Secretariat.  Appavu attributed the decline in daily Covid-19 cases for the session returning to its original venue but gave an assurance that all precautions with regard to Covid-19 spread is being taken. “Everyone will have to wear a face mask. There will be no relaxation of any rule,” he said. On whether the proceedings of the Assembly will be telecast live, the Speaker replied in the affirmative saying all steps in this regard are being taken. Live relay of assembly proceedings is one of the poll promises of the DMK with Chief Minister M K Stalin declaring during the Budget Session that live telecast will begin once the assembly begins to function from Fort St. George.  The speaker said the Assembly will continue to be “paperless” and the work on installing desktop computers at the desk of legislators in old Assembly Hall has begun. “The first budget of the DMK government was an e-budget. And hereafter, it will only be an e-budget. We are hoping to run the assembly paperless as far as possible,” he said.  The DMK government had installed desktop computers at the Kalaivanar Arangam in August, but the machines were not compatible with being installed at the old Assembly Hall. “We decide to send the desktop computers to the office of the MLAs in their constituency so that the high-end configuration computer will be put to use to deliver e-services to people,” a senior government official said, adding that new machines are being installed at the old hall. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-assembly-session-to-be-back-at-fort-st-george-1060407.html
13-12-2021||South||CBI charge sheet against two NGOs in Kerala for FCRA violation||The CBI has filed a charge sheet against two NGOs in Kerala for allegedly misappropriating foreign contributions. Noted writer Paul Zakkariah (Paul Zacharia) is also accused in the case as he is secretary of one of the NGOs. Good Samaritan Project India (GSPI) and Catholic Reformation Literature Society (CRLS) are NGOs charge-sheeted by the CBI under various sections of FCRA. The charge against the NGOs was that foreign contributions received by Holland-based charitable organisation Woord en Daad (W&D) for purposes like construction of houses for the tsunami hit and setting up schools for street children were misappropriated and used for the gains of the NGOs. GSPI chairman K P Philip, CRLS chairman Thomas Abraham Kallivayalil, treasurer of GSPI and CRLS Jojo Chandy and secretary of CRLS writer Paul Zakkariah are the accused in the case. The CBI that took over the probe in 2020 filed a charge sheet at the chief judicial magistrate court in Thiruvananthapuram on November 30. Zakkariah told DH that all decisions with regard to funding management were taken after proper legal and financial consultations. He also added that he assumed charge as the CRLS secretary after the utilisation of funds. The CBI charge sheet said that both the NGOs filed false returns with regard to the fund utilisation to the Ministry of Home Affairs and CRLS did not file the annual returns during 2014-16. The major charges against the NGOs were that though W&D provided funds for constructing 33 houses for Tsunami victims in 2005, only 30 were constructed and the balance amount was used for non-Tsunami purposes during 2011-12 without the consent of W&D. It was also found that though a school for street children was started in using Rs. 1.07 crore granted by W&D during 2005-06, the school was later sold off for Rs. 3.92 crore. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/cbi-charge-sheet-against-two-ngos-in-kerala-for-fcra-violation-1060427.html
13-12-2021||South||Tamil Nadu's priest training schools being spruced up ahead of New Year reopening||After lying idle for over 13 years, six Archakar Payirchi Palli (Priests’ Training Schools) in Tamil Nadu will welcome a new set of students from all communities for a one-year course in early 2022 with classrooms being spruced up and infrastructure upgraded. All the six schools, which were set up by the then DMK government in 2007, have invited applications from interested students between the age of 14 and 24 for the one-year course to get trained as priests. Only one batch of students passed out from the schools in 2008 after which they were closed due to a slew of court cases and a change of regime in 2011.  24 students, who passed out in 2008, belonging to non-Brahmin communities now work as priests in several temples administered by the Hindu Religious Charitable and Endowments (HR & CE) Department. While two persons were appointed as priests without much fanfare by the AIADMK government in 2018 and 2019, the DMK organised a mega event on the completion of 100 days in office in August this year to hand over appointment orders to 22 duly trained students as priests. The six schools – four in Shaivite tradition and two in Vaishnavite tradition – have called for applications separately from interested students. “The process of receiving applications will end on December 31, 2021. We would need a month or two to complete the admission process. We hope to launch the classes latest by March,” an official with the HR & CE department told DH. The four schools that will train students in Shaivite tradition are located in Tiruvannamalai, Madurai, Palani, and Tiruchendur, while the Parthasarathy Temple in Chennai and Ranganatha Swamy Temple in Srirangam will train students in Vaishnavite tradition.  The advertisements issued by the temples that administer the six schools say the applicant should be a follower of the Shaivite or Vaishnavite tradition of Hinduism and selected students will receive a monthly stipend of Rs 3,000.  Sources said the six schools, which were lying idle for 13 years, are now ready to welcome students. “Classrooms are being spruced up and buildings have been given a fresh coating of paint. We have also upgraded the infrastructure,” another official said.  Sources in the Hindu Religious & Charitable Endowments department said a few changes have been made to the curriculum in the year-long course to ensure that the to-be priests are given practical training for a few hours every day on ways to perform poojas and exercise their duties. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadus-priest-training-schools-being-spruced-up-ahead-of-new-year-reopening-1060433.html
13-12-2021||South||Row over Muslim dancer not being allowed in Sri Ranganatha Swamy temple in TN's Srirangam||Bharatanatyam dancer Zakir Hussain being disallowed to pray at the famous Sri Ranganatha Swamy Temple in Srirangam has snowballed into a major controversy with the temple administration filing a complaint with the local police against an activist for stopping the artiste from entering the premises.  S Marimuthu, Joint Commissioner/Executive Officer of the temple, has filed a complaint with the Srirangam Police squarely blaming Rangarajan Narasimhan, who is fighting to free temples in the state from government control, for not allowing Hussain to offer prayers at the temple on December 10.  Hussain has also filed a complaint with the police. On his part, Narasimhan has also sought action against Marimuthu for “admitting that non-Hindus are let inside” against the established rule. He wanted Marimuthu to be booked under sections 409 (criminal breach of trust by a public servant), 295 (blasphemy), and 295A (deliberate and malicious acts intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).  In his complaint, Marimuthu sought criminal action against Narasimhan for not allowing Hussain, who had visited the temple in the past and had even performed, into the temple using force. The officer also reminded the police that as many as 21 cases have been filed against Narasimhan by the temple administration since 2016 and an FIR was registered only in three of them.  Quoting Hussain’s complaint filed with the temple administration, Marimuthu said the Bharatanatyam dancer was stopped by Narasimhan at the entrance on the basis of religion. Hussain has alleged in his complaint that Narasimhan used abusive language and shouted at him for entering a Hindu temple.  Countering Narasimhan’s contention that only Hindus should be allowed inside the temple, Marimuthu said anyone who professes faith in Sri Ranganatha Swamy and comes in the traditional attire will be allowed to offer prayers irrespective of their religion.  Hussain, who is associated with the DMK, had said on December 11: “This is the first time I was stopped at the Ranganatha Swamy temple in Srirangam. I was stopped at the behest of one Rangarajan Narasimhan. I was stopped on the basis of religion, and I was literally pushed out.”  The temple management had said none from the administration side stopped Hussain from entering the premises and declared that it was “ready to welcome him anytime.” Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/row-over-muslim-dancer-not-being-allowed-in-sri-ranganatha-swamy-temple-in-tns-srirangam-1060442.html
13-12-2021||State||Karnataka varsities asked to digitise degrees, stop printing||Karnataka Higher Education Minister CN Ashwath Narayan said Monday that degree certificates and marks sheets issued by universities are being digitised under the National Academic Depository (NAD). The Bangalore University, for instance, has digitised documents pertaining to the last 43 years, Narayan told the Legislative Council while replying to a question by Congress' BK Hariprasad.  Karnataka occupies the top position in the NAD project, Narayan claimed. Documents are made digitally secure to prevent incidents of fake mark sheets and academic credentials can be verified through DigiLocker, as they are stored in the Karnataka State Data Centre (KSDC). "All universities coming under the Higher Education Department have been instructed to strictly implement this project, and not to print marks sheets and certificates," he said. Hariprasad observed that the alleged fake marks sheets scam related to Bangalore University was not an isolated issue. He said a section of media reported that it was bigger than the Vypam scam in Madhya Pradesh. "Will a comprehensive probe be conducted?" he asked. He also went on to say that some elected representatives in the country also had fake marks cards. Narayan said three cases are registered regarding fake marks sheets that were not issued by the university or government officials. They were issued by private persons. The university found that the marks sheets were fake when they were sent for verification for government recruitments, he said. When Hariprasad said a case was filed against a principal and eight students of a college at Banashankari in Bengaluru, affiliated to Bangalore University, the minister said the university was not involved. "Investigation is on and action would be taken against the guilty," he said. On grant-in-aid for ITI In reply to a question by K Pratap Simha Nayak, Narayan clarified that the government has no proposal to bring unaided industrial training institutes (ITIs) under grant-in-aid as all seats in government and aided categories are not getting filled. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-varsities-asked-to-digitise-degrees-stop-printing-1060365.html
13-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Belagavi set for stormy session||The winter session of the Karnataka Legislature will get under way in Belagavi’s Suvarna Soudha from Monday after a gap of three years. The session will likely be a turbulent affair as the Basavaraj Bommai government is planning to introduce more stringent provisions to the Anti-Conversion Act, an issue that has already triggered protests from minority groups. Opposition parties are looking to corner the government over allegations in the Bitcoin scam, contractors’ complaints to the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) about demand for kickbacks and the delay in paying compensation to flood victims. Protests are also likely during the session after the Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha threatened to lay siege to the Suvarna Soudha seeking withdrawal of the controversial farm laws after the Centre repealed them. A padayatra will also be taken out by these organisations demanding compensation for farmers affected by floods. While an Anti-Conversion Act is already in place in the state, stringent provisions are likely to be introduced when the government tables a Bill in the legislature. Though the Bill was not taken up during the last Cabinet meeting, sources say that it could either be cleared during the Cabinet meeting at Suvarna Soudha or introduced as a private members’ Bill in either the Legislative Assembly or the Council. Despite opposition from Christian groups against tabling the Bill, BJP leaders have announced that it will be introduced during the session. Bitcoin case The controversial Bitcoin case, involving hacker Srikrishna Ramesh alias Sriki, is also expected to come up for discussion during the session. Opposition parties have levelled serious allegations against the ruling dispensation and police officials in connection with the case, accusing them of benefiting from the criminal proceeds of the hacker. The complaint by Karnataka State Contractors’ Association to the PMO has also put the state government in a spot, and the matter will echo in both the houses of the legislature. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/belagavi-set-for-stormy-session-1060225.html
13-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Uranium in groundwater in Karnataka villages: Study||Chemical analysis of groundwater in 73 villages of Karnataka has found high and unsafe levels of uranium concentration in 78% of these locations, said a new study. The World Health Organisation’s (WHO) recommended upper safety limit is 30 micrograms per litre (μg/l), while India’s Atomic Energy Regulatory Board has set a higher safety limit of 60 micrograms per litre. The study conducted by the Divecha Centre for Climate Change, Indian Institute of Science (IISc), and the Centre for Advanced Research in Environmental Radioactivity, Mangalore University, attributed the contamination to natural causes and not due to anthropogenic activity. For the study, researchers surveyed 73 villages in the eastern part of the state. They found that 57 villages had a uranium concentration of more than 30 micrograms per litre while 48 of them had concentration of more than 60 micrograms per litre. In the latter category are two villages in Bengaluru Urban (Gollahalli and Gottigere) and two in Bengaluru Rural (Avathi and Kodagurki). Scientists found that uranium concentration exceeded 1,000 micrograms per litre in one village each in Tumakuru and Chitradurga districts, five in Kolar and seven in Chikkaballapur district. The findings were detailed in a paper in Current Science. Uranium exposure can lead to health problems. Speaking as an independent expert, Dr Subrata Das, an internal medicine specialist and diabetologist at Sakra World Hospital, said that adverse effects are determined by the concentration of uranium a person ingests. “Immediate effects are haziness of the mind, headaches, low grade fever, vomiting. However, long-term exposure, over a period of months to years, leads to cancer of the liver, the bones and lungs,” he said. Researchers wrote that none of the borewells from which the water had been sampled were anywhere near the “vicinity of nuclear facilities or urban waste disposal channels”. The reason The researchers stressed that the high uranium concentration is a result of decline in the groundwater table plus the geological makeup of Karnataka. Gamma-ray spectrometric surveys have shown that there is a higher abundance of potassium, uranium and thorium in the eastern part of Karnataka compared to the western part, which the geologists refer to as the Eastern and Western Dharwar cratonrespectively. “Karnataka being dominantly made up of ancient granites, gneisses and schistose rocks is called hard rock terrain,” explained Dr R Srinivasan, lead author of the study and a Visiting Professor at the Divecha Centre. “In hard rocks, water occurs in fractures at depth and the top of the saturated zone which is usually at the base of the weathered zone (soil layer) and constitutes the water table. The thicker the weathered zone, greater is the thickness of the oxidised layer. This promotes oxidation of uranium in the minerals.” Bengaluru levels A high radon content from localities in Bengaluru Urban and rural belt resulted in high levels of uranium being detected at three villages sampled in Bengaluru Rural district. Samples from Avathi village showed high uranium varying from 174 to 942 micrograms per litre, while samples from Kodagurki village had 356 μg/l uranium, which, researchers said, tallies with observations made by the Central Ground Water Board. A sample from Gudla Muddenahalli in the district also had more uranium than the WHO’s prescribed limit (56). In Bengaluru Urban, repeat sampling at Gollahalli village found that the uranium concentration varied from 9 to 310 micrograms per litre throughout the year. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/uranium-in-groundwater-in-karnataka-villages-study-1060227.html
13-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Four farmers killed, 10 injured in road accident on national highway in Karnataka||Four farmers died on the spot and ten others sustained injuries in a road mishap near Alur cross in Hiriyur taluk on Chitradurga-Bengaluru stretch of National Highway - 4 on Monday. According to police, an onion laden truck, en route to Bengaluru, turned turtle after one of its tyres burst. As a result, the car coming from behind rammed into it. In an attempt to avoid a collision, two other trucks overturned. Following the incident, traffic on the Bengaluru-Mumbai highway was halted for hours. The deceased have been identified as Hanumappa Kalakappa Hunagundi (30), Gurappa Hugar (26), Ramesh (28), Prashanth Hatti (36), all from Gadag district. The injured have been shifted to Hiriyur Public Hospital. Superintendent of Police G. Radhika, DySP Roshar Zameer, Circle Inspector Shivakumar have visited the spot and been instructed to clear the traffic jam on the highway. Hiriyur police registered a case. (With inputs from IANS) Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/four-farmers-killed-10-injured-in-road-accident-on-national-highway-in-karnataka-1060284.html
13-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||What is good for people will become law: Bommai on anti-conversion Bill||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Monday said that the ruling BJP would bring in laws that are good for the people and in the larger interest of society. While interacting with media, Bommai said that a decision on anti-conversion bill, which is before the scrutiny committee of the law department, will be taken today (Monday). Once it gets clearance from the committee, it will come to the cabinet. After discussion, the new legislation would be tabled before the state Assembly. Every law will have pros and cons and there will be discussions. "But, what is good for the people would be made as a law. We are ready to discuss the new law in the session," he said. Asked about the ruling BJP's take on 'Love jihad', Bommai said, "let the scrutiny committee take a call first and then we will see what can be done." "We are ready to face the opposition parties on all issues including new legislation. We want to discuss and take decisions on pro-people issues. Especially north Karnataka region development issues would be focused. We are ready and prepared. The answers in session would be given on realistic grounds, he stated. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/what-is-good-for-people-will-become-law-bommai-on-anti-conversion-bill-1060287.html
13-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||All contacts of 3rd Omicron patient in Karnataka test Covid negative||All the primary and secondary contacts of the person, who tested positive for Omicron variant, have tested negative for Covid-19, sources in the health department stated on Monday. The third Omicron positive patient had come with a negative RT-PCR report from South Africa on December 1. He was also tested negative in Covid-19 test at the KempeGowda International Airport (KIAL) in Bengaluru. However, after reaching home he developed Covid symptoms; he voluntarily went to the lab for swab tests. The tests confirmed Covid-19 infection in him. Since he arrived from a high risk nation, authorities sent his swab samples for genomic sequencing tests. He had been admitted to the designated hospital and was being treated for the Omicron variant. Sources explain that he is now asymptomatic and responding well to the treatment. His health condition is also stable. The authorities tracked all five primary contacts and 15 secondary contacts of the Omicron variant positive patient. All are asymptomatic and healthy. All of them have tested negative in Covid-19 tests, bringing much relief to the authorities. The authorities have collected their samples for the second time and the results are awaited. Authorities are confident that the situation is under control now. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/all-contacts-of-3rd-omicron-patient-in-karnataka-test-covid-negative-1060301.html
13-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka government likely to introduce bill prohibiting 'Love Jihad'||Even as the BJP-ruled Karnataka looks set to introduce the anti-conversion Bill, Kannada & Culture Minister V Sunil Kumar on Monday stirred the pot further by saying that a law against 'Love Jihad' is also in the pipeline. The term 'Love Jihad' is widely believed to be a right-wing coinage referring to conversion for the sake of marriage. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai also did not rule out the possibility of bringing in 'Love Jihad' law. However, Home Minister Araga Jnanendra said he is not aware of this proposal.  Kumar told reporters at Suvarna Vidhana Soudha that the BJP, in its 2018 election manifesto, had promised an anti-cow slaughter law, which was enacted earlier this year. "In the current session, we are introducing the anti-conversion Bill. In the coming days, the government will introduce a bill to prohibit 'Love Jihad', too," he said.  Last year, when Bommai was the home minister, Karnataka had plans to have a law against religious conversion for the sake of marriage based on an Allahabad High Court order. BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh have already enacted laws to curb 'Love Jihad'. According to Bommai, the anti-conversion Bill is with the scrutiny committee of the law department. "From there, it will come to the Cabinet and then the House," he said. Asked about the 'Love Jihad' law, he said: "Let's see. We will take up whatever the scrutiny committee clears first."  Bommai justified the anti-conversion Bill that has irked Christians. "There will be pro and anti opinions on any new law. But the government has to enact them in public interest," he said.  Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah said that the proposed anti-conversion Bill is politically-motivated. "The Constitution itself prohibits forced conversion. What is the necessity to introduce the Bill now," he asked. Some Christian groups have announced a protest in Belagavi against the Bill on December 17.  Jnanendra said it will not target any one religion. "Article 25 of the Constitution says there shouldn't be forced conversion. But, it doesn't spell out the action that needs to be taken. We are only framing rules," he said.  Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa said the BJP government was committed to protecting Hindus "falling prey to forced religious conversion". "Let Congress leaders come with me. I will show them how innocent Hindu women have been converted through Love Jihad," he said and added, "We won't let India become Pakistan." Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-government-likely-to-introduce-bill-prohibiting-love-jihad-1060337.html
13-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Four held in Karnataka for providing fake RT-PCR report to Covid positive South African||Two senior executives of a South African pharma company and as many junior employees of a diagnostic lab have been arrested for facilitating and providing the “fake” negative RT-PCR test report that helped India’s first Omicron patient sneak out of the country last month.  The Omicron patient, a South African national, had tested positive upon arrival in Bengaluru on November 20 and was put in 14-day quarantine at a star hotel in Vasanthnagar.  But just four days later, he produced a negative Covid-19 test report that enabled him to not only leave the hotel but also fly out of India on November 27. All this happened even as the genomic sequencing result of his swab sample was still awaited. The result finally came on December 2, establishing him as the first Omicron patient in India. The result put the authorities under the scanner as it emerged that the negative RT-PCR test report submitted by the foreigner was fake.  The state government announced an investigation into how the report was generated.   On Sunday evening, the jurisdictional High Grounds police arrested four people  — Yogeshwar Mohan Persad Dokie aka Ranesh Dokie, 54, vice president, Quality Control, Adcock Ingram Ltd; Ravindranath, 36, manager, Quality Control, Adcock Ingram Ltd; Manoj Kumar K C, 24, junior executive custodian and finance at Syngene International Ltd Laboratory, and Prashanth M, 25, registration executive at the same lab.  The South African is one of the directors in the pharma company and has also been booked. The FIR also names the management of the hotel where he had stayed. Police also questioned some hotel employees as to how the South African was allowed to leave without the authorities being notified. A senior police officer said “necessary action” would be taken in the case.  Police said Dokie and Ravindranath had “lured” laboratory employees Kumar and Prashanth with the promise of a well-paying job at the pharma company in return for the negative RT-PCR report.  Meanwhile, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) said it would serve a notice on the Syngene lab seeking an explanation before taking any action.  “We will soon get the details of the case from the police. We will also have to give the laboratory an opportunity to explain themselves and hence we will serve it a notice seeking an explanation. Based on the response, we will take suitable action, which may include blacklisting it,” said K V Dr Trilok Chandra, Special Commissioner (Health), BBMP.   Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/four-held-in-karnataka-for-providing-fake-rt-pcr-report-to-covid-positive-south-african-1060377.html
13-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Former Karnataka CM Kumaraswamy calls Siddaramaiah 'Terminator'||Former Karnataka Chief Minister HD Kumaraswamy has come down heavily on the Opposition leader Siddaramaiah, and calling him "Mr Terminator" while charging that the coalition government of the Congress and the Janata Dal-Secular (JD-S) collapsed because of his conspiracy. Venting out his ire against the Congress leader, Kumaraswamy condemned Siddaramaiah's statement that Congress did not go to JD-S for alliance, before the coalition of Congress-JD-S came to power in 2018. Later, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) managed to wrestle the power from the coalition later and formed its own government under the leadership of former Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa. "Being constructive is being human. Being destructive is being a demon. You know only destruction. You do not have constructive ideas," Kumaraswamy wrote on Monday on a social media platform. "The Congress leaders had come to our door steps to request to take up leadership with an intention to keep the BJP away from power. You did not know the decisions of your party leaders Siddaramaiah," he questioned. "Siddaramaiah says he did not come to the door steps of our party. Who had invited you? Who begged for our coalition? When Congress central leaders were attempting to form coalition government, who was conspiring against it Mr Terminator? " Kumaraswamy questioned. Kumaraswamy further attacked him by questioning who supported the Congress and JD-S leaders to quit their political parties and join hands with the BJP "You have brought down the government installed by the high command. Now, you are coming out with one lie after the other. You answer who got the team ready to bring BJP into power in Karnataka?" Kumaraswamy said. He accused Siddaramaiah of going against decisions of Congress high command, conspiring against Rajya Sabha Opposition leader Mallikarjun Kharge and former Deputy Chief Minister G Parameshwara. Now, he is busy conspiring against Congress state president DK Shivakumar. Of late, Siddaramaiah is seeing scathing attacks against him within the party and from opposition parties. Senior Congress leader BB Chimmanakatti recently chided him for choosing Badami constituency for being unable to win from the Chamundeshwari constituency from where he contested traditionally. Sources say the "war" within the Congress party has intensified between Siddaramaiah and Shivakumar who have eyes on the coveted post of the Chief Minister if Congress comes to power in 2023 assembly elections. Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/former-karnataka-cm-kumaraswamy-calls-siddaramaiah-terminator-1060401.html
13-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka contractors' body demands probe into kickbacks by retired SC judge||Following their letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on 40 per cent commission in government projects, the Karnataka State Contractors' Association on Monday demanded a probe into corruption by a retired Supreme Court judge. The state also requires an overhaul of the tender allotment process. The state government needs to bring in a transparent system in place for tenders and bill payments, association president D Kempanna told a news conference. The association had written to PM Modi on July 6 when the previous BS Yediyurappa government was in power. Based on the letter, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has ordered a probe. The association questioned the government on its silence over corruption at large. A high-level inquiry should be conducted to probe all the irregularities, association members have demanded. If the government commits to the probe, the association is willing to share relevant documents with the authorities concerned, Kempanna said. That apart, the government dues to contractors has accumulated to Rs 22,000 crore. Ever since 2018-19, there has been a slow down in bill payments, the association members said, adding that the government must factor in these pending dues, along with dues of ongoing works into the next budget. Works should be sanctioned only based on funds available, they further urged. Meanwhile, the government's system of awarding large package of works to contractors is taking away opportunities from small contractors. The larger packages are also causing delay in completion of projects. The government must split projects into smaller components to ensure speedy completion and opportunities to all contractors, they demanded. Also, the government must ensure that all tenders are awarded under Karnataka Transparency in Public Procurement Act (KTPP) and no exemptions must be given, they sought. The association will meet President Ramnath Kovind and PM Modi in person, the members said. They specified that they were not accusing only the present government of corruption, but the irregularities had just increased year on year. Letters have also been written to Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah, former JD(S) chief minister HD Kumaraswamy and all the MLAs, the association stated. Since there has been no response to their appeals, to mark their protest, some one lakh contractors will come together in Bengaluru in January for a protest.  Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-contractors-body-demands-probe-into-kickbacks-by-retired-sc-judge-1060438.html
13-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Scholarship for poor students||The city-based Smt Vijayalakshmi R L Jalappa Education Foundation has invited applications for scholarships from the students belonging to Arya Idiga Community. Students hailing from Bengaluru, Bengaluru Rural, Ramanagara, Kolar, Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru, Mandya, Mysuru, Chamarajanagar, Hassan, Chitradurga, Davangere and Ballari districts will be eligible for the scholarship. The scholarship is made available to the kids of small, marginal farmers and daily wage labourers belonging to the BPL category. Students pursuing ITI, Diploma, PUC, Undergraduate, Postgraduation, Engineering and Medical courses can apply for scholarships. Those who availed of the scholarship previously must have scored higher than the previous year and those who are applying for the first time must have passed exams in first-class. Application is made available on the Foundation website www.jalappaedufoundation.org and submitted online. Later, the same application should be submitted to the foundation along with necessary documents by January 10, 2022 by post or in person.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/scholarship-for-poor-students-1060482.html
13-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Compulsory Kannada: HC tells state, varsity not to precipitate matter||The high court on Monday passed an interim order directing the state government and the Bangalore City University not to precipitate the matter in relation to making Kannada a compulsory language for degree students. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Ritu Raj Awasthi and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum passed this order while hearing a PIL filed by Samskrita Bharati (Karnataka) Trust, Bengaluru, and three other institutions associated with promotion of Sanskrit language/study.  During the hearing, the court was informed about another petition filed by five students of Bengaluru City University. Shridhar Prabhu, counsel for K G Shivakumar and four other students, submitted that there is extreme urgency in the matter as the university is insisting that the colleges send the papers for finalisation of admissions.  He said that the government order in regard to Kannada as a compulsory language, in fact, has not been gazetted. He cited several court orders and said such an order cannot be implemented.  Meanwhile, the Additional Solicitor General of India (ASG) sought time to seek instructions after the court asked the Centre to clear its stand on the issue. The court asked whether Kannada language is being made compulsory in higher education on the basis of the purported implementation of the National Education Policy (NEP). “Considering the entire aspect of the matter, we give a short accommodation to ASG to clear the stand of the Union of India on the issues involved in the writ petition. List this case on Thursday, December 16 at the top of the list. Till the next date of listing, the state government and the university shall not precipitate the matter with respect to making Kannada language compulsory,” the bench said.   In the petition filed by five students of Bengaluru City University, it is contended that the order is an ordeal for a student who has never spoken a single word in Kannada throughout. The petitioners have sought for quashing of the September 15, 2021, government order, wherein interstate and international degree students pursuing graduate programme will be compulsorily instructed in “Functioning Kannada ‘’ in one of the semesters in the first year.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/compulsory-kannada-hc-tells-state-varsity-not-to-precipitate-matter-1060485.html
13-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Medical seats surrender: Sudhakar warns colleges of heavy penalty||The government will impose a 'heavy penalty' on those who surrender government quota medical seats at the last moment after the final mop-up round of NEET-UG counselling, Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar said on Monday. He told the Legislative Council that some private medical colleges misuse loopholes in the laws, which he said will be rectified. "We have written to the Centre to develop a unified national portal having details of allotted and cancelled seats, but that is not yet done," he said. Sudhakar was responding to a question by BJP member N Ravikumar, who said that surrendering of medical seats is a "big mafia and business". "Some colleges give money to meritorious students to surrender the seats at the last moment, and sell them for a huge sum of money later. Poor, meritorious students are badly affected due to this," he said.  Sudhakar said private colleges also have government quota seats and the government gives the list of students on the basis of merit for admission to each seat remaining unallotted as per a Supreme Court ruling.  Picking holes in Sudhakar's reply, Ravikumar asked how 1,227 medical seats in 2019-20 and 2020-21 remained unallotted when there is such a heavy competition to get medical seats.  Sudhakar replied that they were NRI and management quota seats, and no government quota seat was unallotted. Also, the minster said the process of giving 10% EWS quota in admission to different courses and government jobs was on, adding that the backward classes department was the competent authority for this. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/medical-seats-surrender-sudhakar-warns-colleges-of-heavy-penalty-1060490.html
13-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Kannada activist blackens face of MES president in Belagavi||A Kannada activist blackened the face of Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti (MES) president Deepak Dalvi near the vaccine depot ground at Tilakwadi here on Monday, in protest against the MES annually holding the ‘maha melava’ (convention), demanding merger of Belagavi into Maharashtra. The MES had organised the ‘maha melava,’ opposing the winter session of the state legislature being held at the Suvarna Vidhana Soudha here. The city police had not given permission for the ‘maha melava’. The MES leaders tried to explain that their event would be peaceful. Dalvi, along with another activist, was at some distance from the stage, when activists of Karnataka Nava Nirmana Sene confronted him near the district health office gate, for demanding the merger of Belagavi with Maharashtra. Activist Sampath Kumar Desai, who had brought black ink in a sachet, smeared it on the face and body of Dalvi.  He raised slogans in favour of the state. Two police personnel present near Dalvi could not prevent him from being smeared with ink. This led to a tense situation in the area. MES activists demanded that the police hand over the Kannada activists to them. The police detained Desai and others. Dalvi later filed a complaint with the Tilakwadi police demanding action against Desai and others. He called for a Belagavi bandh on Tuesday, condemning the attack.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kannada-activist-blackens-face-of-mes-president-in-belagavi-1060493.html
13-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Varsities asked to digitise degrees, stop printing: Minister||Higher Education Minister C N Ashwath Narayan said Monday that degree certificates and marks sheets issued by universities are being digitised under the National Academic Depository (NAD). The Bangalore University, for instance, has digitised documents pertaining to the last 43 years, Narayan told the Legislative Council while replying to a question by Congress’ BK Hariprasad.    Karnataka occupies the top position in the NAD project, Narayan claimed.  Documents are made digitally secured to prevent incidents of fake mark sheets and academic credentials can be verified through DigiLocker, as they are stored in the Karnataka State Data Centre (KSDC). “All universities coming under the Higher Education Department have been instructed to strictly implement this project, and not to print marks sheets and certificates,” he said. Hariprasad observed that the alleged fake marks sheets scam related to Bangalore University was not an isolated issue. He said a section of media reported that it was bigger than the Vypam scam in Madhya Pradesh. “Will a comprehensive probe be conducted?” he asked. He also went on to say that some elected representatives in the country also had fake markscards.  Narayan said three cases are registered regarding fake marks sheets that were not issued by the university or government officials. They were issued by private persons. The university found that the marks sheets were fake when they were sent for verification for government recruitment, he said. When Hariprasad said a case was filed against a principal and eight students of a college at Banashankari in Bengaluru, affiliated to Bangalore University, the minister said the university was not involved. “Investigation is on and action would be taken against the guilty,” he added. In reply to a question by K Pratap Simha Nayak, Narayan clarified that the government has no proposal to bring unaided industrial training institutes (ITIs) under grant-in-aid as all seats in government and aided categories are not getting filled.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/varsities-asked-to-digitise-degrees-stop-printing-minister-1060494.html
13-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka: Chikki to replace bananas as alternative to eggs in midday meals||The Karnataka government has decided to replace bananas with groundnut-jaggery chikki for schoolkids who do not eat eggs.  Also, the department of public instruction is non-committal to the growing demand for dropping eggs from the midday meal menu. It has decided to provide chikki in place of bananas, to match the nutritional content of eggs.  The department has already held talks with the Karnataka Milk Federation (KMF) and is working out modalities for the preparation and supply of chikki. Officials said, before reaching the students, the chikki will undergo various tests to ensure nutrition levels. “We have asked KMF to prepare a sample, which will be sent to the Central Food Technology Research Institute (CFTRI) in Mysuru to test the nutrition levels. Once it is approved, we will place orders for production,” said a senior official of the department. Following objections and suggestions from nutritionists that bananas are no match to boiled eggs, the department has taken a decision to replace them with chikki.  “We have even consulted some nutritionists and they said jaggery and slightly crushed groundnut are good sources of protein and iron,” the official said. However, one of the challenges before the department in providing chikki is to avoid plastic packaging. B C Nagesh, the primary and secondary education minister, told DH, “We do not want to wrap chikki in plastic, but it is also difficult to wrap it in paper as the chikki may absorb moisture and melt. Barring this, we do not have any other problem in distributing chikki.”  “As of now, both bananas and chikki will be offered to the students. It is left to them to consume what they want. Later, based on the demand, we will decide which one to retain,” Nagesh said. The overall idea behind providing boiled eggs to children in government and aided schools of seven Kalyana Karnataka districts was to address the issue of malnutrition among kids. Eggs and bananas were introduced in the mid-day meals scheme by the union government.     Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-chikki-to-replace-bananas-as-alternative-to-eggs-in-midday-meals-1060495.html
13-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||CDS death: MLAs demand probe||Expressing shock at the demise of Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat in a helicopter crash, members of the Legislative Assembly sought a comprehensive probe into the cause of the accident. RDPR Minister K S Eshwarappa sought an investigation under a sitting Supreme Court judge to bring out the truth about the incident. "If there is anyone involved in the accident, they should be brought to book," he said. Speaking during a condolence motion in the House, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai raised concern over the accident. "There have been many accidents involving military helicopters. (In this case, however) The accident occurred despite a security blanket," he said, adding that the entire nation is concerned over the incident. Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah said that investigation into the crash is essential.  "People should know the cause of the crash, as it was a sophisticated helicopter... This is surprising. I do not suspect anyone, but people should know the reason for the crash," he said. JD(S) MLA KM Shivalinge Gowda also sought a thorough probe into the accident. The death of Kannada actor Puneeth Rajkumar was also condoled. "He was supposed to meet me on the day of his death," Bommai said. Puneeth's death was condoled by everyone in the state as if a member of their family died,  Siddaramaiah pointed out. The number of people who came to offer their last respects is unprecedented, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cds-death-mlas-demand-probe-1060496.html
13-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||MLCs demand ethanol policy, insurance for sugarcane||MLCs from sugarcane-growing areas in the North Karnataka region, who are associated with sugar factories, demanded a separate policy to promote ethanol production and also to bring the sugarcane crop under the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY). Sugar Minister Shankar Patil Munenakoppa told the Legislative Council that he would speak to Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on formulating an ethanol policy and with Agriculture Minister B C Patil on PMFBY coverage for sugarcane. The issue came up during a discussion on MLC Mahantesh Kavatagimath’s question on delay in payment to cane growers and the need for a scientific price for sugarcane.   Kavatagimath stated that the Centre is offering interest subsidy to promote ethanol production at sugar factories, and the state should also support it. MLC Laxman Savadi, also former deputy CM, said Madhya Pradesh and some other states have a separate ethanol policy and Karnataka should also have one even as grain-based ethanol manufacturing is also gaining importance. Savadi also wanted assurance from the government on the ethanol policy in the ongoing session itself. Leader of Opposition S RPatil also supported Kavatagimath’s demand to bring sugarcane under PMFBY in the wake of crop damage due to heavy rains. Saying that the government is getting up to Rs 20,000 crore direct and indirect taxes from the sugar industry and related activities, Kavatagimath and Patil suggested the government bear a portion of the premium amount to be paid by cane growers for the PMFBY. Kavatagimath also urged the government to provide Rs 10 crore special grants to S Nijalingappa Sugar Institute every year. Munenakoppa said steps are taken to reopen some closed sugar factories by March 2022, after paying pending bills to farmers. Out of 88 sugar factories in the State, 65 are working, he noted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/mlcs-demand-ethanol-policy-insurance-for-sugarcane-1060499.html
13-12-2021||West||Kangana's social media post on farmers: Won't arrest her till January 25, Mumbai Police tell HC||The city police told the Bombay High Court on Monday that they will not arrest actor Kangana Ranaut till January 25, 2022, over her social media post that allegedly linked farmers' protests to a separatist group. The police made the statement after a bench of Justices Nitin Jamdar and Sarang Kotwal said the issue involved the larger question of Ranaut's fundamental right to free speech and that the court will have to grant her some ad-interim relief. Ranaut approached the HC earlier this month, seeking that the FIR registered against her in November this year at Khar police station Mumbai, following a complaint by a Sikh organisation, be quashed. In her plea filed through advocate Rizwan Sidiquee, Ranaut said while the complainants took objection to her Instagram post made on November 21, there was no legal case made out against her. The FIR was registered against the actor following a complaint made by some members of a Sikh body that claimed Ranaut, through her Instagram post, had portrayed the farmers' protest on Delhi borders as a Khalistani movement. The police then booked Ranaut on charges of deliberately hurting the community's religious sentiments under Section 295-A of the Indian Penal Code. On Monday, Ranaut's counsel told the HC that to invoke charges under section 295-A, an accused must have made the offensive comment with the deliberate and malicious intent of hurting a particular person or a community's religious sentiments. However, in the present case, the actor had no such intention, her counsel said. The bench went through Ranaut's social media post in question and agreed with her counsel's submission. "Where is the deliberate and malicious intent here? Section 295 says that should be the sole and dominant object," the HC said to the prosecution. The bench then asked the police if they intended to arrest Ranaut in the case. Chief Public Prosecutor Aruna Pai, who appeared for the police, said the Khar police had issued a notice to Ranaut, asking her to appear before them for questioning, but the actor hadn't responded to it yet. "We have issued a notice to her (Ranaut) under Section 41A of the CrPC on December 1, but she hasn't responded. She isn't cooperating," Pai told the HC. A notice under Section 41A of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) is issued to an accused in cases where an immediate arrest is not necessary, but the accused's presence is required at the police station for questioning. Ranaut's counsel told the HC that she was willing to appear before the police, but apprehended her arrest in the case. The HC then told Pai that the Khar police will require to make a categorical statement on whether they intended to arrest Ranaut or not. "There is also the larger question of the protection of freedom of speech here. Unless the police make a statement of not arresting her (Ranaut), we'll have to grant some relief," the court said. Ranaut's counsel said the actor will appear before the Khar police on December 22. Pai then made a statement on behalf of the investigating officer in the case that the "police will not arrest her (Ranaut) until the next date of hearing in the HC." The court accepted the police's statement and posted the matter for further hearing on January 25, 2022. The HC also granted time to the complainants till the next hearing to file a reply to Ranaut's plea. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/kanganas-social-media-post-on-farmers-wont-arrest-her-till-january-25-mumbai-police-tell-hc-1060292.html
13-12-2021||West||Garbage dumping on Uran mangroves near Mumbai ends as HC steps in||Ending the nearly 15-year-long relentless flight by local people and environmentalists over dumping of garbage on mangroves in Uran across Mumbai harbour, a high-level State government meeting has resolved to shift the dumping to a faraway from the new location and thus save the sea plants. The meeting, held on last Thursday at the instance of Bombay High Court, was presided over State Environment and Climate Change Minister Aditya Thackeray, has come out with a two-pronged strategy to treat dry waste at Uran Municipal Council’s (UMC) Material Recovery Facility and send the wet waste to the dumping ground at Chal village near Panvel. Local planning agency government-owned CIDCO, which has been dilly-dallying on the issue so far, has agreed to accept the Uran garbage at Chal village. Officials said the transport burden would not be much as the UMC might have to make just two trips a week to carry the garbage to the new site, about 40 km away from Uran. Earlier, Justice Milind N. Jadhav and Justice S.J. Kathawalla had taken a strong exception to the procrastination and the “administrative failure” over finding a solution to the menace. Despite the officials’ commitment to the Court and the judicial orders, the issue remained unresolved, the Court observed taking up the writ petition filed by the Shri Hanuman Koliwada Macchimar Vikas Sanstha Maryadit. Last Tuesday, the Court finally directed the Advocate General to take up the issue with the State Environment Minister and resolve it. Hanuman Koliwada, resettlement of displaced fishing community from Nhava, is in the vicinity of the garbage dump at Bori Pakhadi which also has been posing health hazards. During the prolonged campaign, NatConnet Foundation moved the Prime Minister twice over the way the Swachh Bharat movement has been thrown to the winds. The PMO responded by directing the Maharashtra Urban Development Department to immediately look into the issue. The High Court-appointed Mangrove Protection and Conservation Committee have, on a complaint from NatConnect and Shri Ekvira Aai Pratishtan, directed CIDCO and the Raigad District Collector to stop the destruction of mangroves and find an alternative dumping place. At the instance of the two NGOs and the local pressure, the revenue department even filed an FIR at Uran police station against the UMC. “Yet, sadly nothing affected all the officials collectively and the garbage dumping continued with intermittent fires that filled the air with nasty stink and gases,” NatConnect Director B N Kumar said on Monday after he secured a copy of the minutes of the meeting.  “Ant bhala toh sab bhala,” said local activist Samir Ashrit who has relentlessly spearheaded the fight. “Uran municipal council denies notwithstanding, we have seen draining of even sewer water carried by tankers,” Kumar said in a press statement.  Advocate Meenaz Kakalia said the advocate general presented the minutes of the government meeting to the Court on Monday. The next hearing is fixed for January to review the progress of implementation. Advocate General Ashutosh Kumbhakoni briefed the officials that included Additional Revenue Secretary Nitin Karir, Principal Secretary UDD-2 Mahesh Pathak, Principal Secretary, Environment & Climate Change Manisha Mhaiskar, CIDCO MD Dr Sanjay Mukherji, Konkan Divisional Commissioner Vilas Patil, MPCB Member Secretary Ashok Shingare, Raigad collector Dr Mahendra Kalyankar, Deputy Conservator of Forest Ashish Thakare and Uran Municipal Council Chief Officer Santosh Mali. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/garbage-dumping-on-uran-mangroves-near-mumbai-ends-as-hc-steps-in-1060319.html
13-12-2021||West||Maharashtra govt hands over new curriculum on environment and climate change to education department||In a major initiative to inculcate climate-consciousness and green values in the GenNext, the Maharashtra government is introducing a comprehensive curriculum for Grades I-VIII developed by the Department of Environment and Climate Change and UNICEF. The Majhi Vasundhara (MV) Curriculum aims at inculcating application-based awareness on issues such as climate change in students from Grades I-VIII with a balance between traditional and local knowledge.  Going away from the predominant informational style of learning, the MV Curriculum will develop an understanding of the environmental ecosystem through projects and activities.  The four themes of this curriculum are Biodiversity Conservation, Solid Waste Management and Personal & Community Health, Water Resource Management, and Energy, Air Pollution and Climate Change. Environment, Tourism and Protocol Minister Aaditya Thackeray handed over the MV Curriculum to School Education Minister Prof Dr Varsha Gaikwad on Monday. “In this hour of climate emergency, the survival of the human race on Earth entirely depends on our actions. Introducing this curriculum is our attempt at getting the next generation to start with a green thumb and be proactively involved in a pro-earth lifestyle. This curriculum is developed with the help of UNICEF to create awareness about climate change and instil responsibility towards our planet in primary school education,” said Thackeray.  "Education is about helping children better interact with their environment. Through the curriculum, to be introduced in schools, we hope to prepare young minds to respect, protect and save the environment,” added Prof Gaikwad.  Thackeray started My Vasundhara (My Earth) innovative initiative for environmental conservation and protection. This initiative focuses on all the five elements of nature known as “Panchmahabhutas”. It includes Bhumi (land), Jal (water), Vayu (air), Agni (energy), Sky (augmentation).  Through this initiative, the Department of Environment and Climate Change will make the citizens aware of the issues of climate change and environmental problems and make efforts for the betterment of the environment. The development of this curriculum was initiated on December 3, 2020, by the Government of Maharashtra and partner organisations including United Nations Children’s Fund Maharashtra, Regional Centre for Urban and Environmental Studies of All India Institute of Local Self Government, Mumbai, Centre for Environment Education, Pune and other domain experts. This school curriculum which has been developed by the Department of Environment and Climate Change, with the help of UNICEF and experts in the field, is in the form of activity-based lesson plans. The process of development of the MV Curriculum involved – assessment of existing curriculum, development of a framework for the lesson plans and development of the lesson plans, complementing the existing curriculum. The focus of the lesson plans has been on learning pedagogy and enhancing the cognitive skills of the students. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-govt-hands-over-new-curriculum-on-environment-and-climate-change-to-education-department-1060396.html
13-12-2021||West||Prakash Ambedkar’s VBA allies with IUML, RJD ahead of BMC polls||In a significant political decision, the Prakash Ambedkar-led Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi (VBA) has decided to forge an alliance with Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) in the run-up to elections to the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC).  Ambedkar, a lawyer by profession, is the grandson of Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar, the chief architect of India’s Constitution.  The Lalu Prasad-founded RJD — a major player in Bihar, and IUML — which has a political presence in Kerala and Tamil Nadu, will come in handy to the VBA as Mumbai is home to different migrant communities.  It may be mentioned that in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, VBA had forged an alliance with the Asaduddin Owaisi-led All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM)  - and the alliance damaged the prospects of the Congress-NCP alliance, which ultimately benefited the BJP. However, ahead of the 2019 Maharashtra Legislative Assembly elections, the alliance broke. Under the banner of VBA, Ambedkar has managed to bring a large section of Dalits, Tribals, Dhangars, Kolis, Agris, Banjaras, Malis, Kaikadis and other communities together. “We have decided to have an alliance with RDJ and IUML… some more parties are expected to join in the days to come and accordingly we would decide the seat-sharing formula,” said Ambedkar, a former MP, who had been to Lok Sabha as well as Rajya Sabha.  According to available information, the VBA plans to contest in areas like Chembur, Dharavi, Govandi, Kurla, Bhandup, Vile Parle, Borivali, Dadar, Kandivali and Jogeshwari. The BMC polls are expected around February-March 2022.  The BMC polls are going to be interesting as the Congress has decided to go alone. However, the Uddhav Thackeray-led Shiv Sena, which has been ruling the corporation for quarter of a century, is working on an alliance with Sharad Pawar-led NCP. On the other hand, the BJP is trying to rope in the Raj Thackeray-led Maharashtra Navnirman Sena.  Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/prakash-ambedkar-s-vba-allies-with-iuml-rjd-ahead-of-bmc-polls-1060410.html
13-12-2021||West||Congress acting like a sluggish 'zamindaar' in fight against BJP: Mamata||Making a public call for the pan-India defeat of the BJP, Trinamool Congress founder and West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday slammed the Congress, accusing it of behaving like a lazy zamindaar, not only unwilling to take on the ruling party, but also not letting other parties take the battle to the BJP. Banerjee, who was speaking at a party meeting in South Goa on Monday to induct a sitting MLA and former Chief Minister Churchill Alemao into the party, also said that the Congress, if it really wants to take on the BJP, should join TMC's alliance in Goa with regional parties. "Khell Zaatlo' or 'Khela Hobe' (Game on) politically against BJP. Everybody wants the BJP to go. Not only from Goa, from UP, Punjab, from India, politically. Everybody has seen the performance, zero tolerance and zero governance," Banerjee said at the party rally. "They are trying to finish the country, the democracy, the Constitution, the heritage not only in Goa, but in every part of this country. They have changed history in so many places," she added. Slamming the lack of initiative by the Congress, in the opposition party's fight against the ruling BJP, Banerjee said: "We have seen in India that some political parties consider themselves as zamindaars. They do not do anything and do not let the others do anything. How many days did we wait?". "I do not want to speak against the Congress. If the Congress thinks of working to defeat the BJP, we have no objection. We have formed an alliance in Goa along with MGP. This is the alternative. You want to join, join us. Just because you are not doing it, no one else will do it, this is not right," the West Bengal Chief Minister said. "Anyone is welcome to join the alliance, join in. If you do not want to split the vote, come and work with us. But we will not allow BJP to win this time. We should beat them in Punjab, Goa, everywhere. We will help with alternatives," she added Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/congress-acting-like-a-sluggish-zamindaar-in-fight-against-bjp-mamata-1060437.html
13-12-2021||West||Maharashtra records 2 new cases of Omicron Covid variant; count rises to 20||Maharashtra reported two more patients infected with the Omicron variant of SARS-CoV2 - both having a travel history to Dubai - taking the overall tally of those affected with the new strain in the state to 20, the health department said on Monday. Both the patients, including a woman, are asymptomatic and were fully vaccinated, the health department added. “Two new cases have been found to be infected with Omicron, according to a report released today by the National Institute of Virology - one from Latur and one from Pune,” the department said. Covid-19 is caused by the SARS-CoV-2 virus. The Pune case is a 39-year old woman, while the Latur patient is a 33-year-old male. Both the patients have a travel history to Dubai, it said in a bulletin. It said three close contacts of both these patients have been traced and all are found to be negative. The bulletin said a total of 85,078 passengers have arrived from abroad in the state since December 1 through Mumbai, Pune and Nagpur airports. Of these, 12,996 travellers were from 'at-risk' countries and RT-PCR tests were conducted on all of them, the department added. The first case of Omicron, classified as a variant of concern by the WHO, was reported in Maharashtra earlier this month. So far, such cases have been reported from Mumbai, Pune district, Nagpur and Thane district. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-records-2-new-cases-of-omicron-covid-variant-count-rises-to-20-1060456.html
