14-12-2021||Comment||Wake up Derek, and smell the coffee||Trinamool Congress’ Derek O’Brien, the former quiz master and the party’s intellectual, recently called on Congress leaders to “wake up and smell the coffee”, hoping that the strong brew would alert them that the ground is fast shifting under their feet.  For the last couple of months, the Trinamool Congress (TMC), led by Mamata Banerjee, goaded by her election strategist Prashant Kishor, has been poaching Congress deadwood in various parts of the country, from Goa to Meghalaya to Tripura. On December 1, in Mumbai, standing next to NCP supremo Sharad Pawar, Mamata said, “Where is the UPA now? It’s history”, a sentiment that was obviously not shared by Pawar. Her hubris and belief in her own charisma was truly astounding. It cannot be dismissed as arrogance, for she has proved beyond doubt her enormous influence over the Bengali voters who, on her word, routed the two most powerful manipulators of the Indian electorate in the present decade, who also enjoy full access to central government machinery and thousands of crores in anonymous donations in their war-chest.  Surely, Mamata knows better than anyone that winning in Bengal is very different from winning at the national level. Hence, she is tying up with fellow regional parties such as the NCP and the Shiv Sena, though the latter is yet to commit support to her. Let us examine the standing of TMC, region-wise. In UP, Uttarakhand, Bihar, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand — the Hindi heartland — the TMC has no presence whatsoever. In the southern states of Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Kerala, again the TMC has no presence. Nor is the TMC present in Punjab, Haryana, Maharashtra and Gujarat. Can a party that hopes to be a national alternative to the BJP be absent in 16 major states of the country? And how can they forget that Congress got 19.5% vote share in the 2019 national elections, to that of 4.1% for the TMC? Does the TMC really have a national standing? Wake up, Derek, and smell the coffee. Prashant Kishor is right in saying that “the idea and space that the Congress represents is vital for a strong Opposition. But Congress’ leadership is not the divine right of an individual, especially when the party has lost more than 90% of elections in the last 10 years.”  But the question is, Prashant ji, why has no other party been able to capture that idea and space and secure the people’s mandate? How has the BJP, with a perverse idea of religion and false nationalism, captured the mindscape of our country?  Of course, Congress is a sad mess today. It is nobody’s case that Rahul Gandhi can take on Narendra Modi, nor is the Congress alone sufficient and adequate as an Opposition force. It must tie up alliances at the regional level and those regions include areas dominated by Akhilesh Yadav, Tejashwi Yadav, Uddhav Thackery, Sharad Pawar, M K Stalin, Jagan Reddy, Pinyari Vijayan, and possibly Kejriwal, too. And who will they choose between Mamata and Sonia Gandhi?  Mamata Banerjee, like Sonia Gandhi, is not the leader of any caste group, so she must position herself as a pan-caste leader, with a regional identity that is at once a cultural and linguistic identity – Bengali culture in Bengali land. And that very strength that protected her from the marauding Gujarati duo, limits her appeal. Whatever appeal Sonia Gandhi has is not limited to a caste or region.  A united front must be based on certain foundational consensus. First is that the chairperson of the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) should not be a contestant for the top job. And Sonia Gandhi has a track record of refusing the crown twice, in 2004 and 2009. Will she ask Rahul Gandhi not to aspire to it if the party were to emerge as the single largest party in 2024? Knowing how hysterical she was about protecting her family from entering politics after the assassinations of her mother-in-law and her husband, she may well prevail on Rahul Gandhi to refuse the crown. And besides, Rahul Gandhi has himself always been a reluctant leader, accustomed to power rather than accountability. He may, in fact, refuse the top job. Who knows who will emerge as the dark horse, as Manmohan Singh did in 2004?  Secondly, the leader of such a united front should have a clear and proven track record of consistently opposing the BJP ideologically and organisationally. Sadly, Mamata Banerjee doesn’t fit the bill here, having been a cabinet minister twice in the BJP cabinet, even after the Gujarat carnage.  Thirdly, with the Sarada and Narada scams behind her and the excessive affection for her nephew Abhishek Banerjee, Mamata has perhaps inherited more scams and infirmities than Sonia Gandhi, whose singular weakness of putra-moh may be stifling the Congress. The voters, indeed, have a devil’s choice. Since Derek O’Brien comes from the land of revolutionaries, he must be familiar with Chairman Mao. And Mao said, “In politics, you should recognise the primary contradiction or antagonism first, and then the secondary contradictions”. Here, the primary antagonism is between secular and communal forces, and the latter must be defeated first. Instead, if you focus on secondary contradictions, you may win smaller battles, but you will lose the war. He should tell his leader that the Congress is not the main enemy here. And that following the strategy of Prashant Kishor, the spurned ‘Chanakya’ who is out to destroy the Congress, will only end up strengthening the BJP. Or better still, please advise Mamata Banerjee to contest in Uttar Pradesh and test the waters. There, it must be said, Priyanka Gandhi is at least fighting the big battle, unlike others who are buying up MPs with lost causes.   (The writer is a former Cabinet Secretariat official)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/wake-up-derek-and-smell-the-coffee-1060851.html
14-12-2021||First Edit||We know where such ideas come from||The questioner is judged by the questions asked while those who answer them are judged by the answers they give. Judged by this norm, the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) comes off as a questioner with retrograde views and poor taste, having told students to answer questions based on a passage full of wrong ideas. The Class 10 English Board exam held on Sunday had a comprehension passage full of sexist and patriarchal ideas. It said that the “emancipation of the wife destroyed parents’ authority over children”. It also said that “women gaining independence is the main reason for a wide variety of social and family problems’’ and “Wives stop obeying their husbands and that is the main reason children and servants are indisciplined.” This was followed by the assertion that “it was only by accepting her husband’s way that a mother could gain obedience over (sic) the younger ones”. The students were to read the passage and tick the right answers to questions asked about it.   The CBSE has expressed regret and dropped the question after nationwide outrage over the passage. Congress president Sonia Gandhi raised the issue in Parliament and sought an explanation. The CBSE has also promised to set up an expert committee to review and strengthen the question-setting process. It is unfortunate that there is no such mechanism now. Questions should be set by experts who know their meaning, too, not just their answers. Students of the most impressionable age were taking the exam and the passage presented misogynistic ideas as obvious truth. This was worse than asking the students whether these ideas were right or wrong. The CBSE has agreed that the passage was not in accordance with guidelines and has termed the incident as unfortunate, but some questions about it will remain.  The controversial passage reaffirms some of the entrenched ideas and attitudes in our society. Education is meant to fight these ideas and to prevent children’s minds from being contaminated with them. The enrolment of girl students in schools and colleges is encouraged and their numbers are increasing. Promotion of the ideas of equal status of men and women and gender justice is an important aim of education, but incidents like this defeat that purpose. Routine mistakes occur in CBSE examinations -- out-of-syllabus questions, grammatical errors, and incorrect keys, etc. But the passage in Sunday’s exam was quite something else. We know where such ideas come from. The question is, how did CBSE become tainted with them. The largest board of education in the country must make public the results of its inquiry, fix responsibility, and ensure that such ‘mistakes’ do not occur again. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/we-know-where-such-ideas-come-from-1060846.html
14-12-2021||In Perspective||IAF chopper crash: Let it be probed, don’t speculate||When Gen. Bipin Rawat’s helicopter crashed on December 8, killing him, his wife and 11 others, various experts discussed every aspect and fallout of the accident on television. Inevitably, the most discussed question was, how could the accident have happened, with the obvious but underlying thought process of who or what was to blame. At this point, it would be appropriate to dwell on the mechanics of the investigation and focus on the human factor.  Indubitably, the Mi-17 V5 helicopter was a new and state-of-the-art machine, the crew highly qualified, operating conditions well within their capabilities – in fact, the accident should not have taken place. Except, against all odds, it did happen.  A flying accident never has a single cause. There are always contributing factors, some deep-seated and difficult to identify. There are many links in the chain that links the flight to a safe conclusion or results in a mishap, and weakness in any link has serious consequences. What is generally forgotten is that the purpose of the accident inquiry is to identify the cause of the accident, to prevent recurrence. Attribution of blame is secondary. An accident investigation is not a kangaroo court to attribute blame.  When a flight takes place, it is assumed that the crew are mentally and physically fit, they have had adequate rest and nourishment, their aircraft is fully serviceable, weather conditions are favourable for the mission, and every parameter is within laid down limits. When an accident happens, the investigation takes none of these assumptions for granted.  The Court of Inquiry studies the crew qualifications, their total experience and experience on that type of aircraft, including recent flying, their experience in that area of operations, their accident or incident records, their competence and experience for that mission. Weather conditions and all other aspects peculiar to the mission, the authorisation and briefing for the sortie, any possibility – however unlikely – of sabotage or external attack by an air-to-ground missile, are checked out.  These helicopters carry a complex flight data recorder (FDR), and a cockpit voice recorder (CVR) – popularly called ‘black box’, designed to withstand any kind of crash. Every single flight and engine parameter is recorded in the CVR, and provides an accurate split-second by second indication of anything that could have possibly gone wrong with the engine or airframe. The CVR records every word spoken by the crew of the helicopter, giving invaluable insights as to what could have happened. All aeromedical factors are considered. The physical and mental fitness of the aircrew, their composure before and during the mission, details of their food and drink before the mission, the workload they have been subjected to, their level of fatigue based on the duration they have flown and the flying conditions – nothing is left out. This forms part of the human factors that could have led to an error by the aircrew or by the maintenance staff, or both. Every part of the wreckage of the aircraft is retrieved and examined in microscopic detail. Modern technology allows an astounding level of information and detail to be obtained from crashed aircraft components.  The study of human factors involved in the accident is a major part of the investigation. The training, briefing, supervision and execution of the sortie are studied, for any inadequacies. Any degradation in performance of the aircrew due to distraction caused by the surroundings and conditions of the flight, the nature of any malfunction that may have taken place, even the seniority difference between the captain and the co-pilot, and the possibility of any friction between the crew members leading to a lack of concentration is studied by the investigation board.  For the first time in the country, there will be a tri-Services investigation, and we can rest assured that it will be conducted with absolute thoroughness and without a single detail being left out of consideration. Therefore, it serves little purpose for media discussions of the possible causes, day in and day out, with unfounded assumptions made. Sadly, this happened even when the funeral cortege of Gen. Rawat was on its way to the cremation ground.  No machine, however new, well designed, or equipped with the very latest in sophistication is infallible. No human being, no matter how competent, qualified or experienced, is immune from making a mistake. The investigation will take time but will be exceedingly detailed. Until the findings are made known, it is best if conjecture for the sake of drama and ‘newsworthiness’ are avoided.  (The writer is a helicopter pilot and instructor with 12,000 flying hours) Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/iaf-chopper-crash-let-it-be-probed-don-t-speculate-1060847.html
14-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Disproportionate assets: Junior assistant gets 6-year jail||The Third Additional District Sessions Court convicted and sentenced junior assistant working at Karnataka Food and Civil Supplies Corporation Ltd depot in Shakthinagar to six years of imprisonment for amassing assets disproportionate to his known sources of income. The convicted is M V Rajan Nambiar. The court has slapped a fine of Rs 75 lakh. If he fails to pay the fine, the court has asked him to undergo two more years of imprisonment. Lokayukta police had raided the house of convict on January 28, 2014, and a case was registered against him for amassing wealth. Judge B B Jakathi pronounced the judgement. DySP Umesh Shet had carried out the raid and the investigation was partly conducted by Dilip Kumar, Lokayukta inspector. Inspector Vijaya prasad submitted charge sheet to the court. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/disproportionate-assets-junior-assistant-gets-6-year-jail-1060535.html
14-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Heritage school building demolished in Mangaluru||The demand for restoration of 156-year-old heritage Nellikatte Government School building in Puttur not only fell on deaf ears but the building itself has been demolished, drawing criticism from all quarters. Elderly citizens in Puttur recollect that Jnanpith awardee Kota Shivaram Karanth used to initiate theatre activities, including drama, Yakshagana, children’s play and other cultural activities, in the same school premises from 1934 to 1944. It was only after resident Dr S N Amrith Malla brought the issue of demolition to the notice of DDPI Malleswamy, that the officer on Monday issued a letter asking Puttur block education officer to visit the spot and verify the demolition. “If the building is demolished without seeking permission of the department, then notice should be served to the headmaster and school development and management committee of the school. The report on the action taken should be submitted to the department of public instruction on December 15,” the circular stated. In fact, the DDPI office in Mangaluru had sent a letter to the commissioner of Department of Public Instruction on December 29, 2020 seeking the release of funds for the repair of the heritage structure. In the letter, the DDPI (administration) had stated that the school building was over 100 years old. Assistant executive engineer, Panchayat Raj division of Puttur had prepared an estimate for Rs 53 lakh to take up the repair works. Amrith Malla had even drawn the attention of Prime Minister’s office to the neglected condition of the school building on January 14,2019. In his complaint, Malla said that he had been urging Dakshina Kannada deputy commissioner and DK zilla panchayat chief executive officer to take up restoration for the past five to six years. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/heritage-school-building-demolished-in-mangaluru-1060543.html
14-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Telugu writer chosen for Kuvempu National Award||Rashtrakavi Kuvempu Pratishtana based in Kuppali in Thirthahalli taluk has chosen noted Telugu writer P Satyavathi for Kuvempu National Award for the year 2021. It would be conferred on her in a programme slated to be held in Shivamogga district on December 29. In a press note, Rashtrakavi Kuvempu Pratishtana Secretary Kadidal Prakash said, "The award carries a cash prize of Rs five lakh and silver medal. Kuvempu National award selection committee headed by writer Hampa Nagarajaiah selected Satyavathi for the award for the year 2021 in a meeting held on December 9 in Bengaluru. Kendra Sahitya Akademi Secretary K Srinivas Rao, writer Ashwathnarayana Ghattamaraju, playwright K Y Narayanaswamy were members of the selection committee."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/telugu-writer-chosen-for-kuvempu-national-award-1060546.html
14-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||MLC Polls: BJP, Congress candidates win Vijaypura-Bagalkot dual membership segment||Vijayapura-Bagalkot legislative Council (dual membership) constituency Congress candidate Sunil Gouda Patil won by securing 3,178 first preferential votes.  BJP candidate P H Pujar too won the polls by bagging 2,203 first preferential votes.  Independent candidate Mallikarjun Loni secured 1,460 first preferential votes. The results are yet to be announced officially. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mlc-polls-bjp-congress-candidates-win-vijaypura-bagalkot-dual-membership-segment-1060637.html
14-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Around 1,000 KPSC aspirants miss exam as train delayed by 5 hours||Around 1,000 persons, who were travelling to Kalaburagi to attend KPSC competitive exam for recruitment of assistant executive engineers (AEE), could not attend the exam as the Hasan-Solapur Express (11312) was delayed by nearly 5 hours. Many aspirants in south Karnataka had travelled to Hassan in an effort to reach the exam on time, while the Railways was made aware of the students' concerns several days before the exam date.  Stranded in Raichur, hundreds of angry aspirants blocked the railway track demanding justice. The railway officials who came to pacify them had to face flak.  Rekha, an aspirant from Chitradurga, said the train left at 8.30 pm on Sunday. "This is an exam that was postponed for more than two and a half years. We were supposed to reach Kalaburagi at 6.30 am. The five hours delay has caused great injustice. Let them reschedule the exam and give us another chance," she demanded. However, the South Central Railway (SCR) which had scheduled non-interlocking work on December 12, 13 and 14 did not consider the concerns of the students, who lost the chance to write the exam that began at 10 am. Mahendra, an aspirant, told Deccan herald that students were unnecessarily made to suffer. "The express train got delayed by 4-5 hours. So we could not reach exam centre on time. There were around 800-900 serious aspirants on the train," he said.  Abhishek R, an activist, noted that the railways could have postponed the work by a day. "Work was anyway delayed by many days and one more day wouldn't have had any impact. They are playing with the future of Karnataka students," he said. From the South Western Railway, Chief Public Relations Officer E Vijaya said several trains were delayed because of technical issues involved in the line-block that was set up for ongoing doubling works in Hindupur. "Some trains were detained last night. Efforts were made to improve their running and real-time monitoring is being done. Basava Express reached Kalaburagi at 8.11 am and Solapur-Hassan express reached Yesvantpur at 8.15 am," she said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/around-1000-kpsc-aspirants-miss-exam-as-train-delayed-by-5-hours-1060659.html
14-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||MLC Polls: BJP, Congress win a seat each in Dakshina Kannada constituency||The BJP and the Congress have both retained their seats in the Legislative Council election from the Dakshina Kannada local authorities constituency. The election was held on December 10. Bharatiya Janata Party candidate Kota Srinivas Poojary and the Congress candidate Manjunath Bhandari won the election. For Kota Srinivas Poojary, this is the fourth term in the Legislative Council while for Bhandari, this is the first term. The counting, which commenced at 8 am, was completed by 12.20 pm at Rosario School and College in Mangaluru. Both the candidates won with first preference votes. While Kota Srinivas Poojary won 3,672 first preference votes, Manjunath Bhandari won 2,097 first preference votes and Shafi Bellare of SDPI secured 204 votes. Of the total 6,011 votes, 56 ballot papers were invalid. The quota required a candidate to be declared winner was fixed at 1,986 after calculations. The quota is calculated with the total number of valid votes, divided by number of seats to be filled, plus 1. In the election held in 2015, Kota Srinivas Poojary had secured 2,977 first preference votes, while Congress candidate Prathapchandra Shetty had polled 2,237 votes. The total votes polled in 2015 was 6,534. It was BJP candidate Kota Srinivas Poojary who had won the Dakshina Kannada local authorities constituency seat from the Congress in 2008. Srinivas Poojary had defeated his Congress rival Nithyananda Mundodi by a margin of 293 votes then. The by-election in 2008 was necessitated, following the death of Congress MLC Blasius M D’Souza whose term was to have expired on January 5, 2010. Later, in 2010, Kota and Prathapchandra Shetty were both elected to the Legislative Council unanimously. Winners speak Speaking to reporters, a jubilant Kota Srinivas Poojary said “I have won the poll without spending a single rupee on the voters. This is an expected victory. This is the victory of the “genuine voters.” I dedicate the victory to all the party workers who worked for my victory.” “I have won thanks to the united efforts of party workers, elected representatives of undivided Dakshina Kannada district, state BJP President Nalin Kumar Kateel. I have been working for the betterment of local bodies. My desire is to empower the Panchayat Raj system.” To a query, Kota said that the party had fielded only one candidate in those constituencies that had two seats each. “I am ready to discharge my duty as a minister for any portfolio allotted to me. I was given a plum portfolio of the Social Welfare department. I have been discharging my duty as Minister for Social Welfare in a transparent manner. My aim is to bring in revolutionary reforms in the department of Social Welfare.” Attributing the victory to party workers, Congress victorious candidate, Manjunath Bhandari said “the victory was made possible by the united efforts of the Congress leaders and party workers. The party has given me an opportunity to contest the election inspite of being just a party worker. It is the victory of the party leaders.”“I have read about the panchayat raj system academically. Now, I will work for the welfare of the local bodies which I represent,” he said.   Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mlc-polls-bjp-congress-win-a-seat-each-in-dakshina-kannada-constituency-1060673.html
14-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||MLC polls: Congress clinches Mysuru-Chamarajanagar, Mandya||Congress candidate D Thimmaiah won the MLC elections to the in Mysuru-Chamarajanagar twin segment on Tuesday, securing around 2,800 votes during the counting of the first preferential votes. He will be entering the Upper House for the first time. The counting for the second preferential votes between BJP and JD(S) is under way. Mandya Congress candidate Dinesh Gooligowda has been announced as the winner in Mandya local body constituency. He has defeated BJP candidate Bookahalli Manju and JD(S) candidate N Appajigowda. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mlc-polls-congress-clinches-mysuru-chamarajanagar-mandya-1060709.html
14-12-2021||Karnataka Politics||Congress candidate Channaraj Hattiholi wins Belgaum in Legislative Council Polls||Congress candidate Channaraj Hattiholi emerged victorious in the election for the Legislative Council from Belgaum Local Authorities Constituency, for which counting of votes was held at RD PU College in Chikkodi on Tuesday. Results for the second seat were to be announced officially. Congress won back the seat it had lost in the previous elections. BJP candidate Mahantesh Kavatgimath and independent candidate Lakhan were also in close contest for the second seat. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/congress-candidate-channaraj-hattiholi-wins-belgaum-in-legislative-council-polls-1060635.html
14-12-2021||Karnataka Politics||Belgaum Legislative Counil seat: Kavatgimath, Lakhan pin hopes on second preference votes||BJP candidate Mahantesh Kavatgimath and independent Lakhan Jarkiholi were riding hopes on the second preference votes being counted for the election for Legislative Council from Belgaum Local Authorities Constituency, for which counting is in progress at RD PU College in Chikkodi on Tuesday.  After counting of first preference votes, Congress candidate Channaraj Hattiholi had polled 3,718 votes, while BJP candidate Mahantesh Kavatgimath secured 2,432 votes and independent Lakhan Jarkiholi 2,522 votes.  Hattiholi was elected the first candidate after reaching the quota of 2,899 votes among the valid votes. A total of 152 of 8,846 were invalid votes. Confusions prevailed outside the counting centre, with supporters of Lakhan Jarkiholi even celebrating victory, but later reined back celebrations after they were informed that the results were not announced and counting was in progress.  Both Kavatgimath and Lakhan Jarkiholi were awaiting calculation of second preference votes and the excess polled by the first winning candidate. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/belgaum-legislative-counil-seat-kavatgimath-lakhan-pin-hopes-on-second-preference-votes-1060683.html
14-12-2021||National||IAF Chopper crash: Expertise of private doctors tapped for treatment of lone survivor||As Group Captain Varun Singh continues to be in a critical but stable condition at the Indian Air Force’s Command Hospital in the city, a bevy of specialist doctors and experts from non-military hospitals have been approached for medical inputs.  According to sources, doctors from both government and private hospitals have been in communication with Air Force doctors at Command Hospital, advising them about medication (especially antibiotics), general care and the use of specialist medical equipment.  “This is all being done largely in an unofficial capacity, as many of our doctors know their counterparts in Command Hospital. In addition, there have been instances where patients in Command Hospital have been referred to our hospital for care,” explained a source at a large hospital in the city. The hospital declined to provide an official statement on the matter.  Specialists are said to be involved in providing their expertise on matters related to neurology, burns care and internal medicine. These developments come a day after revelations that the burns unit and the Rotary Ashirvad BMCRI Skin Bank at the Bangalore Medical Collegeand Research Institute (BMCRI) had supplied the Command Hospital with processed skin.  Sources said that the skin bank had supplied Command Hospital with 1,000 square centimetres of processed skin over the weekend. However, a skin expert noted that considering that the average human has 20,000 sq cm of skin, this is a relatively small amount.  “If the patient has suffered excessive burns, the treating hospital would need additional supplies of skin. Plus the replacement skins will have to be changed every 10 days to two weeks after application,” the expert said, adding that the skin grafts serve as natural bandages to help people with burns wounds recover faster.  However, skin experts lamented limited skin donations due to the pandemic. “It is only since September that there has been a boost to donations. We have had about six donations per month, which is three times more than previous months, where donations numbered between one and two,” the expert said.  The doctor added that prognosis was grim for the patient adding that while in western countries, patients with up to 93% burns “survive for weeks”, in India, patients with over 20% burns often do not.  Skin received from skin donations can not be used as is and must go through a process of chemical and microbial cleansing before they can be applied on burn victims. This takes at least eight weeks. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iaf-chopper-crash-expertise-of-private-doctors-tapped-for-treatment-of-lone-survivor-1060547.html
14-12-2021||National||Neither PM nor finance minister know economics, says Subramanian Swamy||BJP MP Subramanian Swamy here on Monday criticised his party’s government at the Centre, saying neither the PM nor the finance minister know economics. He also held the Union finance minister responsible for the price rise it the country, saying she does not consult anyone. The government does not understand economics, neither the PM knows nor the finance minister," he told reporters, adding that they do consult anyone over it. They do not know what to do even when the growth rate has declined, the MP said. On some Hindutva groups’ claim that places of Hindu worship once stood at spots where now mosques are located, the MP said the Centre is yet to respond to the suit filed by him for the repealing of the Places of Worship (Special Provisions) Act, 1991. The Act prohibits the filing of a lawsuit to reclaim a place of worship or seek a change in its character from what prevailed on August 15, 1947. Some Hindutva groups have demanded to reclaim religious places at Mathura and Kashi. The BJP leader also said he is not satisfied with the way the government dealt with China over border issue.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/neither-pm-nor-finance-minister-know-economics-says-subramanian-swamy-1060562.html
14-12-2021||National||DH Toon | PM takes 'dip' for UP poll campaign||The stage was set for the inauguration of the first phase of the ambitious Kashi Vishwanath Corridor project on Monday, with Prime Minister Narendra Modi arriving here. Modi also took part in a 'cruise baithak' and enjoyed watching fireworks and festivities to be hosted at ghats of the ancient city. He also took holy dip in River Ganga at Varanasi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-pm-takes-dip-for-up-poll-campaign-1060577.html
14-12-2021||National||India logs 5,784 new Covid-19 cases, 252 deaths||India logged 5,784 new coronavirus infections, the lowest in 571 days, while the active cases declined to 88,993, the lowest in 563 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. With the fresh cases, India's total tally of Covid cases climbed to 3,47,03,644. The death toll due to the viral disease has shot up to 4,75,888 with 252 more fatalities, according to the ministry's data updated at 8 am. The number of fresh cases of the coronavirus infection has been recorded below 15,000 for the last 47 days now. The number of active coronavirus cases in the country has declined to 88,993, accounting for 0.26 per cent of the total caseload and the lowest since March 2020, while the national Covid -19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.37 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. A decline of 2,463 cases was recorded in the active Covid -19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 0.58 per cent. It has been less than two per cent for the last 71 days.The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 0.68  per cent. It has been below one per cent for the last 30 days, according to the health ministry. The number of patients who have recovered from the infection has gone up to 3,41,38,763, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.37 per cent. The total number of Covid -19 vaccine doses administered in the country so far has exceeded 133.88 crore. India's Covid -19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.  India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 252 new fatalities include 203 from Kerala and 12 from Tamil Nadu. Of the 203 deaths in Kerala, 38 were recorded over the last few days and 165 were designated as Covid-19 deaths after receiving appeals based on the new guidelines of the Centre and the directions of the Supreme Court, a Kerala state government release said on Monday. A total of 4,75,888 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,41,264 from Maharashtra, 43,170 from Kerala, 38,268 from Karnataka, 36,624 from Tamil  Nadu, 25,100 from Delhi, 22,914 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,610 from  West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-logs-5784-new-covid-19-cases-252-deaths-1060585.html
14-12-2021||National||Tharoor-led Parliament panel questions MeitY officials on hacking of PM Modi's Twitter handle: Report||Top officials of the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) have been questioned about the hacking of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's Twitter handle and the Pegasus issue by a parliamentary panel led by Congress leader Shashi Tharoor, sources said. The officials deposed before the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology on the subject of safeguarding citizens' rights and prevention of misuse of social/online news media platforms, including special emphasis on women security in the digital space. During the course of the proceedings on Monday, panel chairman Tharoor questioned about the alleged hacking of phones using spyware Pegasus, to which the officials responded that the matter is subjudice, the sources said. "When Tharoor sought their cooperation, officials simply ducked the question by saying that they have nothing to say on Pegasus," a source claimed. Members of the panel also questioned MeitY officials about the hacking of Prime Minister Modi's Twitter handle, but sources claimed the officials appeared clueless about the issue and stated what was already available in the public domain. Prime Minister Modi's Twitter handle was briefly hacked on Sunday and a tweet claiming that India has "officially adopted bitcoin as legal tender" was put out from it. The Prime Minister's Office later said the account was immediately secured after the matter was escalated to Twitter.  According to reports, Twitter has stated that it is directly in touch with PMO over the issue. This is not the first time that a Twitter handle associated with the prime minister has been compromised. In September 2020, the handle of his personal website was hacked and even then tweets promoting Bitcoin, seen to be linked to a scam, were posted from @narendramodi_in. Modi's accounts are not alone in being targeted by hackers for pushing bitcoin, a cryptocurrency, as handles of several noted public personalities, including Barack Obama and Bill Gates besides those from fields like entertainment, have been targeted in the past.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tharoor-led-parliament-panel-questions-meity-officials-on-hacking-of-pm-modis-twitter-handle-report-1060626.html
14-12-2021||National||Serum Institute plans to launch Covid vaccine for children in six months||The Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) plans to launch a Covid-19 vaccine for children in the next six months even as it is developing an effective booster dose for doubly-vaccinated persons in the wake of virus undergoing mutation.  The announcements came from SII CEO Adar Poonawala at the CII Partnership Summit 2021, organised in association with the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT), Ministry of Commerce and Industry. On the Omicron virus, Poonawala apprised that they are working towards developing the vaccine booster shot which is more effective. “On the back of enough data, it is safe to say that booster vaccines are a proven strategy to get antibodies up to a great extent,” he added.  A CII statement quoted Poonawala saying that globally, the supply of the vaccines has outmatched its demand.  “To keep up with the momentum, countries need to come together and form some agreement in order to prepare standard rules for clinical trials and manufacturing of the vaccines. Multilateral organisations and policy makers should be able to identify and isolate the new mutation/s and find out the efficacy of vaccines against it, in a time bound manner,” he said.  “Joining the two other companies which are working towards developing the vaccine for children, SII has reached the trial phase of the vaccine for the children aged above 3 and should be ready within the next 6 months, '' Poonawala stated.  According to him, in the last two years of the pandemic, India is now better prepared to deal with such a catastrophe, and hopefully the worst is behind us all.  “The Government of India has been working towards creating an effective healthcare system and has made enough provision for hospital beds and oxygen,” he said.  Commending the Government of India’s role in tackling the challenges posed by the pandemic in the last two years, he stated that going forward, Government and Industry should work even more closely to further improve the business environment and simplify the rules and regulations for manufacturers to expand the sector.  Check out DH's latest videos on Covid:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/serum-institute-plans-to-launch-covid-vaccine-for-children-in-six-months-1060644.html
14-12-2021||National||Gender stereotyping row: AIADMK slams CBSE||NDA constituent and main opposition in Tamil Nadu, the AIADMK on Tuesday rued the controversial question in a CBSE class 10 English paper, that was slammed for gender stereotyping and sought action against those responsible for it. AIADMK Coordinator O Panneerselvam said CBSE was duty bound to advice those setting question papers to ensure the content was not against the society, while controversial and those that "could incite violence" should be avoided. "CBSE also has a responsibility to monitor if the question paper is framed accordingly," Panneerselvam said in a party statement here. In the class 10 exam conducted on Saturday, the question paper carried a comprehension passage with sentences such as "emancipation of women destroyed the parents' authority over the children" and "it was only by accepting her husband's way that a mother could gain obedience over the younger ones", among others. Excerpts from the passage have gone viral on social media platforms earlier, with users calling out the board for supporting "misogynistic" and "regressive opinions" and the hashtag "#CBSEinsultswomen" trending on Twitter. CBSE on Monday expressed regret and announced a committee to thoroughly review and strengthen the question paper setting process following the outrage, even as the Board dropped the part from the questionnaire and said full marks will be awarded to students for it. Panneerselvam, referring to a Tamil saying, implied such action from the Board was "too late." "I urge CBSE to launch a thorough probe into the matter, take action against those who had committed a mistake and ensure such things don't recur," he added. Such contentious points lead to "some kind of a confusion and discrimination" among students, he added. The AIADMK leader pointed out at the various pro-women initiatives launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi as well as those piloted by the late Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa in the past and said the sentences in question "insults freedom of women and those striving for it." Invoking national poet Subramania Bharathy, he said he was a great votary of women's emancipation and that the controversial episode amounted to "crushing his dreams." Watchh the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gender-stereotyping-row-aiadmk-slams-cbse-1060651.html
14-12-2021||National||SC allows Centre’s plea for double-lane roads on Char Dham highway project||The Supreme Court on Tuesday allowed a plea by the Union government to construct the 10-meter wide road Char Dham road project in view of recent security challenges at Indo-China border. A bench presided over Justice D Y Chandrachud said that it is essential to strike a balance between need to widen strategic roads important for national security, and the principle for sustainable development, which is crucial to protect the environment. The bench said this court can't second-guess the infrastructural needs of armed forces. The top court also constituted an oversight committee, led by former Supreme Court judge Justice A K Sikri, to ensure all remedial measures are taken in the interest of the environment and the recommendations of the high-power committee are implemented in the project. The court noted that there is no malafide in the application filed by the Ministry of Defence to widen the roads for the operational requirement of the armed forces. The bench said the highways, which are strategic roads for armed forces, cannot be compared to any other hilly or mountainous roads. The court passed its judgement on a plea filed by an NGO 'Citizens for Green Doon', challenging the widening of the road in the project. The petitioner had questioned the Stage -I forest and wildlife clearance granted for improvement and expansion of roads by felling trees. The top court had in September 2020 ordered the government to keep the width of the Char Dham road at 5.5 meters in compliance with the central government's own 2018 notification for hilly and mountainous terrains. The Char Dham highway is a 900-kilometre road project that promises to offer all-weather connectivity to four Hindu pilgrimage centres --- Badrinath, Kedarnath, Gangotri and Yamnotri ----- in Uttarakhand. During the hearing, the court had noted that army cannot be airlifted to high altitude border areas, while huge infrastructure was being built on the other side of the border. It had also wondered whether constitutional courts should interfere in the development of strategic infrastructure as per requirement of the Armed forces for defence and security of the nation, on the ground of environmental concerns. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-allows-centre-s-plea-for-double-lane-roads-on-char-dham-highway-project-1060662.html
14-12-2021||National||PM Modi asks CMs of BJP-ruled states to focus on good governance||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday asked the Chief Ministers of BJP ruled states to focus firmly on good governance and maintain a connection with party workers. Addressing a four-and-a-half-hour marathon meeting of 12 Chief Ministers and Deputy Chief Ministers from Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Goa, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Manipur and Tripura, Modi underlined the need to remain focused on good governance in order to ensure re-election. He also asked them to make sure that the implementation of welfare schemes was done in a proper manner and the benefits reached the target groups. Modi asked the Chief Ministers to make sure that they remain connected with party cadres and also ensure communication between legislators and party workers. According to sources, the Prime Minister took feedback from each of the Chief Ministers about the state of development in their states. He patiently heard out the problems and hurdles of various states. The Chief Ministers gave their report about the state of affairs in their respective states and also the steps are taken to resolve issues. Modi was particularly concerned about states that are going to the polls next year and gave inputs on how to further improve the situation. "The Prime Minister was perfectly clued in with ground realities in each state and gave us valuable advice on key issues. The marathon meeting gave all of us ample opportunity for discussion," said one of the Chief Ministers who did not wish to be named. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-asks-cms-of-bjp-ruled-states-to-focus-on-good-governance-1060674.html
14-12-2021||National||Parliament passes bills to extend tenures of directors of CBI, ED||The Parliament on Tuesday passed two bills to extend the tenure of the directors of CBI and Enforcement Directorate to a maximum of five years from the present two years, with Rajya Sabha clearing it by a voice vote even as the Opposition walked out in protest against the suspension of 12 MPs. Rajya Sabha took up The Delhi Special Police Establishment (Amendment) Bill, 2021 and The Central Vigilance Commission (Amendment) Bill, 2021 in the afternoon amid Opposition protest. The bills sought to extend the tenure of the directors of both the agencies from two years to a maximum of five years. As Deputy Chairman Harivansh refused to allow Leader of Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge to raise the issue, the latter announced the walkout. Minister of State for Personnel, Public Grievances and Pension Jitendra Singh said, "Contrary to the popular impression that has gone to certain quarters, the amendment does not seek to increase the tenure rather it seeks to put an embargo on the tenure of five years. The existing law under the Delhi Special Police Act provides for tenure not more than two years." The tenure of ED Director is being extended in the interest of national security and for the stability of the financial structure, he said. In both the cases, he said that the clause on tenure which says "not less than two years" is being amended to "go up to five years" with a one-year extension on each occasion. "Enforcement director has a very crucial role even in money laundering cases, and is possibly the only agency of its kind available in India. Most of the other countries have a much longer term. And here also, the term is not being made indefinite...," he said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parliament-passes-bills-to-extend-tenures-of-directors-of-cbi-ed-1060682.html
14-12-2021||National||Women form 48.7% of Covid-19 vaccine beneficiaries in India: MoS Health||Women accounted for 48.7 per cent of the beneficiaries who received at least one dose of a Covid-19 vaccine in the country till December 8, the government informed Parliament on Tuesday. In a written reply to a question in the Rajya Sabha on whether the number of women getting vaccinated against the coronavirus in the country was low due to a lack of awareness, Minister of State for Health Bharati Pravin Pawar said at the beginning of the nationwide Covid inoculation programme, pregnancy and lactation were contraindications for vaccination. On the basis of a review of the available scientific evidence, recommendations of domain knowledge experts and stakeholder consultation, the Ministry of Health approved vaccination of lactating women on May 19 and of pregnant women on July 2. "As on December 8, 2021, 48.70 per cent of the total Covid vaccine doses were administered to women, which approximates to the estimated proportion of women in the country's population, which is 48 per cent," the minister said. Further, the states and the Union territories have been provided with detailed guidance on preparing counselling and vaccination plans for pregnant women. A communication strategy is also in place, which is being implemented across all the states with a focus to sustain vaccine confidence, she added. Responding to a separate question, Pawar said as on December 1, a total of 124.11 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccines were administered in the country. A total of 78.9 crore beneficiaries have received at least one dose and 45.2 crore have received both doses of the vaccines. Amongst the fully-vaccinated beneficiaries, around 7.94 crore are aged 60 years and above, 12.1 crore are aged between 45 and 59 years and 22.56 crore are aged between 18 and 44 years, the minister said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/women-form-487-of-covid-19-vaccine-beneficiaries-in-india-mos-health-1060692.html
14-12-2021||National||CBSE 'sexist' passage row: Who sets exam papers & how?||Amid the difficulties posed by the ongoing pandemic, the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) fell prey to controversies yet again. A row erupted over a ‘sexist’ passage in CBSE’s Class 10 board paper and the board was accused of reinforcing gender stereotypes. The board said the passage was not in adherence with the guidelines issued by it and expressed regret over the incident.  Soon after that, the board took responsibility for it said it “acknowledges the error made and will take strict action against the responsible persons.” Who sets the CBSE papers? Two separate panels of subject experts are involved in setting up the paper for each subject, which is paper-setters and moderators. However, the identification of the experts is kept confidential. To qualify to be a paper-setter or moderator, one must hold a postgraduate degree in the subject as well as have at least 10 years of teaching experience in the same subject at secondary/senior secondary/higher education level. Alternatively, one should be working at state- or national-level education agencies of the government and part of the organisation of in-service training programmes or research/development of study materials for secondary/senior secondary students/teachers. What is the process of setting the CBSE question paper? For each subject, multiple sets of question papers are created which are then moved to the moderation phase done by either a team of moderators or an individual. The CBSE has instructed the paper setters and Moderators to “ensure that all sets of question papers are comparable, as far as possible, with regard to the concepts tested, the cognitive operation required, the scope of the answer, difficulty level, time limit and conformity with the syllabus”. Another point that the CBSE stresses on is that “each question paper has been set according to the syllabus of the subject, blueprint, design and textbooks/recommended book,” to avoid the issue of getting ‘out of syllabus' topics. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbse-sexist-passage-row-who-sets-exam-papers-how-1060696.html
14-12-2021||National||Gita a practical guide for several dimensions of life, says PM Modi||Greeting the nation on Gita Jayanti, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said the Bhagavad Gita is a practical guide for several dimensions of life and it is gladdening to see its teachings reverberate globally. Modi also shared on Twitter two recent speeches he gave on the Gita, the holy text of Hindus. "Greetings on Gita Jayanti. A practical guide for several dimensions of life, it is gladdening to see the teachings of the Gita reverberate globally," the prime minister said in a tweet. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gita-a-practical-guide-for-several-dimensions-of-life-says-pm-modi-1060701.html
14-12-2021||National||On average, 31 minors died everyday by suicide in 2020: Govt in LS||As many as 11,396 children (below 18 years) have died by suicide in the year 2020, taking out an average of 31 minor deaths per day, according to the data furnished by the government in Parliament on Tuesday. "As per available information [by National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB)], the total number of suicide committed by children (below 18 years) during the last three years were 9431 in 2018, 9613 in 2019 and 11396 in 2020," Minister of State for Home Affairs Ajay Kumar Mishra said in a written reply in Lok Sabha. The government did not furnish the data of suicide by minors in the current year. The Minister said the Education Ministry has undertaken a proactive initiative, named 'Manodarpan' covering a wide range of activities to provide psychosocial support to students, teachers and families for Mental Health and Emotional Well being during the Covid outbreak and beyond. Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) MP from Tamil Nadu, T. R. Paarivendhar, in his question, had asked the government whether there was any rise in the cases of child suicide in the past three years. Minister Mishra informed that a webpage for 'Manodarpan' has been created on the website of the Ministry of Education, which contains advisory, practical tips, posters, videos, do's and don'ts for psychosocial support, FAQs and online query system. Further, the National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT) has started 'NCERT Counselling Services for School Children' in April, 2020 to help school students across the country share their concerns. This service is provided free of charge by about 270 counsellors across different regions of the country, the government added. The Minister further stated that mental healthcare services have also been added in the package of services under Comprehensive Primary Health Care under Ayushman Bharat-HWC Scheme. Operational guidelines on Mental, Neurological, and Substance Use Disorders (MNs) at Health and Wellness Centres (HWC) have been released under the ambit of Ayushman Bharat. Mishra apprised that the Ministry of Women and Child Development has signed a Memorandum of Understanding with NIMHANS to establish a National Initiative &amp; Integrated Resource Centre for Child Protection, Mental Health, and Psychosocial Care named "SAMVAD" at NIMHANS, at Bangalore. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/on-average-31-minors-died-everyday-by-suicide-in-2020-govt-in-ls-1060702.html
14-12-2021||National||India stuck with Covid-19 vaccines it can't export||India is struggling to export its surplus of Covid-19 vaccines as logistical hurdles delay their use in many countries despite low levels of inoculation, vaccine producer the Serum Institute of India (SII) and a government official said on Tuesday. The SII, the world's biggest vaccine maker that produces the AstraZeneca, Novavax and Sputnik Covid-19 shots, has already announced plans to temporarily halve output of the AstraZeneca drug until more orders came, including possibly through boosters. "All over the world, there is enough supply but it is getting the jabs in arms, which will take some time," SII Chief Executive Adar Poonawalla told a virtual conference organised by the Confederation of India Industry. "Certain countries have only vaccinated to the tune of 10 or 15 per cent of the population, they really need to go to 60-70 per cent. Demand is very much there, but it's going to be spread out now that the supply has superseded the monthly demand." Top Indian health official Vinod Kumar Paul told the same event that current global Covid-19 vaccine production was enough to reach the nearly 3.6 billion who have yet to receive a shot. "India is in a position to offer vaccines, but is there traction (for it)?" he asked. "The debate should be how do we accelerate the delivery, raise the capacity of absorption in many countries, particularly in the African continent." Africa's disease control body said late last month many of its nations were struggling with vaccine logistics, as inflows increased suddenly after months of delays. Some 8 per cent of Africa's total population of about 1.3 billion is fully immunised. India, with the same population, has fully vaccinated 37 per cent of them with the goal to administer two doses in all of its 939 million adults by next month. India's vaccine demand was only about 252 million doses in the past month, against a domestic production capacity of more than 345 million a month of its three main approved shots alone. The SII's monthly output of the AstraZeneca vaccine, which it brands Covishield, has nearly quadrupled since April to 250 million doses. The shot dominates India's immunisation programme but the company has no further orders from the government. The COVAX platform that distributes vaccines mainly to low-income countries has sought only about 40 million doses of Covishield from the SII between November and December after New Delhi lifted a ban on exports. COVAX, which has an option to buy up to 550 million Covishield doses, is no longer as reliant on the SII as it was before India abruptly stopped vaccine exports in April to inoculate its own as infections surged. Many vaccines have been approved since then. "It is critical that if India is to remain the pharmacy to the world that it continues to supply even during difficult times," Seth Berkeley, CEO of COVAX backer Gavi, told the industry event. "Otherwise, countries will need to look at alternate suppliers." Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-stuck-with-covid-19-vaccines-it-cant-export-1060703.html
14-12-2021||National||Flyers from at-risk nations asked to mandatorily pre-book RT-PCR tests from Dec 20||Passengers coming from 'at-risk' countries to six major Indian airports have to compulsorily pre-book for the on-arrival RT-PCR test from December 20 onwards, the Civil Aviation Ministry said on Tuesday. However, it clarified that in case a person faces any difficulty in pre-booking the test, the passenger must not be denied boarding. The six airports are in Delhi, Mumbai Kolkata, Chennai, Bengaluru and Hyderabad. According to the Union health ministry, 'at-risk countries include countries in Europe including the United Kingdom, South Africa, Brazil, Botswana, Zimbabwe, Tanzania, Hong Kong, China, Ghana, Mauritius, New Zealand and Israel. In an order on Tuesday, the Civil Aviation Ministry said: "Air Suvidha portal would be modified to allow the passengers to mandatorily pre-book the RT PCR test if they are coming from the countries 'at risk' or have visited 'at risk' countries in the last 14 days." The link to the airport website would be provided in Air Suvidha platform which would be displayed to passengers while filling up the self-declaration form, it mentioned. "To stabilise the system and to ensure that the passengers would not have any problem in pre-booking, payment, etc, it may be implemented in six metro cities, namely, Delhi, Mumbai Kolkata, Chennai, Bengaluru and Hyderabad in the first phase," it noted. Considering the convenience of the travellers, a lead time of a week would be provided, it said. This means the new system to come into effect on December 20, it stated. Aviation regulator DGCA is requested to issue advisory to all airlines to check mandatory pre -booking of their passengers before boarding the flight, it mentioned. "In case any passenger is having any difficulty in pre-booking, they may not be denied boarding, but it would be the responsibility of the airlines to identify and accompany such passengers to the registration counter at the airport for testing," it noted. Under the new norms that came into force from December 1, RT-PCR tests are mandatory for passengers arriving from "at-risk" countries, and they will be allowed to leave the airport only after the results come. Also, two per cent of passengers arriving on all flights from other countries -- such as the US -- will be subjected to the test randomly. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/flyers-from-at-risk-nations-asked-to-mandatorily-pre-book-rt-pcr-tests-from-dec-20-1060704.html
14-12-2021||National||More than half of those arrested under UAPA are below 30 years of age||More than half of 4,690 people arrested under the controversial Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act or UAPA in the past three years were below the age of 30 years with the highest number of youth coming from Uttar Pradesh, Manipur and Jammu and Kashmir. This was disclosed by Minister of State for Home Nityanand Rai in a written reply in Lok Sabha on Tuesday during which the government also made it clear that it has presently not considered any amendments to the UAPA, which has attracted criticism from Opposition politicians, activists and academicians. According to the statistics placed by the MHA in Lok Sabha, 2,501 or 53.32 per cent of the 4,690 people arrested between 2018 and 2020 under UAPA were below the age of 30 years. In 2018, there were 755 such youths out of total UAPA arrests of 1,421 while it was 1,096 out of 1,948 the next year. Last year saw 650 out of 1,321 people arrested under UAPA falling below 30 years. When it comes to states, Uttar Pradesh accounted for the highest number of 1,338 arrests in three years. Of this, 69.58 per cent or 931 people were below the age of 30 years. Manipur came second in the list with 943 arrests under UAPA during the period out of which 499 or 52.91 per cent were below the age of 30 years. In Jammu and Kashmir, this was 750 and 366 respectively. In Karnataka, only four of the eight persons who were arrested fell in the category of those who were below 30 years. Jharkhand has 218 out of 368 arrested under 30 years while for Tamil Nadu, it was 169 out of 415 and Assam 122 out of 331 respectively. During the past three years, only 149 were convicted while 325 were acquitted. According to MHA, 1,080 are on bail. "Conviction is an outcome of an elaborate judicial process and is dependent on various factors such as duration of trial, appraisal of evidence, examination of witnesses etc. There are adequate Constitutional, institutional and statutory safeguards, including inbuilt safeguards in the UAPA itself, to prevent misuse of the law," Rai said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/more-than-half-of-those-arrested-under-uapa-are-below-30-years-of-age-1060718.html
14-12-2021||National||Fertiliser production not impacted due to power shortage: Khuba||Fertiliser production was not affected due to power shortage since 2020 till now except at IFFCO’s Kandla plant unit in Gujarat, Parliament was informed on Tuesday. Minister of State for Chemicals and Fertiliser Bhagwanth Khuba, in a written reply to the Rajya Sabha, said most fertiliser plants have captive power plants and have arrangements to draw power from the grid. "There was no loss of fertiliser production due to power shortage during 2020-21 and 2021-22 except at IFFCO plant at Kandla unit...," he said. IFFCO plant at Kandla reported a loss of production of complex fertilisers of 9,460 tonnes in 202021 and 2,420 tonnes in 2021-22, he said. Responding to another query on the shortage of fertilisers, the minister said, "There is no shortage of fertilisers/urea in the country". However, in between the season, some states highlighted a shortfall of DAP fertilisers, particularly in a few districts. Based on the state government's requests, Di-ammonium Phosphate (DAP) rakes were moved to meet the requirement, he said. "The overall availability of DAP fertiliser in the country is comfortable during the ongoing rabi season 2021-22," the minister informed. Responding to a separate query on fertiliser prices, the minister mentioned that there has been an increase in prices of raw materials and finished P&K fertilisers in the global market this year. However, to support the farmers, the government has increased the subsidy rates twice for non-urea fertilisers, he added. To facilitate fresh investment in the urea sector, the minister said the government has notified the New Investment Policy-2012. The government has also notified the New Urea Policy-2015 for the existing 25 gas-based urea units to maximise indigenous urea production, promoting energy efficiency in urea production and rationalising subsidy burden on the government, he added. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fertiliser-production-not-impacted-due-to-power-shortage-khuba-1060722.html
14-12-2021||National||No community included in SC list for three years, says minister Virendra Kumar in Lok Sabha||A total of 1,258 castes or communities have so far been specified as scheduled castes, with no community included in the list in the past three years, the government said Tuesday. Responding to a question in Lok Sabha, Social Justice and Empowerment Minister Virendra Kumar said the benefits of reservations are available to members of all such castes that have been specified as Scheduled Castes in relation to a state or a Union Territory. "No community has been included in the list of Scheduled Castes during the last three years. A total of 1,258 castes/communities have so far been specified as Scheduled Castes," Kumar said in a written reply. Responding to another question, Kumar said so far, 5,414 valid applications have been received on the National Portal for Transgender Persons. Of these applications, 3,846 have been issued certificates of identity and identity cards.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-community-included-in-sc-list-for-three-years-says-minister-virendra-kumar-in-lok-sabha-1060723.html
14-12-2021||National||Chopper crash: Madras HC quashes FIR against YouTuber who posted controversial tweet||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Tuesday quashed an FIR registered under various sections of IPC, including the one that attracts sedition, against controversial YouTuber Maridhas by the Madurai Police.  Maridhas, who knocked at the doors of the judiciary against the FIR, was booked by the police for his tweet -- ‘Is Tamil Nadu turning into another Kashmir’ which was posted on the day after Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) Gen Bipin Rawat, his wife Madhulika Rawat, and 11 Army officers and personnel died in a helicopter crash in the Nilgiris.  The YouTuber, who apparently is a BJP supporter, had deleted the tweet immediately after posting it on December 9, but the Madurai Police booked him under Sections 124A (Sedition), 153A (Promoting enmity between different groups), and 504 (Intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) of the IPC.  “In the age of social media, a YouTuber or any person commenting on questions of public importance would also be entitled to the very same right which courts accord to journalists and media under Article 19(1)(a) -- Right to Freedom of Speech and Expression -- of the Constitution,” Justice G R Swaminathan of the Madurai Bench said in his order.  Additional Advocate General Veera Kathiravan, who represented the state government, defended the registration of the FIR against Maridhas. Rejecting the arguments placed by the government, the judge said Maridhas “probably realised that his reaction was unnecessary", pointing to the fact that he himself deleted the tweet.  Though the court quashed the FIR, the YouTuber will continue to remain in jail in a forgery case filed against him in 2020.  Maridhas’ arrest triggered a massive row with the BJP accusing the DMK government of throttling free speech. Tamil Nadu BJP chief K Annamalai had supported Maridhas, seeking to know what was wrong in the tweet and how did it attract sedition.  “The sedition case filed by Madurai police against Maridhas is quashed by Madurai High Court today @BJP4TamilNadu welcomes this judgment of the Hon court & will continue to fight for all the nationalist voices when it’s suppressed. Hope @arivalayam govt learnt its lesson,” Annamalai tweeted.   Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chopper-crash-madras-hc-quashes-fir-against-youtuber-who-posted-controversial-tweet-1060732.html
14-12-2021||National||Parliament passes bill to extend ED director tenure up to 5 years||Parliament has passed a bill to extend the tenure of director of Enforcement Directorate to a maximum of five years. The Central Vigilance Commission (Amendment) Bill, 2021, passed in Lok Sabha on December 9, was moved by Minister of State for Personnel, Public Grievances and Pension Jitendra Singh in the Upper House and cleared by voice vote on Tuesday. Prior to the bill being taken up, most of the opposition members had walked out of the House to protest the suspension of their 12 members. The Bill seeks to extend the tenure of the director of the Enforcement Directorate from two years to five years. While introducing the Bill, Singh said the amendments are in the interest of national security and for the stability of the financial structure. "Enforcement director has a very crucial role even in money laundering cases, and is possibly the only agency of its kind available in India. But for India, most of the other countries have a much longer term. And here also, the term is not being made indefinite...," he said. The clause on tenure which says "not less than two years" is just being amended to "'go up to five years" with a one-year extension on each occasion, he added. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parliament-passes-bill-to-extend-ed-director-tenure-up-to-5-years-1060739.html
14-12-2021||National||Normalisation of international flights will depend on Omicron situation: Scindia||Normalisation of international flight services will depend on the Omicron scenario and authorities concerned will watch the situation as it unfolds, Union Civil Aviation Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia said on Tuesday. On November 26, aviation regulator DGCA decided to restart scheduled commercial international flights to and from India from December 15. However, the decision was put on hold in less than a week in the wake of the emergence of Omicron, the new Covid variant. Last week, the watchdog said the flights will remain suspended till January 31. Scheduled commercial international passenger flights remain suspended since March 23, 2020 due to the coronavirus pandemic. Currently, the flights are being operated under bilateral air bubble arrangements with various countries in a restricted manner. Speaking at a summit organised by industry body CII on Tuesday, Scindia said normalisation of international flights would depend on the Omicron situation. "Keeping in mind the health, we cannot dissociate ourselves from Covid. We are working closely with the health ministry. When we tide over Omicron, we can look at going back to normalcy even vis-a-vis international travel but I cannot give you the date today. "It is not incumbent on me, there are host of other factors, other ministries that I have to coordinate with and watch the situation as it unfolds over the next couple of weeks," he said. Talking about the domestic air traffic, Scindia said today it is ranging between 3.7 to 3.9 lakh passengers per day. Pre-Covid, the highest was close to 4.2 lakh passengers per day. The domestic capacity was increased in a "very gradual and monitored process" and on October 18, the government allowed 100 per cent capacity for domestic airlines. "Today, we are running 3.7 to 3.9 lakh passengers per day and on a seat load factor basis of 75-81 per cent, which is a very healthy seat load factor. Keeping that in mind, I was looking at opening up international travel but as you all are aware, just on the anvil of that the world got hit by Omicron," Scindia said. Replying to a query, the minister said every country has different rules with regard to international travel right now and understandably so. "It depends on various countries' risk appetite and you cannot disagree with what each individual country determines its risk appetite is... that decision is best left to individual countries rather than for us to impose a world wide sort of rules...," he noted.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/normalisation-of-international-flights-will-depend-on-omicron-situation-scindia-1060745.html
14-12-2021||National||Fundamental rights guaranteed to all, says SC; directs Centre, states to provide ration, Aadhaar to sex workers||Observing that fundamental rights are guaranteed to every citizen irrespective of vocation, the Supreme Court on Tuesday directed the Centre, all the states and union territories to commence the process of issuing voter, Aadhaar and ration cards to sex workers and keep providing dry ration to them. The apex court, hearing a plea that has raised the problems faced by sex workers due to the Covid-19 pandemic, has been passing orders for their welfare and on September 29 last year, it had asked the Centre and others to provide dry ration to them without insisting on their identity proof. A bench comprising justices L Nageswara Rao, BR Gavai and B V Nagarathna rued that the directions of the apex court on providing ration cards to the sex workers were passed in 2011 but they are yet to be implemented. "The state governments and UTs were directed to issue ration cards and identity cards to sex workers almost a decade back and there is no reason as to why such directions are not implemented till now," the bench said. "The fundamental rights are guaranteed to every citizen of the country irrespective of his/her vocation. There is a bounden duty on the government to provide basic amenities to the citizens of the country. The central government, state governments and other authorities are directed to commence the process of issuance of ration cards, voter ID cards and Aadhaar cards immediately," the bench ordered. The bench directed that authorities can take assistance National AIDS Control Organisation (NACO) and state AIDS control societies who, in turn, will prepare a list of sex workers after verifying the information provided to them by the community-based organisations. "The status report related to issuance of ration cards, voter ID cards and Aadhaar cards to the sex workers be filed in a period of four weeks from today and in the meanwhile, state governments and UTs are directed to continue distribution of dry ration to sex workers without insisting on ration cards and other proofs of identity as mentioned in earlier orders," it said. The bench, which said that the copy of the order be sent to state and district legal services authorities for necessary action, also asked the government to keep the names and identity of sex worker confidential while preparing the various ID cards. Earlier, the apex court, on September 29, 2020, had directed all the states to provide dry rations to sex workers, who are identified by NACO, without insisting on any proof of identity and had sought status report on compliance. The apex court was hearing a plea filed by NGO 'Durbar Mahila Samanwaya Committee', which has highlighted the destitution faced by sex workers on account of Covid-19, and sought relief measures for over nine lakh female and transgender sex workers across India. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fundamental-rights-guaranteed-to-all-says-sc-directs-centre-states-to-provide-ration-aadhaar-to-sex-workers-1060754.html
14-12-2021||National||'Make cow national animal, ban its slaughter,' says BJP's Kirori Lal Meena in Rajya Sabha||A demand was raised in Rajya Sabha on Tuesday to declare cow as the national animal and enact an effective central law to stop cow slaughter in the country. Making a special mention in the House, BJP MP Kirori Lal Meena said that cows are an integral part of Indian culture, and that even Mughal rulers like Babur, Humayun and Akbar had prohibited its slaughter. "Therefore, I demand that the Central government should bring an effective law to stop cow slaughter and also, cow should be declared the 'national animal'," he said. Earlier, in his Zero Hour mention, Harnath Singh Yadav of the BJP said the rate of illegal religious conversions was increasing in the country, and demanded an anti-conversion law at the national level to ensure social harmony and national security. K Vanlalvena of the MNF spoke about the issue of Myanmar refugees in Mizoram, and urged the Central government to help them. Rajya Sabha member Narendra Jadhav (nominated) demanded that the Central government should regulate, subsidise and cap prices for cardiovascular as well as pacemaker surgeries. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/make-cow-national-animal-ban-its-slaughter-says-bjps-kirori-lal-meena-in-rajya-sabha-1060755.html
14-12-2021||National||Any ban selectively targeting Indian sailors unacceptable: India told China||The Indian government has emphasised to China that any restriction selectively targeting sailors from India is unacceptable, Parliament was informed on Tuesday. In a written reply to the Rajya Sabha, Ports, Shipping and Waterways Minister Sarbananda Sonowal said the government had taken note of a few media reports earlier on the subject. "Government had therefore taken up the matter with the Chinese side . Government emphasized to the Chinese side that any restriction selectively targeting sailors from India is unacceptable," Sonowal said. He was replying to a question whether it has come to the notice of the ministry that China has imposed unofficial ban on Indian seafarers and prohibited entry/berth of ships with Indian seafarers. The minister said that the Chinese side had conveyed that it had not imposed any ban and that such reports were not accurate. He noted that due to Covid-19 pandemic, restrictions were imposed and ships were kept waiting at anchorages and it also prevented crew changes. Sonowal said there has been no impact on the job of Indian seafarers due to Covid-19 pandemic except for in the cruise shipping which ceased operations due to Covid-19 pandemic Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/any-ban-selectively-targeting-indian-sailors-unacceptable-india-told-china-1060760.html
14-12-2021||National||Supreme Court allows road widening of highways in Chardham project||The Supreme Court on Tuesday allowed the Centre to widen three strategic roads, part of the Chardham project, on the grounds that the need for their development was proportionate to the object of fulfilling the security concerns of the nation in view of recent security challenges at the Indo-China border. A bench of justices DY Chandrachud, Surya Kant and Vikram Nath also noted that the roads beyond Gangotri, Mana and Pithoragarh in the project, were being developed by the Ministry of Defence as double-laned highways.  The Centre had amended its 2018 notification in December 2020 to increase the road width limit from 5.5 metres to 10 metres.  The top court said there are no mala fides in the application filed by the MoD last year, seeking widening of the roads, up to 10 metres, for swift movement of armed forces troops, equipment, and machines to the Indo-China border.  The Centre had told the apex court that given the proximity of the roads to the Indo-China border, and the necessity of free movement for transport of trucks, machines, equipment and personnel of the Indian Army, double-lane configuration must be allowed.  An NGO, Citizen for Green Doon, among others, had questioned widening of the roads, citing environmental hazards associated with it in the Himalayan region.  Justice Chandrachud, who authored the judgment on behalf of the bench, said the court, in its exercise of judicial review, cannot second-guess the infrastructural needs of the armed forces.  The court modified the order passed by a bench presided over by Justice R F Nariman, on September 8, 2020, to the extent that the national highways from Rishikesh to Mana, Rishikesh to Gangotri, and Tanakpur to Pithoragarh be developed according to the double-lane carriageway width with paved shoulder standard as provided in the 2020 Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MoRTH) circular.  "We must arrive at a delicate balance of environmental considerations such that they do not impede infrastructural development, specifically in areas of strategic importance crucial to the security of the nation," the bench said.  The top court, however, formed an oversight committee headed by former SC judge, AK Sikri, to ensure the implementation of recommendations of a high-powered committee by the MoRTH to address environmental concerns of the project. In August 2019, the court had ordered the constitution of the high-powered committee to assess the impact of the Chardham project on the Himalayan region. In July 2020, the committee delivered a report, where a majority of the members recommended the adoption of a double lane-paved shoulder standard road width for the project.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-allows-road-widening-of-highways-in-chardham-project-1060784.html
14-12-2021||National||UK court hears Nirav Modi extradition appeal on mental health grounds||The High Court in London on Tuesday began hearing Nirav Modi’s appeal on the grounds of his mental health against extradition to India to face charges of fraud and money laundering, amounting to an estimated $2 billion in the Punjab National Bank (PNB) loan scam case. Lord Justice Jeremy Stuart-Smith and Justice Robert Jay presided over the hearing at the Royal Courts of Justice to determine whether District Judge Sam Goozee’s February ruling in favour of extradition was incorrect to overlook the diamond merchant’s “high risk of suicide”. The court heard of an additional assurance from the Indian authorities on November 13, which reiterates previous commitments of adequate specialist medical care and an ambulance at hand were Nirav to be extradited to Mumbai. “He is at high risk of suicide already and his condition is likely to deteriorate further in Mumbai,” Edward Fitzgerald QC argued as he opened the appeal on behalf of Nirav - who remains behind bars at Wandsworth Prison in south-west London since his arrest in March 2019. Fitzgerald went on to lay out before the two-judge bench that the Indian government assurances of medical assistance at Barrack 12 of Mumbai Central Prison on Arthur Road, where the accused is to be held on being extradition, would not be adequate given the “certainty” of deterioration in his mental health. He also sought an adjournment in view of the short time-frame to study the new assurance from India, received last month. The judges referred to the case of Wikileaks founder Julian Assange, who recently lost his extradition appeal against the US government, with reference to India’s “sovereign assurances” falling within a similar vein. The hearing on Tuesday follows a ruling in August from High Court Justice Martin Chamberlain that arguments concerning the 50-year-old’s “severe depression” and “high risk of suicide” were arguable at a full appeal hearing. A group of Enforcement Directorate (ED) and Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) officials have flown in from India for the case, which is being presented in court by the UK’s Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) barrister Helen Malcolm QC on behalf of the Indian authorities. A judgment on the appeal is expected to be reserved, to be handed down at a later date. The appeal against Judge Goozee’s Westminster Magistrates' Court ruling to send the case to the Home Secretary was granted leave to appeal in the High Court on two grounds – under Article 3 of the European Convention of Human Rights (ECHR) to hear arguments if it would “unjust or oppressive” to extradite Nirav due to his mental state and Section 91 of the Extradition Act 2003, also related to mental ill health. Nirav's “high risk of suicide” and the “adequacy of any measures capable of preventing successful suicide attempts in Arthur Road prison” were deemed as the focal points for the appeal. His legal team have sought to establish that it would be oppressive to extradite him due to his mental condition that could lead to suicidal impulses, given the family history of suicide of his mother, and that he is at risk of “flagrant denial of justice” in India. The lawyers have also claimed the COVID-19 pandemic is “overwhelming” the Indian prison system. The CPS, on behalf of India, has highlighted the “high level of diplomatic assurance” to provide adequate medical attention to the accused on being extradited to face trial in India. At a remote “renewal application” hearing in August, the permission to appeal was denied on all other grounds, including the admissibility of evidence provided by the ED and CBI and against UK Home Secretary Priti Patel’s extradition order. The High Court also noted that the District Judge’s approach to the identification of a prima facie case in the PNB fraud case was “correct”. Nirav is the subject of two sets of criminal proceedings, with the CBI case relating to a large-scale fraud upon PNB through the fraudulent obtaining of letters of undertaking (LoUs) or loan agreements, and the ED case relating to the laundering of the proceeds of that fraud. He also faces two additional charges of "causing the disappearance of evidence" and intimidating witnesses or “criminal intimidation to cause death”, which were added to the CBI case. If Nirav wins this appeal hearing in the High Court, he cannot be extradited unless the Indian government is successful in getting permission to appeal at the Supreme Court on a point of law of public importance. On the flip side, if he loses this appeal hearing, Nirav can approach the Supreme Court on a point of law of public importance, to be applied for to the Supreme Court against the High Court’s decision within 14 days of a High Court verdict. However, this involves a high threshold as appeals to the Supreme Court can only be made if the High Court has certified that the case involves a point of law of general public importance. Finally, after all avenues in the UK courts are exhausted, the diamantaire could still seek a so-called Rule 39 injunction from the European Court of Human Rights.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uk-court-hears-nirav-modi-extradition-appeal-on-mental-health-grounds-1060836.html
14-12-2021||National Politics||People gave them 'marching orders' twice, says Joshi on suspended MPs||Taking a swipe at members of opposition parties for taking out a protest march to seek revocation of suspension of 12 MPs, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi said that the voters of the country have given them their "marching orders" twice. He was referring to their back-to-back defeats in two Lok Sabha elections. He asked the suspended MPs, over to express regret and rejoin the House, saying that the government wants their constructive criticism and suggestions to be part of the debates. With leaders of various opposition parties taking out a protest march in support of their demand for revoking the suspension of the 12 MPs, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader took a swipe at them, saying the voters of the country have given them "marching orders" twice -- a reference to their back-to-back defeats in two Lok Sabha elections -- and will reduce their presence further. Noting that the opposition parties have participated in the Rajya Sabha proceedings at times and disrupted it at other times, he wondered what their strategy was. Joshi criticised the opposition members for questioning Rajya Sabha Chairperson M Venkaiah Naidu for running the Zero Hour amid their protests. A total of 50 opposition members, including those from the Congress and the Trinamool Congress, had given notices and some of them had even spoken during the Zero Hour, he said. The minister added that the government has sought adjournments of the House at times so that the opposition members can take part in the discussions about bills and other issues. "I call upon the Congress members, the other opposition members to express regret and come to the House," he said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/people-gave-them-marching-orders-twice-says-joshi-on-suspended-mps-1060666.html
14-12-2021||National Politics||Chhattisgarh model of development has left Gujarat model behind: CM Baghel||The Chhattisgarh model aiming to bring parity and economic equality has outshone the "Gujarat model" and is being discussed across the country, Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel said on Tuesday in a veiled swipe at BJP and Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The chief minister addressed a 'Run for CG Pride' hosted to mark the state government completing three years in power on December 17. Over 20,000 people, including students, youths, professionals and others, participated in the run flagged off by Baghel from Raipur's Gandhi Udyan Chowk this morning. “We are moving fast in the direction of creating 'Nava Chhattisgarh' (new Chhattisgarh) that we have pledged to build. Today, the Chhattisgarh model is discussed in the whole country and we have left the Gujarat model far behind with the state's model of development. Chhattisgarh model aims to bring parity and economic equality,” he said. Chhattisgarh has been clinching the cleanest state award for the last three years and got 67 awards in the field of cleanliness this year, Baghel said. The Gujarat model of development had often been talked about by PM Narendra Modi, who had served as chief minister of the western state before taking charge as the prime minister in 2014. "In the last three years, Chhattisgarh has managed to establish its unique identity across the country and the world. Today, the Chhattisgarh model is being discussed in the whole country," the chief minister said. Hailing the courage of bilateral amputee mountaineer Chitrasen Sahu, Baghel said that with his indomitable courage and determination, Sahu has conquered the highest peaks in three continents. Extending wishes for Sahu's fourth mountaineering expedition to Mount Aconcagua, Baghel said that together we will give him financial assistance of Rs 12.60 lakh. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/chhattisgarh-model-of-development-has-left-gujarat-model-behind-cm-baghel-1060677.html
14-12-2021||National Politics||Don't run your offices from Lok Sabha: Speaker to ministers||Speaker Om Birla expressed his displeasure on Tuesday at ministers interacting with members over various issues inside the Lok Sabha and asked them not to run their offices from the House. Union minister Giriraj Singh was seen interacting with a member, who had come to his seat to discuss some issue after the Question Hour was over. Intervening, Birla said, "Honourable members, ministers should not hold their offices from here. Ministers should ask the members to meet them in office." He asked the members to maintain the decorum of the House. Members of various political parties often go to the seats of different ministers to raise certain issues related to their ministries even when the House proceedings are on. Birla also chided Union minister Kailash Choudhary for continuing with his reply to a question even after he had announced that the Question Hour was over. "Minister, the speaker has made the announcement, sit down.... You are continuing to speak even when I have said the Question Hour is over," he said.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dont-run-your-offices-from-lok-sabha-speaker-to-ministers-1060678.html
14-12-2021||National Politics||Opposition protests rock Rajya Sabha over issue of suspended MPs||The Rajya Sabha on Monday witnessed uproar by opposition parties for nearly an hour over their demand for revocation of the suspension of 12 MPs before Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu adjourned proceedings till 2 pm. Amid sloganeering by members of opposition parties, including the Congress, with several of them trooping into the Well of the House, Naidu continued with the Zero Hour during which many MPs raised important issues. The Chair did not permit members, who were in the Well of the House, to raise Zero Hour mentions. While most of the opposition parties were protesting, TMC member Sukhendu Sekhar Ray made his Zero Hour mention. The Chairman made several attempts to pacify the protesting members and urged them to return to their respective seats. However, the opposition continued their sloganeering and protests, leading to adjournment of the proceedings at around 12 noon. Referring to AAP member Sanjay Singh, the Chairman said: "You are compounding your offence. Naidu instructed officials to send Singh out from the House, saying "he is challenging the Chair", just before adjourning the proceedings. Soon after the listed papers were tabled in the House, and Naidu called for the Zero Hour mentions, the opposition started protesting. The Chairman made several efforts to bring order in the House. Towards the end of the one-hour morning session (Zero Hour), the protests grew louder, and Leader of the Opposition (LoP) Mallikarjun Kharge tried to make his point. "If everybody goes to their seats and sits peacefully, then LoP will be called," Naidu said. He told the protesting members that their sloganeering and trooping in the Well would do no good to the cause of the 12 suspended MPs. "You cannot dictate to me. With all humility I want to tell you, let us maintain decency and decorum in the House and this sort of pressure is not going work on me," said a visibly upset Naidu. As many as 12 opposition MPs were suspended from the Rajya Sabha on November 29 for the entire Winter session of Parliament for their "unruly" conduct in the previous session in August, even as the Opposition termed the suspension as "undemocratic and in violation of all the Rules of Procedure" of the Upper House. Amid the din, Naidu said he had discussed the matter with Leader of the House Piyush Goyal and also with Kharge. Naidu said he was informed that the government was willing to consider the opposition case if the suspended MPs express "regret" on their conduct. "That is the position. You know I cannot go beyond that," he said. He told the protesting MPs that by engaging in unruly scenes, unparliamentary behaviour, and obstructing other members is not going to work at all. "You are not going to help them. Please understand, if you want to strengthen their hands, be in your respective seats, follow the rule and then plead their case or your case. "Then that can be taken into consideration. But if you violate rules, if you use slogans and then you do all sort of things, and sit on the well of the House, you cannot expect anybody to respond to that," the Chairman said. Naidu also praised MPs who spoke on various issues. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/opposition-protests-rock-rajya-sabha-over-issue-of-suspended-mps-1060681.html
14-12-2021||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi is insulting Parliament: Anurag Thakur||Union Information and Broadcasting Minister Anurag Thakur on Tuesday accused Congress leader Rahul Gandhi of insulting Parliament which his family's four generations got an opportunity to be part of. Counter-attacking Gandhi for his suggestion to convert Parliament into a museum, the Minister said that there are a few people who do not want to come to the House. Interacting with mediapersons in Parliament, Thakur said: "Even if the House is functioning, they do not participate in discussions. They try to walk out of the Parliament." The Minister charged that at a time when crucial issues and Bills are being discussed in Parliament, a few people do not attend it properly, come out and mislead the country. On the Wayanad MP's charge that Bills are being passed without discussion amid an opposition uproar, Thakur said that our government is discussing every bill in detail but Gandhi should remember the UPA's tenure, during which opposition MPs were thrown out of the House and the Bill for forming states was passed amid an uproar. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhi-is-insulting-parliament-anurag-thakur-1060721.html
14-12-2021||National Politics||UP BJP to set up 'aspiration box' for 2022 manifesto||The BJP in Uttar Pradesh will set up an 'aspiration box' to seek people's suggestions on issues which can be incorporated in the party's manifesto to be released ahead of the UP elections. This is an attempt to establish public connect and will be a part of the party's state-wide campaign, 'UP No. 1 Suggestion Aapka, Sankalp Hamara', that will be launched by Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on December 15. According to Sankalp Patra Committee's chairman and UP finance minister Suresh Khanna, the box will move across all 403 Assembly seats to seek suggestions from the people. "The BJP government has done many historic works to raise the standard of living of the people of the state which the previous state government failed to do," he said. He said that the Sankalp Patra in 2017 was also prepared by the BJP on the suggestions of the people. "We went to the elections on the basis of the promises made in Sankalp Patra. We have fulfilled all the promises," Khanna said. He said the party would reach out to people in all Assembly seats and take suggestions from all sections of society. "People's suggestions will also be collected by establishing dialogue with the members of Sankalp Patra Committee and various social and business sections in all the major metro cities of the state. Suggestions will also be taken through websites, e-mail and missed calls," he added. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/up-bjp-to-set-up-aspiration-box-for-2022-manifesto-1060724.html
14-12-2021||National Politics||Congress postpones Mumbai rally, Rahul arrival a doubt||The Mumbai rally of Rahul Gandhi on the occasion of the Congress’ Foundation Day has been postponed, a development that gave fodder to the BJP to target the grand old party and its two ruling alliance partners Shiv Sena and NCP. The Gandhi mother-son duo was invited to address the rally on December 28 at the historic Shivaji Park.  The development comes as a major embarrassment to the Maharashtra Pradesh Congress Committee (MPCC) and Mumbai Regional Congress Committee (MRCC). Last week, Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar of the NCP hinted that permission may not be granted in the wake of the Covid-19 situation and Omicron scare. “We are taking information about it (Omicron situation) every day. In case it (the variant) spreads and if there is a doubt that huge crowds can lead to some different (undesirable) situation, then (authorities) will have to think about it,” Pawar had said.  The Congress had applied for permission for the rally on October 7 but is yet to get a response. MRCC President Bhai Jagtap said in his plea in the Bombay High Court that an application was submitted to the state government in October 2021, seeking permission to hold the rally but no decision has been taken so far. However, he has withdrawn the petition, which was filed before a bench comprising justices AA Sayed and Abhay Ahuja. It may be recalled that the Bombay High Court in 2010 had declared the Shivaji Park area located in Dadar as a silence zone after a public interest litigation was filed by an NGO. The court had then said programmes can be held at the park only on select occasions, such as December 6 (death anniversary of Dr BR Ambedkar), May 1 (Maharashtra Foundation Day) and January 26 (Republic Day). However, the Maharashtra government and the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation later carved out 45 days in a year to permit non-sporting activities in the iconic ground. The Congress has now decided to postpone the rally. Meanwhile, BJP spokesperson Ram Kadam took a dig at the Congress and the Maha Vikas Aghadi alliance. “Congress is a national party, however, now they are being humiliated by two ‘regional parties’ Shiv Sena and NCP,” he said.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-postpones-mumbai-rally-rahul-arrival-a-doubt-1060728.html
14-12-2021||National Politics||Sunset on BJP has started from Goa, UP, Punjab: Mamata||Formally signing off on alliance with a regional political party, the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party ahead of the 2022 Goa assembly polls, West Bengal Chief Minister and All India Trinamool Congress party supremo Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday said that the BJP’s sunset in India’s political landscape would begin from the shores of the country’s smallest state, Goa. Banerjee also slammed the Congress for not doing enough to take on the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party, adding that the party was free to join the alliance between the AITC and the MGP, to prevent a split in the opposition vote, which could benefit the BJP. “Goa is India, do not think Goa is very small. Sunrise happens from Goa. When Goa smiles, India smiles. BJP's sunset will also begin from Goa, from UP, Punjab, throughout the country,” Banerjee said at a public meeting near Panaji, which was addressed by leaders of the AITC and the MGP. “To usher in a new dawn in Goa, we will have to say no to dadagiri from Delhi. Say no BJP. Only TMC and MGP… Slamming the BJP for trying to add communalise the atmosphere ahead of elections, Banerjee said: “Only during elections the Hindu, Muslim rhetoric is raised. Riots occur only during elections. But after elections, the dead bodies flow in the Ganga mother river. No one remembers that,” the West Bengal Chief Minister also said, while slamming BJP for its communal politics and silence on key issues facing the country. “BJP has a standard narrative. They do not speak about real issues. How many times have you (BJP) raised their voice about the price of petrol? How many times have you raised the price of diesel? How many times have people had to face harassment due to demonetisation?” Banerjee said. “What have you done in Goa and India. Now you are targetting Railways. And the public sector is being shut down. BJP Minister's son trampled farmers in an accident in Lakhimpur. The SIT has submitted its report to the court and said that the incident is planned. Should the UP Minister not resign? Should the Home Minister not resign?  Should the PM not speak about this?” she also said. She also rebuked BJP leaders from Goa, who have questioned her credentials and accused her of pandering to a minority community in West Bengal. “BJP's task is to give certificates, whether I am a Hindu or Muslim or Sikh or Christian. Who are you? My father and mother gave me my name. I feel ashamed to say if someone asks me, if I am Hindu or Muslim or Brahmin or Kayastha or adivasi or tribal, I am a human being,” the West Bengal Chief Minister said. Banerjee also cited a passage from the ‘Chandi path’, a prayer in Bengali dedicated to the deity, who is regarded as an avatar of Durga. She also questioned the Congress’ ability to take on the ruling BJP, claiming that she was forced to part ways with the BJP, because she felt a relationship blossoming between the two national parties. “Congress makes tall claims that they will fight alone. They fought alone throughout the country, they fought against us too. You still fight against us every day. At least fight the BJP and then make your claims,” Banerjee said.   “Why did I quit the Congress, which I was a part of. I quit sensing a brewing friendship. You are forming a relationship with the BJP. You are trying to save them,” she also said. Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sunset-on-bjp-has-started-from-goa-up-punjab-mamata-1060730.html
14-12-2021||National Politics||Kharge claims Delhi cops attacked opposition MPs on last day of Monsoon Session||Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge has alleged that personnel of the Delhi Police "attacked and harassed" opposition MPs on August 11, the last day of Monsoon Session, and demanded that only Rajya Sabha Secretariat Security personnel be deployed within chambers and lobbies. Kharge also took exception to "government sources" illegally releasing CCTV footage without any authorisation with the "sole intention to defame" opposition MPs. He said he was making the demands keeping in view the "larger interest of democratic functioning of our Parliament". In a letter to Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu on Monday, Kharge referred to the incidents of August 11 and said the opposition MPs were "attacked and harassed by some security personnel in Rajya Sabha lobbies, who did not belong to Rajya Sabha Secretariat Security Service but were from Delhi Police".      He said "these people were unknown" to the MPs and that became the "primary cause of suspicion, which led to unruly scenes" in which Congress MP Phulo Devi Netam sustained injuries. "Subsequently, a 2.5 minute long CCTV footage was released to the public in an illegal manner by government sources without any authorisation. This was no official Rajya Sabha TV live footage and was wilfully released with the sole intention to defame opposition MPs," he wrote. Against this backdrop, he said, only Rajya Sabha Secretariat Security personnel should be allowed to maintain security related issues within the chambers and lobbies. He also said the "illegal" release of CCTV footage without proper authorisation should not be allowed and necessary steps should be taken to ensure this. Twelve Opposition MPs were suspended for the entire ongoing Winter Session on charges of unruly behaviour on the last day of the Monsoon Session. The Opposition has alleged that security personnel had misbehaved with them, including women lawmakers, while the government had alleged that the Opposition MPs attacked the marshals. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/kharge-claims-delhi-cops-attacked-opposition-mps-on-last-day-of-monsoon-session-1060748.html
14-12-2021||National Politics||Sonia Gandhi meets top Opposition leaders, plans larger unity & Parliament strategy||In what is seen as a message to Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee, Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Tuesday evening held discussions with top leaders, including Sharad Pawar, Farooq Abdullah and Sitaram Yechury, on strengthening the larger Opposition unity and intensifying the fight in the Parliament against the Narendra Modi government. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and his Tamil Nadu counterpart M K Stalin were invited but they could not attend it and deputed Sanjay Raut and T R Baalu for the meeting, which also discussed the Opposition protest against suspension of 12 Rajya Sabha MPs and requested the intervention of NCP supremo Sharad Pawar in finding a resolution. Sources said Pawar along with Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge will meet Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu on Wednesday. This was the first round of meeting as Sonia is slated to meet other Opposition leaders in the coming days before the Parliament Session ends on December 23, sources said. For the Congress, sources said, the meeting is a "signal and message" to Trinamool Congress, which has been trying to "overthrow" the party from its pole position in the Opposition. Mamata, during her visit to Mumbai, had met Pawar and commented that the Congress-led UPA is not in existence. Sources said CPI(M) General Secretary Yechury advised that there should be more such meetings and it should not be on a large-scale as the one held on August 20 when all parties were present. He cautioned that Trinamool and Mamata's absence in such a meeting could lead to a portrayal of a break in Opposition ranks. At the August 20 meeting chaired by Sonia, it was decided that all Opposition leaders would meet again before the Winter Session but Mamata's aggressive political positioning against the Congress has thwarted any joint Opposition meetings. During the meeting, sources said, the leaders highlighted the need for a united fight by the Opposition inside and outside Parliament, especially with Assembly elections to five states round the corner. Sources said the issue of suspension of MPs came up for discussion and the leaders felt that it was strange that there was no attempt at resolving the impasse. Usually, sources said, the Rajya Sabha Chairman takes the initiative to clear the logjam by calling a meeting of leaders from both the sides. When Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge, who attended the meeting, was asked to meet Naidu, he told the leaders that he had met the latter several times. At this, sources said, Sonia and others requested Pawar to intervene and meet Naidu along with Kharge. Sources said Sonia is likely to meet another group of leaders in a day or two. "It was a meeting about the country. We talked about how we can work together and move forward and how we can take out the country from this difficulty. A good agreement has been formed among us," National Conference chief Farooq Abdullah told reporters after the meeting. Shiv Sena's Raut said the main agenda was Opposition unity in states and there would be more meetings. DMK's Baalu said they were working out a political strategy. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sonia-gandhi-meets-top-opposition-leaders-plans-larger-unity-parliament-strategy-1060750.html
14-12-2021||National Politics||Let's enjoy year-end gifts of Modi govt: Chidambaram on rise in retail inflation||Congress leader P Chidambaram on Tuesday took a swipe at the government over the rise in retail inflation and the unemployment rate, saying "let's enjoy the year-end gifts of the Modi government". The Congress has been critical of the Narendra Modi government's handling of the economy, especially during the Covid-19 pandemic. "Let's enjoy the year-end gifts of the Modi government: Retail inflation is 4.91 per cent, of which fuel & light is 13.4 per cent. The unemployment rate is 8.53 per cent, of which urban unemployment rate is 10.09 per cent," the former finance minister said. He also said that banks have written off bad loans of Rs 2,02,783 crore in 2020-21 and public sector banks have settled loans of Rs 4,86,800 crore due from 13 corporates for Rs 1,61,820 crore. "The loss to PSBs is only Rs 2,84,980 crore," he alleged. The wholesale price-based inflation surged to more than a decade high of 14.23 per cent in November, mainly due to hardening of prices of mineral oils, basic metals, crude petroleum and natural gas. WPI inflation has remained in double digits for eight consecutive months beginning April. "The high rate of inflation in November 2021, is primarily due to rise in prices of mineral oils, basic metals, crude petroleum & natural gas, chemicals and chemical products, food products etc as compared to the corresponding month of the previous year," the Commerce and Industry Ministry said in a statement on Tuesday. Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/lets-enjoy-year-end-gifts-of-modi-govt-chidambaram-on-rise-in-retail-inflation-1060854.html
14-12-2021||North and Central||India needs a strong PM who can unite people of the country, says Farooq Abdullah||India needs a strong Prime Minister, who can unite the people of the country, not the one who divides on lines of religion, former Chief Minister of Jammu and Kashmir Farooq Abdullah said on Monday. He was speaking at an event launching  Furrows in a Field: The Unexplored Life of H D Deve Gowda, written by journalist Sugata Srinivasaraju. Taking an indirect dig at Prime Minister Narendra Modi and BJP at large, Abdullah said, "I am pained to see how the country is divided on religious lines these days." “India can be a strong country only when we think and act for the well being of the entire population of the nation regardless of their religion,” the National Conference Chief said.   Praising former Prime Minister H D Deve Gowda, he said Gowda understood the problems on the ground and tried hard to bring peace in Jammu and Kashmir as the PM.  Though there was a tough time and height of militancy in the hill state when Gowda was took charge as the PM in 1996, he was keen to understand the problems of people, he added. In an emotional speech, Abdullah said that, despite the security apparatus' warning, Gowda travelled in an open Jeep in the state as the PM just to instill confidence among public and the country as a whole.   Stating that the people of Jammu and Kashmir always wanted to stay with India and wanted economic empowerment and welfare, Farooq Abdullah recalled that Deve Gowda was keen on these issues and during his short stint as the PM, he visited the state four times. CPI (M) General Secretary Sitaram Yechury said the party supported Gowda to become the PM in 1996 to ensure that the country stay together and to save India's Constitutional order. "Now, politics is so degenerated that it won't come back to the earlier days of politics with ethics," he lamented. Congress leader Jairam Ramesh said that though Gowda was politically rooted to Karnataka, he rose to national level and proved his capacity during his tenure as the PM. Eminent lawyer Fali S Nariman recalled his interaction with Gowda on several occasions and said the former Prime Minister's understanding of things and common sense was remarkable.  Nariman said when was heading Karnataka legal team on inter state water dispute Gowda's valuable suggestions helped immensely to argue court during the long drawn legal battle. Former Prime Minister H D Deve Gowda was in the audience but did not speak. His wife Chennamma Deve Gowda, sons former Chief Minister H D Kumaraswamy, former Minister H D Revanna and other family members were present during the event. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/india-needs-a-strong-pm-who-can-unite-people-of-the-country-says-farooq-abdullah-1060545.html
14-12-2021||North and Central||PM Modi has written golden chapter in history of Indian culture: Shah after Kashi temple corridor inauguration||Union home minister Amit Shah on Monday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi has written a "golden chapter" in the history of Indian culture by launching the first phase of the Kashi Vishwanath temple corridor project. Thanking Modi on behalf of the country, the minister said devotees will be able to have a better 'darshan' of the historic temple complex in Varanasi following the redevelopment. "Kashi, the city of Baba Vishwanath, has been a shining symbol of Sanatan culture for centuries.  "Today, Prime Minister Narendra Modi ji has written a golden chapter in the history of Indian culture by launching the grand form of Kashi Vishwanath dham while re-realising his unique devotion to religion," Shah said on Twitter. He added that Modi "has done a unique work to revive the pride of the faith centres of Sanatan culture, as the carrier of Indian culture and the protector of religion". "Today is a day of great joy and pride for every Indian," he said. With this inauguration, ''devotees coming from all corners of the world will be able to worship Baba Vishwanath directly after paying respects to mother Ganga and they will also have a proud feeling of divinity and grandeur of Kashi Vishwanath dham,'' he said.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-modi-has-written-golden-chapter-in-history-of-indian-culture-shah-after-kashi-temple-corridor-inauguration-1060559.html
14-12-2021||North and Central||L-G Manoj Sinha, J&K leaders condemn terror attack on police bus||Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha and politicians and parties on Monday condemned the terrorist attack on a police bus in Srinagar in which two policemen were killed and 12 were injured. The bus carrying personnel of the ninth battalion of the Jammu and Kashmir Armed Police came under fire from terrorists in Zewan in Pantha Chowk area on the outskirts of Srinagar on Monday on the 20th anniversary of the Parliament Attack. "Strongly condemn the cowardly terrorist attack on J&K Police bus in Srinagar. My homage to our brave martyred police personnel. We are committed to ensure that perpetrators are punished. My heartfelt condolences to the bereaved families," Sinha said on Twitter. He said the security forces were determined to neutralise the evil forces of terrorism. "Directed the concerned authorities to provide best possible treatment to the injured. I pray for their speedy recovery. Our police and security forces are determined to neutralize the evil forces of terrorism,” he said. Jammu and Kashmir BJP president Ravinder Raina condemned the attack and said "the coward Pakistani terrorists will have to pay a heavy price for it." "The Pakistani coward terrorists have once again shed the innocent blood by attacking a police vehicle. They do not have the courage to fight our forces directly and are instead carrying out attacks clandestinely," Raina said, adding they "have to pay a heavy price for this dastardly act and will be eliminated." The BJP leader said Pakistan wanted to turn Kashmir into a graveyard by killing people but the security forces are determined to wipe out terrorism from the valley. Condemning the attack, National Confernece (NC) vice president Omar Abdullah tweeted, "Terrible news of a terror attack on a police bus on the outskirts of Srinagar. I unequivocally condemn this attack while at the same time send my heartfelt condolences to the families of the deceased & prayers for the injured." Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti said while the attack on policemen was terribly sad, it “exposed” the Centre's “false narrative of normalcy in Kashmir”. “Terribly sad to hear about the Srinagar attack in which two policemen were killed. GOIs false narrative of normalcy in Kashmir stands exposed yet there has been no course correction. My condolences to the bereaved families,” Mehbooba said in a tweet. The BJP's Jammu and Kashmir unit spokesman Altaf Thakur said the attack reflects the “frustration” on the part of militants as they choose darkness to target the police bus. He expressed deep condolences on the death of two policemen. The Jammu and Kashmir Pradesh Congress Committee (JKPCC) while strongly condemning the attack expressed grief over the loss of police personnel and injuries to several others. A JKPCC spokesperson termed the attack “mindless and inhuman act” and urged the government to identify the gunmen and give them exemplary punishment. The JKPCC conveyed heartfelt condolences to families of the slain police personnel and prayed for the speedy recovery of the injured personnel. The spokesman said the security situation has “deteriorated to a largest extent” and the Government must take measures to contain loss of lives. Peoples Conference led by Sajad Lone also condemned the attack. “Terrible sad news. We unreservedly condemn the terrorist attack on  @JmuKmrPolice personnel in Zewan today. Deepest condolences to the families of deceased. Join us in praying for speedy recovery to the injured,” the PC wrote on Twitter. Apni Party president Altaf Bukhari termed the attack “heinous and cowardly”. “J&K Apni Party President Altaf Bukhari condemns the heinous and cowardly attack on a bus ferrying @JmuKmrPolice personnel at Zewan #Srinagar. He extended his solidarity with the families of deceased & prayed for speedy recovery to the injured,” the party wrote on Twitter. Farooq Khan, the advisor to Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha, said the culprits behind the "dastardly attack will not be spared at any cost". Khan said such attacks reflect the frustration among terrorists and their mentors across the border. "Jammu and Kashmir Police has always given supreme sacrifices for upholding the security and integrity of the country and such cowardly acts will be given a befitting reply," he said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/l-g-manoj-sinha-jk-leaders-condemn-terror-attack-on-police-bus-1060561.html
14-12-2021||North and Central||Allahabad High Court seeks reply in a PIL seeking setting up fast track police courts||The Allahabad High Court on Monday directed the Uttar Pradesh government to file its response to a PIL seeking the establishment of fast-track police courts in the state in the wake of the alleged custodial death of 22-year-old Altaf at Kasganj police station.   The PIL suggested that the fast-track courts should adjudicate upon FIRs, complaints and petitions filed against police officials in cases of custodial torture, death, rape and other such offences. It also called for the enforcement of various guidelines laid down by the Supreme Court in such matters. The order was passed by a division bench comprising Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal and Justice Piyush Agrawal hearing a PIL file by the People's Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL).  According to the petitioner, one Altaf was called in for questioning by the Uttar Pradesh Police and later found dead at the police station - Kotwali in Kasganj district on November 9, 2021 It is alleged that the death of Altaf and other such persons in suspicious circumstances in police custody is viewed by any person of ordinary prudence as an institutional killing. The PIL requested the court to direct the central as well as the state governments to install CCTV cameras in all police stations and other such police offices of CBI, NIA, etc across the state of Uttar Pradesh as has already been directed by the apex court.   In the Altaf case, the plea requested the court to direct the setting up of a high-powered committee headed by a sitting or retired judge of the Allahabad High Court to enquire this case. Besides, it requested that the committee be comprised of all relevant stakeholders and a panel of experts to work out. In addition to it, the PIL also requested the court to direct the Director General of Police (DGP), UP, District Magistrate (DM), Kasganj and Superintendent of Police (SP), Kasganj to ensure full police protection to the bereaved family. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/allahabad-high-court-seeks-reply-in-a-pil-seeking-setting-up-fast-track-police-courts-1060569.html
14-12-2021||North and Central||Lok Sabha likely to approve supplementary demands for grants for 2021-22||The Centre on Tuesday is likely to table the 'Appropriation Bill' for introduction, consideration and passing in the Lok Sabha. The Lower House will discuss and vote on the 'Supplementary Demands for Grants - Second Batch for 2021-22'. Under rule 193, further discussion in the Lok Sabha will take place on climate change which was raised by Kanimozhi Karunanidhi last week. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman is to move 'The Appropriation (No.5) Bill,2021' for leave to introduce a Bill to authorise payment and appropriation of certain further sums from and out of the 'Consolidated Fund of India' for the services of the financial year 2021-2022. She will also introduce the Bill and move that it to be passed. The Appropriation (No.5) Bill, 2021 will be taken up in case 'Supplementary Demands for Grants' for 2021-22, are voted. The Lok Sabha secretary-general is to report two messages from the Rajya Sabha regarding the association of two members from the Upper House with the 'Committee on Welfare of Other Backward Classes' (OBCs) and the 'High Court and Supreme Court Judges (Salaries and Conditions of Service) Amendment Bill, 2021'. Union Minister Anurag Thakur to make statements regarding the status of implementation of the recommendations contained in the various reports of the Standing Committee on Education, Women, Children, Youth and Sports pertaining to the Department of Sports, Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports. Minister of State Dr Sanjeev Balyan is to make a statement regarding the status of implementation of the recommendations contained in the Standing Committee report Ministry of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying. Union Minister of state Nityanand Rai will make a statement regarding the status of implementation of the recommendations/observations contained in the department-related Parliamentary Standing Committee on Home Affairs on 'Management of Covid-19 Pandemic and related issues' pertaining to the Ministry of Home Affairs. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lok-sabha-likely-to-approve-supplementary-demands-for-grants-for-2021-22-1060588.html
14-12-2021||North and Central||PM Modi holds high-level meeting on upcoming Uttar Pradesh polls||Prime Minister Narendra Modi held a high-level meeting on Tuesday at the BLW Guesthouse in Varanasi, apparently to discuss the 2022 state Assembly elections. The participants of the meeting included BJP President J P Nadda, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, state in-charge Dharmendra Pradhan and state party President Swatantra Dev Singh. According to sources, the Prime Minister discussed issues dominating the state elections and also the ground realities related to various welfare projects initiated by the BJP governments. After this, the Prime Minister will preside over a four-hour meeting with the chief ministers of Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Goa, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Manipur, Tripura, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand. The agenda of the meeting will be 'good governance', said party sources. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-modi-holds-high-level-meeting-on-upcoming-uttar-pradesh-polls-1060595.html
14-12-2021||North and Central||'Dead' woman gets second dose of Covid-19 vaccine in Uttar Pradesh||The family of an elderly woman, who had died a week after her first dose of Covid vaccination, has been informed about the successful administration of the second dose of vaccine to her. The message was sent on the mobile phone of her son. The district immunisation officer (DIO) has ordered a probe into the matter after it came to light on Monday. According to reports, the deceased 67-year-old woman had received her first dose in April 2021 and almost after a week she had died. Her son, on December 9, received a message on his mobile phone, through which his mother was registered for Covid vaccination. The message informed that the woman had been vaccinated the second time. The incident took place at the Rajghat urban PHC where the victim, a resident of the Isaitola colony, had got her first dose of vaccine. DIO Ravi Shankar said that he has issued a show-cause notice to the PHC head, Dr Trapti Parashar and ANM Gyan Devi who was on duty at that time. "It is a serious issue and we are trying to find out whether it was a clerical mistake or deliberately done. Once we get the reply, we will take further action," he said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dead-woman-gets-second-dose-of-covid-19-vaccine-in-uttar-pradesh-1060599.html
14-12-2021||North and Central||Terrorist killed in encounter with security forces in J&K's Poonch||A terrorist was killed in an encounter with security forces in Jammu and Kashmir's Poonch district on Tuesday, officials said. The security forces launched a cordon-and-search operation in the Surankote area of Poonch after inputs were received about the presence of terrorists there, they said. The operation turned into an encounter after the terrorists opened fire on the forces, who retaliated, killing one of the ultras, the officials said. The gunbattle was going on at the time of filing the report and further details are awaited. An Army official said the body of the slain terrorist is yet to be retrieved from the encounter site. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/terrorist-killed-in-encounter-with-security-forces-in-jks-poonch-1060602.html
14-12-2021||North and Central||Ex-sarpanch shot dead at wedding in Madhya Pradesh; attackers shout 'Jai Shri Ram'||A former Sarpanch was shot dead when a group of men opened fire at a wedding function in Madhya Pradesh's Mandsaur district. The victim was a follower of jailed self-styled godman Rampal and had organised a marriage function. The incident was reported on Monday afternoon when the men allegedly shouting 'Jai Shri Ram', barged into the marriage venue. The men are reported to have objected to the function alleging that such weddings were being organised illegally. "A group of assailants barged into a marriage function and created ruckus there. Hearing the commotion among the people gathered at the marriage function, the organiser tried to control the situation and heated arguments were exchanged. In the meantime, one of the assailants put out his gun and opened fire on the function organiser. The victim was rushed to a nearby hospital and was declared dead," Mandsaur district police told IANS. The deceased has been identified as Devilal Meena, a two-time former village sarpanch supported by the ruling BJP. Being an ardent follower of self-styled godman Rampal, he was the main organiser of the marriage. "A murder case has been lodged against 11 identified accused and other unidentified accused. Three of them have been arrested," Mandsaur Additional Superintendent Amit Verma said. Further investigations are on. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ex-sarpanch-shot-dead-at-wedding-in-madhya-pradesh-attackers-shout-jai-shri-ram-1060611.html
14-12-2021||North and Central||Srinagar terror attack: Third cop succumbs to injuries||The death toll in attack by militants on a police bus in Zeewan area on Srinagar outskirts rose to three as one more among the 14 injured police personnel succumbed at a hospital on Tuesday.  A police official said constable Rameez Ahmad of Yachama, Ganderbal in central Kashmir died at a hospital in Srinagar. 14 policemen were injured after militants attacked a bus they were traveling in near Zewan on Monday evening. While two among the injured died at army’s 92 base camp at Badami Bagh hospital on Monday, the third succumbed this morning. According to Inspector General of Police (IGP) Kashmir Vijay Kumar, three militants of Jaish-e-Mohammad outfit, including two foreigners, carried out the deadly attack. "The terrorists had made an abortive bid to snatch rifles from the policemen in the attack during which one of the ultra was injured,” he told reporters on the sidelines of the wreath laying ceremony of the slain policemen. The blood trail of the injured militant, as per the IGP, “suggests that the group first fled to Pampore after the attack and then to the Tral area of Pulwama and police are working to track down the group.” 25 policemen of Armed Reserve Police’s 9-Battalion, who were coming back to the armed complex Zewan, came under a sudden attack at 6 pm on Monday by the militants. The attack took place on a day when the nation was remembering those who laid down their lives during the December 13, 2001 attack on the Parliament. That attack was also carried out by the Jaish-e-Mohammad outfit. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/srinagar-terror-attack-third-cop-succumbs-to-injuries-1060615.html
14-12-2021||North and Central||Opposition leaders to hold march to demand suspension of 12 Rajya Sabha MPs be revoked||Leaders of various opposition parties on Tuesday met to decide on a joint strategy to press for their demand of revoking the suspension of 12 Rajya Sabha MPs. The floor leaders of various parties met in the chamber of Leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha, Mallikarjun Kharge, and decided to intensify their agitation. Opposition MPs in the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha will also take out a march from Gandhi statue in Parliament complex to Vijay Chowk at 12:45 PM in support of their demands. Former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi is likely to join the opposition members in the march. As many as 12 opposition MPs were suspended from the Rajya Sabha on November 29 for the entire Winter Session of Parliament for their "unruly" conduct in the previous session in August. The Opposition has termed the suspension as "undemocratic and in violation of all the Rules of Procedure" of the Upper House. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/opposition-leaders-to-hold-march-to-demand-suspension-of-12-rajya-sabha-mps-be-revoked-1060622.html
14-12-2021||North and Central||Delhi reports 4 new Omicron cases, tally reaches 6||Four new cases of the Omicron Covid-19 variant has been reported in Delhi, taking the total tally in the national capital to six, Health Minister Satyendra Jain announced on Tuesday. The six patients have been detected at the Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan (LNJP) hospital, which has been dedicated for the treatment of Omicron patients. Of the six, a 37-year-old from Ranchi, who was the first Omicron patient in Delhi, has been discharged, Jain said, adding that the remaining five are all stable with mild symptoms. The Delhi Health Minister went on to say Jain a total of 74 foreign returnees have been admitted to the LNJP so far, out of which 36 have been discharged. "Out of total 38 admitted in the hospital, 35 have tested positive for Covid and five of these Omicron positive and three are suspected." He said the Omicron infection is under control in Delhi, and there has been no locally transmitted cases in the community so far. "Our preparation against Omicron is absolutely complete. We all need to follow the Covid appropriate behaviour," Jain added. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-reports-4-new-omicron-cases-tally-reaches-6-1060624.html
14-12-2021||North and Central||PM visits Kashi Vishwanath Dham, Banaras railway station around midnight||Prime Minister Narendra Modi, along with Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, ventured out on the streets of Varanasi in the early hours of Tuesday and visited the just-inaugurated Kashi Vishwanath Dham and the Banaras railway station. In a tweet posted around 1 am, Modi said he inspected "key development works" in the temple town. Varanasi is the prime minister's parliamentary constituency since 2014. He arrived here on a two-day visit on Monday. On Monday morning, Modi visited the Kal Bhairav Mandir. In the afternoon, he inaugurated the first phase of the ambitious Kashi Vishwanath Corridor project, being referred to as Kashi Vishwanath Dham, and in the evening, witnessed the spectacular Ganga "aarti" and a light-and-sound show from a river cruise. A little past midnight, chants of "Har Har Mahadev" and "Modi, Modi" rent the air as the prime minister, surrounded by SPG security personnel, took a walk on the streets of Varanasi near the Godowlia Chowk, which have decked up to welcome him. "Inspecting key development works in Kashi. It is our endeavour to create best possible infrastructure for this sacred city," Modi said in his tweet. He also shared pictures of his late-night visit to Kashi Vishwanath Dham, which he dedicated to the people a few hours ago. Clad in a grey kurta, white pyjama and a black jacket with a grey muffler thrown over it, Modi took the people walking on the streets by surprise, even as the security personnel tried to ensure that no one ventured close to him. Later, in another tweet, the prime minister said: "Next stop...Banaras station. We are working to enhance rail connectivity as well as ensure clean, modern and passenger friendly railway stations." He also shared photos of his visit to the redeveloped station after 1 am. The Banaras railway station was earlier known as Manduadih and was renamed early this year. The Twitter handle of the Indian Railways had shared pictures of the decorated station on Monday night. Amid chants of "Har Har Mahadev" and "Modi, Modi", the prime minister was showered with rose petals and unbound adulation on Monday morning as he travelled through the streets of Varanasi, which have been plastered with huge posters bearing his image and greetings. After his visit to the Kal Bhairav Mandir, the prime minister's convoy was moving through the narrow streets when a man sought to offer a pink "pagdi" and a scarf to him, but the security personnel pushed him away. Modi then motioned from inside the car and the man was allowed to offer the "pagdi" to him. The man, who was wearing a saffron robe, also offered a "pitambari" (saffron "angvastra") to the prime minister, which he accepted with folded hands and a smile.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-visits-kashi-vishwanath-dham-banaras-railway-station-around-midnight-1060627.html
14-12-2021||North and Central||Overcharging, exploitation of tourists in Kashmir may end soon||To discourage the practice of fleecing tourists visiting Kashmir, the administration is exploring ways to notify rates for hotels, houseboats, cabs, shikaras, and ponies for the year 2022. Over the recent years, there have been complaints that tourists were being overcharged and exploited by transporters, hoteliers, and other service providers during peak season in Kashmir. Taking serious note of the complaints, Divisional Commissioner Kashmir, P K Pole has directed to explore ways to notify rates for the upcoming three to five years with a five per cent annual enhancement. He has directed the officers to fix rates for services at every tourist destination to prevent tourists from being fleeced, as this has a negative impact on the tourism sector. The Divisional Commissioner has directed the concerned officers for the immediate finalisation of the rates proposed for hotels, restaurants, houseboats, taxis, shikaras, and ponies and put it in the public domain through the website of the Tourism department. Besides, rates shall be available through print, electronic and social media. The valuable comments and suggestions proposed by the public shall be given due consideration. The tourism sector plays an important role in Jammu and Kashmir’s economy as it has huge potential for employment generation, even for unskilled manpower. Tourism also caters to the allied sectors like handicrafts, handlooms, and transport. However, despite J&K’s unique and rich culture and heritage assets, the sector accounts for only around seven per cent of its gross domestic product (GDP). Tourism in J&K is not even among the top 10 domestic destinations in the country on the basis of the number of tourist arrivals. Since August 2019, when the Center revoked J&K’s special status under Article 370 and imposed a security lockdown, tourist arrivals nosedived owing to subsequent Covid-19 lockdowns as well. However, since late last year, the J&K government took several initiatives to bring tourists back which had started yielding positive results. The aggressive campaigning by the Tourism department had also attracted several filmmakers to shoot their films here. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/overcharging-exploitation-of-tourists-in-kashmir-may-end-soon-1060629.html
14-12-2021||North and Central||Lakhimpur Kheri incident was well planned: SIT||The Special Investigation Team (SIT), probing the killing of eight people, including four farmers, in Lakhimpur Kheri violence in which Union Minister Ajai Kumar Mishra's son Ashish Mishra is named as a prime accused, has said that the violence was part of a "pre-planned conspiracy" and that the accused had perpetrated the crime deliberately. According to the sources, the police have approached the district court in Lakhimpur Kheri, where the matter was being heard, seeking to invoke stringent sections of the Indian Penal Code in the case, including those of murder and criminal conspiracy. "The probe has revealed that there was a pre-planned conspiracy behind the incident...it was perpetrated deliberately...it is not a case of rash driving," said a senior police official in Lakhimpur Kheri. Sources said that the cops had invoked sections 302 (murder), 307 (attempt to murder), 326 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt by dangerous weapons) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC, among others, in the case. Ashish Mishra is currently lodged in jail along with 14 others in connection with the violence, even as Union Minister Ajai Kumar Mishra has claimed that his son is innocent and that he was not even present at the scene of the crime.   Congress General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra slammed Prime Minister Narendra Modi for not sacking Ajai Mishra despite the demand from farmers and others and said that it reflected his (Modi) "anti-farmer" mindset. Eight people, including four farmers and a local scribe, were killed in the violence at Tikonia in October, when hundreds of farmers held protests against Ajai Kumar Mishra over the latter's remarks threatening them of dire consequences if they continued to oppose the new farm laws. While both Ashish and Ajai Mishra had claimed that the former was not present in any of the vehicles, one of which ran over a crowd of farmers killing four of them, the farmers claimed that the minister's son was in one of the SUVs with a friend.   Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lakhimpur-kheri-incident-was-well-planned-sit-1060632.html
14-12-2021||North and Central||Lakhimpur incident: Priyanka accuses PM of having 'anti-farmer mindset' for not removing MoS Home||With the SIT probing the Lakhimpur Kheri incident terming it as a "pre-planned conspiracy", Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Tuesday attacked Prime Minister Narendra Modi, saying he has not removed Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra from his post due to his "anti-farmer mindset". Her attack on the prime minister came over the Special Investigation Team (SIT) probing the Lakhimpur Kheri violence, in which eight persons were killed in October, recommending prosecution of all the accused including the son of Union MoS for Home Mishra under attempt to murder charge, among others. The SIT has termed the October 3 incident as a "pre-planned conspiracy causing death". "Due to the court's rebuke and because of 'satyagraha', now even the police is saying that the son of the Minister of State for Home had conspired and crushed the farmers," Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. She demanded that there should be an inquiry into the role of the Minister of State for Home in the "conspiracy" "But @narendramodi ji, due to anti-farmer mindset, you have not even removed him from his post," the Congress general secretary said. न्यायालय की फटकार व सत्याग्रह के चलते अब पुलिस का भी कहना है कि गृह राज्यमंत्री के बेटे ने साजिश करके किसानों को कुचला था Eight persons including four farmers were killed during a farmers' protest on October 3 in Lakhimpur Kheri. Four farmers were mowed down by an SUV in the convoy at Lakhimpur Kheri when a group agitating against the Centre's three farm laws was holding a demonstration against the visit of Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya. Two BJP workers and a driver were beaten to death allegedly by the angry protesters, and a local journalist was killed in the violence.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lakhimpur-incident-priyanka-accuses-pm-of-having-anti-farmer-mindset-for-not-removing-mos-home-1060656.html
14-12-2021||North and Central||Covid-19: Over 55% of India's adult population fully vaccinated||Over 55 per cent of India's adult population has received both the doses of Covid-19 vaccine, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said on Tuesday. According to Health Ministry officials, 55.52 per cent of the eligible population has been fully vaccinated with 87 per cent people receiving the first dose of the vaccine. In a tweet, Mandaviya said that with over 55 per cent of the eligible population fully vaccinated now, India has achieved another milestone in its fight against Covid. PM Narendra Modii's Har Ghar Dastak campaign has further strengthened the nation's collective fight against Covid-19. सतत प्रयास, अथक प्रयास With the administration of 66,98,601 vaccine doses in the last 24 hours, India's Covid-19 vaccination coverage has exceeded 133.88 crore, according to provisional reports till 7 am. This has been achieved through 1,40,27,706 sessions, the ministry said.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-over-55-of-indias-adult-population-fully-vaccinated-1060657.html
14-12-2021||North and Central||Jail only place for holding shows insulting Hindu deities: Narottam Mishra||Madhya Pradesh Home Minister Narottam Mishra on Tuesday said the only place for holding shows making derogatory comments about Hindu deities is jail, a day after Congress veteran Digvijaya Singh invited stand-up comedians Kunal Kamra and Munawar Faruqui to hold a programme in Bhopal. Accusing the opposition in the BJP-ruled state of playing divisive politics, Mishra told reporters here that instead of holding a comedy show, Singh should rather invite former Congress president Rahul Gandhi. When asked about Singh's invitation to Kamra and Faruqui, Mishra, who is the state government's spokesperson, said, “If there is any show insulting Hindu deities in Madhya Pradesh, then its place will be in jail. No one will be allowed to play with the feelings of any section of society at any cost." Faruqui was last month denied nod to hold a show in Bengaluru amid protests by some right-wing outfits. A few days later, Kamra, a vocal critic of the government, said his stand-up shows, scheduled to be held in the Karnataka capital, were cancelled after the organisers received threats. Earlier this year, Faruqui had spent a month in jail at Indore after a BJP MLA's son lodged an FIR in January accusing the comedian of hurting religious sentiments through his show. Singh in a tweet on Monday said, "I will organise a show for you Kunal and Munawar in Bhopal. All responsibility will be mine. The only condition is that the subject of comedy will be Digvijaya Singh. Sanghis (RSS cadre) should not object to this!! Don't be afraid!! Give the date and time as per your convenience. All your conditions are accepted." In his post, the Congress Rajya Sabha member had also tagged a news article related to Kamra. Later, BJP MLA from Bhopal Huzur Assembly constituency, Rameshwar Sharma, had said he will not allow shows of anyone who has disrespected Hindu deities not only in Bhopal but also in the rest of Madhya Pradesh.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jail-only-place-for-holding-shows-insulting-hindu-deities-narottam-mishra-1060680.html
14-12-2021||North and Central||Gen Rawat's brother-in-law accuses government of bulldozing 'samadhi' on his ancestral land||A week after India's first Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat and his wife Madhulika Rawat along with 11 other security personnel died in the MI-17V5 helicopter crash near Coonoor town in Tamil Nadu on December 8, his brother-in-law (brother of Madhulika Rawat) Yash Vardhan Singh levelled serious allegations against the Centre. Singh, who is a native of Madhya Pradesh's Suhagpur town in Shahdol district, on Tuesday wrote on his Facebook that a road was constructed on his land in his home town (Suhagpur) without consulting him. Singh alleged that for the road construction, the administration has bulldozed a Samadhi Sthal of his ancestors and also cut down a number of trees. "While the funeral process of my JijaJi (brother-in-law Gen. Rawat) and Didi (sister) was going on in Delhi, at the same time on the direction of the Centre, the construction of a national highway was carried out without consulting me. Besides this, an order has been issued to register a case against me if I object to this road construction," Singh's Facebook note read. However, Singh did not specifically mention which department has ordered the registration of a case against him if he objected. To ascertain the authenticity of the issue, IANS spoke to Shahdol district collector Vandana Vaidya. "Yes, Vardhan Singh had given a portion of his land for road (National Highway) construction in 2016. He has received a compensation of Rs 2,77,000 for his land. Further, during the widening of the road, another portion of land was required and a notification was issued to acquire 0.56 hectare land." Vaidya continued, "This happened before my posting here in Shahdol. During the investigation, it has emerged that some trees were also supposed to be cut for the road construction. However, some other trees were also cut and this was the main issue. I have spoken to Yash Vardhan and have requested him to visit the office whenever he comes to Shahdol from New Delhi." Replying on bulldozing a Samadhi Sthal, Vaidya said, "That portion was also part of the land given to the government for the road construction. But what went wrong was that the portion of 'Samadhi Sthal' was very shabby and therefore workers carrying out the digging did not notice it." General Bipin Rawat's wife belonged to a royal family in Shahdol district of Madhya Pradesh. Her father (late) Mrighendra Singh was the Riyastdar of Shahdol district's Suhagpur town. Her father was also elected Member of the Legislative Assembly (MLA- Congress) from the Suhagpur constituency in 1967 and again in 1972. Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/gen-rawats-brother-in-law-accuses-government-of-bulldozing-samadhi-on-his-ancestral-land-1060710.html
14-12-2021||North and Central||Top Pakistani LeT terrorist killed in encounter with Army in Poonch||A top Pakistani terrorist belonging to the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) was killed in an encounter with security forces in Jammu and Kashmir's Poonch district on Tuesday, officials said. A search is underway to track down another terrorist, who was his accomplice, in the area, they said. The Army and police launched an operation after receiving specific intelligence inputs about the presence of armed terrorists in Behramgala area, a defence spokesperson said. In the early hours of Tuesday, a terrorist attempted to escape while firing at the security personnel, he said, adding that the troops retaliated, resulting in the encounter in which the terrorist was killed. One AK-47 rifle, four magazines, one grenade, pouches and some Indian currency were recovered from the slain terrorist who was identified as Abu Zarara, hailing from Pakistan, the spokesperson said.  He said that in a major success and boost to counter-terrorist operations, a foreign terrorist, who was specially trained and brainwashed to operate in Rajouri-Poonch area with a possible aim of orchestrating a strike, was eliminated. "This is the eighth terrorist to be eliminated this year. Recently, Haji Arif, a dreaded terrorist guide, was also eliminated on the LoC in the Rajouri sector," he said. The joint efforts of the Army and police continue to show positive results in Rajouri-Poonch region due to the unwavering support of locals, officials said. In this case, the Pakistani terrorist was first detected in August, they said, adding that he was probably a part of the neighbouring nation's efforts to revive terrorism in South of Pir Panjal region. While the terrorist and his accomplice had been on the run, taking shelter in deep jungles for the past few months, their need for food, clothing and communication (mobile) forced them to contact civilians, the officials added. The Indian Army, in joint efforts with police, monitored this mobile communication on near real-time basis, while the locals provided crucial information on the movement of the suspects, they said.  This enabled security forces to corner the terrorists, force them to get away to higher reaches of Pir Panjal ranges despite the onset of winters, the officials said. As the terrorists got isolated and moved away from civilian areas, the troops launched a clinical operation on receiving specific inputs from locals in Behramgala area, they said. The terrorists attempted to get away by opening fire on security forces, but he was killed when security forces retaliated, the officials said, noting that his accomplice was on the run. Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/top-pakistani-let-terrorist-killed-in-encounter-with-army-in-poonch-1060713.html
14-12-2021||North and Central||Deliberations on, no guidelines available for booster doses: Centre to Delhi HC||The Union government has told the Delhi High Court that its expert bodies were still deliberating on the need and justification for booster doses in its Covid-19 vaccination programme and no guidelines were so far available in this regard. "The current priority of National Covid-19 Vaccination Programme is to cover the entire eligible population with full vaccination (i.e. two doses) and at present, there are no guidelines regarding administration of booster doses from the two expert bodies," it said. In a written response, Deputy Director, Immunization Division in the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare said the current knowledge about duration of immunity offered by Covid-19 vaccines in India is limited and will clearly be known over a period of time only. The response from the government came following the High Court's query in a petition filed by Rakesh Malhotra. The High Court had on November 25 sought to know the need for administration of booster dose of the Covid-19 vaccines, and the timeline within which the same is proposed to be rolled out. The government further said the epidemic of SARS-CoV-2 infection and the resulting disease has impacted India since 2020 as a new infectious disease, complete biological characteristics of which are yet unknown and under such circumstances the appropriateness or necessity of booster dose of Covid vaccine is yet to be decided. The government also pointed out the National Technical Immunization (NTAGI) and National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC) are two expert bodies working in tandem to guide the vaccination programme.  NTAGI examines the technical aspects like usage of different varieties of Covid vaccines, interval between doses, contraindications etc and recommends the same to NEGVAC, which in turn provides overall guidance and recommendations on all aspects to the Ministry. "It is submitted that the NTAGI and NEGVAC are deliberating and considering scientific evidences related to dose schedule of Covid-19 vaccines as well as the need and justification of booster doses," it said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/deliberations-on-no-guidelines-available-for-booster-doses-centre-to-delhi-hc-1060715.html
14-12-2021||North and Central||Double engines are colliding: Akhilesh Yadav's dig at BJP||Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav on Tuesday said the “double-engine” government of the BJP has failed with its engines colliding against each other, accusing it of disappointing farmers and the jobless youth in Uttar Pradesh. He said the BJP government at the Centre withdrew the three contentious farm laws only because of the upcoming assembly elections. “The anger of the public was visible. The farmers would have stood against them in the elections, and for this reason, the farm laws were withdrawn," he told reporters in Jaunpur, where he resumed his “rath yatra” poll campaign. Mocking the BJP's constant claim that the state benefited because the same party led the governments in UP and at the Centre, he said, “This double-engine government has completely failed. These double engines are colliding with each other.” He said the farmers will not forget the Lakhimpur Kheri violence, in which four farmers were crushed to death by an SUV. “Weren’t the person driving the jeep and people sitting with him BJP workers,” he said, referring to the allegations against the ruling party. “Will women forget the Hathras incident,” he added, alluding to a rape-and-murder case. Yadav said the government had failed to live up to its promise ahead of the earlier elections to double farm incomes. "The first promise made by the BJP in the 'sankalp patra’ was to double the income of farmers. Today, the income of most people has halved, while inflation has doubled. How will prosperity come?” he said. The opposition leader said had the farmers not worked on their fields during the Covid pandemic, the economy would have crumbled. Despite the recent withdrawal of the three agri laws by the Centre following months of farmers’ protest, the SP and its ally Rashtriya Lok Dal have indicated that it will be an important poll issue. Against the backdrop of now ended farmers' protest, the alliance is expected to give a tough fight in western Uttar Pradesh to the BJP, which won 109 of the 136 Assembly seats in the region in the last Assembly polls. The SP chief said there is joblessness in the state. Referring to a high-profile event organised by the state government to attract new ventures, he asked, “Has the investment come to UP?” He also referred to the cancellation of recruitment exams due to question paper leaks. To a question referring to a recent jibe by Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the red caps worn by SP workers, he said, “The BJP cannot understand the red colour, since the red colour is the colour of emotion. When you become angry, your face and ears turn red.” “Our blood is red. Is the blood of the BJP black? Theirs is also red. The clothes which couples wear during weddings are also red. Vermilion is also red in colour." At a rally in Gorakhpur, Modi had said those who wear the red caps are a “red alert” as they wanted to form a government to free terrorists from jails. Referring to government hospital in Jaunpur, the former chief minister said, "I remember that when I approved the Jaunpur Medical College, I had said it would be better than the one in Azamgarh. The budget was also provided for it. He seemed to suggest that there was slow progress on the project after the BJP came to power in the state. “I came to know that it has been inaugurated. How can a medical college which itself is demanding treatment provide treatment to poor people," he said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/double-engines-are-colliding-akhilesh-yadavs-dig-at-bjp-1060725.html
14-12-2021||North and Central||Modi's Varanasi visit coincides with 100th anniv of Prince of Wales royal visit to Benares||Prime Minister Narendra Modi's ongoing visit to Varanasi has coincided with the 100th anniversary of the then Prince of Wales' royal visit to the temple town in December 1921, when he too was given a rousing reception and had formally opened new buildings of the Banaras Hindu University.  On December 13, Modi arrived in the morning and later inaugurated the first phase of the ambitious Kashi Vishwanath Dham project after taking a holy dip in Ganga and offering prayers at the ancient Kashi Vishwanath temple. In a coincidence of sorts, exactly a hundred years ago, the then Prince of Wales, who would later become King Edward VIII, had arrived in Benares on December 13, 1921 as part of his royal tour of India. The prince had arrived in Bombay (now Mumbai) on November 17 and later visited Bikaner, Bharatpur, Lucknow and Allahabad, before arriving in Benares (now Varanasi) on a single-day visit, according to archival records. The British royal was accorded a rousing reception and a grand welcome by the Maharaja of Benares at his iconic Ramnagar Palace across the river after the prince arrived early morning in the city, famed for its ancient temples, especially the Kashi Vishwanath Temple, which has now assumed a new avatar under the ambitious Kashi Vishwanath Corridor project of the government. The royal guest was received at the city station and from there the Prince went off in a car to historic Nadesar House. Nadesar House is a heritage property in Varanasi, and currently serving as a luxurious hotel, run by the Taj group. The Maharaja later made a state call on the Prince at Nadesar House, and then returned the call by visiting the king at his palace in Ramnagar, a major tourist attraction in the city today. According to "His Royal Highness the Prince of Wales' Tour in India 1921-22" published by the then British government in Delhi in 1923, the royal guest had arrived in Benares in the morning after travelling from Allahabad, where he attended a number of events on December 12. Prince Edward had then returned the visit of the Maharaja of Benares, fondly called by local people as 'Kashi Naresh', by taking a river route from Nagwa Ghat on the main city side, and came back to the temple town side taking a motor boat, travelling via the Ganga river, amid ceremonial arches, decorated boats floating around adding to the festive atmosphere, according to the book. The prince had lunch with the Maharaja of Benares, who offered 'itr', 'paan' and 'har' to the Prince before his departure. Perfume, betel leaves and marigold garlands have special significance in the culture of Benares, which is considered the spiritual capital of India. Incidentally, Prime Minister Modi, who was given a princely welcome on his arrival in the ancient city on Monday morning, with people showering rose petals and adulation and cheering and chanting 'Har Har Mahadev' and 'Modi, Modi' from balconies, verandahs and roof tops, also took a river route to travel during the course of his visit. He took a river cruise to reach Lalita Ghat on way to inaugurate Kashi Vishwanath Dham, and then in the evening enjoyed spectacular Ganga 'arti' and light and sound show at the ghat from the comforts of the cruise, in the company of Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and chief ministers of other BJP-ruled states. If the Prince was Wales was given a royal 31-gun salute on his arrival and departure from the Maharaja's palace, the prime minister was honoured with a dazzling display of fireworks on the banks of the holy Ganga, whose water, Modi had offered as 'jalabhishek' to Lord Shiva in the Kashi Vishwanath temple premises. From massive murals depicting art and cultural heritage of Benares to illumination of several buildings near the Kashi Vishwanath temple site, Varanasi has also been decked up to welcome Modi, whose visit ends Tuesday evening, after which he is scheduled to return to Delhi. According to the archival records, Prince Edward on December 13, 1921 had also visited the campus of the historic Banaras Hindu University, and was conferred an "honarary degree of D.Litt." in a special convocation ceremony held on the premises of the university, whose foundation stone was laid by Lord Hardinge on February 4, 1916. He was also offered a traditional Indian turban of gold silk during the function. The prince, on the occasion had also formally opened the new buildings of the university, according to the records. "The building of the Arts College, the Physical Laboratory, the Power House, several workshops of the Engineering College, three hostels and some residential quarters were all ready by 1921. The formal opening ceremony of the new buildings was performed on the December 13, 1921, by His Royal Highness the Prince of Wales," according to website of the BHU. "It is my proud privilege, as Chancellor of the Benares Hindu University, to preside at this important function, when the University is honouring itself by conferring its highest degree on the illustrious Heir to the British Throne, and to extend on behalf of the University, which represents in a special degree, the whole of Hindu India, a loyal and enthusiastic welcome to Your Royal Highness," the then Maharaja of Mysore had said in his address at the function, as quoted in the official tour book of 1923. BHU campus is located near Nagwa Ghat, and Modi's evening cruise which had started from Sant Ravidas Ghat had crossed by Nagwa Ghat as well. The prince had visited India as the British Empire's ambassador on behalf of his father King George V to thank India for the essential role it had played during the First World War. Moreover, the visit was intended to strengthen bonds between Britain and its Empire at a time of mounting calls for India's independence. Prior to Edward VIII, Benares has played host to other British royal guests too, including the then Prince and Princess of Wales (later King George V and Queen Mary) who visited the city during their 1905-6 India tour and also stayed at Nadesar House. And, during his royal visit to India in 1876-77, the then Prince of Wales (later King Edward VII) had also visited the holy city and also laid the foundation stone of a hospital which was originally named after him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/modis-varanasi-visit-coincides-with-100th-anniv-of-prince-of-wales-royal-visit-to-benares-1060729.html
14-12-2021||North and Central||Using non-veg ingredients, labelling as veg products offend religious sentiments: Delhi HC||Use of non-vegetarian ingredients and labelling them vegetarian would offend religious and cultural sentiments of strict vegetarians and interfere in their right to freely profess their religion, the Delhi High Court has said. The court observed that everyone has a right to know what they are consuming and nothing can be offered to them on a platter by resorting to deceit and camouflage. The high court directed the Centre and FSSAI to ensure that there should be full and complete disclosure of all the ingredients which go into the manufacture of any food article, not only by their code names but also by disclosing whether they originate from plant or animal source or whether they are manufactured in a laboratory, irrespective of their percentage in the food article. The court's order came while hearing a plea for labelling "all items" used by the public, including home appliances and apparel, as "vegetarian" or "non-vegetarian" on the basis of their ingredients and "items used in manufacturing process". A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh said failure of the authorities in checking such lapses is leading to not only non-compliance of the Food Safety and Standards Act and the Regulations, but also leading to deceit by such food business operators of the public at large, particularly those who wish to profess strict vegetarianism. "It matters not as to what is the percentage of such like ingredients (which are sourced from animals), which are used in the manufacture of food article. "Even though their usage may constitute a miniscule percentage, the use of non-vegetarian ingredients would render such food articles non-vegetarian, and would offend the religious and cultural sensibilities/ sentiments of strict vegetarians, and would interfere in their right to freely profess, practice and propagate their religion and belief. Every person has a right to know as to what he/ she is consuming, and nothing can be offered to the person on a platter by resort to deceit, or camouflage," the bench said. The high court also directed the food business operators to ensure full and strict compliance of the Food Safety and Standards (Packaging and Labelling) Regulations on the basis that the use of any ingredient – in whatever measure or percentage, which is sourced from animals, would render the food article as non-vegetarian. "We may observe that failure on the part of the food business operators to comply with the above requirements would expose themselves to, inter alia, class action for violation of the fundamental rights of the consuming public and invite punitive damages, apart from prosecution," the bench said. The court directed FSSAI to verify claims made by the food business operators and the connivance or failure on the authorities’ part or its officers to perform their duties shall expose them to claims by the aggrieved parties and prosecution under the law. It added that this order should be given adequate publicity to put everyone concerned to notice of their legal and constitutional obligations and rights and directed the FSSAI to file a compliance report of these directions before the next date on January 31. The court was informed about an ingredient, which is a food addictive and often found in instant noodles, potato chips and a variety of other snacks and is coded in the trade, which is commercially prepared from meat or fish. The court said a Google search showed that the ingredient is often sourced from pig fat and even though it is a food additive, yet the food business operators often do not disclose in their packaging that the food article in which this ingredient is used, is a non-vegetarian product. "Even though several such like ingredients are used, merely the codes of the ingredients are disclosed, without actually disclosing on the packaging as to what is the source, that is, whether it is plant based, or animal based, or it is a chemically manufactured in a laboratory. Many food articles which have ingredients sourced from animals are passed off as vegetarian by affixing the green dot," it noted. The plea was filed by Ram Gaua Raksha Dal -- a trust working towards the welfare of cows -- which claimed that there are certain "non-vegetarian" products that are unknowingly used or consumed by those professing vegetarianism due to absence of proper disclosures. The petitioner, represented by lawyer Rajat Aneja, said there are several items and commodities which are used in "everyday lives" without those professing vegetarianism realising that they are either derived from animals or processed using animal-based products. It said "along with various edibles and cosmetics that clearly include animal-derived products as their active ingredients, there also exist various cosmetics as well as food items, which though, do not contain any animal-based product in the list of their ingredients, and are therefore, marked as vegetarian, however, are manufactured by using animal-derived products." "The primary endeavour of the petitioner is...not only (for) strict enforcement of the existing Rules and Policies of labelling products as Green, Red and Brown, based on the nature of ingredients of a particular product, but also for directing the concerned authorities to make it mandatory for the manufacturers of food products, cosmetics, perfumes; home appliances like crockery, wearable items (apparel, belts, shoes etc.); accessories (necklaces, wallets etc.), and to label all such products similarly," it said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/using-non-veg-ingredients-labelling-as-veg-products-offend-religious-sentiments-delhi-hc-1060741.html
14-12-2021||North and Central||Opposition protests against RS MPs' suspension hit the streets||As the sit-in protest entered its 14th day, the Opposition on Tuesday took their agitation outside Parliament with lawmakers from Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha holding a joint march to Vijay Chowk on the Raisina Hills. Senior Opposition leaders Rahul Gandhi, Mallikarjun Kharge, P Chidambaram, Digvijay Singh, KC Venugopal (Congress), Tiruchi Siva (DMK), Manoj K Jha (RJD), Sanjay Raut (Shiv Sena), Jose K Mani (Kerala Congress), ET Mohd Basheer (Muslim League) and MV Shreyams Kumar (LJD) among others walked with suspended MPs from Gandhi Statue in Parliament to Vijay Chowk, shouting slogans against the Narendra Modi government. A number of Trinamool Congress MPs also participated in the protest march. Trinamool Congress has been keeping away from initiatives led by Congress, as both are at loggerheads over the leadership of the Opposition. This is the first of at least two programmes the Opposition is planning to do this week to take the protest outside Parliament Complex. There are also plans to hold a protest at Jantar Mantar with national leaders like Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi, Sitaram Yechury and others in attendance. Addressing the media after the march, Rahul claimed that the Opposition is not being allowed to raise issues in Parliament, which has now become "merely a building and a museum". "Wherever the Opposition is trying to raise issues, they are suppressed. The government does not allow us to raise issues. This is murder of democracy. We want to raise issues against the government, but we are not allowed to do so," Rahul said adding, Prime Minister Narendra Modi does not come to Parliament. "This is not the way to run a democracy," he said. "We have here our suspended members. This is the symbol of democracy of the country and this is the symbol of crushing the voice of the people of India. They have been suspended for two weeks now. They are sitting outside and their voice has been crushed. We are not being allowed to discuss important issues... Whenever we want to raise an issue, we are stopped from doing so. This is a very unfortunate killing of democracy that is taking place," he said. Responding to the claims, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi asked the opposition parties to express regret and join the House, saying the government wants their constructive criticism and suggestions to be part of the debates. He said the people have given them "marching orders" twice. The protest outside was also reflected inside the House with Opposition MPs shouting slogans in Rajya Sabha, leading to an adjournment in the morning session and walk out in the afternoon session. As the Opposition continued their protest, Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu adjourned the House till 2 PM but not before asking officials to send AAP member Sanjay Singh out from the House, saying "he is challenging the Chair". When the House re-assembled at 2 PM, there were similar scenes and Kharge announced the walk-out after being not allowed to raise the issue of suspension of MPs.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/opposition-protests-against-rs-mps-suspension-hit-the-streets-1060752.html
14-12-2021||North and Central||SP's alliance with smaller outfits to spell doom for BJP in Uttar Pradesh: Akhilesh Yadav||Samajwadi Party (SP) supremo Akhilesh Yadav expressed confidence that his alliance with smaller outfits in the forthcoming assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh would spell doom for the BJP in the state even as his remarks on Prime Minister Narendra Modi's Varanasi visit and UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath drew sharp reactions from the BJP here. Addressing public meetings at Jaunpur on Tuesday, Akhilesh said that the wind was blowing against the BJP and the latter was staring at defeat in the next assembly elections. "Prices of essential commodities have skyrocketed....farmers are facing shortage of fertilisers," he said. "BJP leaders, including MPs and MLAs, are finding it difficult to enter the villages....the people are very angry with the BJP as it has not fulfilled any of its promises it had made to them in the previous polls," the SP president said. "The smaller outfits have also shunned the BJP," he added. Suheldev Bhartiya Samaj Party (SBSP) president Om Prakash Rajbhar and expelled BSP leader Ram Achal Rajbhar were also with the SP chief during his visit to the district. They also attacked the BJP for doing precious little for the backward communities during its tenure and said that the people had already made up their minds to throw the saffron party out of power. He also took potshots at UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath while speaking to reporters later. "The chief minister did not take a dip in the Ganga in Varanasi as he knew that the river was very polluted....despite spending huge amounts of money none of the rivers could be made cleaner," he added. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sps-alliance-with-smaller-outfits-to-spell-doom-for-bjp-in-uttar-pradesh-akhilesh-yadav-1060756.html
14-12-2021||North and Central||Amarinder warns police against intimidating party workers||Punjab Lok Congress (PLC) chief Amarinder Singh on Tuesday warned Punjab Police officials against intimidating his party workers at the behest of some local Congress leaders. The former Chief Minister was reacting to reports of Punjab cops stopping PLC workers, who were putting up posters in the Malwa region. Amarinder Singh said he had received reports that the police officials, "clearly acting at the bidding of local Congress leaders", were threatening to slap false cases against his party workers. Amarinder Singh expressed surprise that such "mischievous acts" were being allowed by Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi. "If the present government has the guts, let them take me on politically, instead of using these goons in uniform to do their dirty jobs," he said. He also asked Channi to "rein in" such elements within the Congress and in the police force, "unless you are deliberately allowing such anarchy to plunge Punjab into political mayhem ahead of the Assembly polls, in which the ruling party is set to be shamefully trounced". "I know how to deal with such officials who have compromised their integrity to appease their political masters," said Amarinder Singh, adding that if needed, he would not shy from taking the Centre's help to deal with the lawlessness being unleashed by such police personnel. The former CM asserted that he would do anything needed to ensure that law and order is maintained in the state, which had witnessed "complete peace and political harmony" during his tenure as Chief Minister. "All such partisan officials who are going around trying to terrorise my party workers should remember that they aren't above the law, and they will have to answer for their acts," warned Amarinder Singh, adding that such draconian acts will not be tolerated at any cost. The job of the men in uniform is to maintain law and order and not to act in a partisan manner, said the PLC chief, warning the police personnel against becoming tools in the hands of the party in power. The Channi government should ensure that not just PLC workers, but workers of the BJP or the Shiromani Akali Dal (Democratic), with which his party is headed for alliance or seat arrangement, should not be harassed in the state, he added. Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/amarinder-warns-police-against-intimidating-party-workers-1060791.html
14-12-2021||North and Central||Power available for 22 hours/day in villages, 23.5 hours in cities: R K Singh||Union Power Minister R K Singh on Tuesday said electricity is available for about 22 hours per day in villages and 23.5 hours in cities across the country. The availability of power in rural and urban areas has increased tremendously in comparison to 2014, he said while addressing a function here to mark the National Energy Conservation Day. "Power is available for a duration of close to 22 hours and close to 23.5 hours in rural and urban areas respectively," Singh said. "As you all are aware, one of the priorities of our government is to provide universal energy access at affordable prices and on a 24/7 basis," he added. Singh further said in the recent few years, India has made significant progress in village electrification and providing electricity connections to households. "We have brought total transformation in the past five years by adding 142 GW generation capacity, connecting the entire country into one grid, and achieving the vision of one grid, one market. India has been transformed from an energy deficit to energy surplus nation," he noted. The minister also said the transformation is not just in capacity but also with respect to the energy mix, energy intensity and emission intensity. India has achieved the Nationally Determined Contribution (NDC) target of having 40 per cent energy production from non-fossil sources, he pointed out. "This achievement has happened way in advance of our target date. We have one of the lowest per capita emission in the world and in absolute terms it comes to 3 per cent of the total emissions," he added. The minister also lauded the efforts of state-run Convergence Energy Services Ltd (CESL) for successfully running the Gram Ujala scheme. Under the scheme, a target of distributing 10 lakh LED bulbs in five states was achieved by CESL. Distributed in rural areas of Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Karnataka, Telangana and Andhra Pradesh at a highly subsidised cost of Rs 10 in exchange for working incandescent bulbs, it heralds immense saving of energy as also savings for the consumer, Singh stated. He also credited the Bureau of Energy Efficiency (BEE) for saving around 300 million tonnes of carbon dioxide by its various schemes like Perform, Achieve, Trade (PAT). After second round of PAT, we have achieved emission reduction of 66 million tonnes per annum, he said. "We are aimed at achieving 175 GW of renewable energy by 2022. 150 GW has been generated while 63 GW of renewable energy is still under generation. The decoupling between growth and energy consumption has happened, we have to push harder," the minister observed. He also stressed on taking efforts to conserve energy. One unit of energy saved results in one unit of energy generated, he said, adding that banks will have to realise that energy efficiency is not only good for the environment but also saves money. On the occasion, Singh presented the 31st National Energy Conservation Awards (NECA) and the first National Energy Efficiency Innovation Awards (NEEIA). Singh complimented the BEE for initiating the NEEIA to promote innovation in the energy sector. The minister also released a standard and labelling programme for high-energy lithium-ion traction battery packs and systems. Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/power-available-for-22-hours/day-in-villages-235-hours-in-cities-r-k-singh-1060798.html
14-12-2021||North and Central||BJP in overdrive to woo back farmers ahead of UP polls||Battling the “anti-farmer government” narrative being aggressively pushed by the Opposition spectrum ahead of polls in seven states, the Modi government and BJP are making a sustained bid to reach out to farmers after having withdrawn a fortnight ago the three contentious farm laws that had led to a year-long agitation at Delhi borders. Ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s address to farmers at the valedictory session of the National Summit on Agro and Food Processing in his home state of Gujarat on December 16, the Centre issued a statement elaborating how “the government has been driven by the Prime Minister's vision for farmer welfare” and pitched for making natural farming a mass movement. On Monday, Agriculture Secretary Sanjay Agrawal said that a committee on the minimum support price (MSP) and other farm issues, including the promotion of zero budget natural farming, will be set up soon. Reaching out to the farmers in eastern UP, Modi inaugurated the Saryu canal national project on December 11. Not missing the opportunity, the BJP launched a huge campaign on social media around the step which is expected to give a fillip to agriculture activities in nine districts of eastern UP. “Merely repealing the contentious farm laws won’t do. Substantial damage has already been done and hence, the BJP and the government have to go in some sort of overdrive to mollify the farmers and do it fast with just nearly three months left for the polls,” political analyst Rasheed Kidwai said. The Opposition has kept the heat on the government on farm issues even after farmers suspended their 378-day protest at Delhi borders on December 11, nearly two weeks after the government passed a law on November 29, the first day of the Winter Session of the Parliament to repeal the three contentious laws. Earlier, on November 19, PM Modi had announced withdrawing the farm laws without any warning. The farmers' protest is believed to have substantially affected the BJP’s support base in the western part of poll-bound Uttar Pradesh where the Jat party, Rashtriya Lok Dal, has aligned with the main Opposition party, Akhilesh Yadav's Samajwadi Party. In western UP, BJP had won 106 of 136 Assembly seats and a good show in the sugarcane belt is key to the BJP’s victory in the state. “Government has initiated several measures to transform agriculture and increase farmers’ income. Efforts are under way to promote and support initiatives leading to sustainability of the system, cost reduction, market access and better value realisation to farmers,” the government said Tuesday, linking it with the summit that focuses on natural farming and is being attended by over 5,000 farmers. It promised that farmers will be provided with requisite information detailing the benefits of adopting natural farming methods and stressed the government has been committed to ensuring an increase in productivity, so that farmers are able to maximise their agri-potential. In the summit that began on Tuesday, the Centre emphasised that zero-budget natural farming is a promising tool to minimise the dependence of farmers on purchased inputs, and reduces the cost of agriculture by relying on traditional field-based technologies, which lead to improved soil health. The Agriculture Ministry in a statement highlighted the steps taken by the government to increase the participation of women in farming. “Under Deendayal Antyodaya Yojana - National Rural Livelihood Mission (DAY- NRLM), about 38 lakh women farmers have been trained under Mahila Kisan Sashaktikaran Pariyojana (MKSP). The learning of the interventions under MKSP has been expanded to various parts of the country under the Annual Action Plans of States/UTs,” an official statement said. The government claimed that a total of around 1.44 crore women farmers have been covered under DAY-NRLM so far. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-in-overdrive-to-woo-back-farmers-ahead-of-up-polls-1060803.html
14-12-2021||North and Central||SC issues notice Maharashtra Assembly secy on plea against suspension of BJP MLAs for one year||The Supreme Court on Tuesday sought a response from the Secretary of Maharashtra Legislative Assembly on a petition filed by 12 BJP MLAs against their suspension for a year from the Assembly in July for allegedly misbehaving with the presiding officer in the Chair both inside and outside the legislature. A bench presided over Justice A M Khanwilkar issued the notice to the official, while clarifying that the pendency of the proceedings before the top court would not come in the way of the suspended MLAs to seek a modification of their suspension order. Senior advocates Harish Salve, Mukul Rohatgi, Neeraj Kishan Kaul, and Siddharth Bhatnagar appeared for the petitioners along with advocates Siddharth Dharmadhikari and Abhikalp Pratap Singh. Senior advocate Dushyant Dave and others appeared for the other side. The 12 suspended members are — Sanjay Kute, Ashish Shelar, Abhimanyu Pawar, Girish Mahajan, Atul Bhatkhalkar, Parag Alavani, Harish Pimpale, Yogesh Sagar, Jay Kumar Rawat, Narayan kuche, Ram Satpute and Bunty Bhangdia. The MLAs have termed their suspension as politically motivated to whittle down the number of the opposition party. They pressed for setting aside resolutions of July 5 and 6 saying it was a gross violation of rules of parliamentary democracy and completely uncalled for. The court, however, put the matter for further hearing on January 11. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-issues-notice-maharashtra-assembly-secy-on-plea-against-suspension-of-bjp-mlas-for-one-year-1060810.html
14-12-2021||North and Central||CJI promises to take up the issue of higher representation of women judges||Chief Justice of India N V Ramana on Tuesday said that the inclusion of women as judges and lawyers in the country will substantially improve the justice delivery system as they can bring a different perspective to the law, enriching the legal field, adding that representation of women in all levels within the profession is quite low. Agreeing to look into the demand of raising their representation to beyond 50 per cent as judges, he stressed the need for removing physical barriers like lack of infrastructure and mental bias among colleagues and litigants towards woman advocates. "This creates a completely unwelcome atmosphere within courtrooms for women. It is the duty of all lawyers and judges to ensure that a friendly environment is created in courtrooms," he said. Speaking at a function organised by 'Women in Law and Litigation' to felicitate Justice Hima Kohli, Justice Ramana noted the demand for higher representation of women beyond 50 per cent on the bench in view of backlog. "I promise to take up your demand with my brothers (judges) in the Collegium," he said.  Citing statistics, he said women constitute only around 30 per cent of the judges in the lower judiciary on average. Some states have a good number of women judges, whereas in other states, the representation is abysmal. In High Courts, the percentage of women judges is a mere 11.5 per cent. In the Supreme Court, there are four sitting women judges, out of 33 in office. The situation of women lawyers in the country is not any better, he pointed out, with only 15 per cent women advocates out of 1.7 million. The CJI also said judicial infrastructure or the lack thereof is another barrier to women in the profession.  Small courtrooms which are crowded and cramped, absence of restrooms, childcare facilities, etc. are all barriers. Nearly 22 per cent of courts in the country did not have washroom facilities, he added. "All these issues cannot be solved in a day. Many will take years and even generations but it needs to be done. There can be no denying that the inclusion of women as judges and lawyers in the country will substantially improve the justice delivery system. Women can bring a different perspective to the law which will enrich the legal field," he said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cji-promises-to-take-up-the-issue-of-higher-representation-of-women-judges-1060850.html
14-12-2021||North and Central||NCLT, NCLAT can't compel parties to settle disputes: SC||The Supreme Court on Tuesday held that the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) and the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) cannot compel parties to settle their dispute while acting as “courts of equity”. A bench presided over by Justice D Y Chandrachud said that the NCLT is empowered only to verify whether a default has occurred or not.  In its decision, the NCLT “must either admit or reject an application respectively. These are the only two courses of action which are open to the adjudicating authority, which cannot compel a party to the proceedings before it to settle a dispute", the bench said. The top court stressed that while settlements can be encouraged by the NCLT and NCLAT to achieve the objectives of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC), they cannot direct any settlement by acting as courts of equity. It said that settlements have to be encouraged because the ultimate purpose of the IBC is to facilitate the continuance and rehabilitation of a corporate debtor, as distinct from allowing it to go into liquidation. The court passed its judgment on a petition by E S Krishnamurthy where both NCLT and NCLAT had rejected a plea for initiating the insolvency proceedings against M/s Bharath Hi Tech Builders Pvt Ltd. The court dealt with the legal question of whether the NCLT and the NCLAT were correct in their approach of rejecting the petition under Section 7 of the IBC at the ‘pre-admission stage’, and directing them to settle with the company within three months.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nclt-nclat-cant-compel-parties-to-settle-disputes-sc-1060856.html
14-12-2021||Oasis||The philosophy of vinegar||My daughter came back excited from school one day, talking about her Geography class in which she was studying religious practices and philosophies from around the globe. While referring to a painting, she repeated the story her teacher had discussed in class, and I was deeply intrigued with the message it conveyed. The Vinegar Tasters, a well-known painting in Chinese philosophy and religion presents an interesting perspective of China’s major religious and philosophical traditions. The painting depicts Buddha, Confucius, and Laozi standing around a vat full of vinegar, each one dipping their finger into the vat to taste the vinegar. While the vinegar is said to represent life itself, the reaction thus represents an understanding of life and its essence. Buddha’s face illustrates a bitter look, Confucius has a tart expression, however, Laozi is wearing a sweet blissful smile.  Buddhism is said to read life as it is, in which vinegar is vinegar, with a bitter taste. Buddha’s reaction represents how life truly is; difficult. Confucius saw life as sour, as he believed humans had no understanding and reverence for the laws of the universe. They needed conventions to correct this decline. Confucius, being concerned with the outside world, viewed the vinegar as tart and polluted. To Laozi however, the harmony that naturally exists between man and nature, between heaven and earth impacted not only the distant planets but also the activities of the tiniest creatures in the forest and the colourful fish in the sea. Laozi said the more man interfered with the natural order and universal laws, the further he moved away from harmony. Everything had its own nature, which if violated, would disrupt everything and life would indeed become sour. However, if one lives in harmony and in accordance with the life and the Tao, understanding the purpose of life and things being the way they are; everything becomes sweet and blissful.  When life is allowed to flow unchallenged and we flow one with nature, even what appears as negative becomes positive. “The vinegar” my daughter concluded “is naturally sour, but because it stays true to its nature of being sour, in its natural state it becomes sweet”. I had to bow down to this superior wisdom.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/the-philosophy-of-vinegar-1060849.html
14-12-2021||Opinion||What the Modi Twitter breach tells us about hackers||By Tim Culpan Last weekend some smart alecks managed to breach the defenses of one of the most ubiquitous media platforms, access the mouthpiece of the leader of one of the world’s most populous countries, and grab the opportunity to broadcast whatever they wanted to 73 million followers. And they used it to pump cryptocurrency. As implausible as that message sounds, the entire incident — from exploit to outcome — tells us a lot about hacking culture and the variety of actors out there trying to break into computer systems. What’s immediately obvious about this specific event is that the perpetrators were more mischievous than malicious. Pitching Bitcoin has become the Rick Roll of the hacking community — a funny prank rather than a nasty attack. It’s not the first time.  In July 2020 more than 100 famous accounts were breached including those of Barack Obama, Joe Biden, Bill Gates, Elon Musk, Kanye West and Apple Inc. Once they got access, the attackers went on to promote a Bitcoin scam to millions of these victims’ followers.  The details of that incident are dripping with delicious irony. First up, the hackers’ use of Bitcoin was in fact their undoing — US law enforcement officers tracked down the cryptocurrency accounts and found that they’d used their driver’s licenses for authentication. And, the breach was conducted through old-fashioned social engineering — tricking Twitter staff into giving login credentials, which allowed access to the target accounts. Finally, true to hacker form, two of them were teenagers, one of whom was underage. Youngsters pulling off epic hacks is a time-honored tradition. Kevin Mitnick, the most infamous of them all, was just 16 when he broke into Digital Equipment Corp’s systems in 1979 and stole software. Jonathan James, purportedly the first juvenile imprisoned for cybercrime, was 15 when he got going and added the Department of Defense to his list of victims. Yet since Mitnick and James rose to fame decades ago, the goal of network penetration has gone from scamming cheap long-distance calls to shutting pipelines and destroying centrifuges used in weapons production. And it’s likely that more hacks go unnoticed or unreported than those we hear about.  So even though this was a prank — a somewhat well-trodden one at that — there is a serious side to it. It should be of grave concern that one of the most powerful outlets in the world was once again breached, allowing unauthorised access to the media equivalent of the nuclear codes. Musk, the chief executive officer of Tesla Inc, has made cryptocurrency and equity markets swing by billions of dollars with a few choice words.  One can only image what might have happened if the Twitter account of the democratically elected leader of an increasingly authoritarian government decided to declare a second demonetisation or an escalation of its conflicts with China or Pakistan. We should be thankful that the attackers chose Bitcoin as the subject of their tweets, not economic or military destruction. The world might not be so lucky next time. A few hacks of Twitter has proven to the rest of the community that this is a target with vulnerabilities, and others — possibly with state backing or terrorist links — will think of better ways to abuse that weakness than promoting crypto scams. And clearly Twitter itself continues to drop the ball on the fundamental task of keeping its system robust as it balances usability with security. May we laugh and appreciate the prankster nature of the best hackers around. But let’s keep in mind that breaching social media is all fun and games until someone gets hurt. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/what-the-modi-twitter-breach-tells-us-about-hackers-1060605.html
14-12-2021||Opinion||India's worries increase in Sri Lanka and Maldives||Two significant domestic developments have taken place in Sri Lanka and the Maldives, both strategically-located neighbours of India. The developments have wider ramifications for India, given China's increasing inroads into the two countries. China has left no stone unturned to woo these two close neighbours of India that straddle vital sea lanes in the Indian Ocean. Unlike India, both have joined Beijing's ambitious Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), adding to New Delhi's anxieties. In the Maldives, the China-leaning former president Abdullah Yameen walked out free from house arrest on November 30 after being acquitted of money laundering and embezzlement charges by the country's Supreme Court. He was in prison after losing his bid to be re-elected president and later under house arrest due to the pandemic since his November 2019 conviction.  As the country's president from 2013 to 2018, Yameen had given India much cause for grief with his government locked in a tight clinch with China. With presidential polls in the archipelago just two years away, the possibility of Yameen running for the post cannot be ruled out. If he were to win, Maldives would for sure be back in China's embrace, queering the pitch for India yet again.  A day after Yameen's release, came another noteworthy development in the neighbourhood. In Sri Lanka, the Chinese embassy announced it was suspending the project for solar power plants on three of the country's northern islands owing to the security concerns of a "third party". The reference was clearly to India, which had been worried about Chinese projects so close to its shores and had made known its misgivings to the Lankans.   The Chinese announcement came even as Sri Lankan finance minister Basil Rajapaksa was in New Delhi seeking more financial assistance for his country, which is now in dire economic straits. Basil is part of the powerful Rajapaksa clan in Sri Lanka, with older brothers Gotabaya Rajapaksa and Mahinda Rajapaksa as the country's president and prime minister, respectively. Colombo's outreach to New Delhi was, perhaps, also driven by the rough time it has been having with Beijing after it decided to return what it said was "contaminated" fertiliser supplied by China.  After failing to coerce Sri Lanka to accept the consignment, an angry China has now dragged Sri Lanka into international arbitration to resolve the dispute. A lesson in there for Colombo—-if you play with fire, you can be singed by it.  In New Delhi, Basil met Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and even National Security Adviser Ajit Doval. Undoubtedly, New Delhi would have conveyed to the visiting minister that his government's unabated embrace of Beijing, unmindful of India's strategic concerns, did not bode well for bilateral relations.  However, despite India's unhappiness with the Rajapaksa regime's continuing China tango, Basil returned to Colombo with assurances from New Delhi that it would help his country with lines of credit for food, medicines and fuel purchases as well as a currency swap arrangement it has been seeking for long.  In turn, New Delhi has extracted assurances from Colombo about one of its long-pending demands – the go-ahead to modernise the World War II-era oil tanks farms in Trincomalee and facilitation of Indian investments in Sri Lanka.  New Delhi has legitimate concerns on both fronts. It would not like the Trincomalee project to go to China, given that the port is so close to Indian shores. It is also not happy that while the Rajapaksas-led Sri Lankan government has been welcoming Chinese investments with open arms – the Colombo Port City Project is one such instance – India got booted out of the strategic East Container Terminal (ECT) project.  While India has settled for the West Container Terminal, Sri Lanka has gone ahead and awarded the contract for developing the ECT to a Chinese company. It is perhaps these moves by Colombo that have made New Delhi extremely distrustful of Colombo. And the reason why it made it clear to Colombo is that if it is seeking assistance from India, it will need to keep its strategic interests in mind.  Indeed, New Delhi needs to adopt an even firmer approach towards Colombo given that the latter has shown little inclination to keep India's strategic concerns in mind since the Rajapaksas return to power. It needs to ensure Colombo takes some concrete measures on the Trincomalee oil tank farms before it decides to loosen its purse strings for Colombo.  In contrast to the pronounced China-tilt of Sri Lanka under the Rajapaksas, the Maldives, under the presidency of Ibrahim 'Ibu' Mohamed Solih, is no longer under the overwhelming influence of China. India-Maldives ties have become robust with the return to power of the Maldivian Democratic Party (MDP). India has regained its primacy in the Maldives strategic space, which it had lost to China during Yameen's presidency. But Yameen's release has set the alarm bells ringing in New Delhi. Within days of his release, Yameen was indulging in blatant anti-India rhetoric. The Maldives Journal, a news website known for its anti-India stance, quoted him as saying during an Opposition rally that the "Maldives is not an Indian town" and its president should not be a governor appointed by India.  He has also begun stoking the opposition-led 'India Out' campaign that gathers steam every once in a while by declaring that the "Indian military will have to leave the Maldives…I do not want a single soldier or a single pair of boots of the Indian military to remain on the soil."  His remarks came days after Maldivian defence minister Mariya Didi became the first minister from a foreign nation to be the chief guest at the passing out parade for cadets at the Indian Naval Academy. If the invite was meant to signal how vital India-Maldives defence cooperation is, Yameen is back doing what he does best – fanning anti-India sentiments.  The New Delhi-Malé relationship went through a difficult and strained phase during Yameen's presidency. So much so that PM Narendra Modi, who undertook a 'Sagar Yatra' to countries in the Indian Ocean region—Sri Lanka, Seychelles and Mauritius – chose to skip the Maldives.  With Yameen back in active politics, China could well occupy centrestage in the Maldives once again. Though India, and indeed other world powers, would be hoping that the nascent democracy does not slide back into turmoil and the destruction of democratic institutions as had happened during Yameen's presidency. India will have to keep an eagle-eye on both Sri Lanka and the Maldives. (The writer is a senior New Delhi-based journalist) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/indias-worries-increase-in-sri-lanka-and-maldives-1060652.html
14-12-2021||Opinion||UP Polls: The growing irrelevance of the Dalit factor||In poll-bound Uttar Pradesh, an aspect has gone under-reported: the changing dynamics of Dalit politics. Ten days after the gruesome murder of four members of the Pasi community and the suspected rape of a girl in Prayagraj, the matter appears to be already fading from public memory.  Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav tweeted only a mild condemnation of the incident 36 hours after the incident. Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati has also been largely silent on the recent spate of crimes against Dalits: the custodial death of a Scheduled Castes member in the Agra prison; the thrashing of a Dalit groom for his audacity to ride a horse during his wedding procession at Mahoba, or the earlier incident of the rape and murder of two girls belonging to the Scheduled Castes in Hathras.  As the National Crimes Records Bureau data for 2018-20 shows, Uttar Pradesh has retained the top spot in crimes against Scheduled Castes by a considerable margin. Against the 11924 such cases registered in the state in 2018, 11829 cases were recorded in 2019, while the figure jumped to 12714 in 2020. Neighbouring Bihar, placed second on the list, recorded approximately half the number of cases for the same period: 7061 cases in 2018, 6544 in 2019 and 7368 in 2020. Madhya Pradesh ranks third among the rogue states with 4753 cases registered in 2018, 5300 in 2019 and 6899 in 2020.  Two pointers emerge from the NCRB data. One, states ruled either directly by the BJP or in alliance with others, have consistently been the worst performers in relation to preventing crimes against the Scheduled Castes. Second, the minds and hearts of the political class no longer seem to get consumed with rage and indignation by Dalit atrocities in quite the same manner as earlier.  From political assertiveness to growing irrelevance After her devastating political defeat in the 1977 parliamentary elections, the late Indira Gandhi found political resurrection when she rode an elephant to travel down to the remote hamlet of Belchi in Bihar, where upper-caste goons had massacred several Dalits. After the murder of four Scheduled Caste members at Khairlanji in 2006, Maharashtra remained paralysed for months, and the public outcry spread to several states, including Uttar Pradesh. In 2016, politicians of all hues - from Sonia Gandhi to Arvind Kejriwal to Mayawati - dashed down to Una in Gujarat, where seven Dalits were flogged on the pretext of cow protection. In UP, on the other hand, the Dalit factor has evoked only a tepid response in recent months. Regional satraps, including the bua-bhatija (aunt/nephew) duo of Mayawati and Akhilesh Yadav, have appeared more interested in doing perambulations of temples while continuing to pay lip service to the idea of Dalit empowerment.  What has changed for Dalit and Muslim politics?' If the "soft Hindutva" shift of the non-BJP parties has caused the disenfranchisement of the minority Muslims, Dalits are rapidly becoming marginalised as well. If Akhilesh Yadav in UP is reluctant to be seen in the same frame with leaders of "Pasmanda" Muslims, for example, the situation in the Congress-ruled Rajasthan is not altogether different. Into the fourth year of his term, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has not fulfilled major manifesto promises, including the assurance of regularisation of "madarsa" para teachers. Various boards/corporations relating to minority welfare have not been constituted. The leaders of non-BJP parties have appeared to stand firm in the belief that the minority Muslims have been turned into their captive vote banks and that there was no need to woo the community any longer with electoral promises. The situation appears much the same for Dalit voters. In the 2014 and 2019 parliamentary elections, also in the 2017 Assembly polls in UP, Dalits substantially cast their lot with the BJP. For instance, in the last UP Assembly polls, the BJP had gone on to win 69 of the 85 seats reserved for SCs in the state. While Jatavs, the caste from which Mayawati hails, have stayed loyal to the BSP, the non-Jatav SC voters have largely shifted to the BJP in recent years. For example, in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, 48 per cent of the non-Jatav SC votes had gone in favour of the BJP. Dalits, therefore, have come to be regarded more or less as captive vote banks of the BJP, while the movement on backward castes empowerment appears to have gone astray.  The poll arithmetics The vote share of the SP and BSP has hovered around 20 per cent in recent elections. The BJP vote share spiked to 49 per cent in UP in the 2019 Lok Sabha and 39.6 per cent in the 2017 Assembly elections. Statistical data shows that the BJP vote share does mark a substantial fall in the Assembly polls compared to the party's performance in the Lok Sabha. A change of government in Lucknow can come about next year only when two factors are achieved - a dip of approximately 10-12 per cent vote share of the BJP and a corresponding rise of the same percentage in favour of the SP, which is being seen as the primary challenger to the BJP.  At the worst of times, the SP and BSP have received the support of their core support base: the Jatav votes for the BSP and the Muslim and Yadav vote blocs for the SP. Therefore, the big challenge for Akhilesh Yadav and the SP is how to take on board another chunk of voters without disturbing the party's traditional and core support base.  Therefore, the outcome of the upcoming UP elections rests on the following two questions. Will the non-Jatav votes of Dalits and non-Yadav votes of the OBCs desert the BJP and move "en masse" towards the SP? Or whether the votes of these communities will get fragmented?  (The writer is a senior journalist) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/up-polls-the-growing-irrelevance-of-the-dalit-factor-1060708.html
14-12-2021||Panorama||Sri Lanka’s plunge into organic farming brings disaster||By Aanya Wipulasena and Mujib Mashal, This year’s crop worries M D Somadasa. For four decades, he has sold carrots, beans and tomatoes grown by local farmers using foreign-made chemical fertilizers and pesticides, which helped them reap bigger and richer crops from the verdant hills that ring his hometown. Then came Sri Lanka’s sudden, and disastrous, turn toward organic farming. The government campaign, ostensibly driven by health concerns, lasted only seven months. But farmers and agriculture experts blame the policy for a sharp drop in crop yields and spiralling prices that are worsening the country’s growing economic woes and leading to fears of food shortages. Prices for some foodstuffs, like rice, have risen by nearly one-third compared with a year ago, according to Sri Lanka’s central bank. The prices of vegetables like tomatoes and carrots have risen to five times their year-ago levels. “I haven’t seen times that were as bad as these,” said Somadasa, a 63-year-old father of two who sells vegetables in the small town of Horana, just outside the island nation’s capital, Colombo. “We can’t find enough vegetables. And with the price hikes, people find it hard to buy the vegetables.” Now Sri Lanka’s government, run by members of the Rajapaksa family, is rushing to avert a crisis. Late last month, Sri Lanka’s plantation minister, Ramesh Pathirana, confirmed a partial reversal of the policy, telling the country’s Parliament that the government would be importing fertilizer necessary for tea, rubber and coconut, which make up the nation’s major agricultural exports. “We will be importing fertilizers depending on the requirement in the country,” Pathirana told The New York Times. “So far, we don’t have enough chemical fertilizers in the country because we didn’t import them. There is a shortage there.” Food costs are rising around the world as pandemic-related supply chain knots are slowly unsnarled and as prices rise for feedstocks like natural gas that are used to make fertilizer and other supplies. Sri Lanka added to those pressures with its own missteps. Chemical fertilizers are essential tools for modern agriculture. Still, governments and environmental groups have grown increasingly concerned about their overuse. They have been blamed for growing water pollution problems, while scientists have found increased risks of colon, kidney and stomach cancer from excessive nitrate exposure. President Gotabaya Rajapaksa cited health concerns when his government banned the importation of chemical fertilizers in April, a pledge he had initially made during his 2019 election campaign. “Sustainable food systems are part of Sri Lanka’s rich socio-cultural and economic heritage,” he told a United Nations summit in September. “Our more recent past, however, saw increasing use of chemical fertilizers, pesticides and weedicides that led to adverse health and environmental impacts.” Rajapaksa’s critics pointed to another reason: Sri Lanka’s dwindling reserves of money. Covid-19 lockdowns devastated Sri Lanka’s tourist industry, which generates one-tenth of the country’s economic output and provides a major source of foreign currency. The domestic currency, the rupee, has lost about one-fifth of its value, limiting Sri Lanka’s ability to purchase food and supplies abroad just as prices were rising. That added to lingering problems like its huge debt load, including on high-interest loans from Chinese state banks that required it to take out still more loans. “Our annual earnings from tourism amounting to almost $5 billion did not materialize during the last two years,” Basil Rajapaksa, the finance minister and the president’s brother, told Parliament last month. “As a government, we acknowledge that our foreign reserves are being challenged.” As Sri Lanka’s economy struggled and global prices rose, its foreign exchange reserves shrank by about 70%. Shaving foreign-made fertilizer from the country’s shopping list would help stem the slide. Some farmers and agriculture industry officials say they are warming to the idea of reducing dependence on chemicals in farming. But the shift was too sudden for farmers who did not know how to work organically, said Nishan de Mel, director of Verité Research, a Colombo-based analysis firm. Verité found in a July survey that three-quarters of Sri Lanka’s farmers relied heavily on chemical fertilizers, while just about 10% cultivated without them. Almost all major crops grown in the country depend on chemicals. For crops crucial to the economy like rice, rubber and tea, the dependence reaches 90% or more. The April ban went into effect just before what is known as the Yala planting season, which lasts from May to August, and was felt almost immediately. The Verité survey showed that 85% of farmers expected a reduction in their harvest because of the fertilizer ban. Half of them feared that their crop yield could fall by as much as 40%. Food prices shot up in September, and people formed lines outside shops for basic items such as milk powder and kerosene. Rajapaksa declared a state of emergency to regulate prices and prevent the hoarding of essential items. The government also introduced import restrictions on nonessential items in hopes of dealing with the dwindling foreign exchange. Now that the government is easing the policy, it is not clear whether Sri Lanka’s farmers will get their needed fertilizer in time. The Maha planting season runs from September to March. “The damage is so much in agriculture and agriculture-related exports,” said W.A. Wijewardena, a former deputy governor of Sri Lanka’s central bank, “that it will take some time for the country to recover.” Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/sri-lanka-s-plunge-into-organic-farming-brings-disaster-1060848.html
14-12-2021||Panorama||Preparing children to handle failure||With schools today being generous at showering wards with medals and certificates, are we preparing children to fail in the future? In an attempt not to dishearten the effervescent pupils, participation certificates are being awarded, the number of categories in which awards are given has been inflated quite irrationally, in the process, children today have lost the yearning for and the taste of success.  While it is acceptable to respect the individuality of each child and embrace their uniqueness, what we fail to nurture is the art of perseverance, ambition and ardour. The absence of a north star in a child fails to generate the requisite nudge. The lethargy thus cultivated leads to a general tendency of stagnation and reclusiveness.  With instant gratification and abundance of happiness, our children today fail to appreciate incremental joy and satisfaction. Chocolate that was once a year token of appreciation is today a boredom killer. Family mealtimes have made way to digital solitude. The absence of human interaction has quashed emotions and reciprocations. How then can parents nurture children and prepare for the future? Introduction to the science of “No”: Help children understand that the answer to everything is not affirmative. The whole world does not solicit their whims and fancies as parents do. It helps build resistance to peer pressure, helps gather oneself, understand priorities and handle uneasy situations. Introduction to failure: All parents are guilty of letting their child win games to just catch a glimpse of their fleeting happiness, the spark in their eyes and cry of joy. Parents should take the privilege of witnessing their child’s failure and how their children brace themselves to failure. How long does the child try before giving up? Nudge the child to a different perspective of failure: An opportunity to learn, It took Edison 10,000 attempts to perfect the light bulb. He viewed it not as 9,999 failures but as finding “9,999 ways that do not work”. These nudges will stand by the child during the most difficult times of their life.  Introduce the art of perseverance: It is not the failure that matters, but the lessons learnt, the grit to accept it and the ascertainment to avoid it in future that matters. Patience is a virtue that when fostered from childhood, builds an amicable personality.  Unleash the fear of failure: Build the grace to accept failure, to stand by what is right and be true to oneself.   And last but not the least, the joy of giving. Help the child understand it is ok to part with what they think is theirs. This helps build resilience to handle departures, breakups and agony. With the schools scheduled to reopen soon, it is important for parents to inculcate some practices and principles that will stand the test of time. While mistakes and failure are inevitable in the journey of life, it is of paramount importance to nerve oneself to it.  As Einstein famously said, “In order to succeed, your desire for success should be greater than your fear of failure”. (The writer is a Bengaluru-based software professional)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/preparing-children-to-handle-failure-1060853.html
14-12-2021||Right in the Middle||Lives of celebrities||As a child, I might have dreamt of the life of a princess, fantasised about a royal life as a teenager but long ago stopped being enamoured by the lives of kings and queens. Whatever little envy I had been left with, disappeared after watching The Crown, a Netflix series on British royalty that blurs the real life of the royals with the reel life. The four seasons of the television series portraying many characters spanning over several decades of British monarchy turned out to be an eye-opener for me. I realised that the lofty life at Buckingham Palace is not a bed of roses. The opulent lifestyle of the royals doesn’t make their lives enviable. Despite possessing wealth, titles and adulation, there is discontent and dejection lurking in the corridors of the palace. Most of the royals have been shown living stifled lives, looking unhappy, empty and dissatisfied as their deepest desires and dreams are choked by rigid protocols, centuries-old traditions and icy demeanours. I always thought there was unconditional love between the old royal couple, the queen and Prince Philip through their more than 70 years of wedded life but the couple’s depiction in the Netflix historic drama painted a complex picture showing a relationship that wasn’t always straightforward. Early accession of Elizabeth to the throne five years into their marriage rattled their relationship.  The first two seasons depict the personal struggle of Philip as he had to leave behind his Royal Navy career to become a consort to his queen wife, always walking a few paces behind her in public. It took him significant time and effort to accept his role as a second fiddle to his wife. In the subsequent seasons, Philip is portrayed as a softer man playing crucial to Elizabeth’s success as a monarch.  While watching the series, I realised no man’s life is a fairy tale. People who live in castles are humans too. Like any commoner, they too get hurt; feel pain. They too have their own insecurities and frustrations. Fame and fortune are no guarantee for happiness. Living in a palace offers luxurious life but doesn’t raise the happiness quotient. Power may be heady but along with power come insecurities. My take away from the historical drama is that material pleasures are not enough to keep a person in a state of perpetual happiness. We don’t know what celebrities are going through — if they are enjoying life or crumbling from within. We have no idea about their pain, frustrations and insecurities.  Let us be happy with what we have and be content with our mediocre life. Isn’t it better to be happy with the ordinary than to revel in the extraordinary? Let us enjoy the simple joys of life and celebrate being ordinary. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/lives-of-celebrities-1060852.html
14-12-2021||Second Edit||For poll gains, a leap into the unknown?||Electoral considerations may have quickened the government’s decision on the Ken-Betwa river-linking project, which is the first major venture of the kind in the country. The Union Cabinet gave its approval for the project last week, six months after the Centre and the state governments of UP and Madhya Pradesh signed an MoU to execute it. The project aims to transfer water from the Ken River in Madhya Pradesh to the water-starved and drought-prone Bundelkhand region in UP. It is expected to irrigate over 10 lakh acres of land, generate 103 MW of hydroelectric power and 27 MW of solar power, and bring drinking water to about 6.2 million people. The project is expected to be completed in eight years and cost Rs 44,605 crore. The electoral appeal of the project will not be missed, as the government is inaugurating or announcing the start of a series of mega projects in UP in the run-up to elections in the state.  There is no agreement on the idea of river-linking as such, and planners, engineers, environmentalists, conservationists have all expressed different views on it. Studies of merits and demerits and costs and benefits have varied. In the case of specific projects, specific objections and reservations have been expressed and protests have taken place. The Ken-Betwa project has evoked a lot of opposition ever since the project was conceived. A dam is to be built on the Ken River in the Panna reserve forest, and it will submerge over 4,000 acres of the reserve and affect the Ken Ghariyal sanctuary. It is estimated that about 2.3 million trees will perish and a large number of people will be displaced from villages. It is also alleged that many structures which were not part of the MoU were added later without an impact assessment. It has also been pointed out that there are as yet no forest, environment and wildlife clearances for the project. Every river is a unique ecosystem made of the water it carries, the life forms that it sustains and the trees and plants and even the human lives that it supports. The nature and quality of water is also different. The transfer of water from one river to another and from one place to another may have unexpected consequences because a river is not just the water it carries. There is a paucity of data about rivers as they have not been properly studied. The impact of the transfer of water across basins is still less understood. The apprehensions over such transfers are especially relevant when there are serious concerns about climate change and because the damage done by such projects is likely to be irreversible. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/for-poll-gains-a-leap-into-the-unknown-1060845.html
14-12-2021||South||People chopping off someone's leg, throwing it on road is scary: Kerala High Court||Referring to the recent killing of a man by a gang of 12 assailants who chopped off the victim's leg and threw the limb on the road as they fled the site, Kerala High Court has said it was a "scary" situation in the state. "People chopping off someone's leg and throwing it on the road. It is scary. They (assailants) are all probably drug addicts and heavily into substance abuse. Where are we going like this?" Justice Devan Ramachandran asked. The remarks came during hearing a batch of petitions related to assignment of land to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes in the state. During the hearing, the court said that while the government was saying it will provide housing to these people, how will it ensure they have a source of livelihood? It pointed out that over 50 lakh from other states were working in Kerala, but people here do not have jobs. This was leading to the younger generation resorting to crimes or drugs, the court said. A man, wanted in an attempt to murder case, was hacked to death and his leg chopped off on December 11 by a gang of 12 assailants in Pothencode area of Thiruvananthapuram district. Several of the accused in the case have been arrested, police has said recently. On Saturday (December 11) afternoon, the assailants tracked the victim to Pothencode where he was staying in the house of a distant relative. On seeing the gang coming to attack him, the victim rushed into the home of his relative, but the assailants also forced themselves into the house and hacked him several times and chopped off his leg in front of the others there, including children, the house owner told the media. The house owner also said that the victim was a distant relative of his wife and had come there seeking work. The victim was rushed to the Thiruvananthapuram Medical College, but his life could not be saved, police had said. The assailants, while fleeing the scene, threw the limb on the road, police had said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/people-chopping-off-someones-leg-throwing-it-on-road-is-scary-kerala-high-court-1060628.html
14-12-2021||South||Baby monkey rescued from begging racket at Chennai's Marina beach||Officials of the Forest Department of Tamil Nadu has rescued a baby monkey from the clutches of a begging racket at the famous Marina beach in Chennai. Two children who were using the monkey to beg gave a slip to the team of wildlife officials and the police. The rescued baby monkey belongs to the species Bonnet macaques (Macaca radiate) and is covered under Schedule II (Part I) of the wildlife protection Act of 1972. Forest officials said that people who are found in possession of these monkeys are liable to be punished for a period of 3 years in prison and a penalty of Rs 25,000 for first-time offenders and for regular offenders, imprisonment can go up to 7 years with penalty. There were complaints from regular beachgoers that children and monkeys were being used for begging and that there seems to be an organised racket behind this. Sundararajan, a software engineer who regularly spends his evenings at Marina beach after it was opened, told IANS, "Children come here seeking alms and they catch hold of our legs and don't go away unless we pay them. This seems to be not natural and the police patrol team intervenes only if we lodge a complaint. Children are seen with baby monkeys which do not even look up due to poor feeding." Forest officials said that the baby monkeys are caught using traps from the forest areas of Tamil Nadu including Nilgiris and brought to Chennai for begging. A senior police officer with the Marina beach police station told IANS, "We detained a few children a few days back but they were pleading and crying. There has to be a proper investigation to get to the bottom of this racket and unless it is done, things will continue like this." However, child rights activists said that police and the begging mafia are hands in glove and there seems to be a cut for the local police to continue their begging unhindered. Jossey Jose, a child rights activist working among children, told IANS, "The police is looking the other way as there seems to be a nexus between the police and the begging mafia. Kids are mostly from north Indian states and as we had warned earlier, the pandemic has increased the flow of children to south Indian states or rather illegal migration of children, and unless a properly organised crackdown is implemented, this will continue." Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/baby-monkey-rescued-from-begging-racket-at-chennais-marina-beach-1060689.html
14-12-2021||South||Carrying headload dehumanising activity, workers' plight needs to be ameliorated: Kerala HC to state govt||Carrying heavy loads on the head or body by a person was a "dehumanising activity" and the statute — Headload Workers Act — which permits this was a relic of the past, Kerala High Court said on Tuesday and directed the state to take steps to ameliorate the plight of such workers. "Headload has to be abolished, not loading. It (headload) is a dehumanising activity. How can we subject our citizens to this torture," the high court said. Justice Devan Ramachandran said that headload workers should be equipped and trained to use machines for carrying out loading activities and clarified that the court has no intention of taking away the livelihood of such persons. The court said that headload workers are poor people who have no other job options and their plight is sought to be exploited by certain vested interests, including many political parties, for their own reasons. The judge said carrying heavy loads on the head or body for several hours a day for several years leads to muscular-skeletal problems and damages the spine and nowhere else in the world such activity is undertaken by the citizens there. "They either use machines or bring people from outside to do this loading activity," the court said and added that the 'headload' term in the statute has to go and ought to be replaced with 'loading'. "Why not have machines to aid them (workers)? Not saying headload activity has to be stopped altogether. Certain vested interests want it to continue like this. I want them to be equipped and trained to use machines to carry out loading activity. "It (carrying headload) has deleterious effects on the spine. No one can carry heavy weights like this for several hours and that too for years. No other country put its citizens to such dehumanizing activity," the judge said. The court said this sector was unorganised, as they were not trained, and vested interests want it to continue like this. "Can any civilised society agree to this? We are probably not as civilised as we think we are. We are reinforcing and perpetuating this activity. The statute is also reinforcing this activity. "These people should be rehabilitated, not thrown out of their jobs. The statute is 50 years old. The situation has changed now. It is high time the government thought of ameliorating their plight," the court said. It further said that while manual scavenging has stopped in Kerala, headload activity has been taken for granted. "We want them to carry it on their heads," it added. The state government told the court that the Headload Workers Act was going to be amended to enable the workers' Board to initiate disciplinary action against those who demand 'nokkukooli' or gawking wages. It said that a summary of the draft amendment was ready. The court said it wants to know when the amendment would be enforced and in what manner and asked the government to inform it by the next date of hearing on December 21. The court was hearing a plea by a hotel owner, represented by advocate Manoj Ramaswamy, seeking police protection to carry out his business without intervention from some persons who were allegedly demanding gawking wages. The court had on the last date of hearing said the demand for gawking wages in the State has given a bad name to Kerala and it was being identified with nokkukooli. "This has led to Kerala being associated with militant trade unionism," the court had said. The Kerala government on November 1 had told the court that a 'No Nokkukooli 2021' campaign has been started by it and that it was strictly against the demand of gawking wages and would not be protecting anyone who indulges in this activity. On May 1, 2018, the government banned the practice of demanding gawking wages. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/carrying-headload-dehumanising-activity-workers-plight-needs-to-be-ameliorated-kerala-hc-to-state-govt-1060695.html
14-12-2021||South||Madras HC dismisses plea challenging AIADMK’s internal elections||The Madras High Court on Tuesday dismissed a petition challenging the AIADMK’s organisational polls in which O Panneerselvam and Edappadi K Palaniswami were elected unopposed as coordinator and joint coordinator of the party respectively.  The first bench of acting Chief Justice M N Bhandari and Justice P D Audikesavalu termed the petition filed by J Jayachandran, who hails from Hosur in Krishnagiri district, as “not maintainable.”  “What could the ECI do in this AIADMK intra-party elections,” the first bench asked the petitioner who sought a direction from the court to the Election Commission of India (ECI) not to approve the election of OPS and EPS as coordinator and joint coordinator of the party.  Jayachandran had alleged in his petition that he was manhandled at the AIADMK headquarters on December 4 when he had gone to collect nomination papers to contest the elections. He alleged that the election to the posts were held without following established rules like 21 days’ time from the date of announcement to the date of polling and publishing the electoral list. The entire proceedings, Jayachandran alleged in his petition, were conducted in such a way to ensure that only the two top leaders filed their nominations for the respective posts.  AIADMK, Tamil Nadu’s principal Opposition party, moved an amendment to its by-laws at the powerful Executive Council meeting on December 1 allowing primary members to elect the coordinator and joint coordinator, in a bid to keep ousted interim general secretary V K Sasikala at bay.  The party released the election schedule on December 2 and declared the unanimous election of OPS and EPS on December 6 as they were the only candidates to file nominations for the posts. A couple of cadres who arrived at the party HQ seeking nomination papers were not entertained.  This is the first time that the AIADMK has conducted organizational polls since J Jayalalithaa’s passing away in 2016 – the General Council in 2016 had used its powers to appoint V K Sasikala as the interim general secretary. However, the same General Council nullified Sasikala’s appointment a year later and introduced the posts of coordinator and joint coordinator by appointing Jayalalithaa as the “permanent general secretary.” The internal polls that have further legitimized the “dual leadership” is a serious setback to Sasikala’s efforts to take over the AIADMK leadership. According to the AIADMK, Sasikala is not even a primary member of the party after she failed to renew her membership in 2017 after the by-laws were amended to accommodate Panneerselvam as coordinator and Palaniswami as joint coordinator.  Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/madras-hc-dismisses-plea-challenging-aiadmk-s-internal-elections-1060711.html
14-12-2021||South||Coimbatore student suicide: Goonda Act levied on teacher held for molesting girl||A 31-year-old teacher at a private school in Coimbatore, who is accused of sexually harassing a girl student who later died by suicide, has been booked under the stringent Goonda Act.  The Coimbatore Police on Tuesday slapped provisions of the Goonda Act against the teacher arrested on November 12, a day after the minor student ended her life. “Goonda Act has been slapped against the accused,” a police officer said.  The principal of the school is also in jail after it emerged that the school management took no action against the teacher despite the student complaining against him. Both the teacher and principal of the school have been booked under sections of the POCSO Act. The girl’s friend had alleged that the principal told the victim not to “make a big issue” out of it. WhatsApp chats and phone conversations between the student and the teacher hint at the level of harassment the young girl had gone through after the alleged sexual assault by the teacher, her friends had said.   The girl, who never spoke about the sexual assault with her parents, convinced them to get her transferred to a different school two months before she died. The incident came months after students of several reputed schools in Chennai opened up about sexual assaults and harassment faced by them at the hands of teachers. A teacher of Padma Seshadri Bala Bhagavan Senior Secondary School (PSBB) and founder of Sushil Hari International Residential School were also arrested under POCSO Act.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coimbatore-student-suicide-goonda-act-levied-on-teacher-held-for-molesting-girl-1060712.html
14-12-2021||South||Four posing as CBI agents decamp with gold, cash from house in Hyderabad||Four persons impersonating as CBI agents allegedly stole gold and cash from a realtor's house in Gachibowli here, police said on Tuesday. According to a senior police official, on Monday afternoon four persons came in a car at an apartment complex and entered the house by posing as CBI agents and collected almirah keys from the realtor's wife. On the pretext of a search operation they took away 1.35 kg gold jewellery and between Rs 1 to Rs 2 lakh cash and left the place, the official said. Later a complaint was filed and based on which a case under relevant IPC sections was registered, the official added. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/four-posing-as-cbi-agents-decamp-with-gold-cash-from-house-in-hyderabad-1060736.html
14-12-2021||South||Archaeological excavation at Keeladi, Sivagalai to resume in 2022||If all goes well, the archaeological excavations at Keeladi and Sivagalai, where findings so far have created a huge buzz, will enter their eighth and third phase respectively in January 2022 as the Tamil Nadu government makes a push to explore the “past glory” of Tamils. The Tamil Nadu State Department of Archaeology (TNSDA) has sought permission to resume or start excavations in seven locations in 2022 from the Central Advisory Board for Archaeology (CABA), which is likely to give its approval by December end.  TNSDA has sought permission for resuming the excavations in Keeladi (eighth phase), Sivagalai (third phase), Gangaikondacholapuram (2nd phase), and Mayiladumparai (2nd phase). The previous phase in these sites ended in September this year after which permission for resuming the excavation has been sought, a top TNSDA official said.  He added that the nod to begin excavations in Vembakottai, Thulukarpatti and Perumbalai for the first time has also been sought from the CABA.   “The CABA will take a call on granting permission. We have submitted the required documents. Once the permission is granted, we will launch the excavation work a week after Pongal which falls on January 14. The excavation work usually goes on till September,” the official said. He added that the excavations go on for the first nine to ten months of the year and the remaining time is used to write reports on the exercise and its findings. The archaeological findings have created a buzz with researchers and archaeologists in Tamil Nadu calling them significant as they “narrow down” the gap between the Tamil urban settlements and the Indus Valley Civilisation (IVC). However, they say “more evidence” should be forthcoming before arriving at a definite conclusion.  TNSDA took over the Keeladi excavation in 2017 (from the fourth phase) following a surprise announcement by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) that there was “no significant finding” from the site during the third phase after unearthing over 5,000 artefacts in the first two phases. The findings in Keeladi — carbon dating of artefacts found in the fourth phase revealed that they dated back 2,600 years pushing the Sangam Era behind by at least 300 years — encouraged the TNSDA under the then AIADMK government to launch the excavation in many sites. During the second phase of excavation at Sivagalai in Thoothukudi district in 2021, carbon dating of rice husks found in a burial urn dated back to 3,200 years old. The new DMK government gave much-needed impetus to the TNSDA by allotting “enough funds”.  The Keeladi cluster includes Agaram and Konthagai, a habitation and burial site respectively. Sediments scrapped from the burial urns and skeletons found from the site have been sent for carbon dating and DNA analysis for further studies.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/archaeological-excavation-at-keeladi-sivagalai-to-resume-in-2022-1060764.html
14-12-2021||South||Kerala Opposition demands education minister Bindu's resignation over reappointment of Kannur University V-C||The government-governor confrontation in Kerala has snowballed into a major political row with the Opposition Congress-led United Democratic Front demanding Higher Education Minister R Bindu's resignation for recommending the reappointment of Kannur University's vice-chancellor. Close on the heels of Governor Arif Mohammed Khan's letter to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan citing political interventions as the reason for reappointment, a letter written by the Higher Education Minister, who is also the pro-chancellor of the universities, to the Governor recommending reappointment of Kannur University vice-chancellor Gopinath Raveendran has caused a row. In his letter to the CM, the Governor had specifically cited political pressure for reappointing Raveendran. However, the CM maintained that the governor was not pressurised in this regard.  While Opposition leader VD Satheesan of Congress demanded the minister's resignation, Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala said he would move Lokayukta against the minister for nepotism. Various political outfits also staged protest marches against the minister. The fresh developments came as a fresh blow to the ruling CPM, as minister Bindu is the wife of party senior leader and Left Democratic Front convenor A Vijayaraghavan. Moreover, the move to reappoint Raveendran came close on the heels of a move to appoint Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan's private secretary and CPM leader KK Ragesh's wife as an assistant professor in the university. The move was learnt to be kept in abeyance following the ongoing row. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-opposition-demands-education-minister-bindus-resignation-over-reappointment-of-kannur-university-v-c-1060768.html
14-12-2021||South||Andhra Pradesh government aims at 100% inoculation by January end||The Jagan Mohan Reddy government has set a target of covering all the eligible people with two doses of Covid-19 vaccination by January-end. The chief minister's decision follows the confirmation of the first Omicron case in Andhra Pradesh on Sunday, in a 34-year-old man who returned to Vizianagaram last month from Ireland via Mumbai and Visakhapatnam. On Tuesday, Reddy instructed the health officials to ensure “100 per cent completion” of first dose vaccination of the eligible population by December-end. “While Nellore district has already reached this milestone, administrators in Srikakulam, East Godavari, Chittoor, Visakhapatnam and other lagging districts should focus attention on full coverage at the earliest,” Reddy said in an online review meeting with district collectors and SPs. “Since Omicron variant is of concern, it is crucial to trace and track those who have returned from foreign countries.” Officials said that a gene sequencing lab would be set up within a week in the state to identify virus variants and that the 32nd round fever survey is under way. Until Monday, over 1.10 crore people were given the first dose and the number of people who availed of both the vaccine doses is 2.66 crore. In preparation for a possible third wave, 23,457 oxygen concentrators and 27,311 D-type cylinders have been made available in the state, while 144 PSA plants (for oxygen) are expected to come into use in government hospitals by December-end. Private hospitals with 100 or more beds were instructed to install oxygen generation plants, with a provision of subsidy. Authorities are also enforcing the mask rule again, imposing a fine of Rs 100 on violators. Events, such as weddings, continue to have a cap of 500 persons. As of Tuesday, Andhra Pradesh reported 1,823 active Covid-19 cases, with an overall recovery rate of 99.21 per cent and 0.52 per cent positivity rate. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-government-aims-at-100-inoculation-by-january-end-1060792.html
14-12-2021||South||KCR meets Stalin; discusses political situation||Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrashekar Rao met his Tamil Nadu counterpart M K Stalin at the latter’s residence on Tuesday, in what was dubbed as a “courtesy call” by the DMK. Rao, who was in Tamil Nadu to offer prayers at the famous Sri Ranganatha Swamy Temple in Srirangam near Tiruchirappalli, met Stalin along with his family, including his son and Telangana Industries Minister K T Rama Rao.  This is the first time KCR met Stalin after the DMK President assumed charge as Chief Minister in May this year. The meeting between the two Chief Ministers — both representing regional parties — assumes significance in the wake of Opposition parties pitching for “greater unity” to take on the BJP in the 2024 assembly elections.  Sources said that besides politics, the industrial climate in Tamil Nadu and Telangana also came up for discussion. TN Industries Minister Thangam Thennarasu spoke about the government’s impetus on attracting fresh investments to the state, they added. The issue of interlinking of rivers like Godavari and Cauvery also came up during the talks. “It was a courtesy call. But when two CMs who are leaders of two regional parties meet, politics will certainly come up for discussion. Unity among the Opposition parties and taking on the BJP in the next elections also came up during the discussion. But there is no need to speculate,” a source in the DMK said.  The DMK, which is in an alliance with Congress, had in 2018 and 2019 rejected overtures from KCR to join the Third Front. “The party still feels Congress is best suited to lead the Opposition at the national level. Our stand has not changed,” a senior DMK leader said.  Rao’s TRS, which has now taken a strident anti-BJP stance, attended meetings of Opposition leaders called by the Congress in Parliament during the Winter Session. After assuming office as Chief Minister, Stalin reached out to Rao seeking his support in getting away with the conduct of NEET for admissions into medical and dental colleges. KCR’s meeting with Stalin assumes significance in the wake of West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee taking the lead in “uniting” the Opposition parties ahead of the 2024 Lok Sabha polls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kcr-meets-stalin-discusses-political-situation-1060817.html
14-12-2021||South||In Kerala tribal hamlet, Sangh Parivar latches on to beef eating restriction to push own ideology||Restrictions on beef consumption prevailing in a tribal hamlet in Kerala, where recently 24 youths were 'ostracised' for eating beef, are being used by the Sangh Parivar outfits to promulgate the beef ban ideology, which has been widely rejected in Kerala. A tribal hamlet in the forest areas of Koodakkad at Marayoor in Idukki high range district reportedly imposed social ostracism on 24 youths who allegedly consumed beef. Beef consumption has been restricted in the Muthuvan tribal community of the region. Some youths allegedly brought beef to the region and cooked it and served it to many recently. This reportedly led the local 'oorukoottam' (committee of the heads of the hamlet), the imposition of a social ostracism.  Local sources said that the two youths who alleged this consumption, had a criminal background, prompting suspicion that the present row was a manipulated one with political motives. Local police also said that they have not received any formal complaints from the people of the locality regarding ostracism. Hindu Aikya Vedi leader R V Babu asked in a social media post why the tribal community that used to eat even snakes and bandicoots were reluctant to have beef. Tribal development officer of the region S A Najeem told DH that people of the Muthuvan tribal community were quite orthodox and were generally vegetarians. They consume non-vegetarian food only on major festivals like Pongal and that too, only chicken. They did not consume beef or mutton. The people of the hamlet, especially the elders, were quite particular on this, he said. Marayoor panchayat president Usha Hentry Joseph and local ward member K Alikasim said that a meeting with the local 'oorukkotam' would be held to discuss the issue. The tribal hamlet has a population of around 1,000 and they were still following their traditions. It should not be mixed with the Sangh Parivar's beef ban campaigns, they said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/in-kerala-tribal-hamlet-sangh-parivar-latches-on-to-beef-eating-restriction-to-push-own-ideology-1060861.html
14-12-2021||State||Karnataka's proposed anti-conversion bill to have penal provisions, mandates for conversions||The proposed anti-conversion bill that the BJP government in Karnataka is likely to introduce during the ongoing Winter Session of the state legislature is expected to have penal provisions, and may also insist that the persons who wish to convert to another faith file an application with the Deputy Commissioner two months in advance. Also, the person who wishes to convert is likely to lose the religion of his or her origin and facilities or benefits attached with it, including reservations; however, one is likely to receive the benefits entitled to in the religion he or she converts to. "The anti-conversion law that we are bringing is not aimed at targeting any particular community, we are bringing it within the framework of law. It is there in Article 25 of the Constitution that there cannot be forced conversion, but, there was no penal clause if such conversion takes place," Home Minister Araga Jnanendra said. Speaking to mediapersons in Belagavi, he said, "We are bringing punishment, penalty provisions (for forced conversion). One who wants to convert should submit an application two months prior to the Deputy Commissioner, also the person performing conversion will also have to apply. Those who are converting will have to lose the religion of their origin and facilities or benefits attached with it." The government is likely to table the anti-conversion bill during the Winter Session of the state legislature that began on Monday in the border district of Belagavi. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Monday said that the anti-conversion bill is currently with the law department's scrutiny committee. Once cleared, it will move to the cabinet and subsequently introduced in the legislative assembly and council. State Congress President DK Shivakumar, however, said his party is completely opposed to the proposed anti-conversion bill, calling it anti-constitutional, and warned that it will be detrimental to the interest of the state. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnatakas-proposed-anti-conversion-bill-to-have-penal-provisions-mandates-for-conversions-1060691.html
14-12-2021||State||Karnataka facing 'double-engine dhoka', says Siddaramaiah||Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah took the BJP to task for the “great injustice” that he said Prime Minister Narendra Modi had meted out to Karnataka in providing flood relief aid.  “This isn’t a double-engine government. It’s a double-engine dhoka,” he said, referring to promises that were made that the BJP being in power in both the state and Centre would benefit Karnataka.  Siddaramaiah was speaking on the flood situation in the Assembly. He said 23 out of the 31 districts were flood-hit.   “So far, you (government) have submitted four memorandums to the Centre - one in July, one in July-August, a revised one in July-August and one in October-November,” he said. “The year is about to end. Has the Centre given you a single rupee,” he asked.  Siddaramaiah said Karnataka contributes Rs 3 lakh crore by way of income tax, customs duty, additional excise duty on fuel and other cess. “How much does Karnataka receive in return? Just Rs 50,000 crore to Rs 55,000 crore. What’s the contribution of UP, Bihar, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh? What’s their share in NDRF funds and what’s ours,” Siddaramaiah asked.  Reading out year-wise statistics, Siddaramaiah said the state’s share in centrally-sponsored schemes had gone up from 25% in 2013-14 to 55% in 2020-21. “PM Modi is meting out great injustice to Karnataka and the 25 BJP Lok Sabha members are not raising their voice against this,” he said.  The former chief minister attacked the BJP on Karnataka’s share in the divisible pool of taxes reducing from Rs 39,000 crore to Rs 21,000 crore. “This happened right in front of your eyes and you’re keeping quiet,” he said.  According to the Congress leader, the state has suffered crop losses on over 13 lakh hectares, or 35 lakh acres. “Compensation is yet to be paid to farmers for crop losses on over 20 lakh acres,” he said.  He further charged that ministers in charge of districts did not perform. “Ask any minister, they say there’s no money because of Covid-19. If they can’t deliver, let them go. We will come (to power) and somehow manage,” he said.  Revision sought Speaking in the Council, Revenue Minister R Ashoka said the government had written to the Centre seeking a hike in the rate of compensation for crop losses under the NDRF. The rates are revised once in five years, he said, and added that Rs 787.29 crore compensation had been paid to 12 lakh farmers so far.   Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-facing-double-engine-dhoka-says-siddaramaiah-1060834.html
14-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Legislative Council poll counting begins in Mangaluru||The counting of ballot papers for the Legislative Council election from Dakshina Kannada local bodies constituency commenced at Rosario School in Mangaluru. The strong room was opened at 7:50 am in the presence of deputy commissioner Dr Rajendra K V. The election was held for two seats in the constituency comprising Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts. There are three candidates- Kota Srinivas Poojary from BJP, Manjunath Bhandari from Congress and Shafi Bellare from SDPI in the fray. The district had registered 99.55 per cent polling on December 10.  As many as 14 tables are arranged in the counting room for the counting process. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/legislative-council-poll-counting-begins-in-mangaluru-1060593.html
14-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Counting under way for Karnataka MLC polls||Counting of votes is under way for the biennial election to the Karnataka Legislative Council's 25 seats from 20 Local Authorities' constituencies on Tuesday, the results of which will have a bearing on the power equation in the Upper House of the State Legislature. The election held on December 10, was necessitated as the term of 25 incumbent MLCs — 14 Congress, seven BJP and four JD(S) — ends on January 5. Counting is underway in about 20 centres across the state and a clear picture is likely to emerge by post noon or evening, poll officials said. Out of the total 90 candidates in the fray, 20 each were from BJP and Congress, six from JD(S), 33 independents, and rest were all from smaller parties. There was only one woman candidate in the fray, contesting from Chickmagalur constituency. The electorate for this election comprises elected representatives, including members of urban and rural local bodies. Unlike legislative assembly or Lok Sabha polls, the council contests are decided by preferential votes. The poll outcome will have a bearing on the power equation in the 75-member Upper House, where the ruling BJP wants to gain a majority. The BJP that has expressed confidence about winning maximum seats needs to win at least 13 seats to secure a majority. The good performance in this election will also be a morale booster for the party after losing Hangal seat in the Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai's home district of Haveri during the recent Assembly bypolls. Speaking to reporters in Varanasi, Bommai expressed confidence of "good results" in favour of the BJP. The Congress too is determined to win maximum seats to keep the BJP away from gaining control of the upper house; while JD(S) has expressed confidence about winning all the six seats it is contesting in. With the aim to get a majority in the Council, State BJP strongman and former Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, ahead of the polls, had openly sought JD(S)' support for BJP candidates in the seats where the regional party was not contesting. However, amid buzz about a possible pact with the ruling BJP, JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy had said local leaders have been authorised to take a decision on whom to support in the seats where his party is not contesting, keeping in mind the prospects for the 2023 Assembly election. The elections were held for two seats each from the local authorities constituencies of Bijapur, Belgaum, Dharwad, Dakshina Kannada and Mysuru; and one each from Bidar, Gulbarga, Uttara Kannada, Raichur, Bellary, Chitradurga, Shivamogga, Chikmagalur, Hassan, Tumakuru, Mandya, Bangalore, Bangalore Rural, Kolar and Kodagu.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/counting-under-way-for-karnataka-mlc-polls-1060596.html
14-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||MLC polls: Counting of votes delayed by two hours in Shivamogga||The commencement of counting of votes polled in the elections to Shivamogga local authorities constituency comprising three taluks of Davangere district was delayed by two hours at Sahyadri arts college in the city on Tuesday.  The electoral staff took nearly two hours to open ballot boxes of 365 polling booths and to start the counting of votes. It was slated to begin at 8:00 am but started at 10:00 am. BJP candidate DS Arun, Congress nominee and incumbent MLC R Prasanna Kumar, JD(U)candidate Shashikumar BK and independent candidate Raju are in the fray. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/mlc-polls-counting-of-votes-delayed-by-two-hours-in-shivamogga-1060601.html
14-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Tension prevails in Karnataka's Belagavi after protest call||A tense situation prevails in Belagavi, the bordering district of Maharashtra, as the members of Maharashtra Ekikarana Samithi (MES), the party demanding merger of Belagavi district with Maharashtra state, has given a call for bandh on Tuesday. The bandh call has been given to condemn the act of Kannada activists blackening the face of MES leader Deepak Dalavi on Monday. The incident happened when MES was organising 'Mahamelav' in Belagavi, parallel to the winter Assembly session held by the Karnataka government. The police had denied permission to hold the bandh in Belagavi. Security has been tightened in the bordering city and in the vicinity of Suvarna Soudha. The 'Mahamelav' was organised without the permission of the district administration. On Monday, the MES party erected a podium in the Tilakwadi region in Belagavi on Monday. The police rushed to the spot and vacated the podium. There was an argument between the police and MES workers. Meanwhile, the Kannada activists, who also reached the spot, blackened the face of Deepak Dalavi. The black paint also got sprinkled on former MLA Manohara Kini and others. A tense situation prevailed and police arrested the Kannada activists on the spot. The police have also booked cases on the Karnataka Nava Nirmana Pade, Youth President Sampath Kumar Desai and three others in the Tilakwadi police station. The MES party workers took out a rally from the spot to the Tilakwadi police station. It has been decided to organise a protest along with NCP and Shiv Sena parties. The MES workers performed 'Ksheerabhsheka' (pouring of milk) on Deepak Dalavi later as a mark of respect. Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar has condemned the incident and stated that these incidents won't be a setback for the movement aiming at merger of Marathi speaking regions with the state of Maharashtra. Kannada activists had blackened the face of Vijay More, then-Mayor of Belagavi City Corporation in Bengaluru in 2005 condemning the proposal taken in the corporation for merger of Belagavi with Maharashtra. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/tension-prevails-in-karnatakas-belagavi-after-protest-call-1060610.html
14-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||MLC polls: JD(S) candidate Suraj Revanna wins Hassan segment||Suraj Revanna has been announced the winner for the MLC elections from the Hassan segment on Tuesday. Suraj, son of MLA H D Revanna and grandson of JD(S) supremo and Rajya Sabha MP H D Deve Gowda won with a margin of 1,533 votes. He secured 2,281 votes. His opponents – Congress candidate M Shankar got 748 votes while BJP candidate H M Vishwanath secured 421 votes. A total of 103 votes were declared invalid. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/mlc-polls-jds-candidate-suraj-revanna-wins-hassan-segment-1060612.html
14-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Kannada writer Rajeshwari Tejaswi no more||Noted Kannada writer Rajeshwari Tejaswi, wife of renowned literateur late KP Poornachandra Tejaswi passed away on Tuesday morning in Bengaluru. The daughter-in-law of Rashtrakavi Kuvempu, Rajeshwari (84) was admitted to Rajalakshmi Multispeciality Hospital in Bengaluru a couple of days ago due to age-related illness. Ever since the demise of her husband Poornachandra Tejaswi, Rajeshwari was living alone at 'Niruttara' in Handpost of Mudigere taluk in Chikkamagaluru district. Sources close to the family revealed that only a few days ago she had come to her daughter's house in Bengaluru. Born in 1937 in Kalasipalya, Bengaluru, Rajeshwari with constant support from her father had completed BA (Honours) in Philosophy and thereafter postgraduation from Mysore University. It was at Mysore University that Rajeshwari had met Poornachandra Tejaswi and later in 1966 both of them married as per the 'Mantra Maangalya' concept started by Tejaswi's father Rashtrakavi Kuvempu. Soon after the couple shifted to Mudigere where Tejaswi took up farming which was close to his heart alongside his writings. Rajeshwari began writing only after her husband's death in 2007. Her biographical work on her husband Tejaswi--'Nanna Tejaswi' was her first book and reprinted over five times for its popularity and several unknown details of writer Tejaswi's life and works. Subsequently, she had written a memoir 'Namma Manegu Bandaru Gandhiji'. She was also a passionate philatelist and gardener. Rajeshwari used to collect rare seeds from various parts of the state and propagate them at their farm in Mudigere. Besides, she was also actively involved in the activities of KP Poornachandra Tejaswi Trust at Kottigehara in Mudigere. Rajeshwari is survived by two daughters--Sushmita and Eeshaanya who are working as software engineers in Bengaluru. Sources close to the family said that the body of Rajeshwari will be kept at her daughter's house for a few hours for public viewing and will be donated to a hospital later. There will be no last rites ritual in Mudigere, according to family sources.   Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kannada-writer-rajeshwari-tejaswi-no-more-1060664.html
14-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||PAC for probe into five-decade-old land acquisition case||The Public Accounts Committee (PAC) has recommended that a Special Investigation Team (SIT) should probe widespread irregularities in granting compensation to people who lost lands during the construction of Hemavathy, Yagachi and Vatehole reservoirs. Land for the construction of the three reservoirs in Hassan district was acquired in 1970, due to which 22,640 acres of land belonging to 172 villages and hamlets submerged. Criminal cases should be registered against officials who granted compensatory land meant for those who were displaced because of the projects, to ineligible beneficiaries, the PAC said in a report tabled in the Legislative Assembly on Tuesday. Measures should also be initiated to ensure that genuine land losers are compensated as per law, it said.  Those affected by the construction of the dam were to be rehabilitated in different parts of Hassan district. Five decades since the land acquisition, the process of granting compensatory land is yet to be completed, the PAC found.  Irregularities in granting land for the genuine land losers were first detected in 1982 when a House Committee headed by SR Bommai submitted a report to the government. It so happens that Bommai's son Basavaraj Bommai is now the chief minister. Apart from allegations of forgery during granting land to ineligible beneficiaries, PAC noted that documents were inadequate even in cases where beneficiaries were eligible for compensation. PAC also found that there was little progress in initiating action against officials for forgery and dereliction of duty while granting land, despite recommendations. "The Revenue Department has not taken adequate action in 2,370 cases of land grant to ineligible beneficiaries," the report added. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/pac-for-probe-into-five-decade-old-land-acquisition-case-1060765.html
14-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Pandemic effect: Karnataka's debt rose 31%||Karnataka’s public debt rose 31.38 per cent between 2019-20 and 2020-21, the Comptroller & Auditor General (CAG) said in its report tabled in the Assembly on Tuesday, painting a grim picture of the state economy. The burgeoning borrowings can be attributed to the government's excess borrowings to offset revenue deficits during the Covid-induced lockdown. Karnataka's public debt was Rs 2.34 lakh crore at the end of 2019-20 fiscal, which increased to Rs 3.07 lakh crore by 2020-21. Loans and advances from the Centre to the state also doubled during the period — from Rs 13,908 crore at the end of 2019-20 to Rs 26,617 crore 2020-21. Among factors contributing to the increase in the state's loan burden is borrowing to the tune of 5 per cent of GSDP — around Rs 80,000 crore — in the previous fiscal. Moreover, falling short of GST revenue due to the pandemic, the Centre chose to offer GST compensation for states in the form of loans, increasing Karnataka's burden by around Rs 18,000 crore. As a result, Karnataka's borrowing was close to Rs 1 lakh crore in the last fiscal even as its revenues witnessed a sharp decline. Among state revenue sources that witnessed a sharp decline was state GST — from Rs 42,147 crore in 2019-20 to Rs 37,711 crore in 2020-21. Other major revenue sources for the state exchequer such as excise, stamps and registration fees and other taxes also decreased, the audit found. "The indebtedness of the government increased by Rs 96,506 crore during the year, which is inclusive of off-budget borrowings of Rs 18,421 crore. The ratio of the outstanding public debt and other liabilities...works out to 23.06 per cent of GSDP," the report said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/pandemic-effect-karnatakas-debt-rose-31-1060767.html
14-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Legislative Council polls: BJP, Cong on equal footing; JD(S) bites dust||The BJP bagged 11 out of the 25 Karnataka Legislative Council seats whose election results came out Tuesday, leaving the ruling party with just one short of a simple majority in the upper house in what was a neck-to-neck fight that saw the Congress also finishing with 11. The halfway mark in the 75-member Legislative Council is 38. The BJP now stands at 37. The JD(S), Karnataka's regional party, suffered a big rout as it managed to win just two out of six seats it contested. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai heaved a sigh of relief, calling it "a good result". However, the fact that the Congress giving it a run for its money and the weakening of the JD(S) is a warning sign for the BJP in the run-up to the 2023 assembly showdown. Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah said the result showed "a pro-Congress" wave.  Of the 25 local authorities' seats, the BJP has increased its tally from six to 11. "We have gained five seats. Obviously, that's a good result," Bommai said. "We expected to win 13-14. We will discuss the misses internally," he added. The BJP's tally would have been 12 if it was not for a photo-finish in the Mysore-Chamarajnagar seat where JD(S) managed to win in the vote count that went late into the evening.  A big upset for the BJP was the defeat of government chief whip Mahantesh Kavatagimath in the twin-seats of Belagavi. "We really need to look into what happened here," Bommai said. The plan to get Kavatagimath elected for one seat while using Independent candidate Lakhan Jarkiholi to defeat the Congress in the other seems to have backfired as it led to a split in the BJP's votes. Lakhan Jarkiholi ended up winning alongside Congress's Channaraj Hattiholi. What adds to the BJP's embarassment is that Lakhan is the brother of BJP MLAs Ramesh and Balachandra Jarkiholi.   The BJP has wrested Shimoga, Bangalore Urban, Bellary, Bagalkot and Uttara Kannada from the Congress, while retaining strongholds such as Dakshina Kannada (with its floor leader and minister Kota Srinivas Poojary) and Chikmagalur (with Council deputy chairman MK Pranesh). However, it was not easy in Chikmagalur where Pranesh won by just six votes against Congress's Gayathri Shantegowda. The Congress is considering moving the court seeking invalidation of votes polled by nominated members, which could swing the result.  The Congress, which had 14 seats, is down to 11. "We're content, but not extremely happy with the result," KPCC president D K Shivakumar said, adding that he hoped 13-14 seats.  The JD(S) has much to worry. Its strongholds of Mandya, Tumkur and Kolar are now with Congress. This makes 2023 a two-party fight, political analyst Muzaffar Assadi said. "The results show a return of the Congress. The JD(S) is almost decimated now." Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-legislative-council-polls-bjp-cong-on-equal-footing-jds-bites-dust-1060779.html
14-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Cops, MLAs colluded with vigilantes for hate crimes against Christians in Karnataka: Report||In a report that warns of the rise of communalism, the People's Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL) has documented a total of 39 incidents of hate crimes against Christian communities in Karnataka in the past 11 months and alleged that the police and MLAs colluded with vigilantes. Titled 'Criminalising the practice of faith', the report identified six patterns of hate crimes ranging from assault on the right to practice religion to casteism and police complicity. It warned that the proposed anti-conversion law will only give carte blanche for excesses by vigilantes. The PUCL named Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, Bajrang Dal, Hindu Jagrana Vedike as the perpetrators of the incidents that allegedly took place in January and November 2021. It said that in two instances of hate crimes in Karwar (October 4) and Mandya (January 5), the local MLAs "were also named as people who supported the police in targeting Christians" and flagged a new organisation named 'Banjara Nigama' that appears to be “small but rather violent”. While the report on 39 incidents is based on calls and visits to pastors across the state, the team said there were several other cases that were neither reported in the media nor could access resources or networks for legal and financial assistance. "In most cases, Christians have been forced to shut down their places of worship and stop assembling for their Sunday prayers. These attacks by Hindutva groups... also rob an entire community of their right to dignity and the right to life," the report said. Further, it accused the police of colluding with Hindutva groups in "almost every instance of mob violence" studied in the report. "The complicit role of police emboldens a culture of intolerance and bigotry...police have become an arm of social segregators strengthening such Hindutva forces," it said. The report traced four shifts in the text of the law that has eroded the freedom of religion laws. First, declaring null and void the marriages for the purpose of conversion and vice versa; Secondly, change of forcible conversion from cognizable to a non-bailable offence. Thirdly, the shifting of burden of proof from a person who sought to convert/converted/abetted conversion that he/she/they did not convert by force/allurement or for marriage. Fourthly, the law has moved from requiring to provide an intimation to the district magistrate regarding conversion to now requiring prior permission along with a declaration of conversion in a prescribed format. The PUCL also slammed media organisations, especially those conducting 'sting operations' “as if someone had been caught doing something illegal” though the activities are an exercise of fundamental rights. "What gives the channels the power to enter into people's homes and treat them as criminals for practising their religion," the report asked. It demanded the state government implement the Supreme Court directions in the Tahseen S  Poonawala Vs Union of India case, regarding cases of mob violence and lynching. The report made a set of recommendations to the state government, police, MLAs, civil society as well as the media. Reacting to the government’s statement that those not engaged in illegal conversions need not worry about its new bill, PUCL State President Rajendra VJ questioned the hurry of the government to push for the law. “There is a due process in proposing a law. We are presenting 39 cases to show the violations. How can the government, which has the duty to protect its citizens, look away and push for such a law?” he asked. “The incidents show that the privacy of the people has been violated. Their homes and churches have been invaded and persons assaulted. We believe that justice for this has not come. Parts of similar laws in Gujarat and elsewhere have been stayed by the courts. Given that It’s a shame that the government has chosen to push ahead (with the law),” said writer Aakar Patel, who accompanied the PUCL team. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cops-mlas-colluded-with-vigilantes-for-hate-crimes-against-christians-in-karnataka-report-1060812.html
14-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||KAT should dispose of cases as quickly as possible, says Karnataka High Court||The Karnataka Appellate Tribunal (KAT) should try to adjudicate cases filed before it as quickly as possible, especially in matters pertaining to notices against illegal constructions, the High Court of Karnataka has said.  Passing an order in a similar matter that's been pending before the KAT since 2018, Justice M Nagaprasanna said: "This court has also come across proceedings that are pending adjudication before the tribunal for five to seven years in many of the cases. If an illegal construction is brought up in the precincts of the BBMP and notices are issued against such illegal construction, the tribunal ought to decide such cases as expeditiously as possible, as the purpose for which the notices are issued would be lost by sheer lapse of time."  The court was hearing a petition by a person whom the KAT had disallowed from getting into the proceedings as a party respondent. His contention was that the BBMP had issued notices under the Karnataka Municipal Corporations Act, 1976, against certain irregularities in construction based on his complaint. The notices were questioned before the KAT.  The petitioner's counsel told the court that the BBMP had issued the notice in the case in 2017 and the proceedings in the KAT have been pending for the last three years.  Justice Nagaprasanna said that the tribunal ought to have permitted the petitioner to come on record as a party respondent, particularly in light of the observations made in several orders that the BBMP's defence is sometimes doubtful.  "It is, therefore, for the tribunal to endeavour expeditious disposal of the cases filed before it, particularly, concerning issuance of notice under Section 321 of the KMC Act, 1976, or under Section 248 of the BBMP Act, 2020, at any rate, within nine months to one year of filing of such cases," the court said.  The high court has allowed the petitioner to enter the proceedings as a party respondent and directed the KAT to dispose of the appeal within six months of receiving the order copy.  Check out DH's latest Videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kat-should-dispose-of-cases-as-quickly-as-possible-says-karnataka-high-court-1060822.html
14-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka High Court quashes proceedings against Bengaluru top cop, officers||The High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday quashed the order passed by a magistrate court directing registration of FIR against Bengaluru city police commissioner Kamal Pant, DCP (Central) M N Anucheth and Cubbon Park police station inspector B Maruti. The 8th Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, Bengaluru City had passed the order on a private complaint which alleged that the officers were responsible for the delay in registering FIR on the complaint filed by a social activist Dinesh Kallahalli against the then minister Ramesh Jarkiholi on March 2, 2021. The magistrate had passed the order on the private complaint filed by Adarsh R Iyer, co-president of Janaadhikaara Sangharsha Parishath. Justice Sreenivas Harish Kumar quashed the order of the magistrate noting that the complainant had failed to bring it to the notice of the magistrate various developments that had taken place in the case, after social activist Dinesh Kallahalli filed the complaint with the Cubbon Park police. The court said the order of the magistrate was not sustainable in law. Appearing for the police officers, advocate P Prasanna Kumar submitted that the FIR in the case indeed was registered after the victim woman filed the complaint. He further submitted though the final report is ready in the case the same could not be filed because of the interim order granted by the division bench in a PIL. Dinesh Kallahalli, an activist, had filed the complaint on March 2 against the then minister Ramesh Jarkiholi accusing the latter of sexual abuse and again filed a revised complaint on March 7. The police commissioner constituted an SIT on March 11 and subsequently FIRs were registered on behalf of Ramesh Jarkiholi at Sadashivanagar police station and the victim woman at Cubbon Park police station.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-high-court-quashes-proceedings-against-bengaluru-top-cop-officers-1060830.html
14-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Private schools: Nagesh assures to simplify recognition renewal||MLCs across party lines stressed on the need to find out a solution for the inconvenience being faced by private-aided and unaided schools due to the requirement of building, fire safety and other certificates for the renewal of recognition. Primary & Secondary Education Minister B C Nagesh stated that a fresh circular on this would be issued after holding talks with the chief minister during the ongoing winter session itself. Nagesh told the Council that safety rules were made in 2005 itself and a Supreme Court order came in 2009. The government said in 2014 that the court order would be followed and circulars were issued in 2016 and 2017, and a year’s time was given to schools in 2018. Nagesh also assured that steps would be taken to ensure that students are not refused exam appearance and teachers their salary due to this issue. Law Minister J C Madhuswamy told the Council that the affidavit submitted before the court would be studied for taking suitable steps. He also pointed out that safety measures apply for all high-rise buildings, and not just for school buildings. MLCs KT Srikantegowda and others opined that submitting 61 certificates for yearly renewal is suffocating schools.   Guest lecturers’ protest A meeting chaired by Legislative Council Chairman Basavaraj Horatti on Tuesday asked the high-level committee formed to look into the demands of government first grade college guest lecturers to submit a report within a month.  The committee comprising Additional Chief Secretary (finance) ISN Prasad and Collegiate Education Department commissioner P Pradeep informed the meeting that the report would be submitted in a time-boundmanner. Demanding job security, better salary and other amenities, guest lecturers are staging protest in Dharwad. In this background, a meeting in this regard was held at Suvarna Vidhan Soudha on Tuesday. Higher Education Minister C N Ashwath Narayan urged the agitating guest lecturers to return to work, assuring them that the government is committed to solving their problems.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/private-schools-nagesh-assures-to-simplify-recognition-renewal-1060839.html
14-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Over one lakh Sakala applications overdue: Minister||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), the Inspector General of Registration & Stamps (IGRS) and the Revenue department have the maximum number of appeals pending against them for delay in delivering timely citizen services. The BBMP has 403 first appeals and 30 second appeals under the Sakala scheme in 2020 and 2021 respectively. The IGRS has 399 first and 31 second appeals pending while it is 231 first appeals and 38 second appeals with Revenue department. These details are mentioned in a written response by Sakala Minister B C Nagesh, tabled in the Legislative Council, to a question by Muniraju Gowda P M. A total of 1,01,669 applications under Sakala scheme are overdue with different departments and institutions, as on December 6. Among such applications 23,818 are related to Rural Development & Panchayat Raj department, 21,196 applications pertain to Revenue department, and 12,121 are related to BBMP. Nagesh said instructions have been given to officials to hold meetings regularly to clear applications within the stipulated time. The application numbers with due date for clearance are automatically sent to the mobile phones of officials concerned every day with a warning that they need to act. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/over-one-lakh-sakala-applications-overdue-minister-1060840.html
14-12-2021||Uttara Kannada, Belagavi City||Belgaum MLC polls: Two votes rejected over violation||Counting of votes for the election for the twin-member Belgaum Local Authorities Constituency commenced in the premises of RD PU College in Chikkodi on Tuesday. Two votes were rejected before counting commenced as two voters violated the voting secrecy on the polling day by showing their ballot paper to the election agent in the premises of the polling station at Badigwad Gram Panchayat in Gokak taluk. A case in this regard has been filed with the Ghataprabha police. There are six candidates in the fray for the election for Belgaum Local Authorities Constituency. It is a triangular contest between sitting MLC and BJP candidate Mahantesh Kavatgimath, Congress candidate Channaraj Hattiholi and independent Lakhan Jarkiholi. Strong rooms were opened in the presence of candidates and their election agents. Among the 8,849 voters, 8,846 of them had exercised their franchise during the polling held on Friday taking the polling percentage to 99.97 per cent. With the Winter Session of the state legislature being held in Belagavi, counting of votes was shifted to Chikkodi. District Election Officer and Deputy Commissioner R Venkatesh Kumar informed that election agents of all the candidates were apprised before counting that the two votes will be cancelled.  "We have serial number of the ballots wherein secrecy was violated and they would be kept aside upside down." Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/uttara-kannada-belagavi-city/belgaum-mlc-polls-two-votes-rejected-over-violation-1060608.html
14-12-2021||West||Maharashtra government condemns incident of blackening of face of MES leader||The Maharashtra government has condemned the incident of blackening of face of MES leader Deepak Dalvi in the Belagavi district of neighbouring Karnataka. Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar of NCP and urban development minister Eknath Shinde of Shiv Sena, who is the minister in-charge looking at issues vis-a-vis Maharashtra-Karnataka boundary dispute, issued statements on Monday night condemning the incident. "It was pre-planned and it is an attack on Marathi-pride," said Pawar, the nephew of NCP supremo Sharad Pawar. "The incident will in in fact strengthen the movement of the Marathi people," he added. Shinde, who is a close aide of Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, said that such acts would strengthen the movement of the Marathi people in Belagavi. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-government-condemns-incident-of-blackening-of-face-of-mes-leader-1060567.html
14-12-2021||West||Nagpur teen's 'fake gang-rape' story sends cops into tizzy||A 19-year-old girl allegedly lodged a fake police complaint of gang-rape in a bid to marry her boyfriend, keeping the Nagpur police on their toes for the entire day, officials said on Tuesday. Over 1,000 security personnel, including Nagpur Commissioner of Police Amitesh Kumar and other senior officials, investigated the case here in Maharashtra on Monday after the girl lodged the complaint at Kalamna police station around 11 am, they said. After going through the footage of more than 250 CCTVs across the city, the investigators arrived at the conclusion that she had cooked up the gang-rape story. The girl told the police that she did it to marry her boyfriend, a senior police official said, but did not divulge on what were her exact plans. Earlier, the girl in her police complaint alleged that she was raped by two persons at an isolated area near Chikhali area. She claimed that the two persons came in a white coloured van and asked her about the road to Butibori when she was going to attend a music class in Ramdaspeth area in the morning. The men then forcibly took her into the van and covered her face with a cloth. The abductors took her to an isolated place and allegedly raped her, the official said quoting her complaint. Sensing the gravity of the matter, the city police immediately launched a probe into it. The Kalamna police registered a offence against unidentified persons under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code. Commissioner of Police Amitesh Kumar, Additional CP Sunil Phulari and other senior officials rushed to the Sitabuldi police station for the probe into the case. Kumar ordered formation of 40 special teams, comprising more than 1,000 police personnel, to check the footage of CCTVs, vans in the city and to question friends of the girl , while she was sent to Mayo Hospital for a medical examination, the official said. He said after more than six hours of hectic efforts and questioning of over 50 people, the police concluded that the teen had concocted the gang-rape story. From the CCTV footage, it came to light that the girl alighted from a bus at the Variety square at 9.50 am, walked up to the Jhansi Rani square at 10 am, boarded an auto-rickshaw at the Anand Talkies square at 10.15 am and got down from the three-wheeler at the Mayo Hospital at 10.25 am, the official said. She later boarded a shared auto-rickshaw and alighted at the Chikhali square at 10.54 am. A CCTV camera installed at a petrol pump captured her walking towards the Kalamna police station at 11.04 am, the official said. After getting the facts in hand, the police questioned the girl and asked her if she had cooked up the story. The girl told the police that she did it to marry her boyfriend, he said.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/nagpur-teens-fake-gang-rape-story-sends-cops-into-tizzy-1060597.html
14-12-2021||West||Not right to be carefree: Mumbai mayor after Kareena Kapoor Khan contracts Covid-19||In the wake of actors Kareena Kapoor Khan and Amrita Arora contracting Covid-19, Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar has said it is not right to be carefree when the pandemic has not ended. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Monday said the two actors had tested positive for the coronavirus and those who came in contact with them were traced and their tests conducted, the results of which were awaited. Speaking to reporters on Monday, Pednekar said if people flout Covid-19 norms, why strict action should not be taken against them. “Kareena has two kids at home. It does not suit well to act carefree when the Covid-19 pandemic has not ended. We have contacted the Grand Hyatt Hotel where a party was held and Kareena attended it. We are tracing others who were present there,” the mayor said. The BMC staff has also contacted the physician of the two actors and both are under home isolation, she said. “I can understand if some teenagers were present at such a party. It is their age and they like to enjoy, but people should take utmost precautions. Those who are in the limelight, why don't they fear Covid-19?” the mayor said. Despite strict instructions regarding Covid-19-appropriate behaviour, if people are seen flouting it, "why should we not take strict action against such people as per the pandemic rule book?" Pednekar said. "Although we have succeeded in slowing down the coronavirus infection rate, it has not gone completely,” she noted. The mayor said the new coronavirus variant Omicron has also posed new challenges. "In such situation, it is our appeal to the people to adhere to Covid-19 norms and follow them. As part of the unlock guidelines, we have been allowing relaxations in terms of gatherings and attendance at events. It seems some people and hotels are taking undue advantage of it,” Pednekar said. She said some political parties were also taking advantage of the relaxed norms. "If we decide to impose strict norms and introduce fresh restrictions on movement, there are some people who would oppose it fiercely,” Pednekar said. Kareena Kapoor Khan on Monday confirmed her diagnosis on Instagram, adding that she hopes to be "up and about soon". According to the BMC sources, the tests of Khan and Arora were conducted on Saturday and it was confirmed on Sunday that they had tested positive for the viral infection. The civic body will check reports that both had violated coronavirus norms and attended several parties, the sources said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/not-right-to-be-carefree-mumbai-mayor-after-kareena-kapoor-khan-contracts-covid-19-1060634.html
14-12-2021||West||Katrina Kaif, Vicky Kaushal share dreamy pictures from their wedding photoshoot||Vicky Kaushal and Katrina Kaif, who recently tied the knot in a royal wedding, have shared heartwarming pictures from their wedding shoot at the Six Senses Fort Barwara Hotel. Both the actors took to their social media to share the pictures. While Vicky shared one picture where he is seen planting a peck on his bride's forehead, Katrina posted a series of pictures capturing different emotions of the couple. The couple shared a common caption, which read, "To love, honour and cherish". The pictures show the couple's most cherished moments from their wedding, which grabbed the headlines. The actors twinned in pastel shades illuminated by the golden rays of the evening sun. Their outfits merged perfectly with the old world stone walls of the fort-turned-hotel. In addition to pastel, floral was also the theme for the photoshoot as is evident from the bouquet in Vicky's hand, the rose petals and floral pattern on Katrina's saree. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/katrina-kaif-vicky-kaushal-share-dreamy-pictures-from-their-wedding-photoshoot-1060638.html
14-12-2021||West||Maharashtra council poll wins reflect faith in PM Modi, says Nadda||BJP chief JP Nadda on Tuesday said that the party winning four of six seats in Maharashtra Legislative Council reflects people's faith in Prime Minister Narendra Modi's leadership and policies. Taking to microblogging site Twitter, Naddu said: "BJP winning four out of six seats in Maharashtra Legislative Council elections, shows people's faith in Prime Minister Narendra Modi's leadership, policies and plans. I congratulate state president Chandrakant Patil, Devendra Fadnavis and all the workers of BJP Maharashtra." BJP National General Secretary and Maharashtra in-charge CT Ravi tweeted, "Heartiest Congratulations to Team BJP Maharashtra for the spectacular victory in the MLC elections. Thanks to the exceptional hard work by our karyakartas under the leadership of state president Sri Chandrakant Patil and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, BJP has won 4 of the 6 seats." After the results were declared, Fadnavis tweeted, "Both these victories are special and results of hard work of every karyakarta. With these victories from Nagpur & Akola by great margins, once again, BJP Maharashtra proves its mettle in these MLC elections. Of the total 6 seats, BJP won 4 seats of Maharashtra Vidhan Parishad." The saffron party bagged the local authority constituency polls in Akola and Nagpur seats, with Vasant Khandelwal and Chandrashekhar Bawankule winning the seats, respectively, in the elections held last Friday. Besides, the BJP and Sena bagged one seat each in Mumbai, the BJP also netted Dhule seat and Congress secured Kolhapur, all four unopposed owing to local-level political understandings in the biennial polls. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-council-poll-wins-reflect-faith-in-pm-modi-says-nadda-1060646.html
14-12-2021||West||Mumbai to reopen schools for classes 1-7 from December 15||Schools for classes 1 to 7 will reopen in Mumbai on Wednesday, over 20 months after they were shut for physical classes due to the outbreak of the pandemic and imposition of restrictions. The order to reopen the schools was issued by Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal on Tuesday. The schools were closed in March 2020 in the Maharashtra capital after the outbreak of the pandemic. Earlier, the decision to reopen schools from December 4 was postponed due to the detection of Omicron variant of coronavirus. As of Monday, Maharashtra's tally of the Omicron cases stood at 20, including 5 patients in Mumbai.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-to-reopen-schools-for-classes-1-7-from-december-15-1060647.html
14-12-2021||West||Corruption probe: Vaze denies making any payment to Anil Deshmukh or collecting money from bars||Dismissed police officer Sachin Vaze during his deposition before an inquiry commission here on Tuesday denied making any payment to former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh or any of his staff member. He also denied collecting money from bars and bar owners in Mumbai. Vaze is currently deposing before the Justice KU Chandiwal Commission, which is probing corruption allegations levelled against Deshmukh by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh. NCP leader Deshmukh resigned from the post of state home minister in April this year. Vaze's cross-examination by Deshmukh's lawyer Girish Kulkarni continued on Tuesday. When asked whether there was any occasion he had to make payment to Deshmukh, Vaze said, "No". He also denied making payment to any of the staff members of the then home minister. To a question on whether he made any payment to Kundan Shinde, in his capacity as Deshmukh's staff or otherwise, Vaze said, ''I don't recollect." When asked if anybody from the then home minister's office asked him to collect money from bars or bar owners, Waze said, "I don't remember." He also denied collecting any money from bar owners or bar-associated people. Vaze also responded in negative when asked whether there was any interference from the state home ministry or any political party in cases he was probing during his stint at the Crime Intelligence Unit (CIU). Later, the inquiry commission posted the matter for further hearing on December 21 and imposed a cost of Rs 15,000 on Deshmukh for seeking adjournment. Earlier, in his statement before the Enforcement Directorate (ED), Vaze had alleged that Deshmukh asked him to collect money from bar and hotel owners. He had also claimed that Deshmukh used to give instructions in high-profile investigations. Vaze had alleged that during a meeting held in October 2020 at Deshmukh's residence Dyneshwari, the NCP leader gave him a list of 1,750 bars and restaurants and asked him to collect Rs 3 lakh each from these establishments for granting various favours. In his statement before the ED, Vaze had also mentioned that he handed over the money collected from bars to Deshmukh's personal assistant Kundan Shinde. His statement is part of the charge sheet filed by the central probe agency in connection with a money laundering case. Deshmukh was earlier arrested by the ED in connection with the case, and he is currently in judicial custody. The ED launched a probe against Deshmukh and his associates after the CBI filed an FIR against him on April 21 following allegations made by Param Bir Singh. The Maharashtra government had in March formed the one-member commission of Justice Chandiwal (retired) to probe Singh's allegations against Deshmukh. Vaze, who had served as an assistant inspector of Mumbai Police, was arrested in March this year in the case of an SUV with explosives found near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s south Mumbai residence Antilia. Singh, now suspended, was transferred from the post of Mumbai police commissioner in March in the aftermath of the Antilia bomb scare episode. He had then alleged that Deshmukh asked police officers to collect Rs 100 crore a month from bars and restaurants in the city. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and the ED are also probing the allegations made against Deshmukh by Singh. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/corruption-probe-vaze-denies-making-any-payment-to-anil-deshmukh-or-collecting-money-from-bars-1060661.html
14-12-2021||West||Maharashtra MLC polls: BJP wins 4 of 6 seats; wrests Akola-Buldhana-Washim seat from Sena||In a jolt to the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) alliance in Maharashtra, the BJP won four of the six seats in the state Legislative Council, including Nagpur, and wrested the Akola-Buldhana-Washim seat from the Shiv Sena. Reacting to BJP's victory, Leader of Opposition in the Maharashtra Assembly Devendra Fadnavis said the BJP has busted the MVA's myth that the three parties (Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress) can win every election in the state by contesting together. The Election Commission had announced polling to six seats to the Maharashtra Legislative Council from five local constituencies on December 10. In the election for two seats in the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), the Shiv Sena (Sunil Shinde) and the BJP (Rajhans Singh) bagged one seat each unopposed. In the Kolhapur and Nandurbar-Dhule MLC polls also, the Congress and the BJP respectively secured one seat each unopposed. Polling to the Nagpur and Akola-Buldhana-Washim seats was held on December 10. According to the District Information Office, in Nagpur, of the 554 votes polled, BJP candidate and former state energy minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule secured 362 votes, while Mangesh Deshmukh, the independent candidate who was supported by the MVA, got 186 votes. On the eve of polling, the Congress nominee, Ravindra Bhoyar, had expressed his inability to contest, following which the party-backed Deshmukh. However, Bhoyar later contested the poll and got only one vote. In a major upset, Shiv Sena's three-time MLC Gopikishan Bajoria was defeated by BJP's Vasant Khandelwal in Akola-Washim-Buldhana. Of the total 808 votes, Khandelwal bagged 443 votes while Bajoria secured 334. “The MVA was claiming that they will win all the elections as three parties have come together. We have busted this myth and I feel that this victory has laid the foundation for our future wins,” Fadnavis said. Khandelwal attributed his victory to the successful strategy of his party. Speaking to reporters, Bawankule said the MVA had 240 votes. However, the MVA-supported candidate only got 186 votes. Bawankule attacked Maharashtra Congress president Nana Patole and accused him of behaving in an autocratic manner and demanded his resignation. He said the Congress should introspect why their votes got split. "For two days, they indulged in horse trading, even then they could not keep their party together. This is in real sense the defeat of Congress leaders. The Congress leaders were behaving in an autocratic manner. Nana Patole is not suitable to work as the (state) party chief and he should resign," he said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-mlc-polls-bjp-wins-4-of-6-seats-wrests-akola-buldhana-washim-seat-from-sena-1060665.html
14-12-2021||West||Several Goa Congress members joined party in Mamata's presence, claims TMC||Members associated with the Congress in Goa joined the Trinamool Congress Party in the presence of visiting West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee who is on a two-day visit to the coastal state, the TMC said on Tuesday. Prominent among the members who jumped ship to TMC, months ahead of the Assembly polls, included former AICC member Martha Saldanha, who resigned from the Congress party, the TMC said in a release. Banerjee, who is trying to project herself as the Opposition pivot against BJP, on Monday addressed a rally where the lone NCP MLA in Goa, Churchill Alemao, and his daughter joined the TMC. Banerjee, who had steered the TMC's victory against the principal opponent BJP in West Bengal polls, had said that an anti-BJP alliance had already formed in Goa under TMC and it is up to the Congress if it wants to join. During Banerjee's Goa visit on Monday, 31 members who owed allegiance to Congress and Aam Aadmi Party, respectively, joined the TMC, the release said. The TMC claimed that it was the "biggest such joining in the Banerjee-led party during recent times in the poll-bound state (Goa)". Jose (Raju) Cabral, Congress leader from Nuvem assembly constituency in South Goa, quit the party to join TMC along with Samil Volvoikar, his party colleague from Cumbharjua constituency in North Goa, according to TMC. Several other Congress block members from the Cumbharjua constituency also joined TMC. Former panchayat members from across Goa have also joined the Mamata Banerjee-led party, along with a former chairperson of Cuncolim Municipal Council and an ex-councillor of Mormugao Municipal Council and Rama Kankonkar of AAP, it said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/several-goa-congress-members-joined-party-in-mamatas-presence-claims-tmc-1060676.html
14-12-2021||West||IndiGo loader falls asleep in cargo compartment of Mumbai-Abu Dhabi flight; found safe on arrival||A loader of IndiGo fell asleep in the cargo compartment of the airline's Mumbai-Abu Dhabi flight, but was found safe on arrival in the capital city of the UAE, officials of aviation regulator DGCA said on Tuesday. After the loading of baggage in the aircraft, one of the loaders of the private carrier fell asleep behind the baggage in the cargo compartment on Sunday's flight, they said. The cargo door was closed and the loader woke up as the aircraft took off from the Mumbai airport, the officials informed. After the aircraft landed in the capital city of the United Arab emirates (UAE), a medical examination of the loader was conducted by Abu Dhabi authorities and his physical condition was found to be stable and normal, they said. After getting the requisite clearances from the authorities in Abu Dhabi, he was sent back to Mumbai as a passenger on the same aircraft, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) officials said. The personnel of the airline involved in the incident have been off-rostered pending an investigation, they added. Asked about the matter, an IndiGo spokesperson told PTI, "We are aware of the incident and the requisite authorities have been informed. The matter is under investigation." Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/indigo-loader-falls-asleep-in-cargo-compartment-of-mumbai-abu-dhabi-flight-found-safe-on-arrival-1060687.html
14-12-2021||West||'Difference in criteria of SC, health ministry' likely reason for discrepancy in Gujarat Covid death numbers||The Gujarat government on Tuesday said difference in criteria set by the Supreme Court for compensation to those who die due to Covid-19 and the health ministry's definition of such deaths is the likely cause of difference between the number of recorded deaths due to pandemic in the state and people seeking compensation. In an affidavit submitted in the Supreme Court last week, the Gujarat revenue department said it has passed sanction orders to pay compensation of Rs 50,000 each for a total 16,175 cases, even as the official number of Covid-19 deaths as per the health department stands at 10,099 in the state as of now. When contacted for reaction on the discrepancy in the number of deaths due to Covid-19 in Gujarat, Additional Chief Secretary (health) Manoj Agarwal said, "As per the health department, the Covid-19 death statistics stand at 10,099. The affidavit was filed by the revenue department, so you should ask the additional chief secretary or other officials of the revenue department about the same." Gujarat Revenue Minister Rajendra Trivedi, when asked for his comments, said he has no knowledge about the affidavit filed by his department in the Supreme Court, and he will be in a better position to speak after knowing the issue in detail. Trivedi, however, said the one possible explanation he can see for the discrepancy is the difference in the criteria set by the state committee for counting Covid-19 deaths and the order passed by the Supreme Court for providing compensation. "The state committee here had decided not to count deaths due to heart attack or failure of other body organs to be due to Covid-19 and consider them as separate case," the minister said. "The Supreme Court, however, ordered that all deaths within 30 days of patients testing positive for Covid-19 should be considered eligible for Rs 50,000 compensation without considering anything else. This has likely caused the numbers to rise, is what I understand primarily," Trivedi said. In the affidavit, relief commissioner and ex-officio additional secretary of Gujarat revenue department, Ardra Agarwal said, "Till date, 22,557 applications have been received for the payment of ex-gratia compensation, out of which sanction order has been passed for 16,175 cases. It is further submitted that out of the 16,175 cases which have been sanctioned, direct benefit transfer (DBT) has been done for 14,215 cases." The official said the state government is committed to ensure the pandemic victims are paid compensation at the earliest in a simplified manner. The Supreme Court has ordered payment of compensation to the kin of those who have died due to the Covid-19 in the entire country.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/difference-in-criteria-of-sc-health-ministry-likely-reason-for-discrepancy-in-gujarat-covid-death-numbers-1060690.html
14-12-2021||West||Goa Congress chief Chodankar claims he disclosed name of minister involved in 'sex scandal' to governor||Goa Congress president Girish Chodankar on Tuesday said he had disclosed the name of the cabinet minister who had allegedly sexually exploited a woman, to state Governor P S Sreedharan Pillai during a meeting and sought his dismissal. Chodankar had recently alleged that a minister in the Pramod Sawant cabinet had sexually exploited a woman by misusing his official position. Without disclosing the name, Chodankar had demanded that the minister be sacked. Responding to the allegations, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant had asked the state Congress president to reveal the minister's name and a formal complaint filed by the "victim" before any authority. On Tuesday, Chodankar tweeted that he had already disclosed the name of the concerned minister during his meeting with the governor. “Met H.E. Governor of Goa and disclosed him the Name of the @BJP4Goa Cabinet Minister involved in #SexScandal. It is #Vasanakand. Urged His Excellency to sack the minister, @ShetSadanand if still displaying ignorance should meet Governor to know the Name of the Minister,” Chodankar tweeted. BJP Goa unit chief Sadanand Shet Tanavade had earlier said Chodankar should reveal the name of the minister if he possesses any evidence. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-congress-chief-chodankar-claims-he-disclosed-name-of-minister-involved-in-sex-scandal-to-governor-1060743.html
14-12-2021||West||Helmets, hard disks: NCB ops uncover new ways of smuggling drugs||In a series of operations headed by the controversial Mumbai director Sameer Wankhede, the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) has unearthed new modus operandi for carrying drugs including concealing them in stethoscopes, microwave ovens, eatables, bangles and helmets — all marked to go out of India.  According to Wankhede, seven operations were undertaken between December 10 and 14 and a total 2.296 kg of Amphetamine, 3.906 kg of Opium and 2.525 kg of Zolpidem tablets were seized.  In the first operation, a team of NCB Mumbai seized 490 grams of Amphetamine at Andheri East concealed in a stethoscope. The consignment originated from Dongri and was destined for Australia. One Ivorian national has been arrested in this case and investigation is underway. In another operation at the same location, 3.906 kgs of Opium was found in a microwave oven, meant to go to Male, Maldives. The team seized 2.525 kgs of Zolpidem tab in eatables and grocery items billed for US's Texas in a third operation while 941 grams of Amphetamine in cycling helmets and bangles for Australia was uncovered. The NCB team seized a total 848 grams of Amphetamine in hose pipes and tie boxes at Dongri to be smuggled out to Dubai, UAE and New Zealand.  On the basis of reliable information, another NCB team seized 17 grams of Amphetamine housed in a 1 TB Hard Disk meant to go to Switzerland. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/helmets-hard-disks-ncb-ops-uncover-new-ways-of-smuggling-drugs-1060758.html
14-12-2021||West||Omicron cases in Maharashtra jump to 28||The total cumulative Omicron cases in Maharashtra shot up to 28 with eight fresh cases of the new Covid-19 variant being reported in the state. Incidentally, none of the fresh cases has any history of international travel.  However, one of these patients has travelled to Bengaluru and another to Delhi.  One of the patients hails from Rajasthan.  Of these eight cases, seven are from Mumbai, while one has been reported from the Vasai-Virar locality of Palghar district, officials of the Public Health Department said on Tuesday.  Till date, 28 cases have been reported - Mumbai (12), Pimpri-Chinchwad (10), Pune (2), Kalyan-Dombivli (1), Nagpur (1), Latur (1) and Vasai-Virar (1) - of which nine have been cured and tested RT-PCR negative.  Of these eight new cases, three are women and five men, and all are in the age group of 24-41. “Three patients are asymptomatic, while five have shown mild symptoms. None of them has a history of international travel,” officials said, adding that while two are in hospitals, the rest of them are in home quarantine.  Of the eight patients, seven of them are vaccinated.  Meanwhile, 684 Covid-19 cases and 24 deaths were reported in the state on Tuesday, taking the cumulative total to 66,45,136 and 1,41,288 respectively. Check out DH's latest videos on Covid:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/omicron-cases-in-maharashtra-jump-to-28-1060763.html
14-12-2021||West||Man gets death penalty for killing Pune couple, their son and daughter in 1997||A court in Pune on Tuesday gave the death penalty to a 47-year-old man for killing four members of a family in Kalyaninagar area in 1997. Bhagwat Kale, his wife Geeta and his cousin Sahebrao Kale were accused of entering the home of Ramesh Patil on May 15 that year, killing him, his wife, teen daughter and minor son and looting cash and valuables worth Rs 50 lakh, all of which were recovered later. Bhagwat and Sahebrao worked at the construction site where the Patils moved in, while Geeta joined as a maid at their home, police had said. Sentencing Bhagwat to death, Additional Sessions Judge BP Kshirsagar said. "The conscience of society is shocked by such a brutal and barbaric act. There is a need to give a deterrent message. Society also expects the same. The accused committing such a barbaric act is a menace to the harmony of society. Therefore, the accused deserves to be awarded capital punishment." Additional public prosecutor Rajesh Kavediya said after the arrest of the three in 1998, Bhagwat and Sahebrao managed to escape from Yerwada Jail. "Sahebrao was held some months later but Bhagwat remained untraceable. In 2004, Sahebrao and Geeta were convicted in the case, with the latter getting life imprisonment as she was pregnant in jail at the time. Sahebrao was given the death penalty, which was commuted to life imprisonment by the High Court," Kavediya said. However, Sahebrao and Geeta later moved an application in court stating that they were minors at the time of the crime, and this was upheld and the two exonerated, the APP said. "Bhagwat was held in 2013 and his trial started afresh, which faced hurdles as some witnesses as well as the investigating officer had died. Despite such hurdles, we managed to ensure he was convicted and given the death penalty today," Kavediya said.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/man-gets-death-penalty-for-killing-pune-couple-their-son-and-daughter-in-1997-1060827.html
