15-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Prohibitory order imposed in Uppinangady after PFI protest turns violent||The police imposed prohibitory orders in Uppinangady after a protest by the Popular Front of India activist turned violent and police had to resort to lathi charge to disperse the large gathering on Tuesday night. Workers of the Popular Front of India had staged a protest near Uppinangady police station on Tuesday morning seeking release of three persons who were detained in connection with a riot case that was reported a few days ago. The Uppinangady police had filed two separate cases of rioting against 43 persons in connection with two separate incidents reported at Andethadka of Ilanthila village in Belthangady taluk on December 5. On December 6, one more case of rioting was reported after a group of nearly 25 – 30 persons arrived in about 20 two-wheelers assaulted three as a retaliation of two rioting incidents reported on December 5. A case in this regard was filed by Mohandas,40, a resident of Kajekaru. Following the two incidents, the police had reportedly detained Abdul Hameed, Zakaria Kodippadi and Musthafa Latheef in connection with one of the case. As a result, PFI workers gathered near the station and demanded the release of those who were detained. Uppinangady PSI Kumar Kamble tried to convince the protesters that the three were taken into custody only after following due legal procedures like serving notices. The police also warned of initiating action against the protesters for gathering illegally and obstructing the police from performing their duties. Later, protesters left the venue. However, by evening the protesters prepared themselves to perform namaz at the site of protest which was opposed by a few persons. This led to clashes between two groups and the police dispersed the crowd. As a large number of people gathered, police had to resort to lathi charge. A few persons including police personnel were injured in the incident. The security has been strengthened in Uppinangady following the incident. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/prohibitory-order-imposed-in-uppinangady-after-pfi-protest-turns-violent-1060982.html
15-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Tracing history through coins at Mangaluru's Aloyseum||If you like seeing ancient coins and understanding the history through the coins,  then Aloyseum, a museum at St Aloysius College in Mangaluru, is the place to be. Nearly 1,328 coins from over 75 countries are on display. The oldest coin in the gallery of the museum dates back to 211 BC,  a Denarius of the Roman Empire. The rarest and oldest coins are being displayed in the gallery of the museum. In fact, the authorities of the museum have around 4000 coins. Of which, 1328 coins have been sorted, identified and categorised for display, said Kavitha, Curator of the museum. The majority of these coins were brought from Italy in 1913 by Fr Chiappi when the museum of the Collegio Vida was dismantled. The coins were stored in boxes due to lack of proper security and inability to identify them, she said. Coins in materials such as gold, silver, copper are on display. There is an explanation in English next to all the coins. There are five cases for the display of the coins in the museum, categorised into continents of their origin.  Rare coins from 27 European countries are displayed. The oldest coin is from 211 BC, a Denarius of the Roman Empire. The ancient coins are from Roman times representing practically all the Caesars and a coin from the Byzantine Empire. From Europe, there are coins from France, England, Germany, Greece and other countries. Some of the coins are 10 Centimes of 1853 from Napoleon III, 2 Franc 1871 of Ceres, 5 Centimes 1855 of Napoleon III, 25 Centimes 1904 of Laureate Liberty. A few of the coins of England that are on display are Half Farthing 1843 of Queen Victoria, Half Penny 1889 of Queen Victoria, Half Crown 1914 of Georgivs V, one Penny 1862 of Queen Victoria, One Shilling 1931 of Gerogivs V and so on and from Greece, there are 2 Lepta 1869 of George 1 and others. Coins of 33 Asian countries belonging to various kingdoms and periods are on display. The oldest coins belong to the Polonnaruwa kingdom of Ceylon called Massa coins. Old coins of Afghanistan, Bahrain, Brunei, Cambodia, Hong Kong, Iraq, Kuwait, Lebanon, Pakistan, Philippines, Nepal, Iran, Indo-China, Ceylon, Japan, Sarawak, Singapore, Qatar, Dubai, Saudi Arabia, Malaysia, Maldives Myanmar, Thailand and other countries are on display. Coins of Indian princely states of Baroda, Gwalior, Indore, Hyderabad, Kutch, Mysore, Travancore etc are on display. Besides coins belonging to the colonial period of Dutch, Danish, Portuguese, British are also exhibited. Two Pagoda belonging to 1829-1855 of Travancore, Gold Pagoda of Krishnaraja Wodeyar III belonging to 1799-1868 and others are on display.Coins from three North American and three South American countries including that of Chile, Mexico, Peru belonging to the 18th-19th centuries are exhibited. Further, there are coins from seven countries of the African continent including rare coins of Algeria, Zanzibar, Egypt at the gallery in addition to coins from three Oceania countries of Australia, New Zealand and Papua New Guinea. The coins gallery was inaugurated by St Aloysius Institutions Rector Fr Melwin Pinto on Wednesday. Fr Leo, retired professor of the college, was also present. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/tracing-history-through-coins-at-mangalurus-aloyseum-1061017.html
15-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Former minister's Facebook account hacked||An unidentified person created a fake Facebook account in the name of former minister and Congress leader S S Mallikarjun.  According to the leader, an FB user opened an account named SSM Davangere and sent friend requests to many people. Those who accepted it received a message seeking transfer of money via PhonePe citing a medical emergency, promising to return the money in two hours.  The former minister has appealed to people not to respond to the messages. He also stated that he would lodge a complaint with cybercrime police seeking action against hackers. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/former-ministers-facebook-account-hacked-1061218.html
15-12-2021||Karnataka Politics||Council elections outcome set back to JD(S): Kumaraswamy||Terming Legislative Council elections results were set back to JD(S), former Chief Minister H D Kumaraswamy said on Tuesday that BJP and Congress have succeeded to some extent in their agenda to finish JD(S) in electoral politics. Both the national parties have used their money power and hatched conspiracy to defeat JD(S) candidates particularly in Mandya and Kolar, he told media persons here.   "Everyone knows that Congress and BJP have an internal understanding to finish the JD(S). They've somewhat succeeded in coordinating with each other in all of the 6 constituencies we had contested in," the JD(S) leader said. "Though the council election was a setback, we will not sit quite. Our focus will be on the 2023 general elections in Karnataka. The party will work on strengthening the organization," he said.   Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/council-elections-outcome-set-back-to-jds-kumaraswamy-1060893.html
15-12-2021||National||DH Toon | At Kashi, pilgrims pray for economic revamp||It was an event that had every ingredient to send a clear message to the majority community about the BJP's firm commitment to the Hindutva ideology and Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the saffron party's tallest leader, made no attempt to hide it while he launched the first phase of the Kashi Vishwanath Dham Project in his Lok Sabha constituency of Varanasi on Monday. Modi, who was clad in saffron clothes, performed 'Surya Arghya' (offering water to the Sun), worshipped the Ganga and carried its sacred waters to the Kashi Vishwanath Temple, one of the most revered places of worship for the Hindus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-at-kashi-pilgrims-pray-for-economic-revamp-1060898.html
15-12-2021||National||Prahlad Joshi attacks Farooq Abdullah, asks him to 'settle' in Pakistan||"He has said many times that India should talk to Pakistan. If he likes Pakistan so much, then he should settle there," Joshi said.  On Monday, Farooq Abdullah asked the government to hold talks with Pakistan and find a way to bring peace in Kashmir, following a terror attack, which claimed the lives of three cops in Srinagar. The NC leader said both India and Pakistan should "shed their egos" and come forward for dialogue. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/prahlad-joshi-attacks-farooq-abdullah-asks-him-to-settle-in-pakistan-1060914.html
15-12-2021||National||Gangster Suresh Pujari deported to India from Philippines; to be brought to Mumbai||Notorious gangster Suresh Pujari, who is wanted in several cases of extortion and firing in Mumbai and elsewhere in Maharashtra and neighbouring Karnataka, has been repatriated to India.  Pujari was on the run for close to 15 years and faced Red-Corner Notices.  In October this year, he was arrested in the Philippines based on a tip-off from the Mumbai Police.  As soon as he landed at the Delhi airport, officials of the IB and CBI took his custody.  The Maharashtra Police escorted him to Mumbai, where he would face trial in a series of cases.  There are several cases against him which are registered in Mumbai, neighbouring Thane city, Kalyan, Ulhasnagar, Dombivli.  Incidentally, Suresh Pujari is a relative of underworld don Ravi Pujari, who was deported from Senegal, Africa, to India in February 2020 and is currently being investigated by central agencies and police forces in Karnataka, Gujarat, and Maharashtra. Suresh Pujari separated his operations from Ravi Pujari around a decade ago and fled the country.  In Mumbai, Suresh Pujari will be questioned in cases registered by the Mumbai Police, Crime Branch-CID and Anti-Terrorism Squad.  Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gangster-suresh-pujari-deported-to-india-from-philippines-to-be-brought-to-mumbai-1060920.html
15-12-2021||National||'Not today, should be there tomorrow': Ex-CJI Ranjan Ranjan Gogoi amid Parliament attendance row||"Not today. I was there on Monday and on Tuesday. Should be there tomorrow," the nominated Rajya Sabha MP told ANI. Not today. I was there on Monday and on Tuesday. Should be there tomorrow: Former CJI and Rajya Sabha MP Ranjan Gogoi to ANI on him attending the Parliament Justice Gogoi attended the Winter Session for the first time on Monday, the seventh time he was present in the House since his nomination to the Upper House in March 2020. Justice Gogoi made the controversial remarks during interviews to promote his newly released memoirs ‘Justice for the Judge’. During his interview, he told NDTV, "I go to the Rajya Sabha when I feel like, when I think there are matters of importance on which I should speak. I am a nominated member, not governed by any party whip. Therefore, whenever the bell rings for the party members to come, it does not bind me. I go there of my choice and come out on my choice. I am an independent member of the House." Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/not-today-should-be-there-tomorrow-ex-cji-ranjan-ranjan-gogoi-amid-parliament-attendance-row-1060945.html
15-12-2021||National||Rajya Sabha proceedings adjourned till 12 noon amid Opposition protest||Rajya Sabha proceedings were adjourned for about 55 minutes till 12 noon amid protests by Opposition parties. Soon after the listed papers were tabled in the House, some Opposition party members tried to raise their points. With several Opposition members speaking simultaneously and some of them standing, Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu adjourned the proceedings till noon. The proceedings of the House have been repeatedly obstructed following the suspension of 12 Opposition MPs from the Rajya Sabha on November 29 for the entire Winter Session of Parliament for their "unruly" conduct in the previous session in August.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajya-sabha-proceedings-adjourned-till-12-noon-amid-opposition-protest-1060965.html
15-12-2021||National||Congress pays homage to Sardar Patel on death anniversary||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday paid rich tributes to Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel on his death anniversary. "My tribute to dear leader Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel on his death anniversary.  It is founding fathers like him who have created our beautiful nation. We must unite to conserve the spirit of India," Gandhi said in a Facebook post. A host of Congress leaders also remembered India's first home minister who played a crucial role in the integration of several princely states with the Union. The BJP has been accusing Congress of ignoring the legacy of Sardar Patel. The Congress put out several tweets on its official Twitter handle remembering Patel and paying him rich tributes. "A symbol of unity, a symbol of strength, a symbol of devotion to our motherland, Iron Man of India, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, gave his everything for the progress and prosperity of our people. Today, we pay our heartfelt tribute and pledge to walk by the great legacy he left behind," Congress said on Twitter. A symbol of unity, a symbol of strength,a symbol of devotion to our motherland,Iron Man of India, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, gave his everything for the progress & prosperity of our people. "Our Sardar, much like our Mahatma, left behind a path of non-violence for us all to follow. Even deviating a little from this path is a great dishonour to their memory," the party said in another tweet, using the hashtag "SardarVallabhbhaiPatel". Several Congress leaders including Leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge and party chief whip Jairam Ramesh, chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala, party whip in the Lok Sabha Manickam Tagore also remembered Patel and paid him tributes. "Remembering the unifier of the nation, Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel on his punyatithi. His efforts towards the integration of India bear testimony to his leadership. The people of India are indebted to him for his role in the freedom struggle & his statesmanship after Independence," Kharge said on Twitter. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-pays-homage-to-sardar-patel-on-death-anniversary-1060968.html
15-12-2021||National||Group Captain Varun Singh, the decorated pilot who saved an LCA Tejas||"IAF is deeply saddened to inform the passing away of braveheart Group Captain Varun Singh, who succumbed this morning to the injuries sustained in the helicopter accident on 08 Dec 21. IAF offers sincere condolences and stands firmly with the bereaved family," the IAF tweeted. IAF is deeply saddened to inform the passing away of braveheart Group Captain Varun Singh, who succumbed this morning to the injuries sustained in the helicopter accident on 08 Dec 21. IAF offers sincere condolences and stands firmly with the bereaved family. Singh, who was injured severely in the military chopper crash, was awarded Shaurya Chakra on this year’s Independence Day for saving his LCA Tejas fighter aircraft during an aerial emergency in 2020. He was a Wing Commander at that point of time. A pilot in a Light Combat Aircraft Squadron, he was flying a system check sortie in the LCA after major rectification of the Flight Control System and pressurisation system (life support environment control system). During the sortie, the cockpit pressurisation failed at high altitude. He correctly identified the failure and initiated a descent to lower altitude for landing. While descending, the Flight Control System failed and led to total loss of control of the aircraft. This was an unprecedented catastrophic failure that had never occurred. There was a rapid loss of altitude with the aircraft pitching up and down viciously going to the extremities of G limits. Despite being in extreme physical and mental stress in an extremely life-threatening situation, he maintained exemplary composure and regained control of the aircraft, thereby exhibiting exceptional flying skills. Soon thereafter, at about 10,000 feet, the aircraft again experienced total loss of control with vicious manoeuvring and uncontrollable pitching. Under such a scenario, even though the pilot was at liberty to abandon the aircraft, Singh displayed extraordinary courage and skill to safely land the fighter aircraft despite the potential threat to his own life. He went beyond the call of duty and landed the aircraft taking calculated risks, the IAF had stated in the citation. As he was able to land the aircraft, it allowed the engineers to carry out an accurate analysis of the fault on the indigenously designed fighter and further institution of preventive measures against recurrence. Due to his high order of professionalism, composure and quick decision making, even at the peril to his life, he not only averted the loss of an LCA, but also safeguarded civilian property and population on ground. For such an exceptional act of gallantry, he was conferred with the Shaurya Chakra. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/group-captain-varun-singh-the-decorated-pilot-who-saved-an-lca-tejas-1060975.html
15-12-2021||National||NDPS Act: What is the anomaly that led to the amendment?||Lok Sabha on Monday passed a bill to rectify anomalies that had crept into the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (Amendment) Act amid Opposition criticism, as Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said the provision made in the bill was not "substantiative" but clarificatory. The NDPS (Amendment) Bill, 2021 was passed by a voice vote and some amendments moved by Opposition members were rejected by the House. What were the anomaly and the amendment? The anomaly of the NDPS Act crept in when it was amended in 2014 to allow better medical access to narcotic drugs, and removing state barriers in transporting and licensing of essential narcotic drugs. Prior to the 2014 amendment, Clause (viiia) of Section 2 of the Act contained sub-clauses (i) to (v) that pertained to "illicit traffic," including its definition. This clause was re-numbered as Clause (viiib) by the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (Amendment) Act, 2014, as a new Clause (viiia) in Section 2 defined "essential narcotic drugs". However, consequential change was not carried out in Section 27A of the NDPS Act, which prescribes the punishment for financing illicit traffic and harbouring offenders, making the section inoperable. The amendment sought to rectify this anomaly by making changes to Section 27A of the said Act in order to carry out the legislative intent of the statute, which has always been to read clause (viiib) in Section 27A, and already stood therein. When was the anomaly noticed? According to RSP member NK Premachandran, the drafting error was highlighted when an accused moved to a special court in Tripura contending that he could not be charged for the offence as Section 27A referred to a blank list. The Tripura High Court subsequently asked the Centre to amend the law. Does the amendment make the Act retrospective? While Article 20(1) of the Constitution says that no person shall be convicted of any offence except for violation of the law in force at the time of the commission of the act charged as an offence, nor be subjected to a penalty greater than that which might have been inflicted under the law in force at the time of the commission of the offence, the amendment brought in by the government makes the changes applicable since May 1, 2014. Sitharaman said that according to the opinion of the Solicitor General, the amendment could be permitted as it was not substantive, but clarificatory in nature. "Amendments with retrospective effect to a substantive part of criminal law is not permitted, but a clarificatory amendment that seeks to remove an obvious mistake is permitted," the minister said. What did the Opposition say? DMK MP V Kalanidhi, while debating the bill, said that actions have not been taken against people who sell or peddle drugs, but is rather taken against those who are found to be possessing small quantities. BSP MP Danish Ali said that the proposed bill has a provision of retrospective effect that will have a dangerous impact on the country. "We need to catch the root cause of the disease." Referring to the recent seizure of drugs at Mundra port, he further said that in most of the cases, actions are taken against the persons found with the possession of the drugs, but not against the drug lords and peddlers. SP Member HK Hassan said that liquor should also be brought under NDPS Act. He said that most of the time, the Act is found to be used to threaten ordinary citizens. There should be strong provisions under this Act so that strict action can be taken against drug lords and peddlers. Congress MP Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said there are various issues regarding the NDPS (Amendment) Bill and asked if the government is going to decriminalise consumption in the future. "India has been constantly witnessing illegal drug trafficking of thousands of crores of rupees," he said, seeking to know how the problem would be resolved. He claimed there are wrongful cases filed in the name of drug trafficking and asked the government to clarify the difference between consumption and trafficking. With agency inputs Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ndps-act-what-is-the-anomaly-that-led-to-the-amendment-1060980.html
15-12-2021||National||Rajya Sabha proceedings adjourned till 2 pm amid Opposition protest||Rajya Sabha proceedings were adjourned till 2 pm on Wednesday amid protests by Opposition members against the suspension of 12 MPs from the House. This was the second adjournment of the House proceedings of the day. As soon as the Upper House reassembled at 12 noon, the Opposition members were up on their feet to raise a point of order on the issue of the suspension of the MPs. Senior Congress leader Anand Sharma raised a point of order under Rule 256(2) and said the suspension of a member can be terminated if any member moves a motion in this regard in the Upper House. He also said on December 14, 1967, Raj Narain was suspended, but after the recess, he continued to sit in the House as a motion to terminate his suspension was moved and adopted. Sharma said he has served a notice for the termination of the suspension of the 12 Opposition members. Deputy Chairman Harivansh Narayan Singh said Sharma has issued a notice to the chairman with his intention to move a motion for the termination of the suspension of the 12 MPs. The Congress leader raised the issue immediately after the papers were laid on the table and on his persistent demand, the chairman said he will look into the matter. "I have now been informed by the chairman that the notice given by Anand Sharma is not accompanied by the motion, which he intends to move in the House," Singh said, adding that the chairman has said such a notice is "inadmissible". The deputy chairman also made it clear that a motion can be moved in the House by any member only with the consent of the chairman. As the notice was not admitted, the Opposition members trooped into the Well and began raising slogans of "we want justice". Some of them asked why the House does not admit a notice issued by the Opposition. The Question Hour continued amid the slogan shouting, but the protest intensified as the members started holding up placards. The deputy chairman tried to restore order in the House and requested the protesting members to allow the Question Hour to go on. However, the protesting members were persistent in their demand for a revocation of the suspension of the 12 MPs and the chair was forced to adjourn the House till 2 pm. The 12 Opposition members were suspended from the Rajya Sabha for the entire Winter Session of Parliament on November 29 for "unruly" conduct in the previous session in August. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajya-sabha-proceedings-adjourned-till-2-pm-amid-opposition-protest-1060989.html
15-12-2021||National||President Kovind arrives in Bangladesh for 50th Victory Day celebrations||President Ram Nath Kovind on Wednesday arrived here on a maiden three-day State Visit during which he will hold talks with his counterpart and attend the golden jubilee celebrations of Bangladesh’s 1971 independence from Pakistan. It is President Kovind’s first trip abroad since the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic. He will represent India as the guest of honour in Bangladesh’s 50th Victory Day celebrations here. In a reflection of close ties, India is also hosting a number of events to mark the 50th anniversary of the 1971 India-Pakistan war that led to the liberation of Bangladesh. Bangladesh’s Foreign Minister Dr AK Abdul Momen, at a virtual press conference here on Tuesday, called President Kovind’s visit a “ceremonial” one but emphasised that all issues of bilateral ties were expected to be reviewed as part of his tour. "President Kovind is set to visit Bangladesh on 15-17 December at the invitation of the President of Bangladesh M Abdul Hamid as a unique sign of good relations between the two neighbouring countries," he said.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/president-kovind-arrives-in-bangladesh-for-50th-victory-day-celebrations-1060994.html
15-12-2021||National||Book traces history of 'Pathare Kshatriyas of Bombay'||What do Rao Bahadur Yashwantrao Desai, J R Vanmali, Hari Keshavji Pathare, G K Devare, N G Pansare, G B Mhatre, Shivshankar Narayan Mukadam and Dr Bhavani Shankar Dadarkar have in common? They are all from the small ethnic community of Pathare Kshatriya or Pachkalashis, which played a crucial role in building Bombay and its transformation into Mumbai.  For the unversed, Yashwantrao Desai was the superintendent of the teams that built the Gateway of India, General Post Office, Sir Cawasji Jehangir Public Hall and the Prince of Wales Museum. GB Mhatre designed buildings that today forms a significant part of the UNESCO World Heritage Site of Victorian & Art Deco Ensemble in Mumbai. JR Vanmali was the social reformer and philanthropist after whom the Vanmali Hall at Dadar has been named. Similarly, Hari Keshav Pathare was the first Marathi-English translator.  NG Pansare was the maker of the Filmfare trophy and Shivshankar Narayan Mukadum was the first Indian Photographer in Western India. The list is unending.  For the first time, the history of the community has been documented in the form of a book - 'The Pathare Kshatriyas of Bombay' - which has been penned by Sandeep Dahisarkar, a young art historian, Indologist and heritage expert.  “The Pathare Kshatriyas are a small ethnic community from the city. Whether it is engineering or medical field, constructions, arts, literature, science, culture, sculpture, writing and documentation, the community has left its mark,” Dahisarkar told DH on Wednesday. The Pathare Kashtriyas are believed to have migrated from Champaner in Gujarat to the ancient city of Paithan and then to Mumbai in the 12th century CE. In establishing the story of the Pathare Kshatriyas, Dahisarkar has relied upon “Mahikavatichi Bakhar”, the oldest of all Marathi Bakhars and other important literary sources, that tells the story of North Konkan  - and corroborates with new findings. The community traces history to King Raja Bhimdev. According to tradition, the Pathare Kshatriyas or Panchkalshis derive their name from the fact that their former headman used to sit on a canopied throne surmounted by five kalashas. Dahisarkar has traced the community mainly divided into two clans -- Somvanshis and Suryavanshis.  Being natives of Mumbai, many families in the community use surnames derived by adding the suffix “kar” to names of the old Mumbai villages like Sopara, Bhaindar, Malad, Goregaon, Chembur, Parel, Worli, Dadar, Mahim and Juhu. Dahisarkar identified 29 families which migrated with Raja Bimba which are mentioned in the Mahikavatichi Bakhar to prove the historicity of this Marathi text.  This was the second step taken after contributing a research article to study place-names - Shiva Mandir of Oshiwara and Madh's Brahmakunda. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/book-traces-history-of-pathare-kshatriyas-of-bombay-1061008.html
15-12-2021||National||PM Modi to participate in reception ceremony of 'Swarnim Vijay Mashaals' at War Memorial on December 16||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will participate in the homage and reception ceremony of 'Swarnim Vijay Mashaals', which he had lit on the same day last year, at the National War Memorial in New Delhi on Thursday to commemorate the 50th anniversary of India's win over Pakistan in the 1971 war. As part of the 'Swarnim Vijay Varsh' celebrations to commemorate 50 years of India's victory and formation of Bangladesh, Modi had lit the victory flame from the Eternal Flame at the memorial last year, the PMO noted. He had also lit four flames that were to traverse in different directions. Since then, these four flames have been taken across the length and breadth of the country, including Siachen, Kanyakumari, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Longewala, Rann of Kutch and Agartala, the PMO said. The flames were taken to key battle areas and also to the houses of gallantry award winners and veterans of the 1971 war. During the homage ceremony on Thursday, these four flames will be merged by Modi with the Eternal Flame, the PMO said.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-participate-in-reception-ceremony-of-swarnim-vijay-mashaals-at-war-memorial-on-december-16-1061016.html
15-12-2021||National||President Kovind condoles Group Captain Varun Singh's death||President Ram Nath Kovind on Wednesday condoled the death of Group Captain Varun Singh, who was seriously injured in a chopper crash in Tamil Nadu on December 8, and said he displayed the "soldierly spirit of valour and indomitable courage". Group Captain Singh was the lone survivor of the crash in which Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat, his wife Madhulika and 11 armed forces personnel were killed. “Sad to learn that Group Captain Varun Singh breathed his last after putting up a valiant fight for life. Though badly injured in the chopper crash, he displayed the soldierly spirit of valour and indomitable courage. The nation is grateful to him. My condolences to his family,” President Kovind said in a tweet.   Sad to learn that Group Captain Varun Singh breathed his last after putting up a valiant fight for life. Though badly injured in the chopper crash, he displayed the soldierly spirit of valour and indomitable courage. The nation is grateful to him. My condolences to his family. Group Captain Singh, a decorated air warrior, died on Wednesday at a military hospital in Bengaluru, the IAF said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/president-kovind-condoles-group-captain-varun-singhs-death-1061020.html
15-12-2021||National||Bangladesh accords red carpet welcome to President Ram Nath Kovind||Bangladesh on Wednesday accorded a red carpet welcome to President Ram Nath Kovind upon his arrival here on a maiden three-day State Visit during which he will hold talks with his counterpart and attend the golden jubilee celebrations of Bangladesh’s 1971 independence from Pakistan. A 21-gun salute heralded the arrival of Kovind as he disembarked from the special Air India One flight along with his wife Savita Kovind and daughter Swati Kovind alongside an official delegation. President M Abdul Hamid along with his wife Rashida Khanam received Kovind at Dhaka’s Hazrat Shahjalal International Airport. Several senior ministers along with civil and military officials were present at the airport to receive Kovind. The Bangladesh Army, the Navy and the Air Force personnel offered him a guard of honour as part of the welcome ceremony at the airport from where he was escorted to the National Memorial at Savar on the outskirts of the capital in a motorcade. It is President Kovind’s first trip abroad since the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic. He will represent India as the guest of honour in Bangladesh’s 50th Victory Day celebrations here. In a reflection of close ties, India is also hosting a number of events to mark the 50th anniversary of the 1971 India-Pakistan war that led to the liberation of Bangladesh. Bangladesh’s Foreign Minister Dr AK Abdul Momen on Tuesday, called President Kovind’s visit a “ceremonial” one but emphasised that all issues of bilateral ties were expected to be reviewed as part of his tour. "President Kovind is set to visit Bangladesh on 15-17 December at the invitation of the President of Bangladesh M Abdul Hamid as a unique sign of good relations between the two neighbouring countries," he said. Later in the day, President Kovind will place wreaths in memory of Bangladesh’s nine-month-long 1971 Liberation War martyrs, plant a sapling and sign the visitors’ book. Kovind is then scheduled to visit Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman Memorial Museum at the capital's Dhanmondi area to pay homage to Bangladesh’s founding father Sheikh Mujibur Rahman. In the afternoon, Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina and the foreign minister would pay a courtesy call on the Indian president. President Hamid will host a banquet in his honour which will be joined by Hasina at Bangabhaban Presidential palace in the evening after talks with his counterpart. "President Kovind will present his counterpart two replicas of Russian made T-55 tanks and Mig-21 vintage aircraft used during the 1971 war as gifts,” an official familiar with the visit said. On the second day of the visit, President Kovind will join as the "Guest of Honour" at the National Parade Ground on December 16 to mark the golden jubilee of the Victory Day of Bangladesh. After the nine-month-long war, the Pakistani troops unconditionally surrendered to India-Bangladesh allied forces in Dhaka marking its emergence as the free capital of a free country though Bangladesh proclaimed its independence on March 26, 1971. In the afternoon, Kovind will attend a function titled "Great Victory Heroes" in the South Plaza of the Jatiya Sangsad Bhaban to pay respect to Bangladesh’s Father of the Nation and to celebrate the joy of victory. President Hamid, the Bangladesh premier, parliamentary speaker and other dignitaries will be present at the event. Officials said that on the third day of the visit, Kovind was expected to inaugurate and inspect the newly renovated section of Kali Temple at Ramna at the central part of the capital. "He will leave Dhaka on the same day at midday on December 17,” a foreign ministry spokesman added. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bangladesh-accords-red-carpet-welcome-to-president-ram-nath-kovind-1061021.html
15-12-2021||National||Nine Indian Railways' workers held for 1,106 thefts||Nine employees of Indian Railways were arrested for 1,106 cases of parcel thefts across the country between January 2016 and November 2021, Railways Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw said Wednesday. These parcels were being transported by the Indian Railways. "During the last five years i.e. 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019, 2020 and current year i.e. 2021 (up to November), a total of 1,106 cases of parcel theft have been registered across Indian Railways wherein nine railway employees have been arrested during course of inquiry," the minister said in his written reply to a question in Lok Sabha. Appropriate legal action followed by stringent disciplinary action is being taken against the Railways' employees responsible for the crimes, he mentioned. The minister said the Indian Railways has taken various steps to prevent theft of railway property and goods. All major railway stations, depots, yards and other vital installations are manned by Railway Protection Force round-the-clock, Vaishnaw said. Escorts for passengers and goods trains in identified vulnerable sections are being done, he said. Strengthening of basic security arrangements at railway yards, goods sheds and parcel sheds is being done, he said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nine-indian-railways-workers-held-for-1106-thefts-1061025.html
15-12-2021||National||Andhra Pradesh's pending MGNREGA dues to be cleared after it clarifies discrepancies: Centre||The pending amount under rural employment guarantee scheme MGNREGA to Andhra Pradesh will be cleared after the state government clarifies the discrepancies noticed in the documents it has submitted, Union Minister Giriraj Singh said in Rajya Sabha on Wednesday. Speaking during the Question Hour, Singh also asked TDP member Kanakamedala Ravindra Kumar to submit in writing the alleged diversion of funds allocated under MGNREGA by the Andhra Pradesh government. "No dues are pending towards Andhra Pradesh under the scheme. Some discrepancies have been noticed in the documents submitted by the Andhra Pradesh government. We have sought clarification from the state government," Union Rural Development Minister Singh said in the Upper House of Parliament. For instance, it has been noticed that figures do not match in audit and balance sheet reports submitted by the state government, he said. The central government follows a set procedure for clearing funds. Certain documents related to audit, social audit, and appointment of Lokpal at the district level are mandatory for clearing funds, Singh added. The minister was responding to a query from YSRCP leader V Vijaysai Reddy who sought early release of pending dues of Rs 1,341 crore towards material payment under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA). The YSRCP leader in his supplementary question asserted that there were no discrepancies and the Centre was making "false allegations that cost has been inflated." To this, the minister said more than Rs 35,000 crore has been released to the state. "I want to assure the state government that the pending dues will be cleared the day it gives clarification," he said. Responding to a query from TDP member Kumar on alleged diversion of MGNREGA funds in the state and non-payment to contractors, the minister said he does not want to comment on the issue as he has not received any complaint. However, the Centre has sought clarification on the discrepancy noticed in documents the state government had submitted for clearance of funds, he said. Singh told the TDP member that his ministry will investigate if a written complaint is given. Responding to a query form BJD member Prasanna Acharya on increasing wages under the scheme at par with state governments, the minister said wages have been increased by 20 per cent. He also mentioned that there has been an increase in the allocation of funds under the scheme over the years. About Rs 4.89 lakh crore has been released in the last seven years, Singh said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/andhra-pradeshs-pending-mgnrega-dues-to-be-cleared-after-it-clarifies-discrepancies-centre-1061027.html
15-12-2021||National||Sisodia launches theme song for play on Ambedkar's life with Indian Ocean band||Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia Wednesday launched the theme song of a play based on the life of Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar which would be organised at the Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium on January 5. “Babasaheb laid the foundation of modern India. This play is an effort to express our gratitude towards Babasaheb's contribution towards the county in this 75th year of independence. Today, we are launching the theme song of the play with Indian Ocean band,” Sisodia said while launching the song at the Specialised School of Excellence at Kalkaji. He said the duration of the song is 5.30 minutes. Indian Ocean band members performed the song which goes as “Jab tak Jan Gan Man ka maan rahega, jab tak ye samvidhan rahega, Jab tak hindustan rahega…Babasaheb ka naam rahega”. Sisodia said there is a tradition to express gratitude towards legends through big plays or arts in foreign countries but such a big stage play was never organised in India before this. “This tradition is being started in India by the Arvind Kejriwal government. This play will be very grand and free for all. I appeal everyone to come and watch it,” Sisodia said. Earlier this month, paying tributes to Ambedkar on his death anniversary, Chief Minister Kejriwal had announced that an international level stage play based on the life of Babasaheb Ambedkar will be organised at the JLN Stadium on January 5. He had said the play will be staged by well-known actors with international level production. Kejriwal had said there will be 50 shows of the play on a 100 feet long stage.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sisodia-launches-theme-song-for-play-on-ambedkars-life-with-indian-ocean-band-1061037.html
15-12-2021||National||No data on people injured, killed by vigilante groups, mobs or crowds in country: Centre||No separate data on people killed or injured by vigilante groups, mobs or crowds is maintained by the NCRB, Rajya Sabha was informed on Wednesday. In response to a question, Minister of State for Home Affairs Nityanand Rai said the government, through audio-visual media, has generated public awareness to curb the menace of mob lynching. The government has also sensitised service providers to take steps to check the propagation of false news and rumours having potential to incite mob violence and lynching, Rai said. He said the Centre has issued advisories to state governments and union territory administrators on July 23, 2019 and September 25, 2019 for taking measures to curb incidents of mob lynching in the country. "National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) publishes crime data received from all the states/union territories under various crime heads defined under the Indian Penal Code and special and local laws. No separate data on persons killed or injured by vigilante groups or mobs or crowds is maintained by NCRB," he said. Rai said police and public order are state subjects under the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution of India, and state governments are responsible for prevention, detection, registration and investigation of crime and for prosecuting criminals through their law enforcement agencies. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-data-on-people-injured-killed-by-vigilante-groups-mobs-or-crowds-in-country-centre-1061040.html
15-12-2021||National||No proposal under consideration for separate service, pension rules for CAPF personnel: Govt||The government on Wednesday told Parliament that there was no proposal under consideration for framing separate rules of service and pension for paramilitary forces personnel or central armed police forces. This was stated by Minister of State for Home Affairs Nityanand Rai in a written reply to Rajya Sabha. "Representations are received from time to time inter alia demanding separate service and pension rules for Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs) personnel. "There is no such proposal under consideration at present," the minister said. He was asked if the government was in the process of framing separate paramilitary/CAPF rules instead of CCS (central civil services) conduct rules, keeping in view their hazardous service conditions/separation from the family. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-proposal-under-consideration-for-separate-service-pension-rules-for-capf-personnel-govt-1061043.html
15-12-2021||National||Haven’t seen a huge proportion of extremely sick kids, says South Africa doctor who raised the Omicron alarm||The Pretoria-based doctor Dr Angelique Coetzee, who had alerted the authorities on the new variant Omicron, has said that the risks it poses worldwide might be that it is fast-spreading and even more contagious than Delta. “But again, we keep cautioning people that we need to get more data on that,” she said. In an interview with Deccan Herald, she said, “For now, the variant is quite transmissible.” Dr Coetzee, who is the chair of the South African Medical Association, had in November-end, noticed that some of her patients had symptoms different from Delta, which led to the detection of Omicron. Describing what her patients presented themselves with, she said, “These were very common symptoms -- body ache and pains, severe headaches, tiredness, a little bit of blocked nose, scratchy throat, and might be an episode of dry cough.” “No really increased temperatures, no oxygen need and also no loss of smell or taste… any of what we saw from Delta,” she said. While the debate and questions on whether two doses of vaccination are enough or not to fight the new variant, Dr Coetzee said that for people who are being vaccinated, the efficacy is known but often, some of these vaccines are running out of time. “But we seek protection from severe disease in hospitals. Again, we need more data on this,” she informed. At present, about 88 to 90 per cent of people in hospitals in South Africa are unvaccinated, she informed. “I also need to make it clear that hospital admissions are not out of proportion," she pointed out.  "We have not seen an overwhelming heavy influx of very sick patients.'' As for the vaccination for children against the new variant, she said that it’s difficult to say and that “it depends on the country”. “In South Africa, we don’t see a huge proportion of extremely sick children (from the new variant). These are mostly small diseases from which they can recover quickly.” Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/haven-t-seen-a-huge-proportion-of-extremely-sick-kids-says-south-africa-doctor-who-raised-the-omicron-alarm-1061048.html
15-12-2021||National||Why was motion to terminate suspension of Rajya Sabha members disallowed? asks Chidambaram||Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Wednesday asked why a motion to terminate the suspension of members was "disallowed" in the Rajya Sabha, and said the government should defeat such a motion after voting and proclaim its "scant respect for fairness and justice". The proceedings of the Upper House have been repeatedly obstructed following the suspension of the 12 Opposition MPs from the Rajya Sabha on November 29 for the entire Winter Session of Parliament for their "unruly" conduct in the previous session in August. The Opposition has described the suspension as "undemocratic" and in violation of all the Rules of Procedure of the Upper House. "The proviso to Rule 256(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the Rajya Sabha is very clear. A motion can be moved 'at any time' to terminate the suspension of a member or members. Such a motion was moved today. Why was it disallowed?" Chidambaram said on Twitter. The proviso to Rule 256(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the Rajya Sabha is very clear A motion can be moved “at any time” to terminate the suspension of a member or members Such a motion was moved today. Why was it disallowed? "Why is the government fighting shy of voting on the motion? Let the government defeat the motion and proclaim its scant respect for fairness and justice," the former Union minister said.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/why-was-motion-to-terminate-suspension-of-rajya-sabha-members-disallowed-asks-chidambaram-1061055.html
15-12-2021||National||Centre will ensure Internet remains open, trusted, not dominated by big corporates: MoS IT||The government fully supports foreign and Indian companies in leveraging Internet as "force of good" but will take all measures to ensure that Internet remains open and is not dominated by some big corporates, Minister of State for IT Rajeev Chandrasekhar said on Wednesday. Chandrasekhar said the government wants to make sure that intermediaries and the big platforms such as Meta (formerly Facebook) and others develop a culture of mutual respect and accountability between the platform and its users. "And we also want to make sure that given that a billion Indians are going to be there... women, children, elderly, pensioners, all of them, that the internet is also safe and trusted. So, the issue of cybercrime, cyber security, all of that," Chandrasekhar said while speaking at Fuel For India 2021 - Meta's annual event in India. The government is fully aligned and committed to partnerships with private sector companies, foreign and Indian firms, entrepreneurs, to expand the 'good' in the online universe. It will strive to ensure that the Internet is a "force of good", to deliver access, equity and opportunity to every Indian. "But we will also be very careful about ensuring that the Internet remains free and open in terms of competitive pressures. It is not dominated by some big corporates. We also want to make sure that intermediaries and the big platforms such as yourself or anybody, really develop a culture of mutual respect and accountability between the platform and the user," he said at the Meta event. It is pertinent to mention here that Facebook's parent company recently changed its name to Meta. Apps under Meta include Facebook, WhatsApp, Instagram, amongst others. Noting the power of the internet in driving positive changes and accessibility, the Minister said "it also has its challenges in terms of the bad that creeps in along with the good". "My point of view or from the government's point of view, what we want is not just to connect a billion Indians... but that the internet should continue to be open... It is safe and trusted, and it is accountable to the people who are the principal stakeholders, the users and the consumers," Chandrasekhar emphasised. While the government has a role in policymaking as also in strategic Research and Development and technology development, it sees entrepreneurship as a big driver in expansion of the digital economy. "In India, as in most other technology intensive economies, it is really the entrepreneur who will drive the next stage of it, accelerate the growth and expand the economy, and really what we are seeing in India, is exactly that," he said. The confidence and energy visible in the startup ecosystem today validates that entrepreneurship is the fuel for economic growth, prosperity and opportunity. "... Entrepreneurship will be the big energy, sort of a driver in how we expand the digital economy where the ambition of the Prime Minister is that it will reach a trillion dollars very soon. "The common theme is that it is a combination of a government working in partnership with entrepreneurial energies, innovation, and creativity that will be the formula for winning the digital economy for India," he said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-will-ensure-internet-remains-open-trusted-not-dominated-by-big-corporates-mos-it-1061066.html
15-12-2021||National||9 killed as govt bus plunges into rivulet in Andhra Pradesh; CM condoles||Nine people, including the driver of an Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation bus, were killed as it fell into a rivulet near Jangareddygudem in West Godavari district on Wednesday. At least 12 other passengers, who suffered injuries in the accident, were admitted to the area hospital in Jangareddygudem while another seriously injured was shifted to the District Headquarters Hospital in Eluru. Conductor of the bus and several other passengers escaped with minor injuries, RTC and Revenue officials said. In all, there were 45 passengers and two crew in the ill-fated bus. Some of the passengers and the conductor crawled out of the bus windows even as the local people who rushed to the scene pulled them out to safety. Some of the passengers sustained minor wounds as the window glass splinters struck them when the bus plunged into the rivulet. West Godavari district Superintendent of Police Rahul Dev Sharma told PTI over phone from Eluru that the bus was on its way to Jangareddygudem from Aswaraopet in neighbouring Telangana when the mishap occurred. The APSRTC bus driver tried to manoeuvre his way to avoid a lorry coming in the opposite direction on a bridge across the Jalleru rivulet. “The bus hit the bridge railing and fell into the rivulet. We have so far recovered nine bodies, including five female passengers and the driver Appa Rao,” Rahul Dev said. Meanwhile, the state government announced an ex-gratia payment of Rs 5 lakh each to the kin of the deceased. Transport Minister Perni Venkataramaiah (Nani) said the government would take care of the medical expenses of the injured persons. APSRTC Managing Director Ch Dwaraka Tirumala Rao rushed to Jangareddygudem to supervise the rescue operations. Biswa Bhusan Harichandan and Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy expressed anguish over the bus mishap. The Governor extended his condolences to the bereaved families. The Chief Minister, too, offered his condolences to the bereaved families and directed West Godavari district Collector Kartikeya Misra to ensure better medicare to the injured passengers. Telugu Desam Party chief N Chandrababu Naidu, state Congress president Sake Sailajanath and BJP state general secretary S Vishnuvardhan Reddy too expressed grief over the accident.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/9-killed-as-govt-bus-plunges-into-rivulet-in-andhra-pradesh-cm-condoles-1061070.html
15-12-2021||National||Meta joins CBSE to train 1 crore students, 10 lakh teachers in AR||Meta Founder and CEO Mark Zuckerberg on Wednesday announced that the company will expand its partnership with the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) to provide a curriculum on digital safety, online well-being and augmented reality (AR) for over one crore students and 10 lakh teachers in India. In addition, with the government's vision of universalising education, Meta and CBSE will help democratise the high school curriculum by allowing students access to quality educational content online through modules that would be made available on CBSE's website. "I am really excited about this partnership and I think it is a huge opportunity to [invest in] this entrepreneurial spirit and bring some of these tools around the metaverse, [AR], and training to the education system here in India," Zuckerberg said at Meta's 'Fuel for India, 2021' virtual event. Over the next three years, the partnership also aims to empower educators with new-age tools and skills needed to nurture the Generation Z and Generation Alpha students into responsible digital citizens. Aligned to the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020, Meta and CBSE will collaborate on content curation and development of curriculum integrating immersive technologies like AR and virtual reality (VR) that is relevant for the evolving in a digital landscape. "This partnership will help equip our teachers with requisite skills to effectively use online tools for student engagement," said Biswajit Saha, Director (Skills Education and Trainings), CBSE. "Understanding that the era of 'Digital India' has begun, we aim to build responsible digital citizens with the introduction of digital citizenship and augmented reality in the curriculum, along with providing quality educational content for all," Saha added. The first phase of 'FB for Education' initiative launched in June 2020 with an aim to prepare students and teachers for the future of work and creating a safe online environment and learning experience, witnessed over 500,000 students show interest for digital safety and online well-being and more than 14,000 teachers applied for training in AR. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/meta-joins-cbse-to-train-1-crore-students-10-lakh-teachers-in-ar-1061075.html
15-12-2021||National||Third Goa opposition MLA resigns, tipped to join BJP soon||Yet another Goa MLA, this time independent legislator Rohan Khaunte, tendered his resignation to Speaker of the assembly Rajesh Patnekar, amid rumours that the former is likely to join BJP soon. "I have resigned today. We will decide the next step soon after consulting my workers," Khaunte said soon after tendering his resignation. Asked whether he would join the ruling BJP, Khaunte said: "Political situation is changing with the entry of new political parties, which are setting up shops selling their toys in Goa". BJP sources have already said that the party's unit from the Porvorim assembly segment has already been sounded out about the impending entry of Khaunte, a former Revenue Minister in a BJP-led coalition government headed by then Chief Minister late Manohar Parrikar, into the party. Khaunte is the third MLA to resign over the last one month, apart from former Chief Minister Ravi Naik, who resigned as Congress MLA and later joined BJP and Goa Forward MLA Jayesh Salgaokar, who quit the Goa Forward party to also to join BJP. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/third-goa-opposition-mla-resigns-tipped-to-join-bjp-soon-1061076.html
15-12-2021||National||Cabinet approves Rs 1,300 reimbursement for digital transactions using UPI and Rupay debit cards||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved an incentive scheme for promoting digital transactions using UPI and Rupay debit cards. Announcing this, Electronics and IT Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw said that the government would reimburse transaction charges levied on digital payments made by persons to the merchant as part of the merchant discount rate (MDR). The approved scheme will cover reimbursement on digital transactions of up to Rs 2,000, using Rupay debit cards and BHIM-UPI, he said. The scheme has an estimated financial outlay of Rs 1,300 crore for a period of one year effective from  April 1, 2021. "The main aim of giving financial incentives is to encourage the public to move towards digital payments," Vaishnaw said. He also said that 423 crore digital transactions valued at Rs 7.56 lakh crore took place in November. "Under the scheme, the acquiring banks will be incentivised by the Government, by way of paying a percentage of the value of transactions (P2M) done through RuPay Debit cards and low-value BHIM-UPI modes of payments, at an estimated financial outlay of Rs 1,300 crore for a period of one-year w.e.f. April 01, 2021," an official statement said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cabinet-approves-rs-1300-reimbursement-for-digital-transactions-using-upi-and-rupay-debit-cards-1061082.html
15-12-2021||National||Transwoman Saisha Shinde behind Harnaaz Sandhu' Miss Universe gown||Harnaaz Sandhu became Miss Universe 2021 and brought home the title after 21 years wearing a gown designed by artist Saisha Shinde who identifies herself as a transwoman. Sandhu’s stunning silver gown caught the attention of many on the big day when she won Miss Universe and Shinde couldn’t be more proud of her creation.  "We did it," Shinde wrote in an Instagram post on Sandhu’s win. Shinde publicly came out as a transwoman earlier this year with an Instagram post mentioning: "It was only in my early 20s at NIFT where I found the courage to accept my truth; I truly bloomed. I spent the next few years believing that I was attracted to men because I was gay, but it was only 6 years ago that I finally accepted to myself, and today that I accept to you. I'm not a gay man. I am a Transwoman.” Saisha Shinde, formerly known as Swapnil Shinde, showed the making of Sandhu’s gown through a series of Instagram posts. Only two Indians before Sandhu, just 21 and an actor as well as a model, have been crowned Miss Universe earlier -- actors Sushmita Sen in 1994 and Lara Dutta in 2000. The win, being seen as a fillip for the beauty pageant industry, led to celebrations at her home and congratulatory messages from all quarters, including from politicians, showbiz celebs and the two former title holders. (With PTI inputs) Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/transwoman-saisha-shinde-behind-harnaaz-sandhu-miss-universe-gown-1061083.html
15-12-2021||National||10 states, 6 UTs reported zero arrests under UAPA in 2020: MoS Home||Ten out of total 28 states and six of total eight Union territories have reported zero arrests under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in 2020, the Rajya Sabha was informed on Wednesday. In response to a question, Minister of State for Home Affairs Nityanand Rai presented the data stating that 1,948 people were arrested under the Act in 2019, while in 2020, the number dropped to 1,321. The top three states and UTs with the highest number of arrests under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) last year remained Uttar Pradesh with 361 arrests, followed by 346 in Jammu and Kashmir and 225 arrests in Manipur, the data showed. In Jammu and Kashmir and Delhi, the number of people arrested under UAPA has shown an increase from 2019 to 2020. Delhi had reported nine arrests in 2019 which has gone up to 12 in 2020, while Jammu and Kashmir had reported 227 arrests under UAPA in 2019 which has shot up to 346 in 2020, it showed. Among the states, Bihar, Maharashtra, Meghalaya, Punjab and West Bengal reported an increase in the number of arrests made under the UAPA in 2020 as compared to 2019, it showed. "Cases under UAPA are investigated by state police and the National Investigation Agency (NIA). As far as NIA is concerned, so far 49 special courts have been designated across the country for the speedy trial of NIA cases," the minister said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/10-states-6-uts-reported-zero-arrests-under-uapa-in-2020-mos-home-1061093.html
15-12-2021||National||'Phasi pe tang dunga': MP collector's warning for staff over missed vaccination target||Livid over a missed Covid-19 vaccination target, Gwalior district collector in Madhya Pradesh has purportedly told employees concerned that they will be "hanged" if they fail to take enough efforts which include "prostrating" before people to convince them to get jabbed, sitting in their houses for 24 hours and like. Collector Kaushlendra Vikram Singh flew off the handle during a meeting of employees of Bhitarwar tehsil of the Gwalior district on Tuesday after he came to know that the Covid-19 vaccination target was not achieved. "There shouldn't be a delay of even a single day. If it (vaccination work is missed) happens, 'phasi pe tang dunga' (will hang you). No one should be left out of vaccination coverage. Go and request people, go to agricultural fields, prostrate before people, sit in their houses for 24 hours, urge them. I don't bother, I want full vaccination," he purportedly said. A video clip of the meeting has gone viral. When reporters asked the collector about his remarks, Singh said he had warned officials of suspension and termination of services if the vaccination target is not completed within two days. The Madhya Pradesh government has set the target of vaccinating the eligible population till this December-end. A total of 9,50,21,120 Covid-19 vaccine doses had been administered so far in MP, including 2,39,624 on Tuesday, as per an official release.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/phasi-pe-tang-dunga-mp-collectors-warning-for-staff-over-missed-vaccination-target-1061094.html
15-12-2021||National||Government frees up 12 lakh square feet in its offices, sells scrap worth Rs 62 crore in special drive||The Government freed up an area of 12 lakh square feet in its offices and earned Rs 62 crore from the disposal of scrap during a special drive launched in October this year. The information was disclosed by Minister of State for Personnel, Public Greivances and Pensions, Dr Jitendra Singh, in a written reply to questions posed by Muslim League MP, ET Mohammed Basheer, in Lok Sabha on Wednesday. Singh said the government already has a scrap disposal policy under Chapter 7 of General Financial Rules (GFR) 2017. A special campaign on disposal of pendency and cleanliness was organised from October 2 to 31 in all central ministries and departments. The activities included indoor and outdoor cleanliness campaigns, disposal of scrap, weeding out outlived records and disposal of pending references from the MPs, state governments, inter-ministerial references, parliament assurances and public grievances. The campaign has brought down pendency in identified categories significantly. "It also generated revenue of about Rs 62 crore from the disposal of scrap and about 12 lakh sq ft of space was freed up in offices for productive use," Singh said. In order to consolidate the gains during the special campaign, he said that the government has decided to monitor pendency regularly and strengthen the internal processes for efficient and speedy disposal of references. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-frees-up-12-lakh-square-feet-in-its-offices-sells-scrap-worth-rs-62-crore-in-special-drive-1061106.html
15-12-2021||National||Delhi court stays FIR against Sambit Patra for posting Arvind Kejriwal's doctored video||A Delhi court on Wednesday granted interim relief to BJP leader Sambit Patra and stayed an order directing registration of an FIR against him for allegedly posting a doctored video of Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal supporting the farm laws. Additional Sessions Judge Sanjay Sharma stayed the November 23 order of Metropolitan Magistrate Rishabh Kapoor who had directed Delhi Police to register an FIR and conduct a thorough investigation against the BJP Spokesperson, while allowing the application of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA Atishi. Patra had then moved the court challenging the magistrate court's order. “The operation of the impugned order dated November 23 is stayed,” the sessions judge said and listed the matter for further hearing on January 10, 2022. The magistrate earlier, while allowing Atishi's plea for registration of FIR, had noted that the alleged doctored video may have resulted in rioting-like situation across the nation. He had said, “The fact that the video was published on the Twitter handle of proposed accused with the caption (Counting the benefits of the three farm bills) 'teeno farm bills ke laabh ginate hue... Sir jee', prima facie proves that same was circulated with no intention but to cause the farmers to believe that Kejriwal is supporting the farm laws, which may have perpetuated the state of outrage with the protesting farmers and may have resulted in rioting like situation across the nation.” Metropolitan Magistrate Rishabh Kapoor had further stated that a “thorough investigation” was required to be conducted considering the seriousness of the allegations and directed the SHO to register the FIR against Patra and initiate the investigation. The directions had come on Atishi's plea which claimed that the alleged video contained statements that were diametrically opposite to the stand taken by the Delhi CM and the Aam Aadmi Party in respect of farm laws and caused discontent and dissatisfaction in the minds of farmers. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-court-stays-fir-against-sambit-patra-for-posting-arvind-kejriwals-doctored-video-1061107.html
15-12-2021||National||NHRC warns of bonded labour in malls, massage parlours||Newer forms of bonded labour manifested in the construction sector, shopping malls, call centres and massage parlours among others need to be checked and the focus should not be restricted just to brick kilns in the rescue of such labourers, the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has advised state and central governments. Insisting that the authorities avoid "inordinate delay" in the release of cash and non-cash components for rescued bonded labourers, it has also said that the existing practice of linking the release of funds with the conviction of the perpetrators should be avoided as the victim has no control over the trial. These and other recommendations are part of a four-page 'Advisory 2.0 to Identify, Release and Rehabilitate Bonded Labourers' issued by the NHRC on Tuesday. The first advisory was issued in May this year. The Bonded labour system was abolished throughout the country by an ordinance with effect from October 24, 1975, which was later replaced by the Bonded Labour System (Abolition) Act, 1976. The Act provides for the abolition of the bonded labour system with a view to prevent the economic and physical exploitation of the weaker sections of the people. According to the latest official statistics, 12,760 bonded labourers were rescued between 2016-17 and 2021-22. Of this, 1,681 belonged to Karnataka, which was third in the list after Uttar Pradesh (4,491) and Bihar (2,759). The latest advisory insisted that the focus of state and district level functionaries with regard to the prevalence of bonded labour "should not only be limited to brick kilns alone". It should also include new domains where the bonded labour system has "manifested itself in newer forms" like in the construction industry, shopping malls, call centres, massage parlours, etc". The newer forms of bonded labour need to be identified for providing relief to them as per the existing rehabilitation scheme. The advisory wanted to hold District Magistrate or Sub Divisional Magistrate accountable for not investigating complaints of bonded labour within 24 hours of receipt and rescue is not initiated as per Standard Operating Procedure. These officials should also ensure that funds are available to pay immediate cash assistance of Rs 20,000 to the rescued labourers. It also wants that the summary trial by the designated magistrates should be initiated within 24 hours of the rescue and completed within three months as per the SOP, failing which the concerned public servant be held accountable. The NHRC noted that there is an "inordinate delay" in the release of the cash and non-cash component to the released bonded labourer as the release of the Rehabilitation Package has been linked with the conviction in which the rescued labourer has no control nor is associated in the trial. "Efforts (should) be made to delink dependency of Rehabilitation Package to Bonded Labour under the schemes on conviction in criminal cases. Once bonded labour is freed, he should be compensated and rehabilitated," the advisory said. The advisory also said that the state government should provide free ration, healthcare and other social security covers to the vulnerable and the marginalised communities and also direct the district administrations to identify households in extremely vulnerable conditions so as to prevent any instance of bonded labour. The District Magistrate should ensure maintaining a database of brick kilns or other industries, including informal work sectors, where there are possibilities of the prevalence of bonded labour. The official should also ensure that all those working in brick kilns are registered under the e-Shram portal.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nhrc-warns-of-bonded-labour-in-malls-massage-parlours-1061129.html
15-12-2021||National||199 arrested, 7 convicted during 2018-20 on sedition charges, says Centre||A total of 199 people were arrested while seven persons were convicted on sedition charges in the country between 2018-20, the government informed Rajya Sabha on Wednesday. The data was provided as part of a written reply by Minister of State for Home Affairs Nityanand Rai on the basis of figures compiled by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB). It said a total of 236 sedition cases were registered by various states and Union Territories during 2018-2020 in which 199 persons were arrested and seven were convicted.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/199-arrested-7-convicted-during-2018-20-on-sedition-charges-says-centre-1061130.html
15-12-2021||National||Rapid RT-PCR test to cost Rs 1,975 at Mumbai airport||Mumbai's Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) said on Wednesday that a rapid RT-PCR test at CSMIA will cost Rs 1,975. According to a CSMIA spokesperson, the move is in line with the latest directive issued by the Maharashtra government. "The standard RT-PCR test will continue to cost Rs 500. CSMIA will continue to provide comprehensive testing infrastructure for the convenience and ease of our passengers. CSMIA follows all mandatory Covid-19 protocols and is committed to passenger health, safety and well-being," the spokesperson said. The Centre has made it mandatory for international passengers arriving in India to pre-book their RT-PCR test. International passengers arriving at six major Indian airports would be required to pre-book their tests. As per the Ministry of Civil Aviation, to stabilise the system and to ensure that the passengers do not face any problem in pre-booking, the new rule will be implemented in six Metro cities in the first phase, namely Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata, Chennai, Bengaluru and Hyderabad. Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rapid-rt-pcr-test-to-cost-rs-1975-at-mumbai-airport-1061133.html
15-12-2021||National||Banking services to be hit as lakhs of employees to go on 2-day strike from Dec 16||An estimated 10 lakh bank employees, including officers, will be on a strike for two days, starting Thursday. A joint-platform representing nine bank employee bodies on Wednesday took the decision after having failed to receive an assurance from the Centre that the proposed Banking Laws (Amendment) Bill 2021 will not be tabled in the current session of the Parliament. The ATMs will be operational. The problem, however, will be when the cash gets exhausted, and replenishment may not be possible as the branches will be non-functional. “All public sector banks are to stay closed. We are opposing the government’s move to privatise the public sector banks. Seven unions (part of the forum) are on strike. Shiv Sena affiliated union (not a part of the joint-platform) is also on strike, independently. Today, also, we had a meeting but received no positive response,” Sanjeev K Bandlish, convenor, United Forum of Bank Unions (UFBU), told Deccan Herald. “If it’s not coming this session, we are ready to defer the agitation,” he added. UFBU comprises nine employee bodies. However, seven are part of the two-day agitation. When asked if  the strike is likely to affect common people who come for transactions, Sanjay Das, general secretary, All India Nationalised Banks Officers Federation, told Deccan Herald that the move is to “secure” the future. “We admit that people will have to take the pain for two days, but this is to secure our days in the future.” “12 nationalised banks, all branches will be closed,” said UFBU, West Bengal convenor, Goutam Noegy. He further added, “Private banks, cooperative banks will also be closed.” Neogy alleged that amendment in banking laws will open up an avenue for privatisation of banks, and this would subsequently make deposits insecure, make loans costly, and could affect employment opportunities. A circular sent out to member-unions by the forum, states, “... The government could not make any assurance as desired by us and hence, we need to go ahead with the strike.” Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/banking-services-to-be-hit-as-lakhs-of-employees-to-go-on-2-day-strike-from-dec-16-1061140.html
15-12-2021||National||Pilgrims to Kartarpur gurudwara can carry up to Rs 11,000: RBI||The RBI on Wednesday permitted Indians as well as OCI card holders going on pilgrimage to Gurdwara Darbar Sahib in Kartarpur, Pakistan through the Kartarpur Sahib Corridor to carry up to Rs 11,000 in rupees or US dollars, lower than the usual limit of Rs 25,000. As per the Foreign Exchange Management (Export and Import of Currency) Regulations, 2015, any Indian resident may carry outside currency notes of up to Rs 25,000, other than to Nepal and Bhutan. The same limit applies for bringing in the currency. In consultation with the government, the RBI "has decided that Indian passport holders as well as persons of Indian origin carrying the Overseas Citizen of India Card along with their passports travelling to Gurdwara Darbar Sahib, Kartarpur, Narowal, Pakistan through the Sri Kartarpur Sahib Corridor, shall be allowed to carry outside and bring into India at the time of his/her return, only Indian currency notes and/or foreign currency in USD, the total value of which may not exceed Rs 11,000". The Reserve Bank said this in a statement titled 'Lower currency limit for pilgrims visiting Gurudwara Darbar Sahib in Kartarpur'. The Kartarpur corridor links Gurdwara Darbar Sahib in Pakistan, the final resting place of Sikhism founder Guru Nanak Dev, with the Dera Baba Nanak shrine in Gurdaspur district in India's Punjab state. The 4 km-long corridor provides visa free access to Indian Sikh pilgrims to visit the Darbar Sahib. Pilgrimage to the Kartarpur Sahib gurdwara was suspended in March last year because of the Covid-19 outbreak. The Kartarpur corridor was reopened last month Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pilgrims-to-kartarpur-gurudwara-can-carry-up-to-rs-11000-rbi-1061147.html
15-12-2021||National||Government unlikely to bring in bill on cryptocurrency in Winter Session||The government is unlikely to bring a bill on cryptocurrency in the ongoing Winter Session of Parliament, top sources said Wednesday. They also suggested that whenever a bill is brought, it will be referred to the Parliamentary standing committee for wider deliberations with stakeholders. The bill, which was listed in the government's legislative business of the Winter Session, seeks to "create a facilitative framework for the creation of the official digital currency to be issued by the Reserve Bank of India". It also seeks to prohibit all private cryptocurrencies in India. However, it "allows for certain exceptions to promote the underlying technology of cryptocurrency and its uses", according to the bill listed for introductions on the Lok Sabha website. The sources, however, said it is unlikely in the ongoing winter session. Currently, there is no regulation or ban on the use of cryptocurrencies in the country. Against this backdrop, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, last month, held a meeting on cryptocurrencies with senior officials, and indications are that strong regulatory steps could be taken to deal with the issue. There have been a rising number of advertisements, featuring even film stars, promising easy and high returns on investments in cryptocurrencies in recent times, amid concerns over such currencies being allegedly used for luring investors with misleading claims. The Parliamentary Standing Committee on Finance, chaired by BJP member Jayant Sinha, had also met the representatives of crypto exchanges, blockchain and Crypto Assets Council (BACC), among others, and arrived at a conclusion that cryptocurrencies should not be banned but should be regulated.  The RBI has repeatedly reiterated its strong views against cryptocurrencies, saying they pose serious threats to the macroeconomic and financial stability of the country and also doubted the number of investors trading on them and their claimed market value. RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das too had earlier this month had reiterated his views against allowing cryptocurrencies, saying they are a serious threat to any financial system since they are unregulated by central banks. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-unlikely-to-bring-in-bill-on-cryptocurrency-in-winter-session-1061152.html
15-12-2021||National||ED 'diluting' Prevention of Money Laundering Act, says Supreme Court||Indiscriminate use of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) will affect the "value" of the legislation and it cannot be wielded as a weapon to put people behind bars, the Supreme Court said on Wednesday. The apex court's observation came during the hearing on an appeal of a Jharkhand-based company in a money laundering case. "If you indiscriminately start using ED proceedings then the Act will lose its relevance," the bench comprising Chief Justice N V Ramana and Justices A S Bopanna and Hima Kohli said. The ED is "diluting the Act", it said. "Not just this case. If you start using it as weapon against Rs 1,000 (money laundering) case, Rs 100 case, then what will happen. You can't put all people behind bars," it added. "Such indiscriminate use will affect the value of Act," the bench said. Steel company Usha Martin Limited has moved the top court against an order of the Jharkhand High Court in a case relating to export of iron ore fines (IOF). The firm has challenged the ED's summons issued to it in connection with the criminal proceedings before the District Sessions Judge-cum-Special Judge, CBI for offences under the PMLA. The high court had dismissed the plea on November 3, 2021, leading to the present appeal before the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court issued notice in the matter and granted protection from coercive action to the appellants. The plea said the ED proceedings were based on the premise that the company indulged in export of IOF and consequently violated the conditions of lease agreement with the state government.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ed-diluting-prevention-of-money-laundering-act-says-supreme-court-1061153.html
15-12-2021||National||Government exploring fundraising from public for building highways, says Gadkari||Union Road Transport Minister Nitin Gadkari on Wednesday said that the Centre is working on a scheme to raise funds from the public at a 6 per cent annual interest rate for road infrastructure projects. This will benefit the public as they will get a fixed return, he said, adding that the interest rate will be higher than that offered by banks. Speaking during the Question Hour in Rajya Sabha, the minister said the total length of national highways (NHs) in the country has increased from about 91,287 kilometres in April 2014 to about 140,937 kilometres till the end of November 2021. From 2014-15 to the end of November 2021, projects for about 82,058 kilometres have been awarded, Gadkari said. He said that the pace of road construction has increased in the past seven years and there is no shortage of funds for the implementation of the road projects. The construction of Zoji La tunnel on the Srinagar-Leh highway will be completed before 2024, while another Z-Morh tunnel will be completed in the next three months, he said. Further, the minister said 24 green express highways of 8,000 kilometres are being constructed, which will transform the road infrastructure in the country. Citing reasons for the delay in road projects prior to 2014, the minister said the pace of construction was 12.7 km per day then and many projects had stalled due to land acquisition, court cases and financial problems. The speed of road construction has increased to 38 km per day at present and is projected to increase to 45 km per day by end of the 2021-22 fiscal, which would be a world record. After the Modi government came to power, he said the government reviewed 406 stalled road projects worth Rs 3.85 lakh crore and restarted them, which also saved banks from the non-performing asset (NPA) of about Rs 3 lakh crore. He said there has been a 55 per cent increase in the construction of highway roads to 140,936 kilometres at present, which will further increase to 2 lakh kilometres under Gati Shakti Bharatmala project. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-exploring-fundraising-from-public-for-building-highways-says-gadkari-1061154.html
15-12-2021||National||1971 was Indira Gandhi’s finest year: Sonia Gandhi||On the eve of the 50th anniversary of India's win over Pakistan in the 1971 war and the liberation of Bangladesh, Congress chief Sonia Gandhi on Wednesday recalled Indira Gandhi's leadership during that period and asserted that the former prime minister remains an inspiration to crores of Indians for her "boldness" and "resilience". Addressing the closing ceremony of the party's celebrations of the Bangladesh Liberation War of 1971, Sonia Gandhi said it was an extraordinary convergence of a well-planned and perfectly-executed political, diplomatic and military strategy that gave 1971 a distinctive place in the history of the sub-continent. It was a history that reshaped geography as well, she said and hailed the valour of the Indian armed forces. The Congress chief said it was a remarkable group of individuals who made this truly historic effort possible and so tremendously impactful, adding that it was a gigantic collective enterprise. "Listening to them, guiding and being guided by them, leading them in a clear, purposeful and decisive manner was a remarkable woman. Today we recall Indira Gandhi with great pride. She remains an inspiration to crores of Indians for her boldness and for her resilience," she said. "She (Indira Gandhi) continues to evoke admiration for her fierce determination to make India self-reliant, especially in agriculture, nuclear energy and space technology, for her commitment to the cause of ecological protection, and for her sensitivity to the concerns of far-flung areas of our country and for its disadvantaged sections," Sonia Gandhi said. But it will not be an exaggeration to say that 1971 was, in many ways, Indira Gandhi’s "finest year", starting with the massive mandate she received in March, she said. "When the Bangladesh crisis erupted with the brutal crackdown in Dhaka and other places, she immediately understood its implications and swung into action," Sonia Gandhi said. Indira Gandhi reached out to all political parties and public figures, wrote to presidents and prime ministers, dispatched emissaries abroad, ensured that the USSR was with India, travelled tirelessly to Western capitals and sensitised the entire world community to the cause of the people of Bangladesh with personal interviews, meetings and appeals, the Congress chief said. "And how can we ever forget the manner in which she stood up with the greatest fortitude to the crass insensitivity and crude bullying of the then President of the United States and some of his advisers, and did India proud," she said. Those were tension-filled days, weeks and months, but she remained supremely composed and confident drawing upon her immense reserve of inner strength, Sonia Gandhi said. She noted that Indira Gandhi was also incidentally Home Minister right through this turbulent period and her cabinet had a distinguished galaxy of stalwarts like Jagjivan Ram, Defence Minister; Sardar Swaran Singh, Minister of Foreign Affairs; Y B Chavan and so many others. "So, today, we celebrate a magnificent accomplishment. But I think, Indira Gandhi would have wanted us to do so, not in a boastful spirit or in a spirit of self-glorification, but in a spirit of reflection and resolve," Sonia Gandhi said. "Let us therefore recall and celebrate that glorious occasion reaffirming our steadfast commitment to the values she cherished, the ideals she espoused and the causes she fought for—and ultimately sacrificed her life for," she said. Congratulating the people of Bangladesh, Sonia Gandhi said the country has developed significantly in the face of great challenges. "Very recently the United Nations graduated it from, I quote ‘least developed country to the developing country category'. It is only appropriate that Bangladesh’s achievements are recognised as it celebrates the golden jubilee of its liberation," Sonia Gandhi said. "India, as you all know, shares a very warm relationship with it and bears a special responsibility to sustain and deepen that relationship," she said. Undoubtedly, individuals played a pivotal and defining role and "we owe so much to each and every one of them", she asserted. "But it was in reality the triumph of the will of the people of the Bangladesh and a fulfilment of their aspirations. It was also a victory of the people of India under the leadership of Prime Minister Indira Gandhi," Sonia Gandhi said. She said that 50 years ago, the brave and courageous people of Bangladesh gave themselves a new future and India stood by their side in solidarity to assist them in diverse ways. "It provided a home to some 10 million refugees. It extended humanitarian support. It mobilised international backing. It raised its voice in regional and global forums. Ultimately, when attacked it mounted a hugely successful military operation," she noted. The intrepid freedom fighters of Bangladesh must be recalled and cheered, the Congress chief said. The fine Indian civil servants and intelligence agencies of that time must also be recalled and applauded, she added. "All those in different countries of the world who stood by Bangladesh and India must be recalled and appreciated. Most of all, the discipline, dedication, valour and sacrifices of the Indian armed forces must be recalled and saluted," Sonia Gandhi said. Former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi, former defence minister AK Antony, Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge, former Lok Sabha Speaker Meira Kumar, Lieutenant General ARK Reddy, Vice Admiral SK Bhasin, Air Vice Marshal Kapil Kak, Captain Praveen Davar, among others, were present on the occasion.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/1971-was-indira-gandhi-s-finest-year-sonia-gandhi-1061164.html
15-12-2021||National||Goa Congress accuses BJP minister of sexually exploiting woman||State Congress president Girish Chodankar on Wednesday accused state Urban Development Minister Milind Naik of being involved in a sex scandal, even as party officials filed a formal complaint against the BJP Minister, accusing him of allegedly sexually exploiting and harassing a Bihar-based woman. State BJP president Sadanand Shet Tanavade on Wednesday has said that he would take up the matter with Chief Minister Pramod Sawant, even as Naik could not be reached for comment. Chodankar's sensational revelation at a press conference in Panaji, came 15 days after his press conference on November 30, in which he said that a Goa Minister was involved in sexually harassing a woman, but had refrained from naming the BJP Minister. "The day we had announced the sex scandal on November 30, I had not taken any politician or Ministers name involved in the scandal. We had given the government an opportunity to act. They have not... I feel sad and bad that we have to name the Minister involved in this sexual scandal. We hoped that the government would have done due diligence and not made us name him," Chodankar told a press conference on Wednesday. "The Minister involved in the sex scandal Minister, Milind Naik, should be sacked and action should be initiated against him. And Ministers like Milind Naik who sexually assault women should be not be treated with kid gloves or the people of Goa will not forgive me," the state Congress president also said. Ever since the November 30 announcement by Chodankar, the state Congress president had been served a notice from a Mumbai-based firm claiming to represent the interests of the victim. Earlier this week, state Congress official Sankalp Amonkar as well as several others have also been named in a First Information Report allegedly filed by the victim at a police station in Bihar's Bettiah district, accusing them of extortion. Chodankar has now urged Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar to empower the woman to take the Goa Minister to task over her ordeal. "I urge the Bihar CM Nitish Kumar to safeguard the interests of a daughter of Bihar, against whom a Minister in Goa is committing atrocities. You are speaking about empowering women in Bihar. Will you stand with your daughter or with the Minister in Goa. The people of Bihar and India are watching you," the state Congress president said. Youth Congress workers also filed a complaint against Naik at the Women's police station in Panaji and also submitted what they claimed was audio, video and Whatsapp chats between the Minister and the woman as evidence.  Commenting on the revelation made by Chodankar, state BJP president Sadanand Shet Tanavade said that hue would take up the matter with Chief Minister Pramod Sawant after he arrives in Goa from a three-day visit to Uttar Pradesh to participate in the good governance meet organised by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. "I will speak to the CM about it. Let the person file a complaint," Tanavade said.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/goa-congress-accuses-bjp-minister-of-sexually-exploiting-woman-1061202.html
15-12-2021||National||Kerala: Four more test positive for Omicron, tally at 5||Four more persons in Kerala were detected with the Omicron variant of Covid-19, taking the total count of Omicron cases in the state to five. While two of them were contacts of the first patient, one person is a UK returnee and the other a Congo returnee. The first patient had also returned from the UK. Health Minister Veena George said that the contacts of the fresh cases were also alerted and being isolated. A total of 4,006 new Covid-19 cases were reported in Kerala on Wednesday, taking the total number of active cases to 35,234. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kerala-four-more-test-positive-for-omicron-tally-at-5-1061203.html
15-12-2021||National Politics||Congress issues whip to bring absentee MPs to Rajya Sabha||With a majority of its MPs giving Parliament a slip, the Congress has issued a three-line whip to its lawmakers in the Rajya Sabha asking them to be present in the House during the day on Wednesday. The whip issued by party's Chief Whip Jairam Ramesh comes as several MPs did not attend the joint march organised in solidarity with the suspended MPs and their absence in the House impacting the protest. Sources said floor leaders of some parties raised the issue of subdued protest in Rajya Sabha on Monday despite a decision to intensify the protest and if needed, disrupt the proceedings. Of this, former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh is not attending the Winter Session owing to health issues. There has been criticism from some quarters of the Opposition that the Congress was not putting its full weight behind the protest. A section of the senior Congress leaders are for the suspended MPs expressing regret and move on, another section of leaders are not for any compromise on the issue of suspension. There is a feeling within the Opposition that giving indications to the government side that the Opposition was willing to express regret would give the opponents an upper hand and it should not be done. The decision to hold a joint march of Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha MPs came as the leaders agreed to the decision of intensifying the stir. At the same time, sources said, there is a delay in finalising the protest at Jantar Mantar where national leaders were expected to end. Initially it was planned to hold the meeting either on Wednesday or Thursday but it has now been postponed by at least one day. However, a final decision is yet to be taken and it is expected to happen by Friday. Sources said a meeting of Opposition leaders on Wednesday morning is likely to provide more clarity on the issue. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-issues-whip-to-bring-absentee-mps-to-rajya-sabha-1060907.html
15-12-2021||National Politics||More Opposition MPs submit privilege notices against Ranjan Gogoi||Six more Opposition parties have joined the Congress and the Trinamool Congress in submitting privilege notices against Rajya Sabha nominated MP and former Chief Justice of India Ranjan Gogoi for his comments that he attends the House when he feels so, saying these were against the dignity of the House. Apart from Congress and Trinamool, MPs from Shiv Sena, Samajwadi Party, NCP, CPI(M), CPI and Muslim League have also now submitted notices. Sources saod the MPs who submitted the notices include Sena’s Sanjay Raut, NCP’s Vandana Chavan and Fauzia Khan, CPI(M)’s John Brittas and Dr V Sivadasan, CPI’s Binoy Viswam and Muslim League’s Abdul Wahab. Earlier, Trinamool Congress' Mausam Noor and Jawahar Sircar as well as three MPs from the Congress had submitted the notices. Noor also wrote separately to the Ethics Committee of Rajya Sabha on the issue. The MPs allege his statements "undermine the dignity" of the Rajya Sabha and wanted it to be forwarded to the Committee of Privileges. "Law will take its own course. I am not attending today (Wednesday)...I was there on Monday and on Tuesday. I should be there on Thursday," Justice Gogoi was quoted by ANI as saying. He was asked about privilege notices against him and his attendance in the House. Justice Gogoi attended the Winter Session for the first time in the Winter Session on Monday, the seventh time he was present in the House since his nomination to the Upper House in March 2020. He made controversial remarks during interviews to promote his newly released memoir ‘Justice for the Judge’. During his interview, he told NDTV, "I go to the Rajya Sabha when I feel like, when I think there are matters of importance on which I should speak. I am a nominated member, not governed by any party whip. Therefore, whenever the bell rings for the party members to come, it does not bind me. I go there of my choice and come out on my choice. I am an independent member of the House." He said he had given a letter to the Rajya Sabha informing it about not attending the Session and that he was "not comfortable going there" as he could enter the Rajya Sabha after only a RT-PCR. He also said that social distancing norms were "not being observed" in Rajya Sabha and he did not find the sitting arrangements very comfortable. He said in the interview, which was quoted in Noor's notice, "what is this magic about RS? I would have been better off in terms of pay, emoluments if I had been a chairman of a tribunal. I am not taking a penny from the Rajya Sabha." Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/more-opposition-mps-submit-privilege-notices-against-ranjan-gogoi-1060930.html
15-12-2021||National Politics||Uttar Pradesh BJP leader asks people to vote for free ration in return||Former minister and BJP leader Raja Aridaman Singh has been caught on camera asking ration card beneficiaries in Agra to vote for 'Yogi ji', as 'they were getting direct benefits of schemes announced by his government.' The video, which has gone viral on social media, was shot while the BJP leader was talking to ration cardholders at the launch of the UP government's statewide free ration distribution campaign. In the video, Singh is seen purportedly saying, "If the poor are getting benefits of government schemes, then their vote should also go to the government. This scheme is not for any particular caste, as every poor person is getting free ration." He is also heard asking the women to tell their kin to vote for BJP saying, "Irrespective of the advice given by your son or husband you give your vote to Yogi ji only." Aridaman Singh's wife Pakshalika Singh is a sitting BJP MLA. Singh, when contacted, defended his statement saying: "If the government is providing free ration to the poor, they should give their votes to it." He said he also showed images of Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and Prime Minister Narendra Modi printed on packets of salt and dal to make people aware of the scheme. Congress spokesman Surendra Rajput said that the video was proof of the manner in which the ruling BJP was using government money to buy votes. "It is luring voters with freebies to get votes. The Election Commission should look into the matter," he said. If the BJP government is really concerned about people's welfare, it should provide employment to youths, control inflation and reduce prices of petrol and diesel, he added. The free ration was distributed to the poor from April to November 2021 as part of PM Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana after the second wave of Covid hit the nation. The scheme has now been extended till March next year. Over 15 crore ration card holders in UP will get benefits under the scheme. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/uttar-pradesh-bjp-leader-asks-people-to-vote-for-free-ration-in-return-1060947.html
15-12-2021||National Politics||Congress moves adjournment notices in Lok Sabha seeking removal of Ajay Mishra||The demand for sacking of Union Minister Ajay Mishra rocked Lok Sabha on Wednesday with the Opposition parties virtually stalling the proceedings throughout the day even as former Congress president Rahul Gandhi said that the Lakhimpur Kheri killings were not a random event but a conspiracy and would fight till the minister is in jail. Several Opposition MPs, including Rahul, submitted adjournment notices in Lok Sabha to discuss the Lakhimpur Kheri incident -- in which eight persons, including four farmers and a journalist, were killed. The Special Investigation Team has slapped stringent charges against the Minister of State for Home Mishra's son, who was arrested in connection with the case. Speaker Om Birla continued with Question Hour, ignoring the demands, saying, "I always give adequate time to members to raise issues. You (protesting members) are disrupting the Question Hour. It is not a good tradition and does not respect the dignity of the House. You don't want to have discussions." However, he adjourned the House at 11:30 am and when it re-assembled, similar scenes continued following which the House was adjourned for the day. In Rajya Sabha, the notice by Trinamool Congress' Sushmita Dev on the Lakhimpur incident was disallowed by Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu. Outside the House, Rahul told reporters that the government was not allowing the MPs to speak and that was the reason for disruption in Lok Sabha. "The SIT report has come and the Minister is involved...They don't want discussion. The SIT report shows that it is not a random event but a conspiracy. It is very clear who conspired and how it was done. We want the Minister's resignation and the government is not willing," he said. Asked whether he is confident that the government would accede to the Opposition's demand, he said they will put pressure and when they put pressure, the Minister will have to resign. "It is said the Minister is involved. The Prime Minister knows it but says nothing. On one hand, the Prime Minister apologises to farmers and on other hand, he does not give them compensation and keeps killers in his Council of Ministers," he alleged. "We had said that the farm laws will be repealed. Didn't it happen? Same way, in the end, the Minister will have to resign. We will not leave it till he is in jail. Even if it takes five years, ten years, 15 years, we will not leave it," Rahul said. Referring to Leader of House in Rajya Sabha Piyush Goyal's assertion that the matter cannot be discussed as it is sub-judice, he said he did not understand the logic as Parliament can discuss any issue. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-moves-adjournment-notices-in-lok-sabha-seeking-removal-of-ajay-mishra-1060955.html
15-12-2021||National Politics||BJP rejects Opposition demand for Ajay Mishra's resignation, says Lakhimpur Kheri issue sub-judice||The BJP on Wednesday rejected as “unfounded” the Opposition's demand for the resignation of Union minister Ajay Mishra 'Teni' and all but ruled out a discussion on the Lakhimpur Kheri issue as the matter is sub-judice. Mishra's son, who is under arrest, is one of the accused in the case. "The probe is on under Supreme Court's directions. Such comments (of Opposition) are unfounded," Union minister and senior BJP leader Piyush Goyal told reporters. Asked about the demand for a discussion, he added, "Parliamentary rules dictate that a sub-judice matter is not discussed (in Parliament)." The Leader of the House in the Rajya Sabha also hit out at Opposition members for their continuous disruption of House proceedings to seek revocation of the suspension of 12 members, who allegedly attacked marshals and indulged in "unruly" conduct inside the chamber in the last session. This shows that Opposition parties lack any real issue to criticise the government and are not keen on raising pro-people matters, Goyal said. He noted that the Lok Sabha was scheduled to discuss the issue of price rise and the Rajya Sabha the Covid-19 situation following the outbreak of the Omicron variant but Opposition protests caused adjournments in both Houses. Goyal said 12 Opposition members were suspended for restoring the confidence of parliamentary security staff and added that the suspended MPs also lowered the Chair's dignity. They should tender an apology for their conduct, he said. The violence on October 3 had left eight people, including two BJP workers, dead. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-rejects-opposition-demand-for-ajay-mishras-resignation-says-lakhimpur-kheri-issue-sub-judice-1060990.html
15-12-2021||National Politics||Yogi Adityanath accuses Samajwadi Party govt of casteism, nepotism||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath Wednesday accused the previous Samajwadi Party government of bias towards a specific caste in the recruitment process, even as he claimed his government has fulfilled all the resolutions it made to people in 2017. The BJP leader said he is now seeking suggestions for the 2022 elections under the 'Sujhav aapka sankalp hamara (your suggestions, our resolve)' campaign. "This is the first government which has issued its report card periodically to stress that we did what promised," the chief minister said here. "We had issued a 'sankalp patra' which was different from the traditional manifesto of political parties. Announcements are made but 'sankalp' is what is adopted as a mantra and followed and implemented with full honesty. Sankalp is a medium of lok kalyan and taken for national welfare," he said. Accusing the previous Samajwadi Party government of being biased towards a specific caste, the BJP leader alleged that before 2017 all recruitments were "controversial", but the dispensation under him has given jobs to more than 4.5 lakh youths with "full transparency". "There was casteism-nepotism in appointments. When the result of Deputy Collector was declared by the UPPSC in 2015, you must have seen that out of total 86 appointments, 56 belonged to a particular caste, disrespecting merit," the chief minister said, adding that during the recruitment process, members of one family used to go out for extortion. The Akhilesh Yadav government had often been accused by Opposition parties of favouring his own caste in the recruitment process. Meanwhile, the chief minister also launched 'Akanksha Peti' seeking suggestion under the 'Sujhav Aapka Sankalp Hamara' programme. For the 2022 assembly elections, the BJP will keep Akansha Peti at 30,000 places in the village and urban areas of the state. Sharpening his attack on rival parties, the CM said, "Before 2017, people used to point fingers at Uttar Pradesh but today under the BJP's rule, Uttar Pradesh has undergone a complete transformation and its perception before the country and across the globe has changed." "This is the same state having the same resources, but the perception changed with a change in government," he said. "We did what we promised in 2017 and for the next 'sankalp patra (we)are seeking suggestions with an assurance to the people of better security atmosphere, development and a pledge to make the state as number one state," he said. "Earlier governments used to open fire on the farmers. They were a symbol of exploitation but we waived off farm loans to get farmers to get them out of debt." Cow slaughtering, cattle smuggling and illegal slaughterhouses used to be the hallmarks of previous governments, he charged. "But as soon as the BJP came to power in 2017, all illegal slaughterhouses were closed. Our government worked for cow protection. Under the 'Mukhya Mantri Besahara Gauvansh Sahbhagita Yojana', the state government gives Rs 900 per month to volunteers to take care of stray cattle," he said. There was no policy for the procurement of sugarcane and sugarcane arrears for 10 years were pending, he said. "We brought a procurement policy and arrears of 10 years’ worth Rs 1.48 lakh crores have been paid," he said, alleging previous dispensations sold sugar mills and this government started the closed ones. Even during the Covid-19 period, all the 119 sugar mills operated in the state, he said. The chief minister also alleged poor law and order under past government claiming parents used to worry about their girls venturing out of their houses and said that this has changed now.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/yogi-adityanath-accuses-samajwadi-party-govt-of-casteism-nepotism-1061101.html
15-12-2021||National Politics||RSS vows 'ghar wapsi' of Hindus who 'converted'; Mahakumbh seers allege attempt to 'erase' culture||Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat on Wednesday asked the Hindus to take a pledge to ensure 'ghar wapsi' of their brethren who had "converted", and made a renewed clamor for the Shreekrishna Janmabhoomi at Mathura. Bhagwat was speaking at 'Hindu Mahakumbh', which began at Chitrakoot on Tuesday. The seers at the Mahakumbh also expressed serious concern over ''Love Jihad, conversion'' and alleged ''attempts to effect demographic changes through increasing population'', and demanded measures to "protect" the Hindu culture and traditions. Bhagwat, who addressed saints and seers, who had assembled at Chitrakoot to take part in the religious congregation, also stressed the need for 'unity' among the Hindus and asked the majority community members to shun casteism and other social evils.   "Take a pledge that I will persuade those who have converted, to embrace Hinduism and also make sure that the Hindus don't convert... I also take a pledge to protect the dignity of our Hindu sisters," Bhagwat said. The RSS chief appealed to the seers to work towards bringing Hindus together, shunning their differences. The other seers, who spoke at the meeting, said that there was an attempt to erase the Hindu culture and national identity through demographic changes and sought measures to protect it. "Only those who have two children should be given voting rights," demanded a prominent seer. ''Hindu girls are being lured in the name of Love Jihad... they are being exploited... it must stop,'', demanded another seer. The seers said that some forces were out to weaken Hinduism by encouraging conversion. "Strong measures are needed to stop conversion," demanded Jagadguru Rambbhadracharaya Maharaj, a prominent seer. He also sought a law for cow protection. Rambhadracharya also referred to the Shreekrishna Janmabhoomi at Mathura and said that it should be given back to the Hindus. "We already have A (Ayodhya) and K (Kashi)... now we want M (Mathura)," he remarked. The assertions at the Hindu Mahakumbh came amid similar remarks on the Mathura by several BJP leaders, including UP deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rss-vows-ghar-wapsi-of-hindus-who-converted-mahakumbh-seers-allege-attempt-to-erase-culture-1061110.html
15-12-2021||National Politics||Ready to accept demand of revoking suspension of MPs if they apologise: Centre||Amid the continued Opposition protests over the suspension of 12 Rajya Sabha MPs, the government Wednesday said it was ready to revoke their suspension if they apologise to the House for their "wrong" behaviour. Leader of House in Rajya Sabha Piyush Goyal said it was shameful on the part of some Opposition members that they were not even ready to accept the "wrong" behaviour of the suspended members and were not ready to repent. Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi also said, "You would have to apologise and we are open to taking you back." Opposition members continued to protest inside and outside the house and caused disruptions over the suspension of 12 MPs. Members of several Opposition parties including the Congress, Left, DMK, Trinamool Congress, Nationalist Congress Party, Shiv Sena, AAP and others stormed the Well of the House Wednesday holding placards and raising slogans in support of their demand. They also held placards reading "save democracy" and "suspend me" and criticised the "dictatorial" behaviour of the government. While leader of Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge raised the demand several times, the government and the Chair said the suspensions will not be revoked till they apologise for their actions. As many as 12 Opposition Rajya Sabha MPs were suspended on November 29 for the remainder of the winter session for their "unruly" behaviour and "attacking" secretariat staff inside the House on August 11, the last day of the Monsoon Session of Parliament. Leader of the House Piyush Goyal said they respect the sentiment of members, but they also have seen the way lady marshals were "insulted and attacked" in this House. "The government is ready to consider their request but they have to apologise for their acts of attacking the lady marshals and for the way they have behaved with the people who are protecting the security of this House," Goyal said. "It is a matter of shame that they are not even ready to repent for their actions," he also said. He said all the staff deployed there serve the members help run the house in order. "After attacking and strangulating the marshals, all they have to do is apologise. That is the least courtesy they can show to those who are serving this house,” Goyal said. “But if they expect that they will attack the marshals and insult lady marshals and then also they have the right to come back, I think that is irregular. It is quite unfortunate that senior members of the opposition are not willing to repent the acts of their colleagues," Goyal said. Earlier, Sushmita Dev (TMC) raised the issue of suspension saying “it is totally undemocratic and illegal". Several other Opposition members also spoke in favour of revoking the suspension of their colleagues and said they should also be allowed to participate in the discussion in the house. Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi said the short duration notice was called over the request of the opposition members including Sushmita Dev, Nadeemul Haque, G K Vasan etc. "These all the opposition party members... we allowed the discussion on their request and started the debate. Despite, on such an important discussion, they do not want to participate," he said, adding the Opposition did not allow them to run Question Hour in the morning. Over the suspension of the 12 opposition members, Joshi said they had violently attacked the security staff of the house. Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ready-to-accept-demand-of-revoking-suspension-of-mps-if-they-apologise-centre-1061157.html
15-12-2021||National Politics||Sidhu posts picture with Harbhajan Singh 'loaded with possibilities'; triggers speculation||Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Wednesday posted on Twitter a picture of him with former Indian cricketer Harbhajan Singh, setting off speculation about the veteran off-spinner joining the party ahead of the state Assembly polls. "Picture loaded with possibilities …. With Bhajji the shining star," Sidhu said in his tweet. Later when reporters asked Sidhu about the picture, he said, "Listen to me, this photo explains everything. What I said, loaded with possibilities, there are many possibilities and they are possible." The Punjab Assembly elections are due early next year. A few days ago, Harbhajan Singh had dismissed speculation that he and former cricketer Yuvraj Singh could join the BJP as "fake news" Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sidhu-posts-picture-with-harbhajan-singh-loaded-with-possibilities-triggers-speculation-1061179.html
15-12-2021||National Politics||Cong issues whip to be present in Rajya Sabha, 'quite a few' choose to ignore it||A three-line whip was issued to ensure attendance in Rajya Sabha but "quite a few" of them chose to ignore it, while some among them found an ingenious way to skip the proceedings by not turning up in the afternoon. A fresh whip was issued for Thursday's proceedings by the party's Chief Whip Jairam Ramesh, asking members to be present for the entire day. A similar whip was issued for Wednesday's proceedings but the attendance rose marginally only and among them, some of them did not turn for proceedings in the afternoon. This prompted Ramesh to note in the whip issued to MPs, "I regret to point out that quite a few MPs do not follow this whip, especially for the afternoon session. Please ensure (your) presence for the day without fail."   Congress started issuing whips after several MPs did not attend the joint march on Tuesday organised in solidarity with the suspended MPs and their absence in the House impacting the protest.  There has been criticism from some quarters of the Opposition that Congress was not putting its full weight behind the protest. A section of the senior Congress leaders are for the suspended MPs expressing regret and moving on, another section of leaders are not for any compromise on the issue of suspension.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/cong-issues-whip-to-be-present-in-rajya-sabha-quite-a-few-choose-to-ignore-it-1061185.html
15-12-2021||National Politics||Opposition steps up protest demanding revocation of 12 MPs' suspension||Opposition on Wednesday stepped up protest inside and outside Rajya Sabha demanding revocation of 12 MPs' suspension even as floor leaders urged Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu to call a meeting to resolve the impasse. Rajya Sabha witnessed disruption during the day as Opposition MPs trooped to the Well of the House as and when the House functioned before the Chair called it a day in the afternoon. During the morning session, senior Congress leaders P Chidambaram and Anand Sharma sought to move a motion to revoke the suspension of the MPs citing rules but was disallowed by the Chair saying that their notice was not accompanied by a motion. The protest over this led to the first of the four adjournments during the day. Sources said a group of leaders -- Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge, Congress Deputy Leader Anand Sharma, Congress Chief Whip Jairam Ramesh, Shiv Sena floor leader Sanjay Raut and RJD's Manoj K Jha -- met Naidu seeking his intervention to resolve the impasse over the suspension of MPs. The leaders suggested that Naidu should convene a meeting of floor leaders of all parties to resolve the stalemate but sources said that Naidu told them that such a meeting would be called at an "appropriate" time. Sources also said that Naidu implied that such a meeting would serve no purpose when either the suspended MPs or their leaders were not willing to express regret in an appropriate manner. Opposition sources said they are not blaming the Chairman for not calling a meeting, as he was not getting any signal from the government. "There is no point in the Chairman calling a meeting if the government has not given any signal for resolving the matter. Otherwise, it would be a futile exercise," a senior Opposition leader told DH. At a meeting of top Opposition leaders called by Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Tuesday evening, it was decided that NCP chief Sharad Pawar along with Kharge would meet Naidu to find a way out. Sources said though there was no physical meeting on Wednesday, Pawar spoke to Naidu on Tuesday during which Naidu is learnt to have conveyed that he could not do much as the ball is in the government's court. On his part, Naidu held a meeting with senior officials of the Rajya Sabha Secretariat on the revocation of suspension following media reports about Pawar and Kharge's possible meeting with him. The officials told Naidu that the decision on suspension was taken by the House and its revocation also had to be decided by the House. In respect of several such suspensions in the past, sources said, they told Naidu that no suspension was revoked before the completion of the suspension period without the suspended MPs or leaders of respective parties regretting their conduct that led to their suspension. Earlier in the day in Rajya Sabha, Sharma cited rules to say that a member can move a motion to revoke the suspension and that he and Chidambaram have given a notice. In the House, Naidu said he had not received the notice at the time Sharma was speaking. Later, Deputy Chairman Harivansh conveyed the decision of the Chairman that the notice mentioned by Sharma was not in the required format and was not admissible. Sources in the Rajya Sabha Secretariat said Naidu told the leaders during the meeting that the notice by Sharma and Chidambaram was not accompanied by the text of the Motion to be moved in the House and that was the reason why it was not admissible. Even if any notice served was in order, sources quoted Naidu as saying, he would need time to examine the same before deciding on its admission and he cannot be forced either inside or outside the House for a decision. Sources also said the notice served by the senior Congress MPs only conveyed their intention of moving a Motion under Rule 256(2) for the termination of the suspension of 12 Members of the House without, however, providing the text of the Motion to be moved. They said Rule 223(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the House requires that every Notice in writing shall be addressed to the Secretary General and shall be left at the Council Notice Office so as to enable further consideration. However, sources claimed, the notice by the Congress MPs was "scribbled on a piece of paper" and given to the Chairman in the House when Zero Hour was in progress and they demanded immediate action on it.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/opposition-steps-up-protest-demanding-revocation-of-12-mps-suspension-1061192.html
15-12-2021||North and Central||BJP finalising seat-sharing with Amarinder Singh's party in Punjab||The Bharatiya Janata Party is finalising a seat-sharing deal with Captain Amarinder’s party for the upcoming Assembly elections in Punjab. Extensive talks between the BJP and Singh’s Lok Congress party are ongoing.  Captain Amarinder Singh is flying to Delhi Wednesday and another round of talks is set to take place between Singh and BJP in-charge for Punjab, union minister Gajendra Singh Sekhawat on Friday. Sources in the BJP said that there’s a strong likelihood of an announcement by the end of the week.  Early last week, on December 6, Sekhawat met Captain during his visit to Chandigarh, where talks on seat-sharing were held.  On Tuesday, speaking to reporters at a party function of state-level workers, Sekhawat said that the BJP looks forward to a seat-sharing deal as both the parties share a common bent of mind.  “Our parties hold identical views on several issues. Talks are going on,” Sekhawat told reporters. New members, including IAS officer SR Ladhar and former Shiromani Akali Dal MLA Mohan Lal Banga, joined the saffron party at the function. The Centre’s withdrawal of the farm laws has largely been seen by both the parties as the paving of an opportunity since the repeal has taken the bite away from the Opposition’s charge of the BJP not being farmer-friendly.  The BJP which has been the junior partner in former alliances in the state now looks towards a bigger space. Irrespective of the seat-sharing with the Punjab Lok Congress, the BJP has maintained that it will contest all of the 117 seats in the assembly segment.  Captain Amarinder, on the other hand, had earlier announced that Punjab Lok Congress will also ally with the Sukhdev Dhindsa-led Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukt) party. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-finalising-seat-sharing-with-amarinder-singhs-party-in-punjab-1060901.html
15-12-2021||North and Central||Hizbul militant killed in Kashmir’s Pulwama||A local militant affiliated with the Hizb-ul-Mujahideen outfit was killed in a gunfight with security forces in south Kashmir’s Pulwama district on Wednesday. “PulwamaEncounterUpdate: 1 unidentified #terrorist killed. #Operation going on. Further details shall follow,” a police spokesman tweeted on Wednesday. The gunfight broke out in Usgam Pathri in Rajpora, Pulwama during the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday after the security forces cordoned off the area following inputs about the presence of militants there, reports said. A police official said as the security forces approached towards the suspected spot, the hiding militants fired upon them, which was retaliated, triggering an encounter in which one ultra was killed. He identified the slain militant as Feroz Ahmad Dar, a resident of the neighbouring Shopian district. Dar, according to the police, was affiliated with the Hizb-ul-Mujahideen and had joined militant ranks in 2017. On December 12, a militant affiliated with the Jaish-e-Mohammad outfit was killed in a similar gun battle in the same district. A day later two Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) militants were killed in a brief shootout in the Rangreth area on the outskirts of Srinagar city. 157 militants have been killed in the Valley so far this year, of which 135 were locals and 22 Pakistanis. In 2020, the number of militants killed in the Valley stood at 195. According to official estimates over 200 militants were still active in the Valley. Watch the latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hizbul-militant-killed-in-kashmir-s-pulwama-1060916.html
15-12-2021||North and Central||India sees 6,984 new Covid-19 cases, 247 fatalities||India logged 6,984 new coronavirus infections, while the active cases declined to 87,562, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. With the fresh cases, the total tally of Covid-19 cases in the country rose to 3,47,10,628. The death toll climbed to 4,76,135 with 247 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been recorded below 15,000 for the last 48 days now. The active cases comprise 0.25 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.38 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. A decline of 1,431 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 0.59 per cent. It has been less than two per cent for the last 72 days. The weekly positivity rate was also recorded at 0.67 per cent. It has been below one per cent for the last 31 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,41,46,931, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.37 per cent.  The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive has exceeded  134.61 crore.  India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.  India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 247 new fatalities include 174 from Kerala and 24 from Maharashtra. Of the 174 deaths in Kerala, 28 were recorded over the last few days and 146 were designated as Covid-19 deaths after receiving appeals based on the new guidelines of the Centre and the directions of the Supreme Court, a Kerala state government release said on Tuesday. A total of 4,76,135 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,41,288 from Maharashtra, 43,344 from Kerala, 38,275 from Karnataka, 36,633 from Tamil Nadu, 25,100 from Delhi, 22,914 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,620 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/india-sees-6984-new-covid-19-cases-247-fatalities-1060925.html
15-12-2021||North and Central||PM Modi pays tribute to Sardar Patel on death anniversary||Prime Minister Narendra Modi paid tribute to India's first home minister, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, on his 71st death anniversary on Wednesday. Patel is credited with efforts that led to the merger of a large number of princely states with the Union of India after independence. "Remembering Sardar Patel on his Punya Tithi. India will always be grateful to him for his monumental service, his administrative skills and the untiring efforts to unite our nation," Modi said in a tweet. Remembering Sardar Patel on his Punya Tithi. India will always be grateful to him for his monumental service, his administrative skills and the untiring efforts to unite our nation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-modi-pays-tribute-to-sardar-patel-on-death-anniversary-1060951.html
15-12-2021||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh Elections: Opinions divided over Kashi Vishwanath corridor||The newly-inaugurated Kashi Vishwanath Corridor in Varanasi is being largely hailed as a symbol of resurrection of India's spiritual consciousness but a section of people here claims that the mega project is being showcased so that the ruling party gets a "political edge" in 2022 Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday dedicated to the people the first phase of the ambitious project -- Shri Kashi Vishwanath Dham -- which has been constructed at a cost of around Rs 339 crore. The project connects the temple premises to the Ganga river, besides providing several facilities to devotees. During the inauguration ceremony, Modi had termed Kashi as "avinashi (indestructible)" and asserted that a "new history" was being created and "we are fortunate to have witnessed it". Varanasi is the parliamentary constituency of Modi since 2014 and during the first day of his two-day visit to the temple town, he first paid obeisance at the Kal Bhairav Mandir, fondly called "Kashi ke Kotwal", and after formally opening the corridor in the presence of a large number of saints and seers, took part in a "cruise baithak" with Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and several other chief ministers of BJP-ruled states. During his two-day visit, he took part in a number of programmes with public outreach. Addressing the 98th-anniversary celebrations of Sadguru Sadafaldeo Vihangam Yog Sansthan at the Swarved Mahamandir in Varanasi, he asserted that "embracing the old and adopting the new, Benares is giving a new direction to the country". Many poll pundits, a major opposition party in Uttar Pradesh and a section of people in Varanasi, however, conjectured that there is a "subtle political messaging" in these events, given that the state Assembly polls are due early next year. While the new corridor project has been hailed by saints and seers, and a large number of local residents and visitors from other states, who flocked the shrine on the eve of its opening and termed the mega project a work of "unprecedented scale" that has "decongested the constricted shrine", many others are not enthused about it. Lalji Yadav, 72, who resides in a lane leading to the Manikarnika Ghat, was not very impressed with the opening ceremony and alleged that it was "all timed to leverage benefit in the upcoming Uttar Pradesh polls". "The common man is facing the burden of inflation and the impact of the (Covid-19) pandemic, but this spectacle, hosted in our Kashi, is not what it seems. The Hindutva politics of this party is known and the mega project is being showcased to get the votes of Hindus, the majority community here," he said. Prabhat Singh, another resident of the holy city, claimed that his property was among the hundreds of buildings demolished to make way for the corridor, and also dubbed the "Kashi mega event" a "ploy by the ruling BJP to get a political edge in the 2022 polls". The inauguration of the grand project, which has expanded the Kashi Vishwanath temple area from 3,000 sq. ft to about five lakh sq. ft and which can now accommodate 50,000-75,000 devotees, has certainly sent out political ripples and triggered debates ahead of the polls to the 403-member Uttar Pradesh Legislative Assembly. Religion is a sensitive issue in Uttar Pradesh, especially when it comes to elections, and though the restive issue of a Ram Mandir in Ayodhya was resolved in a historic Supreme Court verdict in November 2019, Kashi and Mathura are still very sensitive zones, where a huge number of security personnel guard the two shrines round the clock. The mega corridor event had drawn a sharp reaction from Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav on Monday, as he remarked jeeringly that people stay in Benaras "when the end nears", sparking condemnation from the BJP, which said his taunts were "cruel" and equated the former Uttar Pradesh chief minister with Mughal emperor Aurangzeb. Yadav's remarks are expected to raise the political heat in Uttar Pradesh ahead of the Assembly polls. Modi, in his address during its foundation stone-laying ceremony on March 8, 2019, had also observed that it was difficult to take people into confidence to give their properties and ensure that the project did not take political colour. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-elections-opinions-divided-over-kashi-vishwanath-corridor-1060960.html
15-12-2021||North and Central||BJP wears religious glasses as polls approach: Akhilesh Yadav||Hitting out at the BJP two days after the inauguration of the Kashi Vishwanath corridor, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Wednesday said that the Narendra Modi-led party wears religious 'spectacles' and adds a religious perspective to everything as elections draw closer.   The mega corridor event had drawn a sharp reaction from Yadav on Monday, as he remarked jeeringly that people stay in Benaras "when the end nears", sparking condemnation from the BJP, which said his taunts were "cruel" and equated the former Uttar Pradesh chief minister with Mughal emperor Aurangzeb. "As elections approach, BJP wears religious spectacles and sees everything on the basis of religion... BJP should suspend their MoS Home Ajay Mishra," Akhilesh Yadav said. His remarks come after a Special Investigation Team (SIT), probing the killing of eight people, including four farmers, in Lakhimpur Kheri violence in which Union Minister Ajai Kumar Mishra's son Ashish Mishra is named as a prime accused, said that the violence was part of a "pre-planned conspiracy" and that the accused had perpetrated the crime deliberately. According to the sources, the police have approached the district court in Lakhimpur Kheri, where the matter was being heard, seeking to invoke stringent sections of the Indian Penal Code in the case, including those of murder and criminal conspiracy. On Monday, PM Modi inaugurated the Kashi Vishwanath corridor, sending a clear message to the majority community about the BJP's firm commitment to the Hindutva ideology. Through the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor, the BJP is putting its weight behind its development and Hindutva agendas. Even before the announcement for UP polls, Modi has been frequenting the state several times. He is also scheduled to visit the state five times in December. During his visits, Modi trained his guns at the Samajwadi Party (SP), and heaping praises on the Yogi Adityanath-led government for development and good law and order situation in the state. Meanwhile Akhilesh Yadav had accused the BJP of 'cutting ribbons' to projects that were initiated and halfway through during the SP's reign. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-wears-religious-glasses-as-polls-approach-akhilesh-yadav-1060961.html
15-12-2021||North and Central||Supreme Court relief to Raj Kundra in porn film racket case||The Supreme Court on Wednesday granted protection from arrest to businessman Raj Kundra in a 2020 case related to porn film racket. A bench of Justices Vineet Saran and Aniruddha Bose allowed him the relief for four weeks. The court issued notice to the Maharashtra government and Mumbai police Crime Branch on the plea by Kundra, husband of film actor Shilpa Shetty. Kundra approached the top court after the Bombay High Court declined him anticipatory bail. He was earlier arrested in July in another case investigated by the Mumbai police Crime Branch. He got bail in that case in September. However, the High Court rejected his petition for anticipatory bail last month, along with that of actors Poonam Pandey and Sherlyn Chopra. Earlier, the top court had asked him to approach the High Court for anticipatory bail. The accused were booked under Sections 292, 293 (sale of obscene material) of the Indian Penal Code, Sections 66E, 67, 67A (transmission of sexually explicit material) under the Information Technology Act and provisions of the Indecent Representation of Women (Prohibition) Act. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/supreme-court-relief-to-raj-kundra-in-porn-film-racket-case-1060983.html
15-12-2021||North and Central||Nursery admission process begins in Delhi private schools with Jan 7 deadline||The process of admissions for nursery classes in private schools across the national capital began on Wednesday. The application window will close on January 7. The Directorate of Education (DoE) had last month notified the admission schedule. For the previous academic session, admissions to entry-level classes began in February this year after a delay due to Covid-19. However, this year, the schedule is in line with previous years. "The first list of selected children will be out on February 4, followed by a second list on February 21 and a subsequent list for admissions, if any, on March 15. The entire admission process will conclude on March 31,” a DoE official said. Schools were asked to notify their number of seats and the admission criteria by Tuesday. The DoE has directed that the number of seats at the entry level shall not be less than the highest number of seats in entry-level classes during the last three academic years-- 2019-20, 2020-21 and 2021-22. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nursery-admission-process-begins-in-delhi-private-schools-with-jan-7-deadline-1060985.html
15-12-2021||North and Central||Rajasthan panchayat polls: Over 12% voting recorded in early hours of polling||Over 12 per cent turnout was recorded in the initial hours of voting for Zila Parishad and Panchayat Samiti elections in four districts of Rajasthan on Wednesday. The second phase of polling began at 7.30 am in Baran, Kota, Ganganagar and Karauli districts, according to a spokesperson of the state election commission. In the second phase, over 12.72 lakh voters are eligible to exercise their franchise in the four districts. As many as 827 candidates are in the fray for panchayat samiti seats, while two have been elected unopposed. A total of 1,580 polling stations have been set up for the second phase. For the third phase, polling will be held on December 18, and counting of votes will take place on December 21 at all district headquarters. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-panchayat-polls-over-12-voting-recorded-in-early-hours-of-polling-1060986.html
15-12-2021||North and Central||Kashi Vishwanath Corridor: Locals unhappy over 'lost homes', demolition of iconic buildings||Varanasi resident Prabhat Singh has safely kept mobile phone pictures of his over a century-old joint family house, which was acquired and demolished for the mega Kashi Vishwanath Corridor project. These photos are his only surviving memories of his "lost home", he says. Singh and several others in the holy city, who were displaced by the ambitious project, were not so enthused when the Kashi Vishwanath Dham was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday. "We were a joint family and lived together happily till our property was taken up for the corridor. Now, we live separately at different places in Benares. Not only did our century-old family property get dismantled but our joint family, too, got broken," he lamented. On Monday, when the grand inauguration ceremony was underway at the temple complex, Singh sat lonely on a stone bench in a lane that meanders to the historic Manikarnika Ghat, where 'Moksha' is sought for the deceased. At times, he would watch the live broadcast of the programme on his smartphone and then switch to another programme or just put his handset aside. "It is being called 'Divya Kashi, Bhavya Kashi' celebrations. We all revere Baba Kashi Vishwanath and bow to Him, but for families like us, watching the programme is reminding us of those unpleasant memories, the demolition... all of that comes flooding back," he said. Singh showed pictures and videos of his house when it was intact, and a picture of an old family temple endowed with beautiful carvings, dedicated to Lord Ram, in the area. "We tried very hard to save our properties, met government officials to negotiate. But, we lost out and we removed the idols from our temple before our property got taken up earlier this year," he claimed. The foundation stone of the ambitious project was laid on March 8, 2019, by the prime minister. Varanasi is Modi's home constituency since 2014. Singh alleged that structures of his family temple along with those of many other old temples, houses and dharamshalas, some over 250-300 years old, "were torn down to create space in the previously constricted area, filled with gullies". "My uncle was so distressed that he would put up appeals on his Facebook feed almost everyday in a tragic commentary of sorts. Was my family temple not part of heritage of Kashi," he asked. Omkar Dikshit (37), another resident of the holy city, who runs a perfume shop started by his grandfather, said he too lost his wood-built shop to the redevelopment project. "My 'dadaji' (grandfather) had started the shop first in Kannauj and then shifted it to a building in Saraswat Pharak area, which got consumed in the Kashi corridor project. Prior to the announcement of the project, we had already shifted our shop once in the same area, and then we got displaced. We are now running it in another lane," he said. Lalji Yadav (72), a city resident, who lives in a lane near the project site, also alleged that several heritage buildings were bulldozed in the name of development. Many of these structures had ornate carvings and should have been preserved. "Vikas' ke liye Virasat ki aahuti di gayi hai" (Heritage has been sacrificed at the altar of development), he said. The inauguration of the grand project had triggered a controversy, even when it was announced to decongest the temple complex and provide a direct link between it and the ghats, besides providing a number of facilities for devotees. Under the project, the Kashi Vishwanath temple area has been expanded from 3,000 sqft to about 5,00,000 sqft and can now accommodate 50,000-75,000 people. Varanasi Divisional Commissioner Deepak Agarwal had earlier this month said the project has decongested the temple complex which was earlier surrounded by buildings on three sides. "To start with, the Kashi Vishwanath Special Area Development Board (KVSADB) was entrusted with the task of planning and execution of the project. The project was taken forward on a war-footing, right from getting the properties vacated to compensating the owners," he said. "The project was executed transparently, as a result of which it faced no litigation," he said. Forty ancient temples were found following the demolition of buildings around the main temple. These centuries-old temples were earlier hidden but are now visible. They will be preserved and opened to the public, Agarwal had said. A Varanasi-based police personnel, on the condition of anonymity, said he has seen demolition of several "iconic buildings" at the corridor site, as, "I was posted there during the execution of the bulk of the project, soon after the ground work had begun in 2019." "I have witnessed from close quarters the creation of the corridor that links the temple complex directly with Lalita Ghat. What has been built looks beautiful and shiny, but what we have lost in the process, the stone carvings and other heritage elements, is tragic. Development should not happen at the cost of heritage, and I will never forget those days of demolition," he said. Modi, in his address during its foundation stone-laying ceremony, had mentioned that it was difficult to take people into confidence, persuade them to give their properties and ensure the project did not take a political colour. "I thank the people of Kashi, who gave their properties for Baba. This is the biggest 'daan' they have given for Baba," the prime minister had said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kashi-vishwanath-corridor-locals-unhappy-over-lost-homes-demolition-of-iconic-buildings-1060988.html
15-12-2021||North and Central||Protests over SIT report on Lakhimpur violence rocks Lok Sabha; Proceedings adjourned till 2 pm||Lok Sabha proceedings were adjourned till 2 pm on Wednesday as Opposition members raised the issue of the Special Investigation Team's report on the recent violence in Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh, and demanded the sacking of Union minister Ajay Mishra. The minister's son Ashish Mishra is among the 13 accused in the violence that took place in October wherein at least four farmers and a journalist were killed. As soon as the House met for the day, Opposition members, including those from the Congress, DMK and some Left parties sought to raise the issue. Later, they began shouting slogans, displaying placards and several members trooped into the Well. They were holding placards demanding the sacking of 'farmers' killers'. Some posters displayed messages urging the prime minister to sack the minister. Despite the din, four questions and supplementaries were taken up till 11:30 am before Speaker Om Birla decided to adjourn the proceedings till 2 pm. While several opposition members were in the Well, TMC MPs were at their seats. The members did not yield to repeated pleas of the Speaker that the issue can be raised after the Question Hour and vociferous protests continued. "My effort is always to conduct the Question Hour so that the good tradition continues and important questions are taken up... I always give adequate time to members to raise issues... you (protesting members) are disrupting the Question Hour. It is not a good tradition and does not give respect to the House. You don't want to have discussions," Birla said. With no let-up in the protests, a visibly peeved Birla told the protesting members that they have not come to the House to raise slogans. Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi urged the members protesting in the Well of the House to wear masks, saying that Covid is not over and standing near the House officials without wearing masks puts everyone at risk. As elected representatives, is it right that the representatives do not follow rules, he wondered. The minister also requested the Speaker to give directions to the protesting members in this regard. The SIT probing the Lakhimpur Kheri violence has told a court that the killing of four farmers and a journalist was a "pre-planned conspiracy". Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/protests-over-sit-report-on-lakhimpur-violence-rocks-lok-sabha-proceedings-adjourned-till-2-pm-1060992.html
15-12-2021||North and Central||'Ghar wapsi' for Tikait, his supporters from Delhi border after 383 days||After a fight with the Centre that resulted in the withdrawal of contentious farm laws, farmer leader Rakesh Tikait and his supporters on Wednesday left for their homes from Ghazipur on the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border that had become their residence for 383 days. The ghar wapsi was marked with celebratory atmosphere at Ghazipur border, where protesters, chiefly members and supporters of the Tikait family-led Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), danced to patriotic and regional tunes hailing the farming community. A 'havan' was also performed in the morning at the UP Gate, under the Delhi-Meerut Expressway, for the well-being of the farmers, even as all temporary settlements that had come up on the site over the past year were being uninstalled and loaded onto tractor-trollies. Tikait, the national spokesperson of BKU, shared on social media pictures and videos of the reception his convoy got as they left Ghazipur to reach Sisauli village in western UP's Muzaffarnagar district. "Thirteen months of struggle on the streets and returning home today. Heartfelt thanks to the citizens of the country,” tweeted Tikait, a prominent face of the farmers' fight for repeal of the three contentious farm laws that had triggered the protests on Delhi's borders last year. Whenever prodded about ending the protest over the past one year, Tikait, the younger brother of BKU president Naresh Tikait, often responded, "Bill wapsi se ghar wapsi hogi". After continued protests at Delhi's border points of Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had last month announced that the three laws would be repealed. BKU spokesperson Dharmendra Malik said Tikait would be visiting Soram, the headquarters of the sarv-khap, in Muzaffarnagar before returning home in Sisauli. While the farmers returning from protests got a hero's welcome on their way, Sisauli, the native village of the Tikait family and BKU's headquarters, also got decked up overnight for their reception. "Sweets in large quantities have been prepared and the village decorated with flowers. The kisan bhawan in Sisauli looks no less than a wedding bride,” Malik said. The BKU, an influential farmers' union, is a part of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) which spearheaded the protests against the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ghar-wapsi-for-tikait-his-supporters-from-delhi-border-after-383-days-1061009.html
15-12-2021||North and Central||BJP Rajya Sabha MPs protest Opposition's behaviour over suspension of 12 lawmakers||The BJP Rajya Sabha members on Wednesday protested against the Opposition which has been opposing the suspension of its 12 lawmakers for the entire winter session. Raising a question over the attitude of members who were suspended for creating a ruckus in the Monsoon session, BJP Rajya Sabha member Roopa Ganguly who took part in the protest in the Parliament premises, said that the suspended MPs are not even ready to apologise for their misconduct. "They (suspended MPs) should personally apologise because they cannot insult Parliament, she said. BJP Rajya Sabha member Rakesh Sinha said that the opposition has been continuously disrupting Question Hour and Zero Hour and not discussing Bills. "It is our moral protest against the opposition which has been damaging the dignity and decorum of Parliament," he said. "We demand that the Opposition should not show power where logic is required," he said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-rajya-sabha-mps-protest-oppositions-behaviour-over-suspension-of-12-lawmakers-1061035.html
15-12-2021||North and Central||Row over ombudsman: SC to reconstitute panel for HCA, seeks names of ex-players, others||The Supreme Court said on Wednesday that it would reconstitute the committee to oversee the functioning of the Hyderabad Cricket Association (HCA) and sought names of former players, judges for this purposes, saying the team will win if the panel “focuses on players” and does not indulge in politics. HCA president and former India captain Mohammad Azharuddin and the secretary of the cricket body, R Vijayanand, and the factions led by them are opposed to each other over the appointment of former apex court judge Justice Deepak Verma as the ombudsman. “If the committee focuses on players, it (team) will win and if you engage in politics then it will not. Now, the court has started interfering so you are focussing on the game” said the bench headed by Chief Justice NV Ramana. “Give names of some people who are familiar with the game. Alright you give names of players and others who have nothing to do with politics... we will appoint the committee,” the bench, also comprising justices AS Bopanna and Hima Kohli, said. Senior advocate Rakesh Khanna, appearing for one of the parties, said that the staffers of the HCA are not getting salary as the secretary has not been signing the cheques as asked by the top court in its last order on October 27. “That is why, we asked you to give the names,” the bench said. The top court, on October 27, had asked HCA president Azharuddin and the secretary to “jointly” sign cheques to ensure that the day-to-day functioning of HCA is not hampered for the time being. It had also issued notices on appeals filed by the Hyderabad Cricket Association and its member ‘Budding Star Cricket Club’ against an order of the Telangana High Court. The top court had passed a consent order to ensure smooth functioning of the HCA and had said, “Till these matters are finally heard by this Court, and with the consent of the parties, we deem it appropriate to direct both the President and the Secretary of the Hyderabad Cricket Association to jointly sign the cheques so that the day-to-day functioning of the Association is not hampered for the time being.” Prior to this, the top court had expressed strong displeasure over the functioning of faction-ridden HCA and the row on the issue of appointment of the ombudsman and had said that it will order an inquiry into the whole issue by a former apex court or high court judge. “Cricket has gone somewhere else and politics has taken precedence,” the bench had said, adding “We will appoint some good people, some retired judges of the Supreme Court or the High Court to conduct an inquiry. Let both the groups (of HCA) go...They will have to go out of the management. This needs a CBI inquiry. They want to drag even the judiciary.” It had asked ombudsman Justice Verma not to pass any order since his tenure has already come to an end. The Hyderabad Cricket Association and its member ‘Budding Star Cricket Club’ have filed the appeals against the order of the Telangana High Court which upheld the appointment of the ombudsman by Azharuddin and others of the HCA. The high court, in its judgement of April 6, had set aside an order of a Hyderabad civil court to suspend the decision of the apex council of the HCA to appoint Justice Verma as Ombudsman-cum-Ethics Officer of the HCA. While upholding the appointment of Justice Verma, the high court had severely faulted the HCA secretary, R Vijayanand, for “playing fraud to abuse the process of the court”. The HCA has been divided over the appointment of Justice Verma as the ombudsman and a case was filed in the civil court by one ‘Budding Star Cricket Club’, which is affiliated to the HCA. It was contended before the lower court that the resolution of the HCA apex council, in appointing Justice Verma, was without the authority of law. It had contended that the decision of appointment could only be taken at the annual general body. Following this, the civil court had suspended the appointment of Justice Verma. In revision, the Charminar Cricket Club, also affiliated to the HCA, contended in the High Court that the petitioner was in collusion with HCA secretary Vijayanand and was lacking in bona fides. The High Court set aside the city court’s decision and had come down heavily on the secretary of the HCA while terming the litigation against the appointment of the ombudsman as a “collusive” one. “It is clear that the Secretary of the 2nd respondent (HCA), having agreed to the appointment of Justice Deepak Verma as Ombudsman and Ethics Officer in the meeting of the Apex Council held on June 6, 2020, which was ratified in the subsequent meeting of the Apex Council held on August 13, 2020, tried to sabotage the said appointment by setting up the 1st respondent to file the O.P. giving the incorrect address of 2nd respondent...,” the high court had said. It is clear that HCA Secretary, has agreed to a particular decision in the Apex council meeting, later “clandestinely” arranged another meeting on the same behind the back of the President Mohammed Azharuddin, got passed another resolution and deliberately misled the court below in getting the appointment of ombudsman stayed, the high court had said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/row-over-ombudsman-sc-to-reconstitute-panel-for-hca-seeks-names-of-ex-players-others-1061056.html
15-12-2021||North and Central||Nadda, chief ministers attend 'aarti', 'puja' in Ayodhya||BJP president J P Nadda and chief ministers of BJP-ruled states were accorded a warm welcome when they reached Ayodhya on Wednesday afternoon. The BJP president and chief ministers, including that of Madhya Pradesh- Shivraj Singh Chouhan, Goa- Pramod Sawant, Assam- Himanta Biswa Sarma, Haryana- Manohar Lal Khattar, Tripura- Biplab Deb, Bihar- Deputy CM Renu Devi, Arunachal Pradesh- Pema Khandu and Manipur- N Biren Singh went to the banks of the Saryu where they participated in the 'aarti'. UP Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Maurya and Dinesh Sharma were also present on the occasion. Uttarakhand Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami returned to his home state due to an engagement. This is the first time that so many chief ministers are present in Ayodhya at one time. The group then went to Hanuman Garhi where they offered prayers to Lord Hanuman. They later went to the Ram Janambhoomi temple and also saw the site of temple construction. Terming the experience "spiritually exhilarating," the chief ministers appreciated the development work done by the Yogi Adityanath government in Ayodhya. MP Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chauhan said, "Fortunate to have darshan of Ram Lalla once again. For the first time after the construction (of Ram Temple) began, we have got an opportunity to come here. We'll pray for everyone to stay healthy. A prosperous India is being built under PM's leadership." Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said, "We have got darshan of Ram Lalla. I feel fortunate...Hinduism is not an agenda; it is our life. So, where is the agenda? We are Hindus." Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nadda-chief-ministers-attend-aarti-puja-in-ayodhya-1061057.html
15-12-2021||North and Central||19 new aircraft stands become operational at Delhi airport's Terminal 1||Nineteen new aircraft stands have become operational at Terminal 1 of the Indira Gandhi International Airport (IGIA) after the approval of aviation regulator DGCA, the Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL) said Wednesday. These new stands would be able to handle Code C aircraft, a statement issued by the GMR group-led DIAL noted. Code C aircrafts, such as A320 and B737, have a wingspan measuring between 24 metres and 36 metres. The apron or the tarmac area of Terminal 1 is being expanded by the DIAL at present. Under the first phase of the expansion, the aforementioned 19 stands have been constructed, the DIAL said. There will be two more phases of the expansion. Before the commencement of the expansion works, Terminal 1 had 55 aircraft stands, the DIAL said. With 19 stands becoming operational, the total number of aircraft stands has now increased to 74 at Terminal 1. The new set of aircraft stands will assist in reducing traffic congestion at the airport, the DIAL said.  "The apron is being built in three phases. In the first phase, 19 of 82 Code C stands have been constructed. The 19 new stands have become operational after statutory approval from the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA)," it added. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/19-new-aircraft-stands-become-operational-at-delhi-airports-terminal-1-1061067.html
15-12-2021||North and Central||No one is bigger than the sport: Thakur on speculation surrounding Kohli-Rohit equation||There to launch the Khelo India U-21 Women's Hockey League, Sports Minister and former BCCI president Anurag Thakur ended up being asked about the conjecture surrounding Test skipper Virat Kohli and limited-overs captain Rohit Sharma but he sought to steer clear of the matter by stating "no one is bigger than the sport". Thakur, who served as the BCCI president from May 2015 to February 2017 before leaving the position after a Supreme Court directive, was speaking on the sidelines of the launch. "Nobody is bigger than the sport. I can't give you information as to what's going on between which players and in which game. It's the job of concerned federations/associations. It's for the concerned association to deal with the matter. It'll be better that way," said Thakur when a question on the speculation about the equation between Rohit and Kohli. After Test vice-captain Rohit was ruled out of the upcoming series in South Africa due to the recurrence of a left hamstring injury, reports emerged that Kohli will take a break from the ODI series in the Rainbow Nation to spend some time with his young family. This was after Rohit was handed the reins of the ODI and T20I teams last week. Speaking about the new Khelo India initiative, Thakur said it will provide plenty of encouragement and opportunities for young players from across the country to show their skills. "For any player, events and competitions hold a lot of significance and before big events, if leagues are introduced across the country, where the players get opportunities to play, it is great. "That's how the Sports Authority of India (SAI) has started Women's Hockey League U-21, Khelo India and I congratulate Hockey India and SAI for giving this opportunity to young women athletes. "Cash prizes will be to the tune of Rs 15 lakh and the Dhyanchand Chand National Stadium (the venue) is hosting big matches since 2015," the minister said. Thakur said such events should be held in others sports too. "I am very confident that when athletes from across the country play in this league, then it will not only boost hockey but also the regional players will get a chance to showcase their skills and among them, some will get into the Indian teams in future. "I think not just in hockey but in other sports too, something like this should be organised." He also cited a particular initiative by the BJP MPs of Uttar Pradesh. "We have seen a very successful initiative in Uttar Pradesh where the elected BJP MPs organised sports events in which lakhs of players from the state took part in different sports. "It showed how players when they get a platform, come forward and display the kind of skills which would have otherwise been restricted to their villages. "But here, they became champions, won cash prizes, saw their names on papers and the association also took note. If every MP does the same, it will be great and SAI will encourage it." Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-one-is-bigger-than-the-sport-thakur-on-speculation-surrounding-kohli-rohit-equation-1061069.html
15-12-2021||North and Central||Lakhimpur Kheri case: Union Minister Ajay Mishra Teni misbehaves with journalists||As the Opposition upped its ante against Ajay Mishra Teni, the union minister on Wednesday lost his cool at reporters and allegedly 'misbehaved' with a journalist after the latter sought his response on fresh charges in the Lakhimpur violence, in which his son is among the prime accused. A Special Investigation Team (SIT) probing the October 3 violence had earlier revealed that the violence was part of a 'pre-planned conspiracy'. Mishra, who had reached Lakhimpur Kheri to inaugurate an oxygen plant at a government hospital, lost his cool after a local scribe sought his response on the SIT revelations and allegedly manhandled him. In a video that went viral on social media sites, Mishra is seen grabbing the scribe by his collar and also heard hurling abuses at him. "Dimag kharab tumhara... phone band kar (Have you gone mad... close your phone)," Mishra is heard telling the scribe in the video. He also used expletives for the journo. Senior Congress leader Pramod Tewari slammed the union minister for misbehaving with the journalist and demanded that he be sacked immediately from the cabinet. "Mishra must be immediately dismissed from the cabinet... impartial probe is not possible as long as he is a minister... after SIT revelations he can not continue," Tewari said.   The Samajwadi Party (SP) also said prime minister Narendra Modi must sack Mishra after the SIT revelations. BJP, however, finds itself in a fix on the issue. "It is a difficult situation... Mishra's removal at this juncture will send a wrong message to the Brahmin community... at the same time his continuance is an embarrassment for us," said a senior UP BJP leader in Lucknow. The saffron party leadership has refused to yield to the demands by the farmers as well as other opposition parties to sack Mishra as it fears that it may further alienate the electorally influential Brahmin voters, who are already said to be angry with the party.  Eight people, including four farmers and a local scribe, were killed in the violence at Tikonia in the district in October when hundreds of farmers held protests against union minister Ajay Mishra over the latter's remarks threatening them of dire consequences if they continued to oppose the new farm laws. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lakhimpur-kheri-case-union-minister-ajay-mishra-teni-misbehaves-with-journalists-1061072.html
15-12-2021||North and Central||SC orders appointment of bipolar man as judge||The Supreme Court has ordered immediate appointment of a bipolar man as a judicial officer in Delhi, with appropriate seniority. A bench, headed by justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul, on Monday held that there was no impediment in Bhavya Nain taking charge as a judicial officer in one of the district courts in the national capital and discharging his duties as a judge. The bench, also including Justice MM Sundresh, relied upon the report from a medical board, which said there was nothing to indicate Nain will not be able to discharge his responsibilities as a judicial officer. The bench had constituted the board on November 17. Nain was diagnosed with bipolar disorder, a mental health condition causing extreme mood swings including emotional highs and lows, eleven years ago, when he was 25. According to the World Health Organization, the disorder is the sixth leading cause of disability worldwide. Nain cleared the Delhi Judicial Service-2018 examination under the category of persons with disability (PwD). His candidature, however, was rejected in May 2019 by the Delhi High Court administration on the grounds that he would not be able to effectively discharge his duties as a judicial officer because of his mental illness. Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-orders-appointment-of-bipolar-man-as-judge-1061088.html
15-12-2021||North and Central||PMKSY gets extension with Rs 93,068 crore funds assured||The Centre on Wednesday approved implementation of the 'Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchayee Yojna' for 2021-26 with an outlay of Rs 93,068 crore. The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs has approved central support of Rs 37,454 crore to states and Rs 20,434.56 crore of debt servicing for loan availed by the Centre for irrigation development during PMKSY 2016-21, Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat told media. The scheme would benefit about 22 lakh farmers, including 2.5 lakh Scheduled Caste and 2 lakh Scheduled Tribe farmers, said the Minister. "Central funding of 90 per cent of water component for two national projects, namely Renukaji Dam Project (Himachal Pradesh) and Lakhwar Multipurpose Project (Uttarakhand) has been provisioned. The two projects would provide beginning of storage in Yamuna basin, benefitting six states of upper Yamuna basin, augmenting water supply to Delhi as well Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, UP, Haryana and Rajasthan, and a major step towards rejuvenation of Yamuna," the statement said. Launched in 2015, PMKSY is an umbrella scheme, providing central grants to the state governments for various irrigation programmes. Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pmksy-gets-extension-with-rs-93068-crore-funds-assured-1061099.html
15-12-2021||North and Central||Kejriwal promises to set up int'l airport, India's biggest sports varsity in Punjab's Jalandhar||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) chief Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday promised an international airport and the country's biggest sports university in Jalandhar if his party comes to power in the state. Punjab will go to the polls early next year. Kejriwal, who is on a two-day visit to Punjab, said Jalandhar is well-known for its sports industry and that several popular sportspersons, especially cricketers and hockey players, use products manufactured in the state. “When the AAP forms government (in Punjab), the country's biggest sports university will be set up in Jalandhar,” he said during the party's Tiranga Yatra. Speaking about the international airport in Jalandhar, Kejriwal pointed out it has been a long-pending demand of people in the Doaba region, which lies between the rivers Beas and Sutlej. He also praised the farmers for their “victory” against the Centre's three farm laws. “Like the farmers' agitation has won, we all have to win this battle for Punjab's progress and form the AAP government (in Punjab),” he told the gathering. Kejriwal said only his party was working for schools and education. "It was Dr B R Ambedkar's dream that every child should get a good education," Kejriwal said, adding it has not been fulfilled "even after 70 years". “We will fulfil Baba Saheb's dream,” he said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kejriwal-promises-to-set-up-intl-airport-indias-biggest-sports-varsity-in-punjabs-jalandhar-1061102.html
15-12-2021||North and Central||BJP MP calls protesting Oppn members 'Omicron' in RS; asks to take 'Modi Vaccine'||BJP Chief whip in Rajya Sabha Shiv Pratap Shukla on Wednesday described the Opposition lawmakers protesting inside Rajya Sabha as 'Omicron', claiming that they were a threat to democracy. Speaking during a short-duration discussion on the situation arising out of the Omicron variant of Covid-19, Shukla also asked them to take the "Modi vaccine" to protect themselves from the pandemic. The discussion took place in the midst of protest by the Opposition against the suspension of 12 MPs from Rajya Sabha. "We all are discussing Omicron and Omicron is standing right before us. I feel that there cannot be a bigger Omicron than this, which is not allowing Parliament to function. That is why there is a danger to democracy in Parliament because of these Omicrons. These Omicrons are not becoming silent even when the Chair is making efforts," he said. Opposition MPs like RJD's Manoj K Jha objected to it and said that the BJP has no right to speak so. Shukla also targeted the Opposition, claiming that some of them used to talk about Covid-19 vaccines as "Modi vaccines or BJP vaccines" but they also took it to save their lives. Asserting that the World Health Organisation (WHO) has expressed concern over Omicron and one should be cautious, he once again took a dig at the Opposition saying, "but what should we do about this new virus, which instead of sitting on its seat has come into the Well," he said, pointing towards the opposition members. Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-mp-calls-protesting-oppn-members-omicron-in-rs-asks-to-take-modi-vaccine-1061136.html
15-12-2021||North and Central||Farmer bodies refuse to lift sit-ins from toll plazas in Punjab||Several farmer bodies in Punjab on Wednesday refused to lift sit-ins at toll plazas in protest against “unreasonable” hike in toll fee. The farmer bodies had earlier announced to lift the dharnas at various places, including toll plazas, petrol pumps, shopping malls and residences of BJP leaders, from December 15. However, except the toll plazas, the farmers' outfits on Wednesday lifted their protests going on at other places for more than a year. Meanwhile, National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) regional officer RP Singh (Chandigarh) said out of total 30 toll plazas in Punjab, five opened till Wednesday evening. Bharti Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) chief Joginder Singh Ugrahan claimed that the toll rates had almost been “doubled”. He accused the government of making "unreasonable" hike in the toll fee and by doing so, it was trying to recover losses from people. Ugrahan further said the dharnas would continue until the toll fee is brought to the previous level. Bhartiya Kisan Union (Lakhowal) general secretary Harinder Singh and BKU (Dakunda) president Buta Singh Burjgill Lakhowal said they would not lift sit-ins in protest against the hike in toll fee. The farmer bodies also held several programmes at various places in the state for their “victory”. Farmers, including women, danced to the beats of dhol, sang songs and distributed sweets, among themselves. Farmers from Punjab and Haryana started returning from the Delhi borders from December 11 after the suspension of the agitation against the three farm laws which had been repealed. Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmer-bodies-refuse-to-lift-sit-ins-from-toll-plazas-in-punjab-1061148.html
15-12-2021||North and Central||SC acquits 3 awarded death sentence for killing parents, relatives||The Supreme Court on Wednesday acquitted three men awarded death sentence for killing the parents and other family members of one of them in 2014, noting that the prosecution failed to prove the case beyond reasonable doubt. Momin Khan was accused of murdering his parents, brother and other relatives following a property dispute, whereas accused Jaikam Khan was his cousin. The third accused, Sajid, is Jaikam's son. A bench comprising justices L Nageswara Rao, BR Gavai and BV Nagarathna passed the order on an appeal filed by the three accused against a judgement of the Allahabad High Court that had upheld their conviction and death penalty awarded by a trial court. "We find that the prosecution has utterly failed to prove the case beyond reasonable doubt. The conviction and death sentence imposed on the accused is totally unsustainable in law," the judges said. The bench said that the trial court and the high court were expected to exercise a greater degree of scrutiny, care and circumspection while directing the accused to be hanged till death. It further said that there were serious infirmities on various counts in the judgment of the trial court. In its judgment, the bench also noted that the prosecution witnesses were closely related to the deceased and the accused and could not be considered to be wholly reliable to base an order of conviction solely on their testimonies. The apex court noted that the high court had gone on to have an academic discussion with regard to the possibility, preponderance of probability, like a scientist conducting his experiments with great care, choosing between two or more possibilities, and preponderates of one over the other, etc.  "The law, however, that is fully settled, is that, it is the duty of the prosecution to prove the case beyond reasonable doubt," the bench said. Momin Khan's wife Nazra was also sentenced to death by the trial court. The high court, however, set aside her conviction and punishment. According to the prosecution, on January 23, 2014 all the four accused killed Momin's father Mausam Khan, 85; mother Asgari, 80; brother Shaukeen Khan; sister-in-law Shanno, 30; nephew Samad, 8; and his brother's niece Muskan, 15; over the dispute over a brick-kiln in Bulandshahr district of Uttar Pradesh. Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-acquits-3-awarded-death-sentence-for-killing-parents-relatives-1061162.html
15-12-2021||North and Central||UP Police announces Rs 25,000 reward for information on wanted man||Uttar Pradesh Police on Wednesday announced a reward of Rs 25,000 on the arrest of NISHAD Party MLA Vijay Mishra's son, Vishnu Mishra, who is wanted in multiple criminal cases including land grabbing and rape, officials said. A lookout circular was issued last year against Vishnu Mishra following information that he might leave the country to evade arrest. On a complaint filed by one Krishna Mohan Tiwari, MLA Vijay Mishra, his MLC wife Ram Lali and son Vishnu Mishra were booked by Bhadohi Police on August 4 last year on charges of various penal offences including land grabbing, according to police. Vijay Mishra was arrested by police from Madhya Pradesh and is presently lodged in Agra jail, Superintendent of Police Anil Kumar said. His wife, who is a Samajwadi Party MLC, is out on bail, he said. MLA Vijay Mishra and his two sons were also booked by police on October 18, 2020, for allegedly raping a 25-year-old singer in 2014 and 2015. Kumar said Bhadohi Police will award Rs 25,000 to any person giving information which will lead to the arrest of Vishnu Mishra, who is absconding.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-police-announces-rs-25000-reward-for-information-on-wanted-man-1061182.html
15-12-2021||North and Central||Why don't you give ads like other states: Supreme Court raps UP govt on ex-gratia for Covid deaths||The Supreme Court Wednesday slammed the Uttar Pradesh government over disbursal of ex-gratia compensation for Covid-19 deaths and said it should give advertisements in all local newspapers in each district. Expressing dissatisfaction over the advertisements, a bench comprising justices MR Shah and BV Nagarathna said victims should be apprised about a web portal on which they can make an online application for getting the compensation. "Why don't you give advertisements like other states stating that this is a portal, this is a grievance redressal committee and you can contact. In each district, you are supposed to give advertisements in local newspapers. This the grievance redressal committee with their particulars, portal details etc. We don't find any advertisements in any newspapers," the bench said. Advocate Ardhendumauli Kumar Prasad, appearing for the Uttar Pradesh government, told the bench that a total of 25,933 applications have been received out of which 20,060 have been paid. The bench then asked him about advertisements given in local newspapers. Prasad submitted that advertisements have been given wherein a phone number has been given. It's the number of tehsildar, he said. "Who picks up toll free numbers. We'll ask you to call just now and see. You just now call them. Call the tehsildar," the bench said while expressing anguish. The court then said it would pass an order. The Maharashtra government informed the apex court that till last Monday 85,279 applications have been received. The top court noted that 85,000 applications have been received, and approximately 1,658 claims have been allowed. "It's very unfortunate that only 1,658 have been paid ex-gratia. We direct the State of Maharashtra to make payment of ex gratia of 50,000 to all applicants who have submitted applications as on today in 10 days including approval and actual payment," the bench said. About Gujarat, the apex court said it was satisfied with contents of advertisements with particulars which will assist beneficiaries. The top court said such advertisements must be followed by other states and asked Additional Solicitor General Aishwarya Bhati to furnish specimens of advertisements to counsels of respective states by Thursday. The counsel for Gujarat submitted that due to wide publicity the number of applications have increased. The apex court had earlier slammed states for not giving wide publicity about a portal developed for disbursal of ex-gratia compensation for Covid-19 deaths. It had said unless wide publicity is given, people will not be able to know the portal address on which they can make an online application. The apex court had also expressed concern over the low number of claims for ex-gratia compensation for Covid-19 deaths and directed state governments to inform if wide publicity has been given concerning the scheme for compensation. The top court was hearing a batch of pleas by advocate Gaurav Kumar Bansal and intervenors represented by advocate Sumeer Sodhi seeking ex-gratia assistance to family members of Covid-19 victims. It had on October 4 said that no state shall deny ex-gratia compensation of Rs 50,000 to the next of kin of the deceased due to Covid-19 solely on the ground that the death certificate does not mention the virus as the cause of death. The court had also said that the ex-gratia is to be disbursed within 30 days from the date of applying to the district disaster management authority or the district administration concerned along with the proof of the death of the deceased due to coronavirus and the cause of death being certified as died due to Covid-19. The apex court had said that its directions for payment of compensation to the family members of the persons, who died due to Covid-19, are very clear and there was no requirement at all of constituting the scrutiny committee to award compensation. It had said it was very much made clear that even in a case, wherein the death certificate the cause is not shown as death due to Covid-19 but if found that deceased was declared positive for coronavirus and has died within 30 days, automatically his or her family members are entitled to the compensation without any further conditions. Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/why-dont-you-give-ads-like-other-states-supreme-court-raps-up-govt-on-ex-gratia-for-covid-deaths-1061186.html
15-12-2021||North and Central||Covid-19 curbs extended in Delhi till December 31 midnight||In a decision that would limit Christmas and New Year's Eve celebrations, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Wednesday extended till December 31 midnight its Covid-19-related curbs such as the ban on social and cultural gatherings and the cap on bars and restaurants to operate with 50 per cent of seating capacity. In an order, the DDMA said the currently permitted and restricted activities in Delhi will continue up to the intervening night (12.00 hrs) of December 31 and January 1. Under a phased reopening with improved Covid-19 situation in the city, the DDMA has permitted most of the activities. However, political, social, cultural, religious and such other gatherings are still not permitted. Apart from the cap of 50 per cent of seating capacity on bars and restaurants, the order also continued the restriction on banquet halls to hold events other than meetings and conferences, exhibitions and marriages. In the pre-Covid period, hotels, bars, restaurants and banquets halls used to be jam-packed with revellers during Christmas and New Year's Eve celebrations. Restaurateurs were disappointed with the decision and said they were hoping to recover the losses incurred during the pandemic by organising events on New Year's Eve and Christmas. Rahul Singh, the owner of Beer Cafe, said, "Multiplexes, cinema halls, buses -- everywhere 100 per cent capacity is allowed. So what have we done to deserve this? It is disappointing. We were hoping to come out of the losses that the industry has suffered during the pandemic but now it looks difficult." He said it is understandable that there is a threat of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus but questioned whether singling out restaurants and bars is the only solution to ward off the fear of spread of infection. Joy Singh, co-partner of Raasta and Yeti, said, "We have had some bookings for Christmas and New Year and we will have to refund the money of some customers and that will be a loss for us. Of course, regular customers will be given preference in bookings." However, he said that looking at a bigger picture, this is slightly a better solution.  "If by taking some precautions, we can contain the spread of virus and prevent a situation that may call for a complete lockdown, it is better," he said. Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-curbs-extended-in-delhi-till-december-31-midnight-1061196.html
15-12-2021||Opinion||'Two Nagalands': Dubious duality and a tragedy||If Vir Das looks to Nagaland, the welcoming mountainous north-east Indian state with a history of the longest surviving insurgency in Asia, the stand-up comic cannot run short of material for a 'two Nagalands' monologue. The dubious duality of Nagaland's state of affairs is indeed a joke. But it isn't funny anymore. Instead, there is grief and anger as fresh corpses of innocents open up old wounds.  I come from 'two Nagalands'. One Nagaland where high-ranked officers of Indian Army dance hands clasped with Konyak Naga tribespeople clad in traditional warrior attires wielding machetes and firing sporadically from their indigenous muzzle-loading guns. Konyaks are known for their traditional gunsmithing and gunpowder-making skills. Every family, especially in villages, owns at least one muzzle-loading gun. Many Indian Army officers have merrily tried firing the traditional firearms at least once. The other Nagaland where elite para commandos can indiscriminately gun down innocent civilians (Konyak Naga villagers of Oting Village) in the Konyak heartland, because according to them, "a rifle-like thing" was supposedly being carried by one of the eight victims. A Nagaland where India's Home Ministry officials sip tea with Naga insurgents (defined as militants or terrorists by the security forces) and the latter involve themselves in Indian electoral politics. This is the Nagaland where the Government of India doles out ceasefire agreements to a new insurgent faction every other year; insurgent groups run parallel governments "taxing" Indians — both Nagas and non-Nagas — under the garb of continuing ceasefires and peace parleys. All under the "watchful eye" of New Delhi. It is another Nagaland where despite the ever-progressing peace talks and lavish overground existence of undergrounds, the draconian Armed Forces Special Protection Act (AFSPA) meant to counter "terrorism" continues to be in force since 1958. It gives unbridled power to the security forces and brings terror to the hearts of the common people. In this Nagaland, the AFSPA is in force on the pretext of it being a disturbed area due to the activities of the same insurgents. Then there is a Nagaland where a dreaded militant with a hefty bounty on his head for killing 18 Indian soldiers is under the protection of India's Home Ministry, able to conduct peace talks and facilitate the Indo-Naga political solution. In another Nagaland, the AFSPA gives security forces the impunity to shoot to kill on mere suspicion. Both are justified by the Centre in the name of bringing peace to the land. A Nagaland where the governor pays glowing tributes to Naga leader, the late Dr Imkongliba Ao, by installing his bust in the Raj Bhavan, and commits to building a Nagaland of Dr Ao's dream, "a happy and prosperous state in which our youth, free from every kind of fear, apprehension or inhibition." Yet this is also the Nagaland still under the AFSPA, which spells only fear and apprehension. One Nagaland where Naga politicians spend crores to get elected and form the government, and the opposition joins the government to strengthen it. And it's another Nagaland, where the same government buckles now and then under pressure of civil societies and goes weak-kneed every time New Delhi summons. All in the name of ushering peace and prosperity to the state. There is a Nagaland where a small village (Oting) has the nerve to caution security forces that they would lose their heads next time such a heinous crime is perpetrated on their land. In the other Nagaland, the government doesn't dare even to request the Friends of the Hill People (Assam Rifles) to stay off the roads for a few hours to respect the sentiments of the people protesting the killings with a complete statewide bandh. Meanwhile, the Oting village has barred both the Naga insurgent groups and Indian soldiers from entering the jurisdiction of their village. One Nagaland is where ethnicity is glorified, and Naga villagers in their traditional finery are proudly displayed as the "authentic and exotic Nagaland" for the benefit of tourists. The other Nagaland is where the same villagers are forgotten through most of the year -- ethnic culture swapped for western culture-influenced glitz and glamour.  In this quagmire of unsettling duality, coercive control, callous policies and politics of both the Centre and state, the tragedy unfolded in Nagaland on December 4 and 5. To call the murder of 14 citizens an "unfortunate incident" and "botched up ops" is itself a big joke. The political class is again trying to pull a fast one on the people by blaming the tragedy on mistaken identity and faulty intelligence. It is straight-up a policy failure and apathy. Perhaps the para commando unit was carrying out its duty, or a so-called "surgical strike" — albeit questionably without following protocols — and messed up. But they wouldn't dare be so audacious without the impunity provided by the AFSPA. Directing all anger at the security forces would be a folly Nagaland and the other states where the AFSPA is in force can hardly afford to endure. Despite the huge uproar created by the Nagaland killings, it is unlikely the AFSPA would be repealed. The Narendra Modi government has already eaten its share of the humble pie in 2021 by rolling back the farm laws. Moreover, Nagaland doesn't have the numbers in Parliament like Uttar Pradesh, which goes to the polls soon. Not much is expected from Nagaland's current crop of politicians who are yet to show spine. The Modi government has got Nagaland's ruling class on a short leash.  Nagas don't expect much from the insurgents, known as Naga National Workers, either. Their guns have claimed the lives of many innocent Nagas too. In all probability, the insurgent groups would use the tragedy as a bargaining chip.  But this time around, the people are angry and deeply hurt. Tragic tales of lives claimed by the AFSPA are being retold and shared, memories of living under the shadow of the gun being revisited. The Konyaks, whose traditional lands border Myanmar and Arunachal Pradesh, are seething. As Bonnie Konyak, a former journalist, writes in her poignant post on Facebook: "I understand you want to share our pain, but you do not know its depths, you never will. I know you think we are mourning for our brothers who lost their lives on December 4th and 5th, but our grief goes beyond the gruesome massacre of that fateful night; we are lamenting not just lives, but generations of lives sacrificed at the altar of a cause the memory of which now eludes us." (Kallol Dey is a freelance journalist based in Nagaland) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/two-nagalands-dubious-duality-and-a-tragedy-1060999.html
15-12-2021||Opinion||Yogi Adityanath's play: What the new charges in the Lakhimpur Kheri case mean||By filing a new set of charges in the Lakhimpur Kheri case, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has made the continuation of Minister of State (Home) Ajay Mishra Teni in the Union Council of Ministers untenable. However, he has also attempted to strike at the central leadership of the party. Referring to the October 3 incident, the Special Investigating Team (SIT) of the UP police described the deaths as a "pre-planned conspiracy". Previous charges of causing death by rash and negligent driving have been now replaced by charges of murder and "criminal conspiracy" besides rioting, armed with a deadly weapon, and the culprits committing an offence with a "common objective" under Section 149 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). With the new charges, Adityanath has acquired more leverage to assert his control over political processes in UP leading up to the election in February. It remains to be seen whether charges under Section 149 of the IPC will be used to bring in more people to show that they shared a common objective. Both IPC Section 34 ("common intention") and 149 ("common object") deal with the vicarious liability of a person for the actions of others. The difference, however, is that while "common intention" assumes concerted action by two or more people according to a pre-arranged plan, "common object" involving five or more people (in an unlawful assembly) does not necessarily require proof of a prior meeting of minds. To that extent, the ambit of the charge has been restricted. For now, the chief judicial magistrate agreed with the defence lawyers and did not see it fit to use the broader Section 34 ("common intention"). The charges under Sections 3/25/30 of the Arms Act suggest that the weapons in possession of the minister's son and his entourage were unlicensed and illegal. It also confirms that weapons were fired on the protesting farmers. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha had alleged that one of the farmers had been shot dead by the minister's son Ashish Mishra. The charges of committing an offence under Section 120B (conspiracy) of the IPC are punishable by death and suggest that the SIT is confident of establishing criminal conspiracy. It might be recalled that minister Ajay Mishra Teni was seen as the agent provocateur who had threatened agitating farmers in a public meeting a few days before the October 3 incident. "If I decide to show them my true power, then they will not only have to leave their villages but also the district." In response to showing him black flags earlier, he had boasted, "Had I alighted from my car, then they (the farmers) would not have been able even to flee… people here are familiar with my history." Now that same history and the charge of premeditated murder may haunt him. The meeting where the farmers were deliberately run over by vehicles was a protest against a visit by Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya to Lakhimpur Kheri with Teni in attendance. In principle, although he seems distant from the case today, the police dragnet could potentially extend to Maurya, a potential challenger to Adityanath's position, should the BJP win in UP. Maurya is close to Ajay Mishra Teni and Prime Minister Narendra Modi. However, proving conspiracy against Teni and Maurya would require considerable effort and would depend on the statements of the 12 others arrested along with the minister's son Ashish Mishra. If they say that the murder was a planned conspiracy, then even those absent from the site of the incident may be questioned by the SIT. If Teni and Maurya are called for questioning, their political careers would be virtually over. In what appears to be a tug-of-war with the BJP high command, Adityanath's fancy footwork seems directed at recovering control over the political process in UP before the elections. With the more serious charges being levied in the Lakhimpur Kheri case, he has possibly also gained some leverage over ticket distribution in the upcoming UP elections, a process in which he may have expected to be marginalised. So far, he has been forced into a supporting role to the party mascot Prime Minister Modi. Modi's packed itinerary in UP has dominated the momentum for the upcoming crucial state polls. In the latest episode of the electoral soap opera on Monday, the prime minister hogged the footage as he undertook a ceremonial bath in the Ganges and carried the holy "Ganga Jal" for the inauguration of the Kashi-Vishwanath temple corridor. Chief Minister Adityanath was clearly not part of the script beyond a "special appearance" in a few frames. With the new charges of "pre-planned conspiracy" in the Lakhimpur Kheri case, the central leadership of the BJP will have to somehow engineer the investigation away from the SIT manned by the UP police to its 'caged parrot', the CBI. Otherwise, it will have to work out a truce with Adityanath in ticket distribution, which may well also be forced on the party by the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh. All said and done, Adityanath's credibility is inversely proportional to Prime Minister Modi's under the current circumstances. If the BJP wins UP, Adityanath can boast that while the Modi-Amit Shah duo lost West Bengal, he managed to retain the largest state in India. If the BJP loses, he can still blame the central leadership of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). After all, he neither brought in the controversial farm laws nor did he threaten the farmers – in fact, his police never resorted to violence against them, and he allowed their massive rallies to proceed peacefully both at Muzaffarnagar and Lucknow. He can also blame the state of the economy, growing unemployment and price rise on the Centre. Also Covid deaths, and shortage in oxygen and vaccine supplies. He could even become the nucleus of anti-Modi forces within the BJP in case the party loses in UP. (The writer is a journalist based in Delhi) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/yogi-adityanaths-play-what-the-new-charges-in-the-lakhimpur-kheri-case-mean-1061054.html
15-12-2021||South||Kumki elephants to trace 'missing' tiger at Wayanad||In a bid to trace a tiger that has been giving sleepless nights to the people of Kurukanmoola near Mananthavady in Wayanad district of Kerala, the forest department has deployed trained captive elephants that are known as 'Kumki' elephants. Around 15 domestic animals were killed by a tiger in the region over the last two weeks and the efforts to capture the tiger using methods like setting up cages did not yield any result. Hence two trained elephants were deployed on Tuesday. Wayanad south divisional forest officer Shajna Karim told DH that the trained elephants were being deployed to carry out searches in possible hideouts of the tiger as well as to drive away it. Such a method was used earlier also to drive away wild animals once all efforts to capture fail. The tiger was spotted in the camera traps set up in the area. But it could not be spotted during the day light so far. A tiger capturing team was also camping in the region, said the forest official. Many parts of Wayanad were witnessing man-animal conflict. Farmers in the region were suffering massive crop loss due to attack by wild boars, elephants and monkeys. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kumki-elephants-to-trace-missing-tiger-at-wayanad-1060894.html
15-12-2021||South||Andhra Pradesh government joins hands with FAO, ICAR to help farmers||The Andhra Pradesh government has joined hands with the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) and Indian Council of Agriculture Research (ICAR) to help strengthen its support to farmers in adopting sustainable agri food systems. An MoU in this regard was signed on Tuesday, in the presence of Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy, by special chief secretary (agriculture) Poonam Malakondaiah, FAO country director Tomio Shichiri and ICAR Deputy Director General Dr A K Singh. Speaking on the occasion, the Chief Minister said that a network of Rythu Bharosa Kendras were set up at the village level by his government as part of efforts to weed away fake seeds, pesticides and fertilizers from markets, while also assisting farmers in procuring remunerative prices for their produce. Shichiri said RBKs would bring revolutionary changes in the state's agriculture sector, adding that they could serve as models for other states. FAO would provide technical and financial assistance to the RBKs in AP and ICAR along with FAO would work towards further strengthening of RBKs. FAO would offer training to farmers, RBK staff, officials, scientists on new technologies in agricultural allied sectors and also training to farmers on best cultivation management practices. In a separate review meeting with district collectors on Tuesday, Reddy said that warehouses and primary processing facilities are being set up in the state. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-government-joins-hands-with-fao-icar-to-help-farmers-1060895.html
15-12-2021||South||Former AIADMK minister Thangamani raided by DVAC; party slams 'political vendetta'||P Thangamani on Wednesday became the fifth former AIADMK minister to be raided by the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-corruption (DVAC), after the DMK came to power in May this year, for allegedly amassing wealth disproportionate to his known sources of income and investing a “huge amount” in crypto assets. The opposition party hit out at its rival, the ruling DMK, with Leader of Opposition K Palaniswami alleging that the vigilance action was due to "political vendetta" and the AIADMK's "growing clout." It was also a 'diversionary' tactic by Chief Minister M K Stalin, AIADMK leaders O Panneerselvam and Palaniswami told PTI. Sleuths of the DVAC swopped down on 69 premises owned by or related to Thangamani and his family members in Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, and Andhra Pradesh. Two premises in Bengaluru were also searched.  Besides Thangamani, the DVAC has booked his wife T Santhi and son T Dharanidharan in the case filed at Namakkal in the western region of Tamil Nadu. At the end of the searches, DVAC said, Rs 2.37 crore in cash, gold ornaments weighing 1.130 kg, incriminating documents of bank accounts, mobile phones, and keys of several lockers and computer hard disks were recovered.  Thangamani, who held various portfolios from 2011 to 2021 during the 10-year AIADMK rule, was one of the most powerful ministers in the Edappadi K Palaniswami cabinet which assumed office in 2017 after J Jayalalithaa’s death the previous year. In the FIR, DVAC said the case relates to amassing of wealth during Thangamani’s tenure as Electricity Minister from 2016 to 2021.  The FIR said Thangamani has acquired and was in possession of movable and immovable assets in his name and in the names of his family members, relatives and others which are “disproportionate to his known sources of income and thereby intentionally enriched himself and his family members, relatives and others illicitly during the period of his office.” The DVAC said while Thangamani’s son Dharanidharan showed “huge business” in the name of Murugan Eaarth movers, an inquiry revealed that the company was only on paper and was used as a cover to the “illegal income” of the former minister and assets acquired by him as a “public servant.”  The agency also said Santhi, who is a housewife and does not hold any business, “intentionally aided” Thangamani and Dharanidharan to acquire “ill-gotten money” and hid them from the eyes of the law by filing Income Tax as and when required for her husband and son. It said since the likely savings of Thangamani was about Rs 2.60 crore during the check period (May 23, 2016, to March 31, 2020) and hence, the pecuniary resources and properties acquired by him and in the names of his wife and his son should not have exceeded the same.  “But he has acquired assets worth Rs 4,85,72,0197- in excess out of his total income, which is disproportionate to the known sources of income,” the FIR said, adding that S Dinesh Kumar, Thangamani’s son-in-law, is a partner in many firms while his father owns over 100 lorries.  “It is further suspected that A-1 (Thangamani) and A-2 (Dharanidharan) have acquired many more assets which are disproportionate to his known sources of income and kept in the name of their in-laws, relatives and associates in various places in and around Tamil Nadu and outside. Further, there is reliable information that they have invested huge amount from the ill-gotten money in crypto assets,” the FIR added. Thangamani is the fifth minister in the erstwhile Edappadi K Palaniswami cabinet to be raided by the DVAC after the DMK government stormed to power in May this year. M R Vijayabhaskar, S P Velumani, and K C Veeramani, and C Vijayabaskar were earlier raided by the DVAC. The DMK, while in opposition, had submitted a huge list of corruption charges against half a dozen ministers. The party had also promised to constitute a special court to try all such cases. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/former-aiadmk-minister-thangamani-raided-by-dvac-party-slams-political-vendetta-1060934.html
15-12-2021||South||Lone survivor of chopper crash Group Captain Varun Singh passes away||Group Captain Varun Singh, who was grievously injured during the December 8 helicopter crash which claimed the life of General Bipin Rawat and 12 others, succumbed to his injuries early on Wednesday morning. Rushed to Indian Air Force’s Command Hospital in the city on Thursday evening, Singh was noted to be in critical condition but with 90 per cent burns and other injuries, doctors had told DH that his chances of recovery were fraught with challenges. In a statement, the Indian Air Force said that it “offers sincere condolences and stands firmly with the bereaved family.” "IAF is deeply saddened to inform the passing away of braveheart Group Captain Varun Singh, who succumbed this morning to the injuries sustained in the helicopter accident on 08 Dec 21. IAF offers sincere condolences and stands firmly with the bereaved family," the IAF tweeted. IAF is deeply saddened to inform the passing away of braveheart Group Captain Varun Singh, who succumbed this morning to the injuries sustained in the helicopter accident on 08 Dec 21. IAF offers sincere condolences and stands firmly with the bereaved family. With his condition not improving, the IAF had sought the medical expertise of private and government doctors. Speaking last week, experts had noted that medical information revealing that Group Captain Singh lacked urine was a red flag. “Severe burns, especially that of 90%, results in burn shock or ‘hypovolaemia,’ which causes fluid loss in the body, leading to lack of urine,” an expert had said, adding that no urine output means renal failure which in most cases, leads to multi-organ failure.   Command Hospital doctors had also considered partial or full CT scans, among other tests. Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted his condolences and said "Group Captain Varun Singh served the nation with pride, valour and utmost professionalism. I am extremely anguished by his passing away." Group Captain Varun Singh served the nation with pride, valour and utmost professionalism. I am extremely anguished by his passing away. His rich service to the nation will never be forgotten. Condolences to his family and friends. Om Shanti.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/lone-survivor-of-chopper-crash-group-captain-varun-singh-passes-away-1060973.html
15-12-2021||South||Telangana reports its first two Omicron cases; 'Both asymptomatic and doing fine'||Telangana has reported its first two cases of Omicron – a Kenyan woman and Somalian man – on Wednesday. The two who traveled by different flights via Abu Dhabi and Qatar landed in Hyderabad on December 12 and had tested positive. Genome sequencing of their samples confirmed them as infected by Omicron, the Covid-19 variant reportedly spreading faster than Delta. “They both are from non-risk countries but as random testing showed them as Covid-19 positive, we had sent their samples for genome analysis,” said Dr Srinivasa Rao, director, public health, Telangana. A third Omicron case was also detected, of a 7-year-old boy who along with his family had arrived from a foreign country and traveled on to Kolkata from Hyderabad airport. Rao said that the 24-year-old Kenyan woman and 23-year-old Somalian man had gone to Toli Chowki area in the city. While officials first traced the woman and shifted her to the state-run Telangana Institute of Medical Sciences in Gachibowli for treatment and isolation, Rao later on Wednesday stated that the “missing Somalian with Covid-19 Omicron positive has (also) been tracked and shifted to TIMS”. “The man and woman have no symptoms, they are fine and healthy. We are in the process of identifying their contacts in the last two days for testing. All the foreign nationals residing in that area would be screened for Covid-19 now.” Rao said that there is no community transmission in Telangana because of Omicron. The top health official has however alerted the public “to take utmost care”, wearing masks indoors and outdoors. “While the government is prepared to deal with any situation, people should also take all precautions including the two doses of vaccine. Fortunately, the public is coming forward voluntarily now,” Rao said. While ruling out the possibility of lockdowns in the coming weeks, Rao hinted at imposition of restrictions wherever necessary. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-reports-its-first-two-omicron-cases-both-asymptomatic-and-doing-fine-1060996.html
15-12-2021||South||Tamil Nadu activists come out against collapse of check dam at Anakkati||Environmentalists and social activists of Tamil Nadu have come out against the poor construction of a check dam at Anakkatii which collapsed during the recent incessant rains. The check dam was constructed using the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) under the District Rural Development Agency (DRDA) funding of around Rs 8 lakh. K. Kalidas, founder of Osai, a Non-Governmental Organisation active in the conservation of environment while speaking to IANS said: "The work was carried out in a hurry and the money spent was not utilised properly as there was no chance for such a check dam to collapse in rains if the total money allotted was properly used. The contractor seems to have used poor quality materials leading to the collapse of the dam within months of its construction and this has to be probed properly." The environmentalist said that the construction of check dams stop the perennial streams free flow and the dam should be constructed in such a manner that the movement of micro and aquatic organisms should not be curtailed. Environmentalist K. Mohanraj also said that the construction of check dams is against scientific wildlife management. He also said that a total audit has to be conducted on the check dams constructed in Tamil Nadu over the years. Mohanraj told IANS: "95 per cent of the check dams constructed in Tamil Nadu under various schemes are a major failure. Government officials are still insisting on constructing such check dams which are not useful and draining of taxpayer's money. We should revive streams and revival of streams is revival of biodiversity." However, a senior officer with the Periyanaickanpalayam Block office told IANS that the work was executed perfectly but the incessant rains had led to the collapse of one wall of the check dam. He also said that the concerned contractor will complete the maintenance work of the same and that there was no need for worry. Tamil Nadu environmental minister's office was not available for comment. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-activists-come-out-against-collapse-of-check-dam-at-anakkati-1061019.html
15-12-2021||South||Army Jawan from Telangana goes missing||A 21-year-old Indian Army Jawan from Siddipet district of Telangana went missing while on his way to join duty in Punjab's Faridkot following which police teams were formed to trace him. B Sai Kiran Reddy, a resident of Pothireddypally village in Cheriyal Mandal, who had come to his native place in November for vacation, was scheduled to rejoin his regiment in Faridkot on December 6, police said on Wednesday. On December 5, he took a flight to New Delhi from Hyderabad and upon reaching there he boarded a train to Faridkot but failed to reach his destination. The jawan was last seen (through CCTV footage) at Bathinda railway station on December 6, they said. Though, Sai Kiran had made a video call to his family twice from the Hyderabad airport, when his father tried calling him on December 6, he was not reachable, police said adding a Captain from Sai Kiran's unit also phoned his father and informed that his son did not report for duty. Subsequently, Sai Kiran's father lodged a complaint with the police who registered a Zero FIR and the case was transferred to Delhi Army police. Police teams were formed to locate Sai Kiran and already one team from Siddipet has left for Punjab. Meanwhile, Kiran's cell phone was traced to Haryana on December 6 afternoon, they said. Efforts are on to trace Sai Kiran. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/army-jawan-from-telangana-goes-missing-1061022.html
15-12-2021||South||Madras HC allows AIADMK to file appeal in Jayalalithaa residence case||A division bench of the Madras High Court on Wednesday allowed AIADMK party and former minister C. Ve Shanmugham to file an appeal against a single bench order transferring the rights of the residence of former Chief Minister late J Jayalalithaa to her niece and nephew. Division Bench of Justices Paresh Upadhyay and Sathi Kumar Sukumara Kurup granted leave to both the AIADMK party and Shanmugham to file appeal. The court, however, said that not approaching the court at the relevant time and approaching the court now is a factor that may be considered if necessary while hearing the appeal. Senior Advocate A L Somayaji, while appearing for AIADMK and Shanmugham, said that the petitioners are the proteges of the late Chief Minister who was popular for her social welfare schemes and for bringing agricultural reforms. The senior counsel also said that bonafide or precise connection with the leader is enough for moving the appeal and both AIADMK and C Ve Shanmugham were close to the former Chief Minister. He also said that as the present DMK government was not moving the appeal, AIADMK and Shanmugham were doing that. The counsel appearing for J Deepak, nephew of late J Jayalalithaa and one of the heirs of her residence said that the whole process related to the handing over of the late Chief Minister's residence 'Veda Nilayam' was over and that both J Deepak and J Deepa had taken possession of the residence on last Friday itself and the entire procedures pursuant to the single judge's order were completed. The advocate also argued that AIADMK and Shanmugham had no locus standi regarding the residence of the late Chief Minister. A single judge bench of Justice N Seshasayee had quashed the order of the Tamil Nadu Revenue department in acquiring the residence of Jayalalithaa, Veda Nilayam at Poes Garden to be converted to her memorial museum. The court in its order on November 24, 2021, said that the property belongs to the rightful heirs of the late Chief Minister, J Deepa and J Deepak who were her niece and nephew. The court also came down heavily on the AIADMK and the present state government and said that the late Chief Minster already had a memorial at Marina. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/madras-hc-allows-aiadmk-to-file-appeal-in-jayalalithaa-residence-case-1061042.html
15-12-2021||South||Amid protests, Kerala govt school implements unisex uniform||The introduction of gender-neutral uniform at a government school in Kerala has triggered a row with a section opposing it. Government higher secondary school at Balussery in Kozhikode district in North Kerala introduced the gender-neutral uniform. Shirts and trousers have been made the uniform for both boys and girls in higher secondary classes. The move came close on the heels of a lower primary school at Ernakulam district introducing a gender-neutral uniform of long shorts and shirts for both boys and girls. The left-front government in Kerala was also backing the move as part of its gender justice initiatives. However, the Muslim Coordination Committee, a forum of some Muslim outfits, is protesting against the gender-neutral uniform -- especially the decision of the school in Kozhikode to make trousers and shirts uniform for girls. Alleging that it was an encroachment over the freedom of dressing of the students, the organisation even staged a protest march on Wednesday. The committee leaders said that the girls were asked to wear the dress of boys, which was wrong. Kerala higher education minister R Bindu made the formal announcement of the gender-neutral uniform at the school in Balussery on Wednesday. It was the first of its type initiative by a government school in Kerala. Reacting to the protests, state education minister V Sivankutty said that the government would back such initiative as part of its gender justice policies. While the school authorities said that the gender-neutral uniform was introduced after holding discussions with parents and students, the students also welcomed the decision with girl students maintaining that they were feeling more comfortable in the new uniform. There are around 250 girl students in the school and all of them adopted the new uniform. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/amid-protests-kerala-govt-school-implements-unisex-uniform-1061080.html
15-12-2021||South||RTC bus falls off bridge in AP's West Godavari district; Nine dead||Nine people died in Andhra Pradesh's West Godavari district on Wednesday when a state road transport bus they were traveling in fell off a bridge on a stream. The incident occurred at Jalleru near Jangareddygudem and about 50 passengers were inside the bus at the time of the accident. Most of the deceased are women who could not come out of the bus that was half submerged-in water, falling on one side. The dead included bus driver Chinna Rao. Several others were rescued by the locals with the help of boats. The injured were rushed to the area hospital for treatment. According to the eye-witnesses, the bus plying from Velerupadu to Jangareddygudem had hit the bridge railing and then plunged into the stream full of water below. Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy expressed shock over the bus accident and extended condolences to the bereaved families. He directed the authorities to pay an ex-gratia of Rs five lakh each to the kin of the deceased. WG district collector was instructed to ensure proper treatment for the injured. State transport minister Perni Venkataramaiah said that an inquiry has been ordered to find out the reasons for the mishap that claimed several lives. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/rtc-bus-falls-off-bridge-in-aps-west-godavari-district-nine-dead-1061084.html
15-12-2021||South||Kerala govt gives job, Rs 8 lakh assistance to chopper crash victim's family||Kerala government had decided to give job and financial assistance of Rs 8 lakh to the family of Coonoor chopper crash victim junior warrant officer A Pradeep, a native of Thrissur district of Kerala. The state cabinet on Wednesday decided to give job in class-three grade post in any government departments in Thrissur district to Pradeep's wife Sreelakhsmi based on her educational qualification. Financial assistance of Rs 3 lakh would be given for the medical treatment of Pradeep's father Radhakrishnan, who is bed-ridden and on ventilator support at home. The dependents of Pradeep will be given Rs 5 lakh assistance. According to a statement from the Chief Minister's office, job is being offered to Pradeep's wife by making relaxations in the provisions for giving jobs to dependents of those killed in wars or warlike incidents. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-govt-gives-job-rs-8-lakh-assistance-to-chopper-crash-victims-family-1061137.html
15-12-2021||South||No violations in reappointment of Kannur University V-C, says Kerala HC; Oppn to continue protest||In a relief to the left-front government in Kerala in the ongoing confrontation with the Governor over alleged politicisation of university appointments, the Kerala High Court on Wednesday rejected a plea against the controversial reappointment of Kannur University vice-chancellor Gopinath Ravindran. Justice Amit Rawal said that reappointment was different from appointment and the procedure adopted for the latter need not be followed when reappointing someone. "The expression 'appointment' and 'reappointment' have different connotation; for undergoing the reappointment the qualifications are prescribed under clause 7.3 of the UGC regulations ibid and there is no age bar and for reappointment, criteria of age would not be applicable," the court said. The High Court rejected the petition that Governor Arif Mohammed Khan, who is also the chancellor of the universities, issued the reappointment order by following the norms. Sources said that the recent revelations of the Governor in a letter to the Chief Minister that he acted under political influence and the letter that the higher education minister R Bindu, who is also pro-chancellor of universities, to the Governor recommending reappointment of the vice-chancellor were not considered by the court as these facts surfaced only after the hearing in the petition was over. Hence the petitioners, university senate member Premachandran Keezhoth and academic council member Shino P Jose, might be filing appeal. Meanwhile, the opposition Congress announced that it would continue its protest demanding the resignation of the higher education minister as the letter she gave to the Governor recommending extension to the vice-chancellor amounted to nepotism. Congress leader Ramesh Chenniithala is also moving Lok Ayukta against the minister. He also sent a letter to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan seeking the minister's resignation. Minister Bindu, who was keeping silent on the matter so far, said on Wednesday that making public communications between the pro-chancellor and chancellor was unethical. (With PTI inputs) Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/no-violations-in-reappointment-of-kannur-university-v-c-says-kerala-hc-oppn-to-continue-protest-1061156.html
15-12-2021||South||Tamil Nadu reports first case of Omicron variant||A 47-year-old man, who tested positive for Covid-19 after he returned from Nigeria via Doha, is found to have been infected with the Omicron variant following genomic sequencing of his samples. This is the first case of the “variant of concern” reported in Tamil Nadu. Six persons from the patient’s family and a co-traveller have also tested positive and their samples have also been sent for genomic sequencing after their samples showed S Gene drop. “The 47-year-old man who returned from Doha is infected with the Omicron variant of Covid-19. He is asymptomatic and is doing fine at the King Institute. Doctors told me that the patient has a mild infection, and he is double vaccinated,” Health Minister Ma Subramanian told reporters late Wednesday. Of the six family members, one is minor and the remaining have taken both doses of vaccination. “They are all doing fine, and there is nothing to worry about. Their condition reinforces the fact that vaccination reduces the risk of high levels of infection. We appeal to the people who are yet to take their jabs to come forward and get vaccinated immediately,” the minister said. Subramanian also said over 60 persons who returned from foreign countries have so far tested positive for Covid-19 following their screening at airports. Twelve government labs in the state have begun using Thermo Fischer TaqPath Assay as a proxy test for the Omicron variant, pending sequencing confirmation. The Thermo TaqPath RT-PCR test kits are being used to test samples taken from international travellers and others. Five labs in Chennai, two in Coimbatore and one each in Tiruchirappalli, Salem, Madurai, Tuticorin and Kanyakumari have begun testing the samples. All samples that return positive will be sent for genomic sequencing.  Tamil Nadu has so far administered over 7 crore vaccine doses and is fast-tracking vaccination by holding two special camps across the state every week. The state has also found that the death rate among the vaccinated population is very less, while it is quite high among the unvaccinated. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-reports-first-case-of-omicron-variant-1061177.html
15-12-2021||South||Archaeological Survey of India begins work on Keeladi excavation report||Five years after it wrapped up excavation in Keeladi in Tamil Nadu’s Sivaganga district, the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) has set in motion the process to write a detailed report on the findings in the first two phases of the exercise, during which over 5,800 artefacts were unearthed.  The ASI, which successfully conducted the first two phases in 2015 and 2016, had announced in 2017 that the third phase yielded “no significant findings” leading to an uproar in Tamil Nadu, where allegations of the Union government trying to “bury the past glory of Tamils” flew thick and fast.  A PIL was filed in the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court as the ASI’s declaration came after the superintending archaeologist who oversaw the first two phases was transferred to Assam and a new person was brought in.  The court then asked the Tamil Nadu State Department of Archaeology (TNSDA) to take over the excavation from the fourth phase in 2018. The TNSDA has now sought permission for conducting the eighth phase of excavation in Keeladi from the Central Advisory Board for Archaeology (CABA).  K Amarnath Ramakrishna, the superintending archaeologist who discovered the Sangam-era site and transferred out, is writing the report along with his team of archaeologists since he is now back in Tamil Nadu as Superintending Archaeologist, Temples Survey Project, Chennai Circle.  “The documentation, classification, and analysis of the first two phases of the Keeladi excavation carried out by the ASI have begun. This will be followed by a detailed report on the excavation. It is a work in progress, and I can’t give a timeline on when it will be over,” Ramakrishna told DH. The ASI also came under criticism in the past for not publishing the reports of the excavation, which created a huge buzz in Tamil Nadu.  The report, once published, will throw more light into the excavation at Keeladi and findings, with experts maintaining that the Sangam-era site will throw up more surprises with continued digging and detailed analyses of the artefacts unearthed.  Although seven phases of excavation in Keeladi have been completed, a detailed report for only the fourth phase has been released in the public domain. The TNSDA, which conducted the fourth phase, released its report in 2019 pushing back the Sangam era further behind by at least 300 years, based on carbon dating of artefacts found during the session.  Ramakrishna also said the ASI has collected over 80 samples to be sent for carbon dating. “Ten samples have been sent to Beta Analytical Lab in Florida in the US for carbon dating and this is being sponsored by the Tamil Nadu government. Twenty samples will be sent to Inter-University Accelerator Centre (IUAC) in New Delhi for detailed analysis,” he said.  Tamil Nadu government has been sending carbon samples for dating to the Beta Analytical Lab. While the samples sent from Keeladi were found to be 2,600 years old, those from Sivagalai dated back to 3,200 years.  Researchers and archaeologists in Tamil Nadu call the findings significant as they “narrow down” the gap between the Tamil urban settlements and the Indus Valley Civilisation (IVC). However, they say “more evidence” should be forthcoming before arriving at a definite conclusion.  The findings in Keeladi encouraged the TNSDA under the then AIADMK government to launch the excavation at many sites. The new DMK government gave much-needed impetus to the TNSDA by allotting “enough funds” and pushing for more excavations in the state to “dig deep into the past glory” of Tamils.  TNSDA has now sought permission to resume or start excavations in seven locations in 2022. Once the approval is received, the excavation will start in January. Permission has been sought for resuming the excavations in Keeladi (eighth phase), Sivagalai (third phase), Gangaikondacholapuram (second phase), and Mayiladumparai (second phase). The previous phases in these sites ended in September this year after which permission for resuming the excavations was sought, a top TNSDA official said.  The Keeladi cluster includes Agaram and Konthagai, a habitation and burial site, respectively. Sediments scrapped from the burial urns and skeletons found from the site have been sent for carbon dating and DNA analysis for further studies.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/archaeological-survey-of-india-begins-work-on-keeladi-excavation-report-1061193.html
15-12-2021||State||Over 1.36 lakh acres of Karnataka govt land encroached: R Ashoka||The state government is yet to recover 1.36 lakh acres of encroached government lands, Karnataka Revenue Minister R Ashoka told the Legislative Council on Wednesday. The minister also warned that the availability of land will be less in the coming days.  The extent of government land in the state is 62.72 lakh acres of which 14.27 lakh acres are encroached, according to data that Ashoka tabled.  Cases related to 6,732 acres are before the court, applications under the Akrama-Sakrama scheme are submitted for 9.97 lakh acres while 14,048 acres are used for public purposes. "Among 4.06 lakh acres of land needed to be cleared from encroachments, 2.70 lakh acres have been recovered by November-end," he said. The remaining 1.36 lakh acres will be recovered in a phased manner, he added.  Ashoka was responding to a question by BJP MLC YA Narayanaswamy. In Bengaluru Urban, Ashoka said that the extent of gomala and government land encroached is 38,888 acres. This number is 36,229 acres in Bengaluru Rural district. Of them, 16,420 acres in Bengaluru Urban and 11,779 acres in Bengaluru Rural have been recovered by the government.  Deputy commissioners of Bengaluru Urban and Bengaluru Rural have been instructed to conduct encroachment clearance activities every Saturday, and this work is going on, Ashoka said. "Encroached government land will be recovered without heeding to any pressure. Government land protection committees are also constituted in districts," Ashoka said. Narayanaswamy observed that land prices in several parts of Bengaluru sharply rose after the international airport came up at Devanahalli. "When the government lacks sufficient funds for development works, land grabbers are enjoying by encroaching government land. The government will be left with no land for essential works, if encroachments continue," he said. Ashoka said he will write to all legislators asking them to prioritise schools and hospitals while allotting government land. "It is better to allot government land after ensuring land for graveyard, school and hospital, as availability of land will be very less in the coming days," he said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/over-136-lakh-acres-of-karnataka-govt-land-encroached-r-ashoka-1061116.html
15-12-2021||State||Breach of privilege: Sandur tahsildar shunted out||Karnataka decided Wednesday to transfer Sandur tahsildar H G Rashmi after an uproar by Congress MLAs who accused her of breaching privilege.  The tahsildar was relieved from duty without a new posting after Congress legislators entered the well of the Legislative Assembly and demanded her suspension. The issue was raised in the Assembly by former minister and Sandur MLA E Tukaram after seeking to move a privilege motion. He said that he had written to the government in March this year after the tahsildar "insulted" him on multiple occasions. Though Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai and Law Minister JC Madhuswamy assured action, she continued to be tahsildar, he charged. Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah urged the government to suspend the tahsildar and initiate disciplinary action. Bommai responded saying that such cases occurred "once in a while" and that the government would transfer the official and conduct an inquiry. "Based on the enquiry report, we will take action," he said. However, the Congress was adamant about the official's suspension. Congress MLAs jumped into the well for a demonstration. The House was adjourned for ten minutes, following which Revenue Minister R Ashoka said that the official will be relieved immediately. "We will seek a report within a month and take action. We will not post her anywhere," he said, after which Congress MLAs withdrew their protest. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/breach-of-privilege-sandur-tahsildar-shunted-out-1061138.html
15-12-2021||State||GST compensation to Karnataka in phases: Centre||The Centre released Rs 1,603 crore on November 3 towards GST compensation to Karnataka from the Compensation Fund, Minister of State for Finance Pankaj Chaudhary informed Parliament on Wednesday. This is in addition to GST compensation of Rs 10,369 crore released to the state to partly meet the compensation payable for the period April’20 to March’21 as the amount in GST Compensation Fund was not adequate to meet the full compensation requirement, the Minister said in a written answer to question from BJP MP K C Ramamurthy. As per the provisions of the GST (Compensation to States) Act, 2017, GST compensation for financial years 2017-18, 2018-19 and 2019-20 has already been paid to Karnataka, he said. The economic impact of the pandemic has led to higher compensation requirement due to lower GST collection and at the same time lower collection of GST compensation cess. “The quantum of funds released to Karnataka as back to back loan was Rs 12,407 crore for FY 2020-21 and Rs 18,109 crore for FY 2021-22. The release of this amount has been front loaded during the financial year to enable States/UTs to undertake capital expenditure. "In addition, depending on the amount available in the Compensation Fund, Centre has also been releasing the regular GST compensation to States to make up for GST revenue shortfall. Taking into account, the GST compensation released from Compensation Fund as well as back-to-back loan released in FY 2020- 21 and FY 2021-22, GST compensation of Rs 3,528 crore for period April’20 to March’21 is due to Karnataka as per provisional figures,” the Minister said. The Minister also said that no GST compensation is due for the period April-September 2021. The centre is committed to release full GST Compensation to the States/UTs as per GST (Compensation to States) Act, 2017 for the transition period by extending the levy of Compensation cess beyond 5 years to meet the GST revenue shortfall as well as servicing the loan borrowed through special window scheme, he said. The issue of shortfall of cess collection into Compensation Fund and GST compensation to States/UTs due to economic impact of the pandemic has been deliberated in 41st, 42nd & 43rd GST council meetings, he added. As per the decision of GST Council, Rs 1.1 lakh crore for FY 2020-21 & Rs 1.59 lakh crore for FY 2021-22 has been released to States/ UTs as back to back loan to meet the resource of the States/UTs due to shortfall in GST compensation. This arrangement has been finalised after detailed deliberations with the States and all States have opted for this arrangement, the Minister said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/gst-compensation-to-karnataka-in-phases-centre-1061151.html
15-12-2021||State||Karnataka anti-conversion Bill may face JD(S) roadblock||JD(S) Legislature Party leader H D Kumaraswamy on Wednesday said his party will oppose the proposed anti-conversion Bill, which the ruling BJP plans to introduce in the Assembly early next week. With this, there is every chance for the Bill to get blocked.  Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has a comfortable majority in the Assembly but he depends on the JD(S) for numerical strength in the Legislative Council.  "This Bill is not required. The state should focus on burning issues. I have instructed MLAs and MLCs to oppose the anti-conversion Bill," Kumaraswamy told reporters in New Delhi.  "There are so many issues impacting the life of the common man. Farmers’ problems, price rise and natural calamities should be discussed in the session,” Kumaraswamy said.  The BJP’s plan to bring the anti-conversion Bill has irked minorities, especially Christians whose missionaries are under the radar.  The Congress Legislature Party (CLP) meeting in Belagavi held earlier in the day also resolved to oppose the Bill. “Congress legislators will oppose the Bill in both Houses,” Karnataka Congress president D K Shivakumar said.   "We will oppose it outside the legislature as well. We will oppose the Bill as it is against the Constitution,” he said, adding that there is no need for the Bill. “The government can’t target one particular community by using this law.”  Shivakumar also claimed that Bommai’s Cabinet is divided on whether or not the Bill is needed.  However, Home Minister Araga Jnanendra told reporters that the Bill will be finalised after a “careful and meticulous” discussion. The Bill will be tabled in the Assembly “mostly likely” on December 20.   The government has repeatedly stressed that the Bill will not target one particular community. According to Jnanendra, the Bill will streamline the process of religious conversion. “Article 25 bars forced conversion, but it doesn’t have penal clauses. We will introduce penal clauses,” he said.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-anti-conversion-bill-may-face-jds-roadblock-1061160.html
15-12-2021||State||JD(S) to oppose Karnataka's anti-conversion bill: Kumaraswamy||Former CM HD Kumaraswamy on Wednesday said JD(S) will oppose the proposed anti-conversion bill. "This bill is not required. The state should focus on burning issues. I have instructed MLAs and MLCs to oppose the anti-conversion bill," he told reporters. "There are so many issues that are impacting common man's lives. Farmers problems, price rise and natural calamity issues should be discussed in the session," he said. Reacting to Congress' allegations against the BJP government -- that it was a '40 per cent government' -- he said, "Congress is throwing stones at others sitting in a glasshouse." "Let Congress leaders tell how much they are honest. How much per cent had they collected when they ruled?" he said. "I have ensured a no percentage system during my administration. No political parties have morality to discuss percentage issues," he said. "When Siddaramaiah was the CM, there was a percentage system.  How can Siddaramaiah be making allegations against others? If JD(S) came to power on its own, I will end this percentage system in the government. Let people give absolute majority to the JD(S)," he said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/jds-to-oppose-karnatakas-anti-conversion-bill-kumaraswamy-1061200.html
15-12-2021||State||BJP to go slow on Karnataka anti-conversion bill?||The BJP legislature party meeting on Wednesday is said to have been inconclusive on the proposed anti-conversion bill.  According to sources, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai told the meeting that although the draft bill is ready, it needed some more discussion to be finalised. The government will discuss the pros and cons of the bill before introducing it in the Assembly. The Opposition Congress has raised complaints about the delay in issuing copies of the bill to legislators, even as a section of the BJP is inclined to table it.  During the meeting, complaints were raised about the manner of functioning of some ministers in the Cabinet. Grievances were also aired over the release of funds to constituencies. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/bjp-to-go-slow-on-karnataka-anti-conversion-bill-1061217.html
15-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Give Backward Class status to Kodava community, Karnataka High Court tells state government||The Karnataka High Court on Tuesday directed the state government to accept the recommendation of the Karnataka State Commission for Backward Classes extending backward caste status to Kodavas. The court quashed two government orders, in 2015 and in September 2021, rejecting the recommendations of the Commission. The petition was filed by Codava National Council. The court noted that the recommendation was made after thorough investigation by the expert statutory body twice, first in 2005 and then in 2010. The purpose of the recommendation was to enable the members of the community to avail benefits of reservation under category 3-A. The petitioner’s counsel cited section 9(2) of the Karnataka State Commission for Backward Classes Act, 1995, saying the advice of the commission shall ordinarily be binding on the government. The government advocate said that since the provision uses the word “ordinarily”, it is open to the government to accept the advice or not. “In justifiable cases, that the government may not accept the advice, is also true; however, for not accepting, it has to offer cogent and compelling reasons; otherwise, as a norm, advice has to be accepted,” Justice Krishna S Dixit said adding that an argument to the contrary cannot be sustained without violating the policy content and principal object of the Act. The court also noted that there was a direction issued earlier by the HC in this regard. “Government cannot treat advice of a Commission of this stature as being susceptible to the views of another unknown authority; ours is a ‘welfare state’ and not the East India Company; what bewilders this court is the reiteration of the same stand with the duplication of the text of the order, despite a direction issued by a co-ordinate bench,” it said. The government has been directed to file a compliance report to the Registrar General within three months, failing which it has warned of heavy costs. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/give-backward-class-status-to-kodava-community-karnataka-high-court-tells-state-government-1060868.html
15-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Bad weather could affect mango crop in Karnataka||The recent unseasonal rains and cloudy conditions in parts of Karnataka could impact the mango crop for the second consecutive year, with a technical committee constituted by the government mango board terming 2022 as an 'off year' for the beloved fruit. "The major concern of experts is the high level of moisture in the soil," said K V Nagaraju, Chairperson, Karnataka State Mango Development and Marketing Corporation Ltd (KSMDMCL). "Unseasonal rains have also hampered the flower initiation process. Despite winter setting in, it is still raining in many parts due to which congenial weather conditions have not been created for the flowering process. Dry and cold weather is necessary for mango flowers to blossom." Nagaraju said that farmers must drain out excess stagnant water in the fields to enable land to dry quickly rather than wait for it to evaporate on its own. According to technical experts, the flower initiation process begins in November-December (winter) months. "Although good vegetative growth is observed, there is no guarantee that it will give a good yield. The estimation of yield can be done only after full-fledged flowering," a botanist said. Nagaraju said that even if plants are "healthy", it doesn't mean "they will bear flowers and fruits". He pointed out that the delay in flowering will lead to an increase in the waiting period for the availability of fruits. The delay in the flowering process is expected to hit the production period that will overlap with the rainy season. "If it rains during the fruiting season, it will lead to fly infestation and the entire crop will be wiped out. We have been sensitising farmers about this threat and need for the spray before and after flowering," Nagaraju said. In the 2021 mango season, the KSMDMCL sold 72.71 tonnes of mangoes through the online portal Karsiri, which received a total of 22,371 orders.  As many as 24,239 boxes or 72.71 tonnes of mangoes were sold to 47,740 buyers, with the total sale value amounting to Rs 1.10 crore. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bad-weather-could-affect-mango-crop-in-karnataka-1060878.html
15-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Ashwath Narayan says church attack videos 'fabricated', allegations 'baseless': Report||Former Deputy Chief Minister of Karnataka, Ashwath Narayan CN, has dismissed the reports of the attacks on the Christian community in the state and said the videos of the incidents “might be fabricated". Ever since the state cabinet started discussing the anti-conversion bill, at least seven attacks by right-wing vigilantes have come to light. Incidents of burning the religious books, to attacking the church and its members have been reported. Recently, in a shocking incident, an unknown person attempted to attack a church priest with a sword in the Belagavi district. The visuals of the entry and exit of the attacker were caught on CCTV. Ashwath Narayan dismissed the claims of the videos and said it could be between “individual to individual.” "Some people might have created it to create this kind of perception, this kind of campaign. It can be created by anybody... Some people with vested interests are creating this kind of campaign," he added. Even though the church leaders have been blaming the state’s anti-conversion bill for these attacks, Ashwath Narayan denied the links between the attacks and the bill. He said that the anti-conversion bill is only a “thought going on in the government to work in this direction, to regulate,” which has not yet been put out in the assembly for discussion. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ashwath-narayan-says-church-attack-videos-fabricated-allegations-baseless-report-1061007.html
15-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt hikes festival advance to Rs 25,000||Bringing some relief to government employees amid the price rise of essential commodities, Karnataka has hiked their festival advance to Rs 25,000.  At present, the government gives Rs 10,000. The decision to increase the festival advance was taken following a demand from the Karnataka State Employees Association.  A finance department order in this regard said all permanent government employees, including the IAS cadre, would be eligible for this advance. An employee can avail the advance, free of interest, once a year. The amount has to be returned within ten months, the order stated.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-hikes-festival-advance-to-rs-25000-1061023.html
15-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Minister accused of land grab, 15 Cong MLCs suspended||The Karnataka Legislative Council witnessed high drama on Wednesday as 15 Congress members were suspended for the day's session for a demonstration against Urban Development Minister Byrati Basavaraj's alleged role in the usurping of land worth Rs 400 crore. The controversy began Wednesday morning with Congress leaders moving an adjournment motion to discuss the land grabbing case, without mentioning the name of the minister. Congress chief whip M Narayanaswamy said a minister and a legislator were involved in the serious case of land grabbing. Law Minister JC Madhuswamy pointed out that the case was in Court, following which Horatti ruled that there was no scope to discuss sub-judice matters and refused the motion. Unimpressed, Congress MLCs continued to protest even as the session resumed after lunch. Rushing to the Well of the House, the MLCs shouted slogans against the BJP government and demanded the resignation of the minister. As their protests continued unabated in spite of repeated pleas from the chairperson to maintain order, the BJP moved a motion for their suspension under Rule 327 of the House.   Horatti handed out a day's suspension to 15 MLCs: SR Patil, M Narayanaswamy, BK Hariprasad, Pratapchandra Shetty, CM Ibrahim, Nazeer Ahmed, RB Thimmapur, Basavaraj Patil Itagi, Aravinda Kumar Arali, UB Venkatesh, MA Gopalaswamy, CM Lingappa, Veena Achaiah, PR Ramesh and Harish Kumar. However, they refused to leave. After about an hour of din, the House was adjourned for the day. Speaking to reporters later, Narayanaswamy said, “We will seek the opportunity to discuss this issue on Thursday too.”  Narayanaswamy, Hariprasad and Ramesh told reporters that the a metropolitan magistrate court had, last month, directed a criminal case to be registered against five accused, including Basavaraj and MLC R Shankar, in connection with creation and registration of fake documents related to the land of one late Annaiappa and others in Kalkere village, K R Pura hobli, Bengaluru East taluk, before the land was partitioned and sold. Narayanaswamy charged that Basavaraj and Shankar conspired to forge the land documents, registered it through an imposter, and sold the sites.  Basavaraj denied the allegation and called it "a conspiracy hatched by some invisible hands".  “It's an attempt to tarnish my image. An FIR was filed against me earlier, which the High Court quashed. I'll fight this in court. In the coming days, I'll reveal the conspirators." Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-minister-accused-of-land-grab-15-cong-mlcs-suspended-1061064.html
15-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Assembly passes anti-conversion bill: What we know so far||The Karnataka Assembly passed Thursday the controversial anti-conversion bill amid protests as the ruling BJP cornered the Congress with documents to show that the proposed law was first drafted when Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah was the chief minister in 2016. The anti-conversion bill comes in the backdrop of several instances of attacks by right-wing groups on churches. In September, the Hindu Jagarana Vedike barged into a church in Udupi, alleging that people were being illegally converted to Christianity by the pastor Likewise in October, Bajrang Dal and Vishwa Hindu Parishad gathered inside a makeshift church in Dharwad district and started singing bhajans. There have been over 30 instances of attacks in Karnataka churches since the beginning of the year, mostly by right-wing groups, alleging that forceful conversions are taking place in the state. Simultaneously a law on 'Love-Jihad' is also on the government's agenda. Provisions of the anti-conversion bill: The Bill will specify the action that is to be taken if forced religious conversion is taking place. The Bill may also have penal provisions and the person who wants to convert should notify the Deputy Commissioner and must lose his original religious/caste identity. The person who wishes to convert is likely to lose the religion of his or her origin and facilities or benefits attached with it, including reservations; however, one is likely to receive the benefits entitled to in the religion he or she converts to. The Bill states, “No person shall convert or attempt to convert either directly or otherwise any other person from one religion to another by use of misrepresentation, force, undue influence, coercion, allurement or by any fraudulent means or by marriage, nor shall any person abet or conspire for conversions.” It exempts a person who “reconverts to his immediate previous religion” as “the same shall not be deemed to be a conversion under this Act”. As per the Bill, family members or any other person related to the individual who is getting converted can file a complaint. For violators from general categories, a jail term of three to five years and a fine of Rs 25,000 has been proposed and a jail term of three to 10 years and a fine of Rs 50,000 for those converting minors, women or persons from SC/ST communities. The Bill proposes compensation of Rs 5 lakh for victims of conversion by those attempting the conversion and double punishment for repeat offences. Marriages with the intention of conversion can be declared null and void by a court. The offence is deemed to be cognizable and non-bailable, and it can be tried in a magistrate’s court under the Bill. Any person intending to convert will have to notify the district magistrate two months in advance when the law is enforced, and the person carrying out the conversion must provide one month notice. The district magistrate will then conduct an enquiry through the police on the real purpose, says the Bill. If authorities are not informed, a prison term of six months to three years will be given for persons who convert, and a term of one to five years for those carrying out conversions. Where it began: Hosadurga legislator Goolihatti Shekhar, raising the issue during Zero Hour, said “forced” religious conversions are rampant in the state. “My mother has been converted by a Christian.  She was brainwashed into not keeping vermilion on her forehead, abandoning idol worship and so on. Even her phone’s ringtone is a Christian song,” he said. Jnanendra said the government is aware of religious conversions taking place. “It’s a punishable offence to get people to convert into a religion by way of inducement," he said, adding that they should perhaps bring in a law. Several states including Uttar Pradesh already have laws regarding religious conversions for marriage. Objections raised against the Bill: The Karnataka Region Catholic Bishops Council opposed the state government's proposal to introduce an 'Anti-Conversion Bill', cautioning that the move could precipitate "uncontrolled communal conflagrations" in the state. "Since independence, there has been hardly any increase in the number of Christians and it (the Bill) is all made out to suit the political agenda of some political parties," the Council said in a memorandum to Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai."If the bill is passed in the Assembly and translated into a law, we fear that it will give way for large-scale uncontrolled communal conflagrations," the Council said, adding such a bill will only cause "more harm than good". Mangalore MLA and former Minister U T Khader termed the anti-conversion bill as an attempt to divert the attention of the people of the state from the failure of the state government. “It is the BJP’s agenda to divert the attention of the people and a political gimmick,” he told media persons in Mangaluru. Former advocate general Ravivarma Kumar said there were no forced conversions in the state. “The obsession of the government to prevent conversions is unwarranted. Any force exerted can only be by the majority community and not the minority community. Moreover, forceful conversion is already a punishable offense under the IPC. The sections applicable are 120B, 153A, 295A, 298, 493, 496, 498, 505, 506, 508 and 509. It does not warrant separate legislation. This is proposed only to terrorise the minorities,” he said. Further, such a law opens up the possibility of its application to inter-caste and interfaith marriages, too. What the leadership has said: Defending the Bill, Bommai had said that the government will bring in laws that are in the larger interest of society. Every law will have pros and cons and there will be discussions. "But, what is good for the people would be made as a law. We are ready to discuss the new law in the session," he said. Jnanendra said it will not target any one religion. "Article 25 of the Constitution says there shouldn't be forced conversion. But, it doesn't spell out the action that needs to be taken. We are only framing rules," he said. Meanwhile, Dr Ashwathnarayan, former Deputy CM said that "there has been no attack on the Christian community in Karnataka because of their religion and a spin is given to attacks on a personal level to create a campaign" He also said that these allegations were 'baseless' and videos claiming these attacks are 'fabricated' (With DHNS, agency inputs) Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-assembly-passes-anti-conversion-bill-what-we-know-so-far-1061074.html
15-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Police given free hand to act against perpetrators of communal incidents: Karnataka Home Minister||Karnataka Home Minister Araga Jnanendra on Wednesday assured the Legislative Assembly that the government will hand out "merciless" treatment towards people disturbing peace and harmony, especially in coastal areas where communal incidents are reportedly on the rise.   "Police have a free hand to take action as per law. Our police are responding seriously to such incidents irrespective of the religion of the perpetrators of communal incidents," Jnanendra said, requesting people to cooperate with the government in the maintenance of peace.  Jnanendra said the police themselves were attacked in Uppinangady by a crowd involving 300-400 people to retaliate arrests that were made in a case. "We will have to take strict action in such cases," he said.   Jnanendra said this in response to concerns raised by Congress MLA UT Khader who said people were worried over increase in communal incidents by "goonda" elements. "There are attacks happening on students inside educational institutions. Recently a student was attacked outside NIT-K. The perpetrators were arrested in the morning and released in the evening," Khader said. Khader pointed out Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai's 'action-for-reaction' statement on moral policing incidents.  Khader also criticised the 'Trishula Deekshe' (distribution of tridents) organised by some right-wing groups and wondered if knives will be distributed next.  Jnanendra laid statistics on the number of communal incidents in coastal districts suggesting that they are declining. "In 2017, there were 119 incidents, followed by 26 in 2018, seven in 2019, four in 2020 and five this year," he said. Congress MLA Anjali Nimbalkar alleged that the cases in recent years were fewer as police did not register FIRs. Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/police-given-free-hand-to-act-against-perpetrators-of-communal-incidents-karnataka-home-minister-1061108.html
15-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Speed up pending National Highway works in Kalyana Karnataka: Kharge to Gadkari||Opposition Leader in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge urged Union Road Transport Minister Nitin Gadkari to complete the pending National Highway works at the earliest in Gulbarga parliamentary constituency and Kalyana Karnataka.  Mallikarjun Kharge, who recently met Gadkari, urged him to take remedial measures immediately to remove a curve near Hallikhed-K village on National Highway-50 between Humnabad to Vijayapur. He said, the road is narrow and has a sharp curve. Due to which several accidents are taking place frequently and is also posing a huge risk to the life of the people in the area as well as travellers using this road. Hence, the official concerned should be directed to inspect the spot ane take remedial measures and sanction the road work by widening and removing the sharp curve for the safe vehicular movement and the safety of the people. Inter-state road connectivity Kharge said expand inter-state connectivity of State highway from Hyderabad to Vijayapur up to Sindagi (via Chevalla-Parago-Kodangal-Gurmatkal-Yadgir- Shahapur and Bheemarayana Gudi touching NH-50 at Sindagi). The union road transport ministry has upgraded the inter-state connectivity as NH-163. The entire road work was supposed to be sanctioned as per the nomenclature of NH-163 but the road work was sanctioned by the ministry up to the Karnataka border.  He said, the work is completed and vehicular movement is allowed. The remaining 150 km passing through the Hyderabad-Karnataka region is required to be sanctioned on a priority and the work should be commenced at the earliest. The approval of Kalaburagi bypass road from Afzalpur cross-Humnabad cross- NH-50-Shahabad cross-NH-150 and on to Jewargi road NH-50 has been pending in the ministry for a long time. “When contacted I was told that it was processed and reached the stage of giving new NH number but it is still pending. Therefore, the concerned officials should be directed to approve the aforesaid road project without further delay," the veteran Congress leader appealed to the minister.  Bypass road for Yadgir city  Kharge said the road work on NH-150, Gulbarga-Raichur including a bypass for Yadgir city was sanctioned simultaneously. While the road work was completed and the vehicular movement was allowed, the bypass road of Yadgir city has not yet been started even after five years. As a result, the people of the area are unable to utilise the road facility provided by the government. The delay in completion of the works will lead to the escalation of the project cost and additional burden on the government exchequer, he said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/speed-up-pending-national-highway-works-in-kalyana-karnataka-kharge-to-gadkari-1061135.html
15-12-2021||West||Court issues another summons against Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik in defamation case||Observing that documents and video clips cited by the complainant prima facie showed that Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik had made defamatory statements, a court here issued another summons against him in a defamation case filed by former Mumbai BJP youth wing president Mohit Kamboj Bharatiya in connection with a cruise ship drugs case. The magistrate court directed Malik to appear before it by December 30. The summons was issued on Monday after a second defamation complaint was filed by Bharatiya but the detailed order was made available on Tuesday. This is the second such complaint filed by Bharatiya against Malik seeking action for offences under Indian Penal Code section 500 (punishment for defamation) before the court of the metropolitan magistrate in Sewree in south Mumbai. Both the complaints pertain to multiple press conferences held by Malik after drugs were allegedly seized by the NCB from a cruise ship in Mumbai in October. Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan is one of the accused who was arrested in the case. He was later released on bail on the orders of the Bombay HC. Bharatiya had alleged that Malik defamed him and his family by making baseless allegations against them. In his order, Metropolitan Magistrate P I Mokashi observed that the documents and video clips cited by Bharatiya showed that Malik had made defamatory statements against him" so that it can be seen by the public at large." The magistrate further noted that it is prima-facie proved by the complainant that the words spoken by accused Nawab Malik were such that it has harmed the reputation of the complainant. Malik had last month appeared before the magistrate court in response to a summons issued to him in a criminal defamation complaint filed by Bharatiya. The court granted Malik bail on furnishing a surety and executing a bond.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/court-issues-another-summons-against-maharashtra-minister-nawab-malik-in-defamation-case-1060923.html
15-12-2021||West||60-year-old man held for raping teenage girl in Thane||Police on Wednesday arrested a 60-year-old man for allegedly raping a minor girl working at his house in Maharashtra's Thane district, an official said. The accused committed the offence on several occasions since May this year at a village here, Ganesh police station's assistant inspector Sunil Jadhav said quoting the victim's complaint. The 14-year-old victim lost her father some years back and her mother abandoned her. She worked as a babysitter at the accused of the house and also grazed cattle there, he said. The accused allegedly raped her on a number of occasions when she used to go out to a forest nearby to graze the cattle, and also threatened her with dire consequences, the official said. On Monday, the wife of the accused came to know about the crime and informed her neighbour, who took the girl to a local social organisation which helped the victim in lodging a police complaint, he said. The accused was subsequently arrested and a case was registered against him under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, he said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/60-year-old-man-held-for-raping-teenage-girl-in-thane-1060953.html
15-12-2021||West||Gujarat HC notice to Gujarat, Centre over PIL on marital rape||The Gujarat High Court has issued notices to the state and Centre in response to a PIL challenging the constitutional validity of marital rape. The PIL has challenged the section 375(2) of IPC which exonerates a husband from punishment of rape for forcible physical relations with his legally wedded wife without her consent. The petition is filed by Jaideep Verma, where he has challenged the exception given to men under section 375, which creates artificial distinctions on rights conferred on women to file a criminal complaint and also takes away their fundamental rights guaranteed in the Constitution. Verma has stated that the sub section 2 of 375 violates the sexual autonomy of women, where has been defined that sexual intercourse or sexual act by a man with his wife, with the wife not being under 15 year of age, is not rape. "This violates right to live with dignity, right to refuse, right to reproductive choices, right to privacy etc. It also creates artificial distinction in that if the women can file complaint against husband in case of physical assault why it can't be considered an offence like in case of rape, which is more serious," states the PIL. On Tuesday, the High Court issued notices to both the state as well as the central governments which are returnable on January 19. The court observed that ''...it is high time that a writ court undertakes the exercise of considering, whether the exception-2 to section 375 of the IPC could be termed as manifestly arbitrary and makes a woman's fundamental right to sexual autonomy subject to the whims of her husband''. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-hc-notice-to-gujarat-centre-over-pil-on-marital-rape-1060991.html
15-12-2021||West||Bombay High Court exempts Aryan Khan from weekly appearance at NCB office||The Bombay High Court on Wednesday exempted Aryan Khan, the son of Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan, from his weekly appearance before the Narcotics Control Bureau's (NCB) office here in connection with the cruise drugs case. A single bench of Justice N W Sambre said the condition imposed on Aryan Khan while granting him bail that he has to appear before the NCB office every Friday is modified. "The applicant (Aryan) shall attend the office of NCB Delhi as and when directed by the agency, provided the NCB issues a 72-hour notice to the applicant," Justice Sambre said. The court also modified another condition laid down in the bail order that required him to furnish his itinerary to the NCB every time he travels out of Mumbai. "The applicant need not submit his itinerary if he is travelling to Delhi for recording his statement. He shall submit his itinerary to the NCB in case of any other travel outside Mumbai," Justice Sambre said. Aryan Khan was granted bail by the HC in the case on October 28. One of the conditions imposed on him was that he should appear before the NCB's south Mumbai office every Friday to mark his presence. The 23-year-old last week filed an application seeking waiver of this condition on the ground that the case is now being probed by a Special Investigation Team (SIT) of the NCB's Delhi office. "The NCB's Mumbai office has now nothing to do with the case. My client (Aryan) has been cooperating with the probe and has, in fact, also appeared before the SIT probing the case and recorded his statement," Aryan Khan's counsel Amit Desai argued. He said Aryan Khan has no hesitation to appear before the NCB's SIT at Delhi as and when summons are issued to him. NCB's advocate Shreeram Shirsat told the court that the agency does not have any objection to the modification. "However, the applicant should appear before the NCB's SIT as and when summoned either in Mumbai or Delhi," Shirsat told the court. Desai further argued that every time Aryan Khan appears before the NCB's office in Mumbai, there is a huge crowd and he has to be accompanied by police personnel, which causes unnecessary hassle. Aryan Khan was arrested by the NCB on October 3 on charges of alleged possession, consumption and sale/purchase of drugs following a raid on a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast. He was granted later granted bail by the HC, which had imposed 14 conditions on him. He was asked, among other things, to appear before the NCB every Friday, not to leave Mumbai without informing the agency and not to leave India without permission from the special NDPS court. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bombay-high-court-exempts-aryan-khan-from-weekly-appearance-at-ncb-office-1061005.html
15-12-2021||West||Ex-corporator Rupali Patil-Thombare resigns from MNS||Former corporator Rupali Patil-Thombare, who was with the MNS for last 14 years, on Wednesday said she has resigned from the Raj Thackeray-led party. Thombare, who led various agitations for the Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS), told reporters that she had quit on personal grounds. Notably, her announcement has come at a time when Thackeray is on a tour of Pune. Thombare said that she has offers from a couple of parties, but has not yet decided about it. "I have resigned as the primary member and also from all positions in the party on personal grounds. Though I have resigned, MNS chief Raj Thackeray will remain in her heart," she said. Thombare said she will make her next stand clear soon. "I have conveyed my feelings to Thackeray saheb through senior leaders," she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ex-corporator-rupali-patil-thombare-resigns-from-mns-1061039.html
15-12-2021||West||Omicron scare: Section 144 extended in Mumbai for 14 days||With over two dozen cases of new highly-infectious Covid-19 variant Omicron, the Maharashtra government has decided to curb huge gatherings and launch crackdown against violators.  The total Omicron cases now have shot up to 32 with four new cases being reported - two from Osmanabad and one each from Mumbai and Buldhana. The Mumbai Police has extended the 144 CrPC by another fortnight. “Section 144 will be imposed from 0001 hrs of 16 December and will be in force till 2400 hrs of 31 December,” states the order signed by deputy commissioner of police (operations) Chaitanya S. The BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation is also planning to have extra vigilance.  Meanwhile, additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said that two special squads would be positioned in each of the 24 wards of the city and if need be, the strength would be doubled.  Meanwhile, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray is presiding over the weekly Cabinet meeting in which the Covid-19 situation and vaccination drive would be reviewed.  Meanwhile, schools in Mumbai reopened for Classes I-VII on Wednesday after more than 20 months amid a rising threat against the Omicron variant of coronavirus across the country.“Looking at the way the Omicron variant is on the rise, no big events will be allowed,” said Mumbai City guardian minister Aslam Shaikh.  The Mumbai Police and  BMC has reiterated that any persons concerned with organising any programme, service providers, visitors and guests should be fully vaccinated.  All shops, malls, events, and gatherings must be manned by fully vaccinated persons and only vaccinated persons would be allowed. For closed/open space, only 50 per cent capacity would be allowed.      Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/omicron-scare-section-144-extended-in-mumbai-for-14-days-1061044.html
15-12-2021||West||Give 7-day notice to IPS Rashmi Shukla in case of coercive steps in phone tapping case: HC to Maharashtra govt||The Bombay High Court on Wednesday directed the Maharashtra government to give a seven-day notice to senior IPS officer Rashmi Shukla in case of any coercive steps are to be taken against her in the alleged phone tapping and leak of sensitive documents case. A division bench of Justices Nitin Jamdar and Sarang Kotwal also rejected a petition filed by Shukla seeking to quash the FIR registered by the Mumbai police and to transfer the case to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). She is not named in the FIR. Shukla, currently serving as ADGP, CRPF (south zone) and posted in Hyderabad, had headed the Maharashtra Intelligence Department when the alleged phone tapping took place last year. "Both the prayers - quashing of the FIR and transfer the case to CBI are rejected. If the state government intends to take any coercive steps against the petitioner (Shukla) then it shall give a seven days notice to the petitioner," the bench said. The bench gave the order on the petition filed by Shukla. In October this year, the Maharashtra government had told the HC that Shukla was not named as an accused in the case but there is material against her to conduct the investigation. Shukla, in her petition, had alleged that she was being made a scapegoat and was being targeted by the Maharashtra government for submitting a report on the alleged corruption in police transfers and postings. The plea further said that the state intelligence department, which she was heading at that time, had taken the requisite permissions from the Additional Chief Secretary of the Maharashtra government before the surveillance. In her petition, Shukla stated that she had exposed the alleged nexus between ministers and politicians and other gross corruption involved in assigning postings to police officers. The FIR was registered at the BKC Cyber police station in Mumbai in March this year against unidentified persons for allegedly tapping phones illegally and leaking certain confidential documents and information. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/give-7-day-notice-to-ips-rashmi-shukla-in-case-of-coercive-steps-in-phone-tapping-case-hc-to-maharashtra-govt-1061068.html
15-12-2021||West||Supreme Court dismisses Maharashtra's plea for use of Socio-Economic Caste Census 2011 data||The Supreme Court on Wednesday rejected the Maharashtra government's plea for a direction to the Centre to provide data on Socio-Economic Caste Census collected in 2011, saying issuing such an order would lead to confusion and uncertainty that cannot be countenanced. A bench presided over by Justice A M Khanwilkar noted that the Union government's submission that the 2011 caste census was unusable for official purposes because of grave inaccuracies and cannot form the basis for reservations in admission, promotion or local body polls. The bench, also comprising Justice MM Sundresh, said, "Excess representation is also anti-thesis to democratic values". The top court dismissed the writ petition filed by the Maharashtra government. On December 6, the court had stayed 27 per cent reservation for the Other Backward Classes in the local body elections, brought in through an ordinance by the Maharashtra government.   Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, submitted that Socio-Economic and Caste Census 2011 was not made public as it was found to be flawed and was bound to mislead. He said no reliance can be placed on SECC 2011 not only for reservation but also for employment, education or any other purpose. Senior advocate Shekhar Naphade, appearing for the Maharashtra government, submitted that Article 243D(6) of the Constitution enabled a state legislature to provide reservations for backward classes in local bodies and the Central government had a legal obligation under the Census Act to do caste enumeration for implementing reservation in local bodies. With regard to Centre's claim that SECC data was full of errors, he said there has to be an examination by an independent committee of experts. The court, however, said, "The fact remains that the affidavit by the Union government emphatically states that the data which is collated is not accurate and not usable. If that is the stand, we fail to understand how mandamus can be issued to permit the State of Maharashtra to use the date for any purpose." Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/supreme-court-dismisses-maharashtras-plea-for-use-of-socio-economic-caste-census-2011-data-1061118.html
15-12-2021||West||Shivaji Maharaj developed Hindu vote bank, Vajpayee, Advani, Modi nursed it: Maharashtra BJP chief||In a statement that sparked off a political controversy in Maharashtra, state BJP president Chandrakant Patil stated that the Maratha warrior Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj was the first to create a Hindu vote bank and leaders like Narendra Modi, Atal Bihari Vajpayee and Lal Krishna Advani carried it forward.  The three ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi allies - Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress - lashed out at Patil, who had also served as state revenue minister in the Devendra Fadnavis-government.  “Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj and several ‘sant’ and ‘mahant’ developed a Hindu vote bank….late (prime minister) Atal Bihari Vajpayee, (former deputy prime minister and home minister) Lal Krishna Advani and (prime minister) Narendra Modi cultivated and nursed it,” Patil said while speaking to reporters in Pune. Patil's statement came when he was driving home a point on tickets and vote banks. “…one must remember that a ticket (to contest an election) belongs to the party…the vote bank belongs to the party,” he said. Patil went on to add that Veer Savarkar and then Shiv Sena supremo Balasaheb Thackeray inculcated the ideology among the people. “That is why Balasaheb is called HindiHriday Samrat,” he said.  Reacting to the statement, Shiv Sena chief spokesperson and Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Raut said: “….I do not know whether Shivaji Maharaj created a Hindu vote bank, but I am aware that he laid the foundation of the ‘Hindavi’ swaraj (self-rule of Hindu people).”  He said that Shiv Sena fought a bye-election in 1992 on Hindutva. “At that time, no one imagined that the Sena could contest the elections on the issue of Hindutva….we must recall that Shiv Sena MLAs Ramesh Prabhu, Suryakant Mahadik had even been disqualified for contesting elections on the issue of Hindutva. I don’t see any MP or MLA from BJP facing this,” he said.  NCP MP Amol Kolhe said that it is a highly condemnable statement. “I think, Patil must brush up his history,” said Dr Kolhe, who had essayed the role of Shivaji Maharaj in a TV serial. “The way Patil made a statement shows the mentality of Sangh Parivar-BJP…they are trying to compare Shivaji Maharaj with Narendra Modi,” said Congress’s state general secretary Sachin Sawant. Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/shivaji-maharaj-developed-hindu-vote-bank-vajpayee-advani-modi-nursed-it-maharashtra-bjp-chief-1061119.html
15-12-2021||West||Supreme Court directs Maharashtra to notify 27% seats reserved for OBCs as general||In a setback to the Maharashtra government, the Supreme Court on Wednesday directed the State Election Commission to notify 27 per cent of seats reserved for Other Backward Classes to the general category so that the poll process can be taken forward. The court had on December 6 stayed the local body election in Maharashtra over seats reserved for the OBCs. A bench of Justices AM Khanwilkar and CT Ravikumar directed the SEC to issue a fresh notification for the 27 per cent seats within a week. “In other words, the SEC must immediately issue fresh notification for the 27 per cent seats, reserved for OBC, as general category and initiate election process for these seats along with the election process, already on its way for the remaining 73 per cent of seats, in the concerned local body,” the bench said. The court said it is not possible to allow reservation for OBC category without collecting all data on the inadequacy of representation. The bench said there is no reason to modify the December 6 order in that regard. It, however, said the hiatus cannot be continued for an indefinite period and issue fresh notification. The court said this direction would apply even to the by-elections of the concerned local bodies. It posted the matter for hearing on January 17.  During the hearing, senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for Maharashtra, sought time from the court for a commission to go into exercise for collecting relevant data in terms of the constitutional mandate. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/supreme-court-directs-maharashtra-to-notify-27-seats-reserved-for-obcs-as-general-1061131.html
