16-12-2021||First Edit||Union Minister Ajay Mishra's position untenable||The finding of the Special Investigation Team (SIT) probing the Lakhimpur Kheri violence of October 3 that the killing of four farmers and a journalist was the result of a “pre-planned conspiracy’’ has changed the complexion of the case. From the beginning, the Uttar Pradesh police had downplayed the case of violence against farmers agitating against the farm laws. According to reports and eyewitness accounts, Ashish Mishra, son of Union minister Ajay Mishra, had driven his car into the crowd of farmers and opened fire, killing the farmers. The Supreme Court was not happy with the investigation of the case by the state police and had upgraded the SIT by adding three IPS officers to it “to preserve the faith and trust of people”, and appointed retired Punjab and Haryana High Court Justice Rakesh Jain to monitor it. The SIT has raised the case to a new level now.  The SIT has submitted in the Chief Judicial Magistrate’s court that the killings “did not happen due to negligence or callousness” and that the actions of the accused were “deliberate, with an intention to kill.” It has sought dropping of the original charges of death due to negligence and rash driving and adding of the charges of attempt to murder and voluntarily causing grievous hurt with common intention. The fresh charges are to be framed under Section 307 and others, which were not part of the FIR lodged after the incident. Ashish Mishra, who is the main accused, and 12 others who were booked under Section 302 of the IPC for murder and other charges, are lodged in jail now. They will also face fresh charges.  The court has accepted the new charges, except the charge of common intent. The addition of the charge of conspiracy would make the position of Ajay Mishra more vulnerable. The minister had tried to defend his son and claimed that he was not involved in the violence. He has also said in public that the agitating farmers had attacked the vehicle which lost control and ran over them. The charge of a “pre-planned conspiracy’’ behind the incident might even lead the investigation to him. The farmers and others had demanded the minister's resignation or dismissal. Now, the demand is bound to become stronger. The case has a lot of resonance with the farmers and is especially sensitive at a time when the state is heading for Assembly elections. The BJP has tried to shield Ajay Mishra and the Prime Minister has not listened to demands for his dismissal. But the new turn in the case might make continued support for Mishra more difficult.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/union-minister-ajay-mishras-position-untenable-1061366.html
16-12-2021||First Edit||Heed WHO warning on Omicron||The World Health Organisation’s (WHO) latest warning that the new Covid-19 variant, Omicron, is spreading fast and that all countries should act swiftly to rein in transmission and protect their healthcare systems should be taken seriously. WHO has said that Omicron infections have been reported in 77 countries and it had probably spread to most nations undetected "at a rate we have not seen with any previous variant”. The first death caused by it has been reported in Britain and the number of cases has started increasing in South Africa, the UK and some other European countries. Europe accounts for most cases reported till now. In the UK, there is an official warning of a “tidal wave” of Omicron infections. According to some projections, the wave of infections may peak in January-February.  The nature and behaviour of the variant can be fully understood only in the coming weeks but there is a view that it is not as dangerous as the Delta variant. It has not caused too many deaths in the countries where it has been reported but is considered to be more transmissive. The efficacy of existing vaccines against it is not fully established. Though one vaccine has been claimed to be 70% effective in stopping severe illness from Omicron, another has been seen to have no anti-body protections against it. In any case, EU health agency ECDC has said that there is too little time to stop the spread of Omicron with the help of vaccination. WHO experts have strongly warned against "jumping to a conclusion that this is a mild disease” and that “we could be setting ourselves up for a very dangerous situation.” Some European countries have started reintroducing restrictions and closures, especially in view of the approaching Christmas days. There are also worries that the variant might affect the global economic recovery, which is yet to take hold.  India may also see a surge of the pandemic induced by Omicron in the coming weeks. Some researchers have predicted that cases could peak in the country in late January, with 1.1 lakh to 1.5 lakh infections occurring daily. Vaccinations have fully covered only about 40% of the population. Though only a few cases have been reported till now, it is not clear whether there is enough data on the scale of infections based on sequencing. There are other unknowns and imponderables, and there is the challenging prospect of Assembly election campaigns, similar to the campaigns before the second wave early this year. There should be no complacency, and people should stick to the basics of Covid protocol.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/heed-who-warning-on-omicron-1061620.html
16-12-2021||In Perspective||Will cryptocurrency bill be passed?||The ‘Crypto-token Regulation Bill of 2018’ mooted a complete ban on virtual currencies. However, following intense lobbying by industry stakeholders, the bill was dropped. Instead, the RBI in April 2018 instructed banks to stop dealing in, or providing services for dealing with, virtual currencies. The order was challenged by the Internet and Mobile Association of India, representing various cryptocurrency exchanges which argued that since there was no law banning cryptocurrencies, the RBI could not stop banks from dealing with it. In March 2020, the Supreme Court set aside the RBI circular of April 2018 prohibiting banks from providing services in relation to virtual currencies. It effectively said that it is Parliament, not RBI, that must enact laws. The GoI promised to act, but has not, despite the high-level inter-ministerial committee submitting its report in March 2021. A bill may be tabled in this session of Parliament, but is unlikely to be passed. Meanwhile, cryptocurrency trade is booming, with crypto exchanges claiming 20 million new investors. The IMF in its Global Financial Report 2021 in October warned that “tougher regulation is needed to prevent rapid growth in cryptocurrencies leading to financial instability, defrauding of consumers and the funding of terrorism.” Citing several high-profile cases of hacking-related thefts of customer funds, it cited that a huge surge of speculative interest had seen a large quantity of money -- estimated to be $2 trillion -- flowing out from the formal economy to the unregulated sector. The US Federal Trade Commission reported a sharp spike in cryptocurrency scams since October 2020. In November 2021, investors lost millions in the Squid coin scam based on Netflix’s popular show ‘Squid Game’ as the coin’s value crashed from $2,870 to zero overnight as the founders fled with the money. In India, crypto exchanges used high-pitch celebrity endorsements to create investor frenzy. The RBI Governor recently warned investors about the inherent dangers of investing in cryptocurrencies and the dangers they pose to the financial system. There are five major dangers. It is easy to launder money with cryptocurrencies -- much easier than routing it to a tax haven. It is also easy to bring in money quickly from unknown destinations and fund drug, terror contracts or arms supplies with unregulated tokens. Cryptocurrencies are the favoured currency in the Dark Net and are extensively used for ransomware. It is impossible to provide investor security in unregulated currencies, and currency frauds, exchange frauds and wallet frauds are rampant. And finally, if people start investing in cryptocurrencies to beat inflation, it will hurt bank and treasury deposits. The RBI has neither the data nor the technology to regulate cryptocurrencies. Cryptocurrency variables are far too many and geographies and applications cannot be restricted or bound in a framework. Though only a few dozen tokens are actively traded, there are over 5,000 cryptocurrencies and most of them permit anonymity, where no tracking is possible of either the flow or the use of money. In 2017, JP Morgan boss Jamie Dimon called Bitcoin a fraud, but it still found millions of investors and rose from $2,000 to $60,000 in a five-year period. As there was no way they could stop it, US regulators decided to let it trade like a commodity. Most Western nations with convertible currencies permit the trading of cryptocurrencies in some form. China and Russia do not. This is because a lot of wealth from the BRIC nations is laundered through cryptocurrencies. The UK, France and the US benefit most from laundered money, whether it is from Muammar Gaddafi or Vijay Mallya. Speaking at the Summit for Democracy, Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen said “There’s a good argument that, right now, the best place to hide and launder ill-gotten wealth is actually the US.” Because India’s currency is not fully convertible, the rich do not consider it an ideal destination for parking money. Interestingly, China and Russia permit Bitcoin mining but ban its use. But that is possible only in closely controlled economies. There is no way you can ban cryptocurrencies effectively in democracies. The RBI’s proposed digital currency is not a substitute for cryptocurrencies. It would be open to fraud and cybersecurity/hacking threats. Private cryptos are encrypted and unregulated. A Financial Transaction Tax (FTT) of 0.01% can perhaps track crypto investments for a preliminary database. By that time, we can make the Rupee fully convertible so that it becomes more stable and acceptable to foreign investors. That is the first step to liberalising the currency. Till then, the government can make the buying and selling of unregulated cryptocurrencies difficult, cut them off from direct bank transfers and loan funding as the RBI had done before. The government can also slow down cryptocurrency proliferation by stopping their ads and promotion. (The writer is a journalist and author of 3 books on economic governance)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/will-cryptocurrency-bill-be-passed-1061367.html
16-12-2021||Karnataka Politics||Don’t wait for Centre to help farmers, BSY tells Bommai||Senior BJP leader B S Yediyurappa on Wednesday mounted pressure on Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai to release funds to compensate farmers’ crop losses and pay wages to labourers without waiting for the Centre to release money. Yediyurappa said this in the Assembly during a debate on crop losses and other consequences of floods in the state over the last few months. In particular, Yediyurappa endorsed senior Congress leader R V Deshpande’s point that farmers are in dire straits and that MGNREGA payments are delayed.  “What Desphande said is the ground reality. We had the highest rainfall in 40-50 years. Farmers have come to the streets without being able to harvest crops. I urge the CM, don’t wait for the Centre to give money. Stop development works and prioritise farmers and labourers,” Yediyurappa said.  The former CM said farmers had lost their entire crops. “The farmer has no money to sow again. Whatever [money] the farmer had saved to grow crops is destroyed. The Centre will give money and we will try to get more, but the state government should keep all other work aside and rush to help farmers,” he said.  Earlier, Deshpande demanded a special package from the Centre for Karnataka. “Farmers are in distress. It’s raining even in December. Paddy, vegetables, arecanut... Farmers have suffered losses,” he said, adding that even wage payments under MGNREGA are pending. State Congress president D K Shivakumar said Yediyurappa’s advice is “politically practical”. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/don-t-wait-for-centre-to-help-farmers-bsy-tells-bommai-1061350.html
16-12-2021||Karnataka Politics||Congress holds protest rally against BJP in Karnataka||The Congress party in Karnataka on Thursday held a massive rally in Belagavi to protest against the anti-people policies of the BJP government. The rally began from the Congress office in Belagavi to end near the Suvarna Soudha, covering a distance of 12 km, in which hundreds of Congress workers participated. Opposition leader Siddaramaiah said that the BJP government has not released compensation to the families of those who fell victim to Covid-19. Flood-hit farmers are yet to get compensation and inflation is at an all-time high. When asked about Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai's suggestion to Congress leaders to discuss the issues on the floor of the house, he said it is his right to stage a protest and Congress party does not need the approval of the Chief Minister. Congress President D K Shivakumar said that the anti-conversion bill is being brought only with an intention to vitiate the atmosphere of peace and harmony in the state. "Prime Minister Narendra Modi earlier levelled charges against the Congress government that it was a 10 per cent government, without proof. Now, we are giving proof that the BJP is taking 40 per cent commission on all projects," he said. Congress MLC Salim Ahmad said that no one ever wrote to the Prime Minister against the corruption of the state government in the past. "Contractors from Karnataka have made direct allegations of corruption. No action has been taken in this regard. We will protest continuously until the BJP government is ousted from power," he said. The Congress leaders have declared that they have planned a series of protests for three days against the government including padayatra from Belagavi Congress office to Suvarna Soudha. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/congress-holds-protest-rally-against-bjp-in-karnataka-1061376.html
16-12-2021||Main Article||The lessons of 1971||The India-Pakistan War of 1971 is one of the shortest wars in history, but was extremely significant in shaping South Asian geopolitics. India decimated the Pakistani military and helped liberate East Pakistan and form the new nation of Bangladesh. India’s well-defined military strategy, limited goals, and diplomatic efforts, underpinned by a strong respect shown by the political leadership of the time for institutional autonomy and command enabled its soldiers, diplomats, pilots and sailors to achieve the government’s objective.  On the 50th anniversary of the surrender of the Pakistani forces to India on December 16, 1971, there are many lessons from that war to remember that will help India respond to Chinese and Pakistani aggression – primary among them being to ensure that the armed forces are not politicised; and that the government should take the Opposition into confidence while developing India’s aims and strategy. In particular, it is essential to study and understand the groundwork laid by then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi between Pakistan’s Operation Searchlight in March 1971 and the outbreak of war in December.  Under Operation Searchlight, the Pakistani army massacred thousands of citizens in East Pakistan, resulting in some 10 million people fleeing to India. This influx of refugees posed a grave threat to India’s stability and security because of the potential influx of Pakistani spies into the country and the economic cost of supporting so many people.  India’s strategy had to be to firstly prevent the refugee influx from overwhelming the Indian government’s ability to support its own citizens and maintain law and order, and then take on Pakistan. India resorted to a range of measures -- from appealing to the international community and the United Nations for financial aid to handle the refugees, campaigning against Pakistan’s atrocities in East Pakistan, leveraging Cold War tensions to secure a military alliance with the Soviet Union, and secretly training the Mukti Bahini to make it a force strong enough to counter the Pakistani army and liberate Bangladesh.  Domestically, Indira Gandhi provided army chief Gen. Sam Manekshaw the political cover needed to train the Mukti Bahini, fortify India’s border with East Pakistan and prepare the armed forces for a two-front war -- all while ensuring that Parliament was regularly updated on new developments, whether successes or failures.  By October 1971, it was clear to Indira Gandhi that if a war were to break out, it would have to be limited to liberating East Pakistan and ending the refugee crisis. This would allow India to rapidly enter and exit East Pakistan without facing the issues that an occupying power would normally face.  Additionally, India strengthened her diplomatic relations with allies such as the USSR. Indian foreign policy aims were dictated by its desire to ensure that it had the backing of one of the superpowers if it were to go to war with Pakistan and prevent a Chinese invasion. In August 1971, the Indo-Soviet Treaty of Friendship and Cooperation was signed. Article IX of the treaty allowed for the two countries to “take appropriate effective measures to ensure peace and security,” in the event of war. Moreover, the USSR assured India that if China were to attack India, it “would not hesitate to use its strength and force in repelling it”. The US, on the other hand, threatened India with consequences if it were to wage war on Pakistan.  When war finally did break out, India was prepared for it — domestically and externally. Domestically, Indira Gandhi had a popular mandate and had set well-defined war aims: rapidly liberating Bangladesh, fighting in the North and West of India against a Pakistani invasion, achieving limited territorial victories to use as a bargaining chip against West Pakistan, if needed, and destroy Pakistan’s army so that it would not pose a threat to India. This clear directive, in conjunction with the strengthening of the Indo-Soviet alliance, helped shape the nature of military operations that were conducted in both theatres of the war. The different branches of the armed forces coordinated their actions well, which enabled a quick and decisive victory.  This groundwork had the desired effect. On the eastern front, Indian airplanes were launched from INS Vikrant to attack Pakistani army barracks, while navy frigates, which had missiles, helped destroy key East Pakistani ports and military bases, such as Chittagong and Cox’s Bazaar, bringing trade within East Pakistan to a halt and damaging its military infrastructure. Effective coordination between the navy, army and air force allowed successful tactical operations to occur as well. For example, Sylhet was quickly captured because a heliborne operation allowed the rapid deployment of Indian soldiers on the ground. This level of coordination, bereft of politicking, ensured that India’s strategy worked.  Externally, the USSR provided diplomatic cover to India. The US convened multiple meetings of the UN Security Council to discuss the war and drafted resolutions that called for a ceasefire and withdrawal of Indian and Pakistani forces thrice — on December 4, 5 and 13. The USSR vetoed all these resolutions, allowing India to rapidly take control of East Pakistan without foreign interference.  But that was not all. The USSR also backed India militarily. When the Nixon-Kissinger duo dispatched the US navy’s Seventh Fleet to intimidate India, the Soviet Union responded by dispatching battleships and nuclear submarines to counter the US navy. Indira Gandhi’s sagacity in seeking and signing the Indo-Soviet treaty months earlier paid off.  Between March and December 1971, India’s aims and strategy were achieved through coordination across the various arms of government, the armed forces, its diplomatic corps, and with allies.  In the last few years, South Asia has become an increasingly polarised and hostile area. Unlike in 1971, the presence of nuclear weapons and a strong Pakistan-China axis will make a future war far more destructive. Fifty years on, it is imperative that India’s political leadership learns the lessons of 1971 for the sake of the country’s security. The success of any security strategy is the result of clarity of aims and transparency, and coordination within the armed forces, between the government and military, between the government and the Opposition, and India exerting its soft power locally and in multilateral bodies, while strengthening autonomous institutions so that they are effective in times of crisis. (The writer studies Anthropology and History at Stanford University)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/the-lessons-of-1971-1061371.html
16-12-2021||National||Board exams: CBSE stops physical evaluation of OMR answer sheets at centres||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Thursday said it has decided to stop the physical evaluation of OMR answer sheets at the exam centres on the day of test itself for the ongoing classes 10 and 12 board examinations. The decision will come in effect from December 16, it said. The board, however, did not cite any reason for the sudden change in norms when the exams are underway. "The practice of evaluation on the same day in the examination centre is being stopped from December 16. All the Centre Superintendents will pack and seal the OMR sheets within 15 minutes after the examination is over in the presence of the Observer. The Centre Superintendent and Observer will sign on the sealed parcel and will mention the time of packing also," Examination Controller Sanyam Bhardwaj said in a letter to affiliated schools. "Once OMRs are packed and sealed, the same will be dispatched to the concerned regional office. After dispatch, the receipt of dispatch will also be uploaded as per practice," said Bhardwaj. The term-1 board examination is currently going on for students of classes 10 and 12. It is an objective-type questions-based exam, for which students are given optical mark recognition (OMR) answer sheets to fill. Until now, the OMR answer sheets were first physically evaluated at the exam centre by school teachers and then sent for a digital evaluation. However, the board has now asked for physical evaluation to be stopped Thursday onwards for the remaining exams that will go on till 30 December. “It is the sole responsibility of the Centre Superintendent to ensure that the examination is conducted smoothly and fairly. In case of any deviation from the safety and security of the examination, CBSE will be liable to take action against the Centre Superintendent and the school as per its affiliation and examination bye-laws of the board,” the letter read. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/board-exams-cbse-stops-physical-evaluation-of-omr-answer-sheets-at-centres-1061239.html
16-12-2021||National||Why no probe into corruption charges in police postings, Amarinder to Channi||Former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Wednesday targeted chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi over the alleged posting of the police officers in the state, asking why he did not order a probe into the issue. Singh took a dig at Channi's “alertness and promptness” in ordering a probe into the circumstances leading to the leaking of selective pages of a letter written by a senior police officer to the Director General of Police but hesitated to do the same over the issue of posting of police officers. The former chief minister said Channi should have shown the same promptness when one of his ministerial colleagues had allegedly leveled serious charges of corruption in the appointment of the senior superintendents of police and deputy superintendents of police in the state, said a statement issued by the Amarinder Singh-led Punjab Lok Congress. A few days ago, a Punjab minister had reportedly leveled allegations of acceptance of money in lieu of posting of district police chiefs. The Akali Dal had then also demanded a probe into the accusations. Amarinder Singh said he understood the “despair and frustration” of “this government” as it was getting “exposed with every passing day with every fake promise and announcement it made”. “You would always ask for just two days of authority to put everyone behind the bars”, he said. “What happened now, as you are already there for about three months and have not arrested a single person so far,” he added, apparently referring to Channi. Channi on Tuesday had ordered registration of an FIR in connection with the leak of a letter written by a senior police officer who cited some legal hurdles in conducting reinvestigation in some drug cases against a senior Akali leader. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/why-no-probe-into-corruption-charges-in-police-postings-amarinder-to-channi-1061240.html
16-12-2021||National||No plan as of now to curtail Winter Session of Parliament: Joshi||There is no plan as of now to curtail the ongoing Winter Session, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi said on Wednesday, but added the Opposition should not run away from debate they themselves have sought on vital issues. Both Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha were adjourned on Wednesday amid sloganeering by the Opposition over an SIT probe report on the Lakhimpur Kheri violence. It is strange that the Opposition sought discussion on serious issues such as price rise and on the new Omicron variant of the coronavirus, but they ran away at the time of discussion, Joshi told reporters outside Parliament. It seems the Opposition has nothing to say on these issues, they are just busy in "spreading rumours" about the curtailment of the session, Joshi said. "There are no plans to curtail the Winter Session of Parliament as of now," he said. The Winter Session of Parliament started on November 29 and is scheduled to conclude on December 23. Both Budget Session and Monsoon Session of Parliament were curtailed due to the coronavirus pandemic. The Special Investigation Team (SIT) probing the violence in Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh has submitted before a court that the killing of the four farmers and a journalist in the October 3 incident, in which Union minister Ajay Mishra's son Ashish is an accused, was a "pre-planned conspiracy". Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-plan-as-of-now-to-curtail-winter-session-of-parliament-joshi-1061244.html
16-12-2021||National||Bangladesh has 'special place' in India’s neighbourhood first policy, says President Kovind||President Ram Nath Kovind on Wednesday assured the top leadership here that Bangladesh has a "special place" in India's 'Neighbourhood First' policy and underlined that the bilateral relationship based on sovereignty, equality, trust and understanding is mature enough to handle the "most complex of problems". President Kovind, who arrived earlier in the day on his maiden State Visit at the invitation of his counterpart M Abdul Hamid to attend the golden jubilee celebrations of Bangladesh's independence from Pakistan in 1971, held delegation-level talks with him which was followed by a banquet. "President Kovind @rashtrapatibhvn welcomed by Bangladesh President HE Md. Abdul Hamid for their bilateral meeting at Bangabhaban. Further expanding bilateral ties based on sovereignty, equality, trust and understanding that transcend even a strategic partnership,” Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) spokesperson Arindam Bagchi tweeted. During his meeting with Hamid, President Kovind "reiterated that Bangladesh has a special place in India’s ‘neighbourhood first’ policy" and said that India’s development partnership with Bangladesh is one of the most comprehensive and wide-ranging ones, according to a statement issued by the Indian President’s office. "At the same time, our relationship is mature enough to handle the most complex of problems,” he said. Speaking about trade and connectivity, President Kovind said that connectivity forms an important pillar of India-Bangladesh relations. “The two countries have much to gain from their geographical proximity,” he said. Noting that Bangladesh is one of India’s largest trade partners, he said that New Delhi looks forward to a more organised and seamless trade between the two countries. He noted that there is a lot of scope in partnering in areas like space, nuclear technology, defence, pharmaceuticals and other advanced science and technology fields. He said that a formal ‘Comprehensive Economic Partnership Agreement’ would give a significant boost to two-way trade. After the delegation-level talks, President Hamid hosted a banquet in his Indian counterpart's honour at Bangabhaban Presidential Palace. Earlier, Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina called on President Kovind and the two leaders discussed several issues of mutual interest and bilateral cooperation. Both sides reviewed the progress in the multifaceted and comprehensive bilateral ties. The two leaders also recalled the spirit of the 1971 Liberation War and expressed satisfaction at the joint celebration of Maitri Diwas on December 6, Bagchi said. Foreign Minister Dr A.K. Abdul Momen separately called on President Kovind and "apprised him of the excellent progress in bilateral cooperation and of future joint projects, including in the area of connectivity," he said. Briefing the media later in the evening, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said President Kovind’s discussion with Prime Minister Hasina was “comprehensive encompassing many areas of our multifaceted relationship, including jointly preserving the legacy of Bangabandhu and 1971 war.” "We are aspirational nations. Today, we have achieved an incredible amount of synergies in terms of connectivity, joint manufacturing and cooperation. We have set the stage for an exponential increase in ties,” he said. Responding to a question, Shringla said that the Indo-Bangla Friendship Pipeline is progressing very well and “we would be in a position to inaugurate it next year.” He also said that India has decided to review the Nutan India-Bangladesh Maitree Muktijoddha Sontan Scholarship Scheme for the heirs of Bangladesh's Muktijodhas. The scheme was launched in April, 2017 during the visit of Prime Minister Hasina to India. On the Rohingya issue, Shringla said that India has “always called for the sustainable and speedy return of displaced persons to the Rakhine state of Myanmar. We have always worked with Bangladesh and Myanmar to resolve this issue." He said President Kovind will also inaugurate the renovated Sri Ramna Kali Mandir, which was completely destroyed by Pakistani forces during Operation Searchlight in 1971. On his part, President Hamid described India as “a very close and faithful friend” of Bangladesh and recalled the overall cooperation of India in the 1971 Liberation War. He thanked the government and people of India, according to Bangladesh president’s press secretary M Joynal Abedin. President Kovind called Hamid a “War Hero” and gifted him two replicas – a Russian made T-55 tank and Mig-21 vintage aircraft used during the 1971 war, Abedin added. President Hamid was a muktijoddha (freedom fighter) and served as Sector commander of Mujib Bahini in Meghalaya state during Bangladesh’s independence war. Hamid said over the past one decade, relations between the two countries have expanded in the areas of security, border demarcation, power and energy, trade and commerce, infrastructure and communication and eventually the relations between the people of the two countries have strengthened. Bangladesh premier’s press secretary Ihsanul Karim said that President Kovind told Prime Minister Hasina that he was very happy to be part of the celebrations of three mega events - birth centenary of Father of the Nation Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, Golden Jubilee of Bangladesh's independence and diplomatic relationship between the countries. Hasina described India as a “great friend” and recalled the then Indian government and people’s crucial role during Bangladesh’s War of Liberation in 1971. "Exchange of visits between the countries even amid the Covid-19 situation is the testimony of warm relationship between the two countries," she said, acknowledging her Indian counterpart Narendra Modi’s “historic and successful” Bangladesh tour in March this year when the celebration of the three events were opened. Hasina said after the 1965 India-Pakistan War, when Bangladesh was Pakistan’s eastern wing, the commutations between the two countries were snapped in various routes and called for restoring those routes. She expressed satisfaction over the ongoing cooperation in various areas even in the current pandemic situation. The Indian President hoped that under the leadership of Sheikh Hasina Bangladesh will be more prosperous and developed and appreciated Bangladesh’s support to India in different international forums, Karim said. Hasina told the Indian leader that Bangladesh believes in secularism and "all are free to perform their own religious rites and rituals. There is no barrier here. Religion is for individuals, and festivals for all", Karim added. President Kovind, who is here on a three-day visit, is the only foreign head of state invited to join the celebrations which also coincides with birth centenary celebrations of Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman and 50 years of Dhaka-New Delhi ties. It is President Kovind’s first trip abroad since the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic. He will represent India as the guest of honour in Bangladesh’s 50th Victory Day celebrations here. In a reflection of close ties, India is also hosting a number of events to mark the 50th anniversary of the 1971 India-Pakistan war that led to the liberation of Bangladesh.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bangladesh-has-special-place-in-india-s-neighbourhood-first-policy-says-president-kovind-1061246.html
16-12-2021||National||Speak Out: December 16, 2021||Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat on Wednesday asked the Hindus to take a pledge to ensure 'ghar wapsi' of their brethren who had "converted", and made a renewed clamor for the Shreekrishna Janmabhoomi at Mathura. Bhagwat was speaking at 'Hindu Mahakumbh', which began at Chitrakoot on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/speak-out-december-16-2021-1061266.html
16-12-2021||National||Omicron: Inadequate Covid-19 tests worries experts||States are carrying out significantly fewer Covid-19 tests, which can provide the first signal of a new surge caused by the Omicron variant of SARS-CoV-2, scientists and public health officials said on Wednesday, as the number of such cases crossed 70. Since November 26, when the World Health Organisation (WHO) described Omicron as a variant of concern, the number of daily Covid tests in India never crossed the 1.3-million mark, according to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), which monitors India’s daily Covid-19 testing. Compared to November last week, there is a marginal increase of 20,000 daily tests on an average now, which could be due to the increased surveillance at airports after the new variant spread to 60-plus nations. But the level of testing in India is nowhere close to what the experts suggest. “Five million daily tests would have been a good figure for now, distributed across all states, with the option of ramping it up to 20-25 million in a surge situation,” Gautam Menon, professor of physics and biology, Ashoka University, who is tracking the pandemic since last year, told DH. The maximum that was achieved was nearly 1.29 million tests conducted on December 8 and 9 after which the numbers dropped again. Since last week, the Health Ministry twice asked the states to augment testing and active case search. The need to increase surveillance was also highlighted at a high-level review meeting chaired by PM Narendra Modi on November 27 — a day after the WHO declaration. “India already has community transmission and it will spread. Everyone showing up in a hospital for anything from fever to flu symptoms to pneumonia should also be tested. Remember that’s how South Africa caught its first cases,” explained virologist Shahid Jameel. Jameel and other experts fear Omicron cases would rise manifold by January. After West Bengal reported its first Omicron case, eight states have now reported the new variants, with Maharashtra leading the chart with 32 cases followed by Rajasthan (17) and Delhi (6). Jameel and other experts fear Omicron cases would rise manifold by January and airport testing will only delay a surge that will come from local transmission not travelers. Fortunately, all the cases reported in India so far are mild ones. “People with symptoms should be tested. The syndromic approach should be expanded to any symptoms rather than ILI, SARI and ARDS (acute respiratory distress syndrome). This is mainly because of the atypical symptoms associated with the Omicron variant,” said Giridhara Babu, an epidemiologist at the Public Health Foundation of India, Bengaluru. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/omicron-inadequate-covid-19-tests-worries-experts-1061276.html
16-12-2021||National||Goa minister resigns amid sexual exploitation allegation||Hours after being accused by the main Opposition party, the Congress of sexually exploiting a widow from Bihar, Goa's Urban Development Minister Milind Naik on Wednesday resigned from his post to "ensure a free and fair probe" into the accusations leveled against him. In a statement issued late on Wednesday, the Chief Minister's Office (CMO) said that Naik's resignation had been accepted by Chief Minister Pramod Sawant. "Shri Milind Naik has tendered his resignation as minister in Government of Goa, to ensure a free and fair probe, which has been accepted and sent to the Hon'ble Governor," the statement said. The accusation against the Cabinet minister and his subsequent resignation comes at a time when the state is heading to state Assembly polls in early 2022.  Earlier on Wednesday, State Congress president Girish Chodankar named Naik's involvement in the sex scandal, which according to the Opposition party leader involved in sexual exploitation of a Bihar-based woman in 2019. The woman, whose husband was working in Goa had met with a fatal accident and she had approached the minister for official work. "The minister involved in the sex scandal Milind Naik should be sacked and action should be initiated against him. And ministers like Milind Naik who sexually assault women should not be treated with kid gloves or the people of Goa will not forgive me," the state Congress president said at a press conference on Wednesday. Chodankar had also urged Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar to help her with the issue. Youth Congress workers had also filed a complaint against Naik at the Women's police station in Panaji and also submitted evidence. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/goa-minister-resigns-amid-sexual-exploitation-allegation-1061277.html
16-12-2021||National||General V K Singh remembers historic 1971 war victory||At the completion of 50 years of the victory in the 1971 war against Pakistan, General V K Singh, Union Minister of State for Civil Aviation and former Chief of Army Staff, feels that the people of India need to know more about the valour of our brave soldiers and the Army during the war. The former soldier said that during the 1971 war, India not only defeated Pakistan decisively but also gave a message to the world by forcing 93,000 Pakistani soldiers to surrender before the Indian Army. This was unprecedented in the military history of the world. In an interview with IANS, General V K Singh spoke about the sequence of events that led to the war between India and Pakistan in 1971 and how the Indian Army made 93,000 Pakistani troops surrender before them and ended the war in just 13 days. He spoke in length about the preparations made by the Army in the run-up to the war against Pakistan and how the 1971 victory increased India's stature and its professional Army on the global level. How did the war start between India and Pakistan in 1971? In 1971, I had spent nearly one and a half years of service in the Indian Army. The Indian Army declared war against Pakistan in December 1971, but the activities at the border had been taking place several months earlier since April 1971. The Pakistani soldiers, who were stationed on the side of East Pakistan (currently known as Bangladesh) used to keep firing on the border along the Indian side. Many refugees were coming to India from across the border during that time. Apart from this, a lot of activity was taking place along the border during this time and the situation on ground remained the same till December 1971. There was a formal declaration of war only on December 3 after which the Indian Army achieved what was never repeated in the military history of the entire world. I am saying this because we fought in an area where there were rivers and sewers flowing and it was extremely difficult for the movement of vehicles or even to walk. Fighting there on foot and defeating the enemy in only 13 days and forcing 93,000 Pakistani troops to surrender before the Indian Army was a historic feat in itself. The more research is done and the more said about this extraordinary victory, the better it is because it will make the country aware about what our brave soldiers, the Army and the valiant Army commanders had achieved in 1971. You are absolutely right that there will not be any other battle in military history, which can lead to a decisive victory in just 13 days and 93,000 soldiers surrendering. What was the strategy of your senior military officers in 1971? The entire strategy of the 1971 war was made by Air Field Marshal Sam Manekshaw. General Jacob of the Eastern Command did a lot of work and followed the strategy to win the battle. Lieutenant General Sagat Singh of the Army Corps under which we were commanded, played a decisive role in the surrender of Dhaka from the control of Pakistani troops. "Had General Sagat Singh not marched forward decisively and crossed the Meghna river, perhaps the condition of the Pakistani Army would not have been so bad nor would the Pakistani Army have collapsed so quickly to lose Dhaka." Apart from this, important victories were also achieved on many other important fronts in the battle. Be it the Battle of Hilli, the crossing of the Meghna and the Madhumati rivers speaks about the indomitable courage with which our army fought and won the war will always be recorded in history. By making a special strategy in the Battle of Mainavati, the way we deceived the Pakistani Army, they had to lay down their arms and surrender before our Army. It was a great fight in terms of strategy and valour and the results of the war were witnessed by the whole world. You said the formal declaration of war was made on December 3, 1971, but from the month of April, a lot of activity had started taking place along the border. How was the Indian Army preparing for the war during these months? Till December 1971 the Indian Army did not know that it would declare a war against Pakistan, but still our strategy was clear on how to strengthen ourselves and prepare in time before the war. We were busy with our preparations and were preparing together on many fronts. Our Bengali brothers who were in 'Mukti Bahini' (liberation army) consisting of the Bangladeshi military, paramilitary and civilians during the War of Liberation that transformed East Pakistan into Bangladesh in 1971. They played a significant role during the war. After the historic victory in the 1971 war, how did the stature of India and the Indian Army rise on the international stage? From the month of April 1971, the Indian Army had started strengthening itself. The entire strategy for the war was made by Air Field Marshal Sam Manekshaw. Our brave soldiers and Army commanders on the front showed immense bravery and forced 93,000 Pakistani soldiers to surrender before us. Former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi must be praised for the way she had prepared a political strategy during 1971 because she did everything that a good strategist ought to have done at that time. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/general-v-k-singh-remembers-historic-1971-war-victory-1061300.html
16-12-2021||National||Raising marriage age of women from 18 to 21? What the Centre's proposal says||The Centre on Wednesday passed a proposal to raise the legal age of marriage for women from 18 to 21 years, matching the norm for men. The clearance was based on the recommendations of a Niti Aayog task force led by Jaya Jaitly. The task force was constituted to examine matters involving the age of motherhood, lowering maternal mortality rate, improving nutritional levels and other related issues. The proposals of the task force include a comprehensive public awareness campaign to encourage social acceptance of the increased marriage age. It also sought access to schools and universities for girls, including transportation in the case of educational institutes in far-off areas, the report said. Another key element of the task force's recommendations includes formalising and introducing the subject of sex education in the school curriculum. Additionally, training of women in polytechnic institutes, skills and business training and livelihood enhancement was recommended to ensure that an increase in marriageable age can be implemented. “I want to make clear that our reasoning behind the recommendation was never one of population control. Recent data released by NFHS 5 (National Family Health Survey) have already shown that the Total Fertility Rate is decreasing and the population is under control. The idea behind it (the recommendation) is the empowerment of women,” Jaitly told the publication. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/raising-marriage-age-of-women-from-18-to-21-what-the-centres-proposal-says-1061307.html
16-12-2021||National||Two-day nationwide strike against PSU banks' privatisation begins||A two-day nationwide bank strike called by United Forum of Bank Unions (UFBU) against privatisation of government banks began on Thursday, said C H Venkatachalam, General Secretary, All India Bank Employees' Association (AIBEA). The UFBU is an umbrella body of several bank unions. He said the strike is against central government's move to privatise public sector banks (PSB) and to introduce the Banking Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021 in the current session of Parliament. The passage of the Bill will enable the Government to reduce their equity capital in the PSBs to less than 51 per cent and allow private hands to take over them. The government had earlier said it would privatise two of its banks. Owing to the stir, operations at the cheque clearing grids in Mumbai, Chennai and Delhi will be impacted and several thousands of crore worth of cheques would not be cleared. Venkatachalam said that at the conciliation meeting held in Delhi on Wednesday, where representatives of Indian Banks' Association (IBA) and the Finance Ministry were also present, the unions reiterated that they would defer the strike if the Central government assures them that it would defer the introduction of Banking Laws (Amendment) Bill 2021 in Parliament. According to him, the only issue being confronted with the PSBs was that of huge Non-Performing Assets (NPAs) in which the major share was that of big corporates. "Successive governments have taken initiatives such as Debt Recovery Tribunals, SARFAESI Act, IBC, etc, but they have not yielded the desired results and therefore ultimately banks were forced to write off those loans resulting into huge losses," he said. This shows that it is not the nationalisation of banks, which has failed but it is the wilful default of the corporate and big business houses, which have dragged the banks into this crisis, Venkatachalam added. "Even under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, while bad loans have been resolved and banks could get back some portion of the loan, it has been with huge haircuts for the banks," he said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-day-nationwide-strike-against-psu-banks-privatisation-begins-1061312.html
16-12-2021||National||'Happy' with struggle, but Rakesh Tikait says he will not contest polls||Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) national spokesperson Rakesh Tikait has said that the farmers' struggle would be written in golden letters. Tikait also clarified that he had no intentions of contesting elections and warned people against using his photographs on political hoardings. "I have nothing to do with any political party," he said. Tikait was addressing farmers, late on Wednesday night, in Sisauli village when he returned home after 383 days of protest. "Our struggle will be written in golden letters. I will continue to fight for farmers' rights till my last breath," he said. Tikait reached Sisauli in a large procession of his supporters and was showered with flower petals all along the route. 'Laddoos' were distributed at every crossing on the Meerut-Muzaffarnagar highway and langars organised every 25 kilometres from Ghazipur border to Muzaffarnagar. Tikait's wife, Sunita Devi, lit hundreds of diyas to welcome him at their house in Jaat colony. "My husband is coming home after 383 days today. The number of lamps I should light in his welcome shall be no less. Just as Lord Ram came back to Ayodhya, my Ram is coming home today," she told reporters. Tikait had not gone home ever since the start of the farmers' movement. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/happy-with-struggle-but-rakesh-tikait-says-he-will-not-contest-polls-1061314.html
16-12-2021||National||Western Railway's originating revenue crosses 10,000 crore-mark||The Mumbai-headquartered Western Railway (WR) has crossed a major milestone of Rs 10,000 crore originating revenue during the Covid-19 pandemic. WR chief public relations officer Sumit Thakur said during the period from April 1-December 14, 2021, WR achieved revenue to the tune of Rs 10,004 crore, registering a growth of more than 35 per cent in comparison to previous year for the corresponding period. “This feat was achieved in a span of 257 days as compared to 320 days in the last financial year,” he said. “We must devote 100 per cent in our work which will in turn contribute towards the nation building process,” said WR general manager Alok Kansal. Thakur further informed that the paradigm shift in policies and aggressive marketing efforts by WR in various fields have led to the sustained growth of revenue. During the period from April 1-December 14, WR transported commodities weighing more than 2 lakh tonnes through 562 parcel special trains, which included agricultural produce, medicines, medical equipment, fish, milk etc. The revenue generated through this transportation has been approximately Rs 78.29 crore. As many as 129 Milk Special trains were run by WR, with a load of more than 90,000 tonnes and 100% utilisation of wagons. Similarly, 145 Covid-19 special parcel trains with a load of approximately 28,700 tonnes were also run to transport essential commodities. In addition to this, 158 indented rakes carrying about 64,900 tonnes were also run with 100 per cent utilisation. To help the farmers find new markets for their produce and also for its economical and fast transportation, 130 Kisan Rails with load of more than 35,000 tonnes were also run during this period from various divisions Thakur also stated that during the period from 1st April to 14th December, 2021 total 26,987 rakes of goods trains have been run by WR and carried 60.04 million tonnes of essential commodities as compared to 54.10 million tonnes in the corresponding period last year. 57,734 freight trains were interchanged with other zonal railways, of which 28,885 trains were handed over and 28,849 trains were taken over at different interchange points. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/western-railways-originating-revenue-crosses-10000-crore-mark-1061316.html
16-12-2021||National||Block cryptocurrencies if being used for illegal purposes: Meenakshi Lekhi||As the government prepares the much-awaited Cryptocurrency Bill 2021, Minister of State for External Affairs Meenakshi Lekhi has stressed that cryptocurrencies need to be blocked if used for illegal purposes to harm the sovereignty and integrity of the country. Speaking at the sixth iteration of the 'Global Technology Summit' organised by Carnegie India on Wednesday, Lekhi said: "If cryptocurrency is going to be used to launch cyberattacks in India, to launch other attacks on India, to do other kinds of illegal and unethical work like drug trafficking, I need to stop all that." "I am sure the Finance Ministry and IT Ministry would have looked deeply into these aspects. The cryptocurrency platforms and exchanges are owned by a set of people who are trying to avoid tax, taking the money out of the country without giving benefit to the country where they produce this wealth," she emphasised during the discussion, titled 'The Future of Technology: Resilience and Partnerships'. The Centre reportedly wants India's crypto regulations to be in line with the global framework. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said earlier this month that a collective "global action" is the only way to regulate evolving technologies, including cryptocurrencies. Speaking at the 'InFinity Forum' organised by Bloomberg and IFSCA, Sitharaman noted that no country has found a one-point formula to regulate technology such as cryptocurrency. "Even as we are thinking about at a national level, there should simultaneously be a global mechanism through which we are constantly monitoring the movement of technology, so that whether it is your cryptocurrency, whether it is tech-driven payment system, data privacy..." she had said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/block-cryptocurrencies-if-being-used-for-illegal-purposes-meenakshi-lekhi-1061319.html
16-12-2021||National||VP Venkaiah Naidu hails valour of Indian armed forces during 1971 War||On the 50th anniversary of Vijay Diwas, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Thursday paid tributes to the valour and unwavering patriotism displayed by the Indian armed forces during the 1971 War. Vijay Diwas commemorates India's victory over Pakistan in the 1971 war. Bangladesh, then part of Pakistan, became an independent country after the war. "On Vijay Diwas, I pay homage to the martyrs of the 1971 war. The nation remembers the heroic valour and unwavering patriotism displayed by our armed forces during the war," the Vice President said on Twitter. Their unmatched gallantry and selfless sacrifices continue to inspire every Indian, he said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vp-venkaiah-naidu-hails-valour-of-indian-armed-forces-during-1971-war-1061321.html
16-12-2021||National||President Kovind presents replica of 1971-era MIG 21 aircraft to Bangladesh counterpart Hamid||President Ram Nath Kovind has presented a replica of the 1971-era MIG 21 aircraft to his counterpart Abdul Hamid here to commemorate the joint sacrifices made by the armed forces of India and Bangladesh during the 1971 liberation war. President Kovind is here on a three-day state visit, his first trip abroad since the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic, to participate in the commemoration of the 50th anniversary of Victory Day on Thursday at which he is the guest of honour. “The original aircraft has been installed at the Bangladesh National Museum. This is also in tribute to the memory of the over 1,660 Indian Armed Forces personnel who sacrificed their lives for a common cause in the liberation of Bangladesh,” Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said. In a reflection of close ties, India is also hosting a number of events to mark the 50th anniversary of the 1971 India-Pakistan war that led to the liberation of Bangladesh. President Kovind has also announced the gifting of the Bapu Bangabandhu Digital exhibition to Bangladesh, which will be now housed in the Liberation War Museum, the Foreign Secretary during a press briefing here on Wednesday night. The Indian government has also decided to review the Nutan India-Bangladesh Maitree Muktijodha Sonatan Scholarship Scheme for the heirs of Bangladesh muktijodhas. “The scheme was launched in April 2017, during the visit of Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina to India,” Shringla said. During this scheme, the Government of India had sanctioned over 10,000 scholarships for heirs of Muktijodhas for over five years. Undergraduate students will get a one-time grant of Taka 50,000 and Higher Secondary students Taka 20,000 respectively. These scholarships for Bangladeshi students were introduced to further enhance relations between the two countries. Shringala also welcomed the appointment of the ‘Bangabandhu Chair’ at the Delhi University. In March this year, the Indian Council for Cultural Relations had established this position to honour Bangladesh’s founding father Sheikh Mujibur Rahman. On Wednesday, former Bangladesh secretary Shahidul Haque was appointed the first occupant of the prestigious ‘Bangabandhu Chair’ at the Delhi University by the Indian Council for Cultural Relations. “When our Prime Minister Narendra Modi visited Bangladesh in March this year, he announced the creation of the Bangabandhu Chair at Delhi University. The first occupant of this chair was announced today by the Indian Council for Cultural Relations,” Shringla explained.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/president-kovind-presents-replica-of-1971-era-mig-21-aircraft-to-bangladesh-counterpart-hamid-1061329.html
16-12-2021||National||‘Guest of Honour’ Prez Kovind attends Victory Day Parade as Bangladesh marks 50 yrs of win over Pak||President Ram Nath Kovind on Thursday attended the Victory Day Parade as the "Guest of Honour" here as Bangladesh marks 50 years of victory in the Liberation War against Pakistan by showcasing its military might which included spectacular aerobatics and display of defence acquisitions. A 122-member strong tri services contingent from India also took part in the parade watched by Bangladesh President M Abdul Hamid and Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina, as well as ministers, diplomats and other dignitaries at the National Parade Ground. The Indian contingent drew loud cheers from the crowd as it marched past with the announcer acknowledging India's contributions to Bangladesh's Liberation War of 1971. President Kovind, who is here on a maiden three-day State Visit, joined as the "Guest of Honour" at the National Parade Ground to mark the golden jubilee of the Victory Day of Bangladesh. Prime Minister Hasina was seen excitedly applauding the march-past, the flypast, aerobatics display, armoury acquisitions of different regiments and contingents of the armed forces, on the parade ground. Earlier, President Hamid and Prime Minister Hasina paid rich tributes to the martyrs of the Liberation War by placing wreaths at the National Memorial at Savar. On this day in 1971, Lt. Gen. Amir Abdullah Khan Niazi, heading 93,000 Pakistani troops, surrendered to the Indian Army under the command of Lt. Gen. Jagjit Singh Aurora in Dhaka, and East Pakistan was declared as the newly liberated "Bangladesh". Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/guest-of-honour-prez-kovind-attends-victory-day-parade-as-bangladesh-marks-50-yrs-of-win-over-pak-1061332.html
16-12-2021||National||Cabinet clears proposal to raise age of marriage for women to 21||The government is likely to bring in a Bill to amend the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006, to bring the minimum age of marriage of women at par with that of men. Currently, the minimum age of marriage is 18 for women and 21 for men.  This marks the first such change in 43 years, when the Child Marriage Restraint Act, 1929, was amended in 1978 to increase the minimum age of marriage for girls from 15 to 18 years. In 2006, the Prevention of Child Marriage Act was brought in to prescribe a minimum age of marriage, replacing the Child Marriage Restraint Act, 1929, also known as the Sharda Act.  The will first amend the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006, after which amendments to the Special Marriage Act and personal laws such as the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955, will be brought in. All of these legislations prescribe 18 as the minimum age of marriage for women, and 21 for men.  Section 5(iii) of the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955, stipulates 18 years as the minimum age for women and 21 for men.  Jaya Jaitly said that the task force spoke to a lot of young people and organisations, and distributed a questionnaire in 16 universities among children spanning all religions. “Most of them said the age of marriage should be 22 or 23. We recommended 21,” said Jaitly.  She said that there is a need for families to stop seeing the girl child as a burden.   “Even though 18 is the present age limit, we are seeing that girls are married off at 16; there is a need for to change the mentality that girls are a burden and they should be married off. Girls should have the opportunity for education and become self-sufficient through jobs. Only when there are opportunities for women and they have the support of law, will be changes in society,” said Jaitly.   She stressed the need for a campaign to educate people.  The task force had as members government expert VK Paul, Jamia VC Najma Akhtar, Consortium of Educational Communication (CEC) chairperson Vasudha Kamath,  Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation Medical Education Trust (AMC MET) Medical College dean Dr Dipti Shah, as well as senior officials of the Health Ministry, WCD Ministry, and Law Ministry.  The task force proposed several other recommendations. They said that to ensure that young mothers and their newborns do not suffer from malnutrition, schools should provide a free health checkup of girls students every month. The task force also stressed making sex education a part of the school curriculum and suggested that a concerted effort be mounted to ensure more girls are part of the education system. The move also comes a year after PM Narendra Modi, during his Independence Speech last year, spoke about the Centre’s intent.  “This government is constantly concerned about the health of daughters and sisters. To save the daughters from malnutrition, it is necessary that they're married at the right age,” the Prime Minister had said.   Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cabinet-clears-proposal-to-raise-age-of-marriage-for-women-to-21-1061348.html
16-12-2021||National||President Kovind to inaugurate Dhaka's renovated Sri Ramna Kali Mandir||President Ram Nath Kovind will inaugurate the renovated historic Sri Ramna Kali Mandir on Friday, 50 years after it was destroyed by the Pakistani forces in 1971, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla has said, terming it as an emotional moment for the two countries. President Kovind is in Bangladesh on his maiden State Visit at the invitation of his counterpart M Abdul Hamid to attend the golden jubilee celebrations of Bangladesh's independence from Pakistan in 1971. On December 17, President Kovind will inaugurate the renovated Sri Ramna Kali Mandir, which was destroyed completely by Pakistani forces during the heinous 'Operation Searchlight' in 1971, Shringla said. "So, it is fitting that 50 years from then, we are inaugurating a renovated Ramna Kali Mandir and it is not just symbolic, but it is also a very emotional moment for both our countries," he told reporters on Wednesday. According to a report in the Dhaka Tribune, President Kovind has also expressed his interest in exchanging views with the members of the temple committee. The temple was totally destroyed by the Pakistani Army operation codenamed 'Operation Searchlight' in 1971, targeting the resistance movement in the country. According to various reports, the temple was set on fire, killing many people, including devotees and those residing in it. India supported the renovation of the temple. Hindus make up some 10 per cent of the Muslim-majority Bangladesh's 169 million population. President Kovind, who is here on a three-day state visit, held wide-ranging talks with his Bangladeshi counterpart M Abdul Hamid on Wednesday. Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina and Foriegn Minister AK Abdul Momen also called on President Kovind separately and exchanged views on bilateral ties and how the two countries could step up their cooperation in a number of areas for mutual benefit. On Thursday, the President attended the Victory Day Parade as the "Guest of Honour" here as Bangladesh marks 50 years of victory in the Liberation War against Pakistan. On this day in 1971, Lt. Gen. Amir Abdullah Khan Niazi, heading 93,000 Pakistani troops, surrendered to the Indian Army under the command of Lt. Gen. Jagjit Singh Aurora in Dhaka, and East Pakistan was declared as the newly liberated "Bangladesh". Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/president-kovind-to-inaugurate-dhakas-renovated-sri-ramna-kali-mandir-1061391.html
16-12-2021||National||Mortal remains of Group Captain Varun Singh airlifted to Bhopal||Family members of Group Captain Varun Singh participated in a wreath-laying ceremony at Yelahanka Air Force base on Thursday morning. The body was subsequently moved aboard an An-32 aircraft, with the aircraft departing the airfield for Bhopal at around 12.30 pm. Singh, a decorated Indian Air Force officer who succumbed to injuries sustained in the December 8 helicopter crash which claimed the life of General Bipin Rawat and 12 others, participated. Five members of the family were present for the ceremony, including the Group Captain’s father, Colonel (retired) K P Singh, his mother Uma Singh, his wife Geetanjali Singh, son Radduman Singh and daughter Aradhya Singh. The event was also attended by senior officers from HQ, Training Command. The event was also attended by Governor Thaawar Chand Gehlot who paid his last respects. Family members had said on Wednesday that the funeral is planned for Friday, 17 December, at Bhopal. In a statement yesterday, Colonel (retired) K P Singh described his son as a “fighter,” adding that he will “continue to remain an inspiration for the young generation. We are proud of him." Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mortal-remains-of-group-captain-varun-singh-airlifted-to-bhopal-1061398.html
16-12-2021||National||Jyotiraditya Scindia inaugurates IndiGo's Guwahati-Pune flight||Aviation Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia has inaugurated IndiGo's daily flight between Guwahati and Pune, the airline said in a statement on Thursday. The daily flight, which was launched Wednesday evening, will depart from the Guwahati airport at 10.40 PM and arrive at the Pune airport at 2.15 AM, the statement said. The return flight will depart at 2.50 AM and land at the Guwahati airport at 6.05 AM, it added. The airline said it currently operates more than 500 weekly flights from four cities of Assam including Guwahati, Silchar, Dibrugarh and Jorhat. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jyotiraditya-scindia-inaugurates-indigos-guwahati-pune-flight-1061402.html
16-12-2021||National||Time to act now before farming issues become severe: PM Modi||Asking farmers to turn to organic or natural farming, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said that this is the right time to take big steps before the issues related to farming become severe. Addressing the National Conclave on Natural Farming at Anand via video link, Modi also said cows can play an important role in organic farming as their dung and urine can be used as fertilizer and pesticide. "It is a fact that chemicals and fertilizers have played a crucial role in the green revolution. But it is also imperative to work on their alternatives. It is the right time to take big steps before the issues related to farming become severe. In Gujarati, it is said that prevention is always better than cure,” he said. "We need to take agriculture out of the chemical lab and connect it with nature's lab," Modi said. The PM also asked states to take up natural farming as a mass movement. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/time-to-act-now-before-farming-issues-become-severe-pm-modi-1061409.html
16-12-2021||National||Rajya Sabha adjourned for the day amid Opposition uproar over suspension of MPs||The Rajya Sabha failed to transact any business on Thursday as opposition members forced adjournments in the house over the issue of suspension of 12 MPs. The house saw an adjournment till 2 pm within minutes of the start of the day's proceedings. It was later adjourned for the day shortly after 2 pm amid opposition protests and sloganeering in the well of the house. Soon after the house met for the day, opposition members were on their feet demanding revocation of the suspension of their colleagues. The Congress had also given notices under rule 267 for discussing the Special Investigation Team (SIT) report on Lakhimpur violence that left eight people, including four farmers, dead. Soon after the laying of papers, Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu urged the protesting members to return to their seats, but they carried on with their protests relentlessly. Leader of Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge also sought to speak but the chairman did not allow him. Amid continued protests, the chair adjourned the house till 2 pm within minutes of the day. When the house met after lunch at 2 pm, the opposition members again stormed the well and raised slogans against the government. The deputy chairman pleaded with them to allow the short duration discussion on the situation arising out of the new Omicron variant of Covid-19, but the opposition members continued with their protests. As he asked Syed Zafar Islam of the BJP to carry on with the discussions, the opposition members raised their voices and started sloganeering. Islam had merely started speaking, but the chair adjourned the house for the day amid continued din created by the opposition members. Among other reports and papers, the report of the Joint Committee on the Personal Data Protection Bill, 2019 was also tabled in the House. “This report shows the chairman is cooperative, the government is accommodative, the opposition is responsive," said Congress leader Jairam Ramesh while tabling the report on data protection. Earlier, the Rajya Sabha paid tributes to the valour of soldiers on the 50th anniversary of Vijay Diwas. Vijay Diwas commemorates India's victory over Pakistan in the 1971 war. Bangladesh, then part of Pakistan, became an independent country after the war. The proceedings of the House have been repeatedly disrupted since the start of the winter session following the suspension of the 12 opposition MPs from the Rajya Sabha on November 29. The 12 opposition members have been suspended for the entire winter session of parliament for their "unruly" conduct in the previous session in August. The opposition has described the suspension as "undemocratic and in violation of all the Rules of Procedure" of the Upper House. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajya-sabha-adjourned-for-the-day-amid-opposition-uproar-over-suspension-of-mps-1061428.html
16-12-2021||National||Covid-infected Bangladesh returnee tests negative for Omicron variant in West Bengal||A man, who was found infected with Covid-19 in West Bengal after returning from Bangladesh, tested negative for the Omicron variant of coronavirus, a health department official said on Thursday. The patient contracted the Delta strain of coronavirus, he said. The man, a resident of Barasat in North 24 Parganas district, was found positive for the disease on December 10, and his sample was sent for genome sequencing to ascertain whether he had contracted the new Omicron variant, which has been classified as a highly transmissible virus of concern. "We have received the report of the Bangladesh returnee. He is infected with Delta variant," the official said. The patient is undergoing treatment in the state-run Beleghata ID and BG Hospital. Earlier, a woman, who was also found infected with Covid-19 here after coming from the UK, tested negative for the Omicron strain. West Bengal had on Wednesday reported its first Omicron case after a seven-year-old boy, who returned from Abu Dhabi via Hyderabad, tested positive for the variant.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-infected-bangladesh-returnee-tests-negative-for-omicron-variant-in-west-bengal-1061433.html
16-12-2021||National||Indo-Bangla Friendship Pipeline could be inaugurated next year: Shringla||The work on the India-Bangladesh Friendship Pipeline, a project that will enable the two countries to integrate their energy needs, is progressing well and could be inaugurated next year, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla has said. The Rs 346 crore India-Bangladesh Friendship Pipeline Project (IBFPP), signed in 2018, will connect Siliguri in West Bengal in India and Parbatipur in Dinajpur district of Bangladesh. The capacity of the 130-kilometre oil pipeline will be one million metric tonnes per annum. Shringla said the IBFPP is a "very unique and significant pipeline that enables us to integrate our energy requirements". The project is progressing very well and "we would be in a position to inaugurate it next year", he told reporters here after President Ram Nath Kovind on Wednesday met the top Bangladeshi leadership and assured them of all help in promoting economic cooperation between the two neighbours. The IBFPP will export fuel from Assam-based Numaligarh Refinery Limited (NRL) via the Siliguri Marketing Terminal to Bangladesh. Shringla said there has been a steady increase in the bilateral trade between the two countries. In 2020, there was a year on year increase of 14 per cent, which is a very encouraging figure to attain. Bangladesh’s exports to India crossed the billion-dollar mark and it continues to increase on a very steady basis, he said, adding that the two sides are also in talks for a Comprehensive Economic Partnership Agreement. He said that there has been very good progress on lines of credit. "Bangladesh accounts for almost a third of our lines of credit. $10 billion is what India has extended to Bangladesh in highly concessional credit terms. These lines of credit have actually contributed to enhancing our connectivity, enhancing infrastructure, not just in the border, but in different parts of Bangladesh," he said. "We are going to work on further streamlining this, looking at another package which our High Commissioner is working on. And we will be looking at how to take that forward. But in the last year despite Covid we have disbursed over $120 billion in LOC money. So I think we are not doing too badly and the economic area has seen good progress in that regard," he said. During his separate meetings with Bangladesh President Mohammad Abdul Hamid, Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina and Foreign Minister Dr AK Abdul Momen, President Kovind spoke about the trade and connectivity issues. He said that connectivity forms an important pillar of India-Bangladesh relations, according to a press release issued by Rashtrapati Bhavan. The two countries have much to gain from their geographical proximity, Kovind said, adding that he was happy to note that Bangladesh is one of India’s largest trade partners. Kovind said India looks forward to a more organised and seamless trade between the two countries. He noted that there is a lot of scope in partnering in areas like space, nuclear technology, defence, pharmaceuticals and other advanced science and technology fields, the release said. He said a formal ‘Comprehensive Economic Partnership Agreement’ would give a significant boost to two-way trade. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indo-bangla-friendship-pipeline-could-be-inaugurated-next-year-shringla-1061446.html
16-12-2021||National||Here's how to link Aadhar card to your Voter ID||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday is learnt to have cleared a bill on electoral reforms, including the one to link electoral roll with Aadhar on a voluntary basis to root out multiple enrolments. According to the bill, the electoral law will also be made “gender-neutral” for service voters. Here are the steps to link the Aadhar number to voter ID cards through the NVSP portal: Step 2: After that, click on the “Search” button to check if the information put in matches the Government database. Step 3: Click on the option-- “Feed Aadhaar No.” Step 4: A pop-up page will appear to fill in your  Aadhar card details. Step 5: After entering in all the details, click on "submit". Here are the steps to link Aadhar numbers to voter ID cards through SMS: Alternatively, you can link your Aadhar number to your Voter ID, by sending  an SMS to 166 OR 51969 in this format-- < Voter ID Number > < Aadhar_Number > Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/heres-how-to-link-aadhar-card-to-your-voter-id-1061448.html
16-12-2021||National||PM Modi recalls valour, sacrifice of Bangladeshi freedom fighters, India's forces on Vijay Diwas||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday paid tributes to the valour and sacrifices of Bangladeshi freedom fighters and Indian armed forces on the 50th anniversary of Vijay Diwas, which commemorates India's victory over Pakistan in the 1971 war.  Bangladesh, then part of Pakistan, became an independent country after the war.  Modi tweeted, "On the 50th Vijay Diwas, I recall the great valour and sacrifice by the Muktijoddhas, Biranganas and bravehearts of the Indian Armed Forces. Together, we fought and defeated oppressive forces. Rashtrapati Ji's presence in Dhaka is of special significance to every Indian." On the 50th Vijay Diwas, I recall the great valour and sacrifice by the Muktijoddhas, Biranganas and bravehearts of the Indian Armed Forces. Together, we fought and defeated oppressive forces. Rashtrapati Ji’s presence in Dhaka is of special significance to every Indian. President Ram Nath Kovind is in Dhaka on a maiden three-day State Visit during which he will hold talks with his counterpart and attend the golden jubilee celebrations of Bangladesh's independence from Pakistan in 1971. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-recalls-valour-sacrifice-of-bangladeshi-freedom-fighters-indias-forces-on-vijay-diwas-1061449.html
16-12-2021||National||Union Cabinet clears electoral reform proposals||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday is learnt to have cleared a bill on electoral reforms, including the one to link electoral roll with Aadhaar on a voluntary basis to root out multiple enrolments. According to the bill, the electoral law will also be made “gender neutral” for service voters. An army man’s wife is entitled to be enrolled as a service voter, but a woman army officer’s husband is not, according to provisions in the electoral law. But this may change once the bill gets Parliament's nod. The poll panel had asked the law ministry to replace the term ‘wife’ with ‘spouse’ in the provision in the Representation of the People Act related to service voters. Another provision of the proposed bill will allow the youth to enrol as voters on four different dates every year. As of now, those turning 18 on or before January 1 of every year are only allowed to register as voters. The Election Commission of India (ECI) had been pushing for multiple cut-off dates to allow more eligible people to register as voters. Currently, for an election to be held in a particular year, only an individual who has attained the age of 18 years as on January 1 of that year or before is eligible to be enrolled in the voters’ list. The EC had told the government that the January 1 cut-off date set for the purpose deprives several youngsters from participating in the electoral exercise held in a particular year. Due to only one qualifying or cut-off date, a person attaining the age of 18 years on January 2 cannot be registered. Therefore, a person who turns 18 after January 1 will have to wait for the next year to get registered. The law ministry had recently told a parliamentary panel that “it is proposed to amend section 14(b) of the Representation of the People Act to insert four qualifying dates (or cut-off dates) — January 1, April 1, July 1, and October 1 — of every year”. In March, then law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad had told Lok Sabha in a written reply that the poll panel has proposed to link electoral roll with the "Aadhaar ecosystem" with a "view to curb the menace of multiple enrolment of the same person at different places". He said this would require amendments to the electoral laws. The minister had said the poll panel has informed that it has taken multiple measures for the security and the safety of the electoral roll data platform. "Electoral roll database system does not enter into the Aadhaar ecosystem and the system is used only for the authentication purpose keeping a tight air-gap between the two systems. These measures effectively prevent theft interception and hijacking of the voter system," Prasad had said. The poll panel has been pressing the government to amend provisions of the Representation of the People Act allowing EC to seek Aadhaar numbers of those applying to be voters and those who are already part of the electoral rolls. According to the EC proposal sent in August 2019, the electoral law should be amended to empower electoral registration officers to seek Aadhaar number of existing voters as well as of those applying to enrol themselves in the voters' list. In August 2015, a Supreme Court order on Aadhaar had put the brakes on the EC’s project to link UIDAI (Aadhaar) number with voters' electoral data to check multiple entries in electoral rolls. The poll panel was then collecting Aadhaar number as part of its National Electoral Roll Purification and Authentication Programme (NERPAP). Seeking to check multiple entries in electoral rolls and to make them error-free, the EC had embarked on an ambitious project to link Aadhaar numbers with electoral data. Since the Supreme Court order makes it clear that sanction of law is required to collect Aadhaar number, the commission has proposed changes in electoral law, a poll panel functionary had explained. Yet another proposal cleared on Wednesday will allow Election Commission the powers to take over any premise for the conduct of elections. There were some objections to taking over schools etc during the period of elections. The bill on these reforms cleared on Wednesday are likely to be introduced in the ongoing Winter session.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/union-cabinet-clears-electoral-reform-proposals-1061450.html
16-12-2021||National||1971 war golden chapter in India's military history: Rajnath Singh||The 1971 Indo-Pak war is the golden chapter in India's military history, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Thursday on the occasion of the 50th anniversary of the country's victory over Pakistan that led to the birth of Bangladesh. Singh also paid rich tributes to the armed forces personnel who fought the war. "On the occasion of 'Swarnim Vijay Diwas' we remember the courage and sacrifice of our armed forces during the 1971 war," Singh tweeted. On the occasion of ‘Swarnim Vijay Diwas’ we remember the courage and sacrifice of our armed forces during the 1971 war. The 1971 war is the golden chapter in India’s military history. We are proud of our armed forces and their achievements. "The 1971 war is the golden chapter in India's military history. We are proud of our armed forces and their achievements," he said. The year 2021 marks the 50th anniversary of the liberation of Bangladesh. India is hosting a number of events to mark the 50th anniversary of the war Around 93,000 Pakistani troops had surrendered before the joint forces of the Indian Army and the "Mukti Bahini" on December 16, 1971, that paved way for the birth of Bangladesh. The defence minister also shared on Twitter a number of photos relating to the war as well as an image of the 'Pakistani Instrument of Surrender'. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/1971-war-golden-chapter-in-indias-military-history-rajnath-singh-1061451.html
16-12-2021||National||Case against one person for social media post linking PM with IAF chopper crash||The city police have registered a case against a person, who reportedly linked the Prime Minister with the recent helicopter crash near Coonoor in which Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat and others were killed, in a social media post. Despite both the Indian Air Force and police asking the public not to post any opinion on the social media based on speculation, pending inquiry, one 'Naan Than Kovai Bala' (I am Kovai Bala) had posted some derogatory comments with regard to the crash, attracting condemnation from the general public. The person had on Facebook posted derogatory comments about Rawat and the crash and also linked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to it, which went viral, police said on Thursday. The post drew condemnation from various quarters, including the BJP and other Hindu outfits and also from members of the public, they said. Based on the post, Saravanampatti police in the city registered the case under three sections including promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place or ill-will between different religions against Kovai Balan, the account holder, they said. Investigations are on, police added. General Rawat, his wife Madhulika Rawat, and 12 other defence personnel were killed when the Mi17V5 helicopter carrying them crashed near Coonoor on December 8. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/case-against-one-person-for-social-media-post-linking-pm-with-iaf-chopper-crash-1061457.html
16-12-2021||National||LIC warns of legal action over misuse of its logo on social media||Insurance behemoth Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC) on Thursday said it will take legal action against unscrupulous entities making unauthorised use of its logo on social media platforms to attract customers. In its caution notice, LIC has also asked the public not to fall prey to proposals of such entities which are misusing its logo on social media platforms like Twitter, Facebook, Instagram and YouTube and other social media. "It has also come to our notice that certain unscrupulous service providers and agents have created websites and Apps whereby they are attempting to provide various services such as 'Insurance and Insurance Advisory Services' to customers using our trademarks/service marks which are deceptively similar to our mark... "and domain names deceptively similar to our domain name and even using and reproducing our original literary and artistic works with a view to cause confusion and deception in the minds of the public and policy holders that they are in some manner connected with or authorised by us," LIC said in a notice. It also said that certain software and app providers have created software and apps that access or enable others to gain access to LIC's portal system by way of facilitating unauthorised access with the intention of data theft. Such software and App providers have therefore rendered themselves liable to be prosecuted under law, it said. "Under the fact and circumstances, customers, members of public and policyholders are requested to bring to the notice of us such wrongful and/or unauthorised and/or infringing use of our service marks on social media or any other form... enable us to take appropriate legal proceedings, both civil and criminal, to curb such infringing activities," it said. The public at large is cautioned that all information related to our products is available on our website and the Corporation is not responsible for any false or misleading information that may be available on such digital and social media platforms of such unscrupulous persons, it said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lic-warns-of-legal-action-over-misuse-of-its-logo-on-social-media-1061460.html
16-12-2021||National||Data Protection Bill: Panel suggests greater accountability for social media, inclusion of personal and non-personal data||A parliamentary committee on Thursday recommended setting up a statutory media regulatory authority for the regulation of the contents on social media platforms irrespective of the platform where their content is published, whether online or print. The Joint Committee on Personal Data Protection Bill, 2019, headed by BJP MP PP Chaudhary, tabled its report in both the Houses on Thursday said that the authority can be on the lines of the Press Council of India. The panel said, at present, there is no single unified agency that regulates the various forms of media, specifically news media, in the country. The existing media regulators such as the Press Council of India are not appropriately equipped to regulate the journalism sector that seeks to use modern methods of communication such as social media platforms or the internet at large. Following this, there is a need for the establishment of a statutory body for media regulation, the panel said in its report. The Joint Committee of Parliament, had, last month, adopted the report. The proposed legislation seeks to provide the government with powers to give exemptions to its probe agencies from the provisions of the Act, a move that has been strongly opposed by the opposition MPs who filed their dissent notes. However, the suggestions made by the panel are not binding. The Committee also recommended that no social media platform should be allowed to operate in India unless the parent company handling the technology sets up an office in India. All social media platforms should be treated as publishers and be held accountable for the content they host, the panel said. It also recommended replacing ‘social media platform’ with ‘social media intermediary.’ A mechanism should be devised where social media platforms, which do not act as intermediaries, will be held responsible for the content from unverified accounts on their platforms. "Once application for verification is submitted with necessary documents, the social media intermediaries must mandatorily verify the account," said the report. The panel has also favoured a framework to regulate hardware manufacturers, who also collect data along with the software. The panel also sought to widen the sphere of data protection legislation by including personal and non-personal data, saying defining or restricting the new legislation only to personal data protection or to name it as Personal Data Protection Bill is "detrimental to privacy". "The committee, therefore, recommends that since the DPA (Data Protection Authority) will handle both personal and non-personal data," it said. As soon as the provisions to regulate non-personal data are finalised, there may be a separate regulation on non-personal data in the Data Protection Act to be regulated by the Data Protection Authority, it mooted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/data-protection-bill-panel-suggests-greater-accountability-for-social-media-inclusion-of-personal-and-non-personal-data-1061468.html
16-12-2021||National||Banking services hit as PSU bank employees go on two-day strike||Banking operations were impacted across the country on Thursday as lakhs of public sector bank (PSB) employees began their two-day strike to protest against bank privatisation. Shutters of many branches of PSBs like State Bank of India (SBI), Punjab National Bank and Bank of India were down on Thursday with a message informing customers about the strike. Services are likely to be hit on Friday as well. The strike call has been given by United Forum of Bank Union (UFBU), an umbrella body of nine bank unions including All India Bank Officers' Confederation (AIBOC), All India Bank Employees Association (AIBEA) and National Organisation of Bank Workers (NOBW). Services such as deposits and withdrawals at branches, cheque clearance and loan approvals were affected. However, ATMs at many places were working fine. According to AIBEA General Secretary CH Venkatachalam, about 20.4 lakh cheques worth Rs 18,600 crore could not be transacted on Thursday. Public sector lenders, including SBI, had earlier informed customers that services in their branches might be affected due to the strike. Private sector lenders like HDFC Bank, ICICI Bank and Kotak Mahindra Bank were working as usual, though inter-bank cheque clearances were impacted. The strike has been called against the government's decision to privatise state-owned lenders. "PSBs act as catalysts in the economic development of our nation in general and particularly for the underprivileged sections of the society and backward regions of the country. "Nationalised banks have played a major role in the development of agriculture, small trade, small business, SSI, transport and in upliftment of weaker sections of the society," Venkatachalam said. AIBOC General Secretary Soumya Dutta said about 7 lakh bank staffers across the country are participating in the two-day strike. It is unfortunate that operations of over 1 lakh branches of banks and regional rural banks have been impacted due to the strike because of the government's attitude, Dutta added. Venkatachalam said many political parties including Congress, DMK, CPI, CPM TMC, NCP and Shiv Sena have extended support to the strike. In the Union Budget presented in February, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had announced the privatisation of two public sector banks (PSBs) as part of the Centre's disinvestment plan. To facilitate privatisation, the government has listed the Banking Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021, for introduction and passage during the current session of Parliament. The government has already privatised IDBI Bank by selling its majority stake in the lender to LIC in 2019 and merged 14 public sector banks in the past four years.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/banking-services-hit-as-psu-bank-employees-go-on-two-day-strike-1061473.html
16-12-2021||National||Centre to introduce more reforms in mining sector soon: Joshi||Coal and Mines Minister Pralhad Joshi on Thursday said the government will come out with some more reforms in the mining sector soon as it is keen to promote the best use of the country's mineral reserves.   "Very shortly, we may come out with some more reforms. Soon some reforms will be put out for public comments. The government will consult with the states and stakeholders," he said while addressing a business conclave. "Whatever the reforms the government is intended to make are as per the demand from the industry," he said.  He also said the government brought the Mines and Minerals. (Development and Regulation) Amendment Act, 2015, which provides for the actual resources through the auction route and further major amendments were brought this year also. The government was keen on a sustainable domestic mining industry, reducing imports and increasing the mineral sector's contribution to India's gross domestic product (GDP) from the current 1.75 per cent to at least 2.5 per cent, he said. The Minister said compared to previous year, this year a lot of mines have been brought into auction, he added. Separately, the government  has launched the fourth round of auction of coal mines for commercial mining under which 99 blocks have been put on sale. Minister Joshi has launched the fourth tranche of auction of 99 coal mines, including 24 new mines in a function here. The minister also urged the officials to identify more coal blocks for auctioning. The Minister said at least for the next 30 to 40 years coal will continue to be crucial in India’s energy sector. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-to-introduce-more-reforms-in-mining-sector-soon-joshi-1061481.html
16-12-2021||National||Sack J&K HC Chief Justice for his comments against Constitution: Yechury||CPI(M) General Secretary Sitaram Yechury has urged President Ram Nath Kovind to sack Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh High Court Chief Justice Pankaj Mithal on charge of violating his oath and disregarding the Constitution by commenting that the inclusion of secular and socialist in the Preamble of the Constitution has narrowed the country's spiritual image. In a letter to the President, Yechury said Justice Mithal committed "serious misconduct" and that he was bringing to his notice a "very serious complaint" against the judge, who had "violated his oath and compromised the Constitutional Office held by him". Yechury was referring to Justice Mithal's remarks at a programme organised by Akhil Bharatiya Adhivakta Parishad, which is affiliated to the RSS, in Jammu on December 5 during which he said, "inclusion of the terms secular and socialist in the Preamble of the Constitution had narrowed India’s spiritual image...Sometimes, we bring amendments due to our adamancy." "Utterances against the country’s Constitution by a High Court Chief Justice, that too from a platform which preaches a particular ideology, is an unpardonable offence, which is in violation of the oath taken by him to carry out his constitutional functions," he said. "Mithal's conduct unbecoming of the Constitutional office of the Chief Justice that he is holding warrants his immediate removal from the said office. As the custodian of the Constitution, as the head of the State and as the appointing authority of Mithal, I request your good self to immediately set in motion the process for his removal from office to uphold the sanctity of the Constitution and independence of judiciary," he added. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sack-jk-hc-chief-justice-for-his-comments-against-constitution-yechury-1061487.html
16-12-2021||National||Third India-Central Asia dialogue to be held on December 19||The third India-Central Asia dialogue will be held on December 19 in the national capital and it will be attended by the foreign ministers of Uzbekistan, Turkmenistan, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyz Republic and Tajikistan, the Ministry of External Affairs announced Thursday. It said the dialogue is expected to discuss further strengthening trade, connectivity and development cooperation between the two sides besides exchanging views on regional and global issues of mutual interests. The foreign ministers are also scheduled to jointly call on Prime Minister Narendra Modi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/third-india-central-asia-dialogue-to-be-held-on-december-19-1061494.html
16-12-2021||National||Indira Gandhi took 32 bullets for country but ignored on 1971 War anniversary: Rahul||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday accused the BJP government of ignoring the role of then prime minister Indira Gandhi in the 1971 War as India celebrates the 50th anniversary of the victory, which he said was achieved as the country was united then. Referring to his grandmother and the former PM, he said she took "32 bullets for the country" but her name was not even mentioned at a government event in New Delhi on the anniversary of the victory over Pakistan. "However, it does not make any difference because I know what she did for the country by giving her blood," the Congress leader said launching his party's campaign for the Uttarakhand Assembly polls during a rally at Parade Ground here. He said the credit for the 1971 War victory, which came in just 13 days, does not go exclusively go to the Army, Navy or the political leadership of the day, it goes to the "united fight put up by Indians regardless of their cast or religion". Lakhs of families donated gold to the government of the day to strengthen the fight against Pakistan, he said. "The country spoke in one voice and the America's Seventh Fleet was forced to return. Usually, full scale wars take years to conclude. But India won the 1971 War in 13 days because it spoke in one voice," he said. The Congress leader said helicopters and fighter aircrafts do not strengthen a country. "A country becomes strong when its people are strong," he said.   He further said sacrifice defines his relationship with the state from where thousands of people die fighting on the borders for the country. "The way thousands of families in Uttarakhand lose their kin battling for the country's honour, my family too has made sacrifices. This is my relationship with Uttarakhand," he said. The Congress leader said while travelling to Dehradun, he was thinking what kind of relationship he has with Uttarakhand. "I thought of the few years I spent here as a student of the Doon School, during which I got a lot of your love. I was also reminded of two dates--October 31--when my grandmother became a martyr and--May 21--when my father was assassinated. And the word that struck me was sacrifice," he added. Rahul Gandhi said he was at school when he was told that his grandmother received 32 bullet wounds. "Such calls are received by thousands of families in Uttarakhand when their kin make the supreme sacrifice to safeguard the country," he said. But families that have made no sacrifice for the nation cannot feel this, he said. They cannot feel what it means to lose a father or an uncle, the Congress leader said. He also attacked Prime Minister Narendra Modi, alleging that demonetisation and the GST were the "tools of capitalists". "Narendra Modi is their implementor," he said targeting the PM. "Take it from me, the youth in this country will not get jobs until the BJP government in New Delhi goes," the leader said. Rahul Gandhi claimed that measures like the noteban and the GST destroyed small and medium businessmen. On rising inflation, he said petrol and diesel prices had fallen in the international market but went up in an unprecedented way in the country due to highest tax on fuel. He accused the PM of pulling out Rs 10 lakh crore from people's pockets and transferring them straight to the pockets of "handpicked billionaire capitalists who do his marketing". He said the Centre's farm laws were aimed at "finishing farmers and helping capitalists". The former Congress president also criticised the Centre for not accepting that 700 farmers died during the course of the agitation against the laws. "The prime minister has apologised to farmers for the agriculture laws which were withdrawn after a sustained agitation by farmers but does not acknowledge their deaths and is refusing to pay compensations," he said. Rahul said if the Congress is voted to power, it will protect interests of farmers and unemployed youth. Heroes of the 1971 War, Army veterans and families who lost their kin fighting for the country were offered a memento and a shawl as a gesture of honour by the Congress leader, who shared the dais with them at the rally, the first by him ahead of the next year's Assembly elections in the state. The Congress rally at Parade Ground came days after PM Modi held a rally at the venue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indira-gandhi-took-32-bullets-for-country-but-ignored-on-1971-war-anniversary-rahul-1061501.html
16-12-2021||National||India joins Bangladesh in celebrating golden jubilee of victory over Pakistan||‘Bangabandhu’ Sheikh Mujibur Rahman’s vision for a free and inclusive Bangladesh is now being realised under the leadership of Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina, President Ram Nath Kovind said in Dhaka on Thursday, as India joined its eastern neighbour in celebrating the 50th anniversary of its liberation from Pakistan in 1971. Kovind was speaking at an event that marked the Golden Jubilee of the independence of Bangladesh and the conclusion of “Mujib Borsho” (Mujib Year) celebrations at the National Parliament of Bangladesh. He was also the Guest of Honour at the National Victory Day parade in Dhaka earlier on the day, on an invitation from Bangladesh President M Abdul Hamid. A tri-service contingent of 122 soldiers of the Indian Army, Navy and Air Force marched with the personnel of the armed forces of Bangladesh. Wing Commander Asha Jyothirmai of the Indian Air Force (IAF) carried out a joint skydiving demonstration along with the skydivers of the Bangladesh Air Force. The Victory Day celebration commemorated the surrender of the Pakistan Army to the Indian Army and the Mukti Bahini of Bangladesh on December 16, 1971. The surrender at the Ramna Race Course ground in Dhaka had marked the end of the war and the liberation of erstwhile East Pakistan into Bangladesh. Prime Minister Narendra Modi led the celebration, commemorating the victory of India against Pakistan and the birth of the new nation of Bangladesh. “Together, we fought and defeated oppressive forces,” Modi posted on Twitter. The Prime Minister also went to the National War Memorial and paid homage to the soldiers of the Indian Armed Forces who had made supreme sacrifices during the war against Pakistan in 1971. He merged four flames, which traversed across the country over the past 12 months, with the eternal flame at the National War Memorial. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh unveiled a commemorative stamp marking the golden jubilee of India’s victory during the 1971 war against Pakistan. “A little over 50 years ago, the vision of an independent Bangladesh inspired millions. But it seemed a remote and impossible dream then to naysayers, sceptics and detractors. The international context and realpolitik seemed to rule out the prospects of Liberation,” Kovind said, adding: “Set against a brutal, determined and well-armed foe who would stop at nothing, the odds were very much against Bangladesh.” “But the inspiring statesmanship of Bangabandhu; his clear-sighted moral conviction and his unflinching determination to seek justice for the people of East Pakistan were truly the game-changers,” the President of India said, paying homage to the founder of Bangladesh, Sheikh Mujibur Rahman. “As a result, the world learnt a valuable lesson: that the will of the majority of people cannot be subjugated by any force, however brutal.”  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-joins-bangladesh-in-celebrating-golden-jubilee-of-victory-over-pakistan-1061519.html
16-12-2021||National||Flipkart CEO meets Jagan, assures support to farmers, skilling programmes||A delegation of e-commerce giant Flipkart led by its CEO Kalyan Krishnamurthy on Thursday met Chief Minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy and discussed issues related to investment and business opportunities in the state. During the meeting Reddy appealed to the Flipkart delegation to help farmers get better price for their crops and also in making better technology available for the farmers, an official release said. Responding to the CM’s request, Krishnamurthy said they will take appropriate steps to procure products from farmers for their commodities business as it will benefit both the parties. The Flipkart official further said the company would do its best in providing better technology to the farmers. The Chief Minister said Visakhapatnam is a good platform for IT and e-commerce investments in the state and invited Flipkart to invest in the city. He said the state government is setting up a High End Skill University in Visakhapatnam to enhance the skills of the youth and asked Flipkart to become partners in it. Responding positively to the proposals, the Flipkart CEO said his company has activities in Vishakapatnam and added that they would invest more in the city. Krishnamurthy said that they would partner with the state government in Skill Development activities and added that those programmes will start from next year. The Chief Minister also urged the delegation to help in increase of export business of fisheries to foreign countries, for which Krishnamurthy said their partner Walmart has been buying and exporting seafood products from the state and assured that they would increase the business.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/flipkart-ceo-meets-jagan-assures-support-to-farmers-skilling-programmes-1061526.html
16-12-2021||National||Details being worked out, date not finalised: MEA on India-US 2+2 dialogue||The External Affairs Ministry on Thursday said the India-US 2+2 dialogue was unlikely this year and details were being worked out for it but a date had not yet been finalised. The last meeting of the 2+2 dialogue was held in New Delhi last year and the next meeting is to be hosted by the US in Washington. The 2+2 ministerial dialogue takes place between foreign and defence ministers of both the sides. Asked when would the dialogue be held and if any dates had been finalised, Ministry of External Affairs Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said, "This year has 15 more days (left), I don't think it is going to be this year." "Our dialogue and engagement with the US has been quite intense, regular and we look forward to holding the next 2+2 ministerial meeting with the US. Details are being worked out but I am afraid we haven't got a date as yet to share with you," he said.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/details-being-worked-out-date-not-finalised-mea-on-india-us-22-dialogue-1061529.html
16-12-2021||National||ISB to help govt’s HR management practices||Indian School of Business has entered into a knowledge partnership agreement with the Capacity Building Commission, an initiative of the central government to augment the capacity of India’s 25 million civil servants. CBC was constituted on April 1 this year with the mandate “to drive standardisation and harmonisation across the Indian civil services landscape.” “As the custodian of civil services capacity building reforms,” the commission’s role is described as central to the overall institutional framework of Mission Karmayogi. The National Programme for Civil Services Capacity Building (‘NPCSCB’) known as “Mission Karmayogi” was approved in September last year with the objective of enhancing governance through Civil Services Capacity Building. Professor Madan Pillutla, Dean of Indian School of Business and Hemang Jani, Secretary, Capacity Building Commission, signed the agreement on behalf of the respective institutions, on Wednesday. ISB, through its research and training capacity abilities, would support CBC and government departments in realising the vision "to enhance the execution capacity of the Indian state by radically improving the government’s human resource management practices." Dr R Balasubramaniam, member-HR, CBC said, “While the commission strives to inculcate a culture of learning and building competencies to make the civil service a catalyst for growth, we are confident that the partnership with ISB would usher in new insights to achieve the grand vision of Mission Karmayogi.” ISB would work with CBC as a training and content partner as part of the partnership. ISB would also create learning resources and teaching material, including commissioned research and a bank of case studies generated from the Indian public sector. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/isb-to-help-govt-s-hr-management-practices-1061543.html
16-12-2021||National||Encroachment issue: Sad story going on for 75 years, major cities have turned into slums, says SC||The Supreme Court on Thursday expressed concern over encroachment on public lands across the country and observed this is a "sad story" that is going on for the last 75 years and major cities have "turned into slums". The apex court observed that the primary responsibility of ensuring that there is no encroachment on any property, be it private, government or public, is that of the local authority and they must activate themselves to deal with it. "It is time that the local government really wakes up to the situation because one encroachment is removed, another place the same encroachment shifts there and they will also have other persons who are manipulating this and they will be taking advantage of the rehabilitation. That is the sad story of this country," a bench headed by Justice A M Khanwilkar said. "And, it is ultimately taxpayers' money which goes down the drain," said the bench, also comprising justices Dinesh Maheshwari and CT Ravikumar. The top court was hearing two separate pleas which raised issues related to the removal of encroachment from Railway land in the states of Gujarat and Haryana. The bench said encroachment on public land is happening everywhere and the problem will have to be resolved. "Therefore, all major cities have turned into slums. Look at any city, there may be exception we don't know. Chandigarh is said, is exception but again there are issues in Chandigarh also," it said. Additional Solicitor General KM Nataraj, appearing for the Railways, told the bench that the authority would take action in this regard across the country. "That is happening everywhere. Let us rise to the reality. The problem has to be resolved and how to resolve it, the government concerned has to take that responsibility," the top court said. "The primary responsibility of ensuing that there is no encroachment on any property, private or government or public property, is that of the local government," it said, adding, "This is a sad story going on for last 75 years". The top court observed that the Railways is "equally responsible" for ensuring that there is no encroachment on its properties and it must initiate action against unauthorised occupants immediately after the issue is brought to its notice. It noted that the Surat-Udhna to Jalgaon Railway line project in Gujarat is still incomplete because of unauthorised structures standing on the railway property to the extent of 2.65 kilometre. The top court directed that the Railways may issue notices to the occupants of these unauthorised structures, falling within the stretch which is immediately required for commencing the remaining project work in Gujarat, and give two weeks time to the occupants to vacate the premises. The top court said that Rs 2,000 per month as solatium for a period of six months be paid to the occupants of an unauthorised structure which would be removed in the demolition action. It said the solatium shall be initially paid by the collector of the district concerned and it shall be shared equally by the Railways, municipal corporation concerned and the state government. In the Gujarat matter, the petitioners had earlier told the apex court that the state high court had vacated its July 23, 2014, interim order of status quo and permitted the Western Railways to go ahead with the Surat-Udhna up to Jalgaon third railway line project. After the high court order, the petitioners moved the top court which granted status quo on the demolition of these 'jhuggis' in Gujarat. The other plea relates to the demolition of jhuggis near the railway tracks at Faridabad in Haryana. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/encroachment-issue-sad-story-going-on-for-75-years-major-cities-have-turned-into-slums-says-sc-1061571.html
16-12-2021||National||Indira Gandhi didn’t show pride: Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury on 1971 war||An important factor for India’s victory over Pakistan, while liberating Bangladesh, was the strong coordination between the political leadership and the army, senior Congress leader and Lok Sabha MP Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury has said, highlighting the strong role of the then prime minister Indira Gandhi in the war. “Indira Gandhi didn’t show pride that I know everything. Main dupki lagata hoon is liye main sub kuch jaanta hoon (I take a dip, so I know everything). She had listened because the one who knows has to be listened to,” Chowdhury said, as he addressed a gathering at state Congress headquarters in Kolkata, on the occasion of the 50th anniversary of the Bangladesh Liberation War.  Chowdhury recalled how Field Marshal Sam Manekshaw had told Indira Gandhi that fighting during the rainy season won’t be possible as Bangladesh is a land where amid rain and flood army movement wasn’t possible. Rather winter was an option. Indira Gandhi had accepted this suggestion. “The politicians and the army... this coordination between them is a great factor for India’s victory,” he said. Talking to DH, after the event, when asked if Indira Gandhi’s role is being underplayed, Chowdhury said, “Once the issue of independence (of Bangladesh) will come up, certainly Indira Gandhi’s name will be cited. I do not know (if it’s being underplayed).”  He added that the independence of Bangladesh should be given due priority by celebrating it pompously. “It’s the liberation of Bangladesh. It's a historical episode in the subcontinent. For decades we have been nurturing good and cordial relations with the Bangladesh government. If any government doesn't think it prudent, it is up to the discretion of the government. But the fact is, cordial relations will ensure the security of our country also,” he said "When our arch-enemy China has been exhausting all its resources to surround the country, India, at a time when China has been playing all kinds of nefarious designs to weaken the country, Bangladesh has been standing like the Rock of Gibraltar with us. As a gesture of goodwill and cooperation with Bangladesh, India should officially celebrate the golden jubilee of independence,” he added. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indira-gandhi-didn-t-show-pride-adhir-ranjan-chowdhury-on-1971-war-1061577.html
16-12-2021||National||Suggest steps to stop false motor accident claims, SC tells Ministry of Transport||The Supreme Court on Thursday asked the Union government's Ministry of Transport to come out with suggestions to curb the menace of filing false claims with regard to motor accidents. A bench of justices MR Shah and Sanjiv Khanna issued notice to the Union government, stating that after getting a response or suggestions, the top court may issue directions to be applied pan-India in this regard. The court asked Additional Solicitor General KM Nataraj to appear before it on behalf of the Ministry of Transport, to render his assistance. A report filed by a special investigation team (SIT), following the top court's order in the case of one Safiq Ahmad, stated that a total of 1,376 cases of suspicious claims from various districts in Uttar Pradesh have been received so far. After completing an inquiry into 247 suspicious claims to date, a total of 198 accused have been prima facie found guilty of a cognisable offence and accordingly, a total 92 criminal cases have been registered in various districts, the court was informed. Among these, 28 advocates were named as accused persons in 55 cases, while charge sheets against 11 advocates in 25 cases were forwarded to the trial court concerned to date. The court asked the investigating officer of the SIT to expedite the investigation with respect to complaints already received from various insurance companies on suspicious fake claims.  It also asked the Bar Council of India and Uttar Pradesh to conclude the disciplinary proceedings against the accused lawyers in accordance with law, as early as possible.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/suggest-steps-to-stop-false-motor-accident-claims-sc-tells-ministry-of-transport-1061579.html
16-12-2021||National||Bharat Biotech to donate 2 lakh Covaxin doses to Vietnam||Covaxin maker Bharat Biotech has announced a donation of two lakh doses of the Covid-19 vaccine to the Republic of Vietnam. Suchitra Ella, Joint Managing Director, Bharat Biotech said that "the donation represents a goodwill gesture to provide access to the WHO approved, indigenously developed Covaxin to fight the Covid-19 pandemic across borders." Covaxin had received Emergency Use Listing in Vietnam. Ella made the announcement while speaking at an event hosted by Vuong Dinh Hue, chairman of the Vietnam National Assembly in New Delhi on Thursday. Bharat Biotech leadership was invited by the Embassy of Vietnam for a one-on-one meeting with Hue to discuss avenues of cooperation, supplies, and technology transfer possibilities. Ella wished that Covaxin contribution will help boost Vietnam's national vaccination program and recovery from the pandemic. “We believe in vaccine equity, global public health ... I hope everyone in Vietnam will take advantage of having access to the widely administered, safe and efficacious Covaxin,” said Dr Krishna Ella, Chairman and Managing Director, Bharat Biotech. Bharat Biotech had earlier announced the completion of Phase-2 and 3 trials of Covaxin for children in the age group 2 to 18 years. The data was submitted to the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) and final approval is awaited. In Vietnam, Bharat Biotech has been working with Duc Minh Medical JSC, towards the commercialisation of INDIRAB (Inactivated Rabies Vaccine). Duc Minh is Bharat Biotech's local partner in Vietnam. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bharat-biotech-to-donate-2-lakh-covaxin-doses-to-vietnam-1061581.html
16-12-2021||National||Verify caste certificate within 6 months of joining: Parliamentary panel||A parliamentary panel has asked the Centre to verify caste certificates of employees of the Schedule Castes and Scheduled Tribes Community within six months of joining to deal with the "inordinate delay" in the verification of caste certificate of the SC and ST Community. The panel asked the Centre to issue guidelines to this effect by the Budget Session to ensure that pending cases of withheld pension of pensioners from the SC/ST are addressed.  In the ninth report of the parliamentary committee on the welfare of scheduled castes and scheduled tribes, where it examined cases of atrocities in public sector undertakings (PSUs), public sector banks and other organisations, with special reference to cases related to withholding pensions and retirement benefits of SC/ST employees, the panel said that the Department of Personnel and Training should issue guidelines so that an employee’s caste verification is one within six months of joining.  The panel noted that there are several cases where the verification of caste certificates of SC/ST employees took place at the end of their career in several government departments.  This led to the withholding of pension and other emoluments of these employees, the panel said, and termed it as “gross harassment” of the employee, both mental and physical. The panel further said that the organisation should be held responsible, and not the employee.  SC/ST employees in several ministries, departments, PSUs, banks and autonomous bodies were facing the same problem, the panel said.  “The Committee... strongly recommended that the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment in consultation with DoPT, Ministry of Law and Justice (Legislative Department) and State Government must draft a suitable legislation keeping in view the observation made by the Parliamentary Committee after approval of Cabinet, introduce it in the next Session of the Parliament 2022 to get it passed. "The Committee are of the firm view that after passing of Prevention of false caste certificate Bill by incorporating suitable provision to protect the interest of the SCs and STs community,” the panel said.  The committee said that pension guidelines should also be issued.  As per representations from the Delhi-based Akhil Bharatiya Adivasi Vikas Parishad, there were complaints from 136 pensioners from Tamil Nadu alone whose dues were pending in various ministries. Seven of these complainants had passed away and in 11 cases, dues were finally settled. With 33 complaints, the ministry of railways had the maximum complaints, followed by ministry of shipping with 29 complaints and the finance ministry with 19 complaints.   Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/verify-caste-certificate-within-6-months-of-joining-parliamentary-panel-1061592.html
16-12-2021||National||113 countries accept India's Covid vaccination certificate: Govt in RS||A total of 113 countries accept India's Covid vaccination certificate with some of them having explicitly reached agreements for mutual recognition of certificates with India, while others have their own protocols which apply to all inoculated travellers, the government informed the Rajya Sabha on Thursday. In a written reply to a question in the Upper House, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said the government assigns high priority to smooth travel abroad of Indian nationals and noted that quarantine stipulations, as well as entry conditions of other nations, have emerged as obstacles in that regard. "Recognising the necessity of facilitating travel especially of workers, professionals, students, business people, tourists and those with families abroad has been a focal point of our diplomacy in recent months," he said. A significant aspect of that pertains to vaccination status and recognition, he added. As of December 13, 2021, a total of 113 countries accept India’s vaccination certificate, the minister said. Some of these countries have explicitly reached agreements for mutual recognition of vaccination certificates with India, while others have their own protocols which apply to all vaccinated travellers, including from India, he said. "At present, there is no multilateral agreement on linking international travel with vaccination status. Wherever nations have not instituted a protocol that facilitates travel by vaccinated Indians, the government has decided to reach bilateral understandings to that end," the minister said. In this regard, the Union Cabinet had approved on September 29, 2021, pursuing mutual recognition of Covid-19 vaccination certificates with individual countries, either through exchange of Note Verbales or through signing of Memorandum of Understanding. Till December 13, 2021, India has entered into agreements on mutual recognition of Covid-19 vaccination certificate with 22 countries, he said. The countries that accept India's vaccination certificate include the US, UAE, Russia, Sri Lanka and Nepal. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/113-countries-accept-indias-covid-vaccination-certificate-govt-in-rs-1061600.html
16-12-2021||National||Pakistan's 'Op Searchlight' in 1971 horrific example of mass atrocity, brutal killings: Jaishankar||'Operation Searchlight' carried out by the Pakistani forces in 1971 is one of the most "horrific examples of mass atrocities and brutal killings in recent history", Union minister S Jaishankar said Thursday on the 50th anniversary of India's victory over Pakistan in the war. The external affairs minister was speaking at a BSF event held to commemorate the day and to honour the role of the troops of the paramilitary force. Delivering his keynote address, Jaishankar said the Border Security Force played a critical role in the liberation of Bangladesh and the country salutes the officers and men whose resolve and valour created history in 1971. This victory of the Indian Army along with the BSF led to the birth of Bangladesh. "Operation Searchlight truly remains one of the most horrific examples of mass atrocities and brutal killings in recent history. "But the people of Bangladesh rose against this brutal aggression under the heroic leadership of Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman," the minister said. 'Operation Searchlight' was the codename the Pakistani Army used for its action against the Bangladeshi nationalist movement. Jaishankar said there was spontaneous support in India for the people and freedom fighters of the eastern neighbour and "our political, diplomatic and military efforts in support of people of Bangladesh in their struggle to uphold democratic rights is now well recognised." Jaishankar said the BSF, which guards the 4,000-kilometre-long India-Bangladesh border, was a "key stakeholder" in India- Bangladesh friendship. He said the force, which was raised in 1965, was still in infancy when the 1971 war took place. "In many ways, the experience of 1971 was its initiation by fire. Yet, the exceptional bravery displayed by BSF battalions, both at eastern and western fronts, contributed to an outcome that was in India's favour. None of us can ever forget the genocidal campaign launched by Pakistani forces against the people of Bangladesh in March 1971," he said. Jaishankar said the BSF, during this war, "grappled" with the immediate consequences as 10 million refugees had come to India and they were living in tents in border areas. "The people of India opened their hearts and extended support...the BSF managed the evolving situation on the ground with unmatched tact and compassion." "Often the generosity of people of India found their way through the BSF personnel on the ground as they provided moral and material support to those who were fleeing from the atrocities of Pakistani forces and taking part in the freedom struggle of Bangladesh," Jaishankar said. He said the people of 'Awami League' took shelter in India and the BSF played a key role by supporting the “government in exile and the Mukti Bahini..." The minister said both the countries shared "deep historical bonds" and the BSF and its counterpart BGB were jointly undertaking the task of taking the ties between the two neighbouring countries forward. He said guarding this front was an important task "given the unique nature of this porous border where people live close to the border and share ethic and cultural ties”. The BSF has been undertaking this complex and multi-faceted task for the past five decades and its contribution in ensuring peace at the borders in close cooperation with the Border Guard Bangladesh (BGB) is “critical in sustaining friendship between our people in partnership," the minister said at the event, which was also attended by the diplomats of Bangladesh and some 'Muktijoddhas' who fought for their country. Talking about the road ahead, Jaishankar said, “Any contemporary policy naturally rests on our historical foundation and the BSF can truly claim to have shaped both in equal measure.” He said the border force "continues to play a crucial role in India's robust engagement with Bangladesh and maintaining a peaceful border, preventing trans-border crimes and other illegal activities." “There has been a significant progress in terms of opening up of new and pre-existing railways, roads and waterways between India and Bangladesh and several efforts are under way to further boost multi-modal cross-border connectivity for seamless movement of people and goods,” he said. As a result, both countries share a growing trade partnership, he said. Jaishankar said Bangladesh was India's largest trade partner in South Asia and "despite Covid related impediments bilateral trade between the two nations has now touched $10 billion." He concluded by saying that BSF was a "key partner" in this whole government approach. The Deputy High Commissioner of Bangladesh to India, Md Nurul Islam, also spoke at the event and said the ties between the two neighbours were "ever growing". He added that "sensitive" issues between the two countries required to be dealt with in a "more humane" manner. BSF director general Pankaj Kumar Singh said the force was proud of the fact that it was the "first point of contact" for the Bangladesh freedom fighters in 1971. As per official records, a total of 125 BSF personnel were killed and 392 injured, while 133 were reported missing after the war ended on December 16 of 1971, with the surrender of 93,000 Pakistani troops before the Indian forces in Dhaka.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistans-op-searchlight-in-1971-horrific-example-of-mass-atrocity-brutal-killings-jaishankar-1061601.html
16-12-2021||National||National-level shooter Konica Layak dies by suicide in Kolkata||A young national-level shooter -- Konica Layak who was supposed to get married in February this year died by suicide at her hostel in Bally in West Bengal's Howrah district on Wednesday night, the police said on Thursday, adding the body has been sent for post-mortem. Earlier this year, Konica was gifted a German-manufactured rifle by actor Sonu Sood after he was briefed about her struggles. Sood had gifted her the rifle so she could take part in the Nationals and other competitions. "Sonu Sood sir, my rifle is here. There is a wave of happiness in my family and the entire village is blessing you. May you live long," an elated Layak had tweeted after receiving the gun amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Police, investigating the case, recovered a suicide note where she wrote that she was going through 'depression' and that forced her to kill herself. Police, however, was verifying the suicide note even. This is the fourth such case in recent times in the shooting fraternity. Her family members are learned to have reached Kolkata. The shooter -- originally from a village at Dhanbad in Jharkhand who had won a few medals at the state level, was training along with Olympian and Arjuna Awardee Joydeep Karmakar in Kolkata. Layak had also won a gold and silver at the Jharkhand State Rifle Championship. This is the fourth case of death by suicide in recent months, in the shooting fraternity, raising serious questions. Recently, young pistol shooter Khushpreet Kaur Sandhu, who had made her junior India debut at the last World Championship in Lima, committed suicide after registering low scores at the Nationals. Before that, two more shooters -- Hunardeep Singh Sohal and Namanveer Singh Brar -- also took the extreme step. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-level-shooter-konica-layak-dies-by-suicide-in-kolkata-1061602.html
16-12-2021||National||36% of tuberculosis patients in India are women, says Smriti Irani||In India, women account for nearly 36% of all tuberculosis cases, said the Union Minister of Women and Child Development Smriti Irani.  In 2020, 6,90,000 women contracted the disease. And yet, Irani said, several cases often go unreported because women do not come forward to seek medical care due to societal stigma and lack of awareness. Irani was speaking at the National Conference on Tuberculosis at Vigyan Bhawan on Thursday, which was inaugurated by Vice President M. Venkaiah Naidu. Health minister Mansukh Mandaviya, ministers of state Mahendrabhai Munjpara (WCD) and Bharti Pravin Pawar (health) were present as well.  Naidu urged elected representatives, including MPs, MLAs and sarpanches, to take regular reviews at the district level. “More than any other disease, community engagement is vital to completely eradicate TB”, Naidu said.  Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said that PM Modi has set the target of complete eradication of TB by 2025, ahead of the Sustainable Development Goals target (2030) and so, the government was working to meet these goals. A three-day workshop was held to streamline a roadmap.  The conference, a government release said, was held to deliberate on policy interventions and to garner the support of parliamentarians for the implementation of gender-responsive TB care. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/36-of-tuberculosis-patients-in-india-are-women-says-smriti-irani-1061616.html
16-12-2021||National||Centre offers to locate western zone linguistic minorities office in Mumbai: Shiv Sena||The Centre has agreed to set up the western zone office of the assistant commission for linguistic minorities in Mumbai, instead of re-establishing it at Belagavi, Shiv Sena leader Arvind Sawant said in New Delhi on Thursday. A delegation of Shiv Sena MPs led by senior leader Sanjay Raut met Minority Affairs Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi and requested him to set up the office in Mumbai. "Naqvi has assured us to locate the office in Mumbai and urged the Shiv Sena leaders to impress upon the Maharashtra government to provide space for the same," Sawant said. The office was originally located in Mumbai but was shifted to Belagavi after the Maharashtra-Karnataka boundary dispute flared up. However, due to a shortage of staff, recently, the Belagavi office was merged with the South Divisional at Chennai. Several leaders from Maharashtra also demanded re-establish at Belagavi. With Shiv Sena MPs demanding to shift office from Chennai to Mumbai, the Union Minister agreed, Sawant said. “Does the government expect linguistic minorities from Gujarat, Maharashtra, Goa, Dadra, Nagar Haveli, Daman and Diu and Karnataka to travel all the way to Chennai to seek redressal of their grievances?” the Shiv Sena leader asked. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-offers-to-locate-western-zone-linguistic-minorities-office-in-mumbai-shiv-sena-1061617.html
16-12-2021||National||CBSE postpones 2nd shift of CTET, two shifts of exam scheduled on December 17||The CBSE postponed the second shift of the Central Teacher Eligibility Test (CTET) scheduled Thursday and two shifts on Friday following technical glitches. The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) had entrusted TCS Ltd with the responsibility of conducting the CTET in Computer Based Mode (Online) during December 16-January 13 in different cities throughout the country. "TCS Ltd has reported that the examination of paper in the first shift on December 16 has been conducted successfully across the country. On the scheduled second shift (Paper 2), the examination could not be completed due to unexpected technical requirements. TCS is working to ensure that the issues are addressed on priority," the board said in an official statement. "In view of the situation, the examinations of the second shift of December 16 and both the shifts of Paper 1 and 2 scheduled to be held on December 17 have been postponed. The next dates of examinations for these candidates will be notified in consultation with TCS Ltd. Inconvenience caused to the candidates is sincerely regretted," it added. The CBSE further announced that the examination shifts starting from December 20 will be conducted according to schedule and the candidates are to appear in the examination at the respective centres accordingly.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbse-postpones-2nd-shift-of-ctet-two-shifts-of-exam-scheduled-on-december-17-1061627.html
16-12-2021||National||SC Collegium refuses confirmation to Bombay HC judge for 'skin-to-skin' judgement||The woman judge faced widespread criticism after she granted bail to a man accused of groping a minor, saying that there was no “skin-to-skin contact and hence, it cannot be termed as sexual assault” under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. The top court had subsequently overturned the judgement. In its latest recommendations, the Collegium approved the proposal for the appointment of three additional judges of the High Court Justices Madhav Jayajirao Jamdar, Amit Bhalchandra Borkar and Shrikant Dattatray Kulkarni, as permanent judges. Additional judge Abhay Ahuja was granted a fresh term of one year as an additional judge. However, Justice Ganediwala has neither received an extension nor confirmation. Once her term ends in February 2022, she will have to return as a district judge. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-collegium-refuses-confirmation-to-bombay-hc-judge-for-skin-to-skin-judgement-1061639.html
16-12-2021||National||Tajik foreign minister to visit India on December 18, hold bilateral talks with Jaishankar||Tajik Foreign Minister Sirojiddin Muhriddin will be on a three-day official visit here beginning Saturday during which he will hold talks with his Indian counterpart S Jaishankar and discuss bilateral, regional and international issues of mutual interest. The visit of the foreign minister of Tajikistan will sustain the momentum of high-level exchanges and further strengthen the strategic partnership between the two countries, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said in a statement. Muhriddin will meet Jaishankar on December 18. The two ministers will discuss bilateral, regional and international issues of mutual interest and undertake a comprehensive review of bilateral cooperation, the MEA said. Minister Sirojiddin is also expected to meet other dignitaries during his visit, it said. There has been an active exchange of visits between both sides during the year, it noted. Jaishankar has visited Tajikistan thrice this year -- for a bilateral visit as well as for participating in the 'Heart of Asia' Conference in March, for the SCO Foreign Ministers' meeting in June, and for the SCO Council of Heads of State Summit in September. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and National Security Advisor Ajit Doval visited Tajikistan in June for SCO meetings. From the Tajik side, the secretary of the Security Council visited India in February and again in November for the Regional Security Dialogue. Separately, the MEA said it will be organising the second Atal Bihari Vajpayee Lecture on December 24. The lecture will be delivered by Dr Michael Fullilove, executive director of the Lowy Institute of Australia. Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla will preside over the event. The lecture will be on "Australia, India and the Indo-Pacific: The need for strategic imagination". This is the second edition of this lecture series that was instituted in memory of former prime minister and external affairs minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tajik-foreign-minister-to-visit-india-on-december-18-hold-bilateral-talks-with-jaishankar-1061654.html
16-12-2021||National Politics||'Khela Hobe' in 2024; BJP will be defeated across India in LS polls: Mamata||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday asserted that the BJP will be defeated across the country in the next Lok Sabha polls due in 2024, and claimed that the saffron party would face similar drubbing that it had tasted in the last assembly polls in the state. While addressing a rally for the December 19 Kolkata Municipal election (KMC) at Phoolbagan area in the city, Banerjee said her sole aim after returning to power for the third consecutive term in the state is to bring industry and generate jobs. "During the assembly polls, we have seen the campaign that the BJP had unleashed in the state. Everybody was afraid of it. But the people of the state defeated them. Bengal is a place of communal harmony. What Bengal thinks today, India thinks tomorrow. We will defeat the BJP in the 2024 Lok Sabha polls. It will meet the same fate as it had faced in the last assembly polls," she said. The rally is Banerjee's first public function after her return from Goa on Tuesday, where she had gone on a two-day political visit. "I want to see the BJP lose across the country in the 2024 elections. It will be Khela Hobey (there will be a game) again," she said. The "Khela Hobe" slogan of the TMC had become immensely popular during the high-octane campaigning of the assembly election held earlier this year. "We have opened a new unit in Goa. In Tripura too, we have expanded. In Tripura, we have faced a lot of atrocities," she said The ruling camp of West Bengal is trying to expand its footprint nationally. The TMC, in its bid to enter Tripura's political arena, recently engaged in a bitter battle with the BJP during the municipal elections there. It is also gearing up to contest the assembly elections in Goa to pitch Banerjee firmly as the foremost anti-BJP opposition voice. Assembly elections in Goa and Tripura are due in 2022 and 2023 respectively. Reacting to Banerjee’s claim that BJP will be defeated in the next Lok Sabha poll, BJP state president Sukanta Majumdar said the TMC supremo should stop daydreaming about becoming the next prime minister. “She had said similar things in 2014 and in 2019 and all of us have seen the results,” he said. The CM, while speaking on her government's vision in her third tenure, said, "I am working towards bringing industry in the state so that jobs can be generated. That's my aim, and I will achieve it," she said. She said her government is mulling to set up a one-stop online mechanism for clearing industries and building approvals easier and make the system corruption-free. Giving a call for a “corruption-free” civic body, the TMC boss asked the party candidates in the KMC polls to work for the people and ensure that their grievances related to civic issues are addressed at the earliest. Banerjee said several sitting councillors were dropped this time for "non-performance". "The MPs and MLAs cannot do everything. People's representatives mainly do the work of an area. The councillor has to fulfil his responsibilities. If you don't work, you have to step down. If people come to you with a problem and you sit over it or seek money, it is unacceptable," she said. “No one can make money from people or monopolise the supply of building materials,” she added. In the last KMC polls held in 2015, the TMC had won 126 out of the 144 seats. It had retained 87 sitting councillors and had dropped 39. Listing out the "good work" done by the KMC in the last two tenures since 2010, Banerjee said the TMC-led civic body has done a lot of developmental work for the city. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/khela-hobe-in-2024-bjp-will-be-defeated-across-india-in-ls-polls-mamata-1061238.html
16-12-2021||National Politics||Congress issues whip to party MPs to be present in Rajya Sabha on Thursday||The Congress on Wednesday issued a whip to its Rajya Sabha members to be present in the House on Thursday. "Very important issues will be taken up for discussion in the Rajya Sabha tomorrow," party chief whip Jairam Ramesh said. "All members of the Congress party in the Rajya Sabha are requested to kindly remain present in the House from 11 am onwards till the adjournment of the House," he said. The Congress and several other opposition parties have been unitedly demanding that the suspension of the 12 MPs be revoked, but the government is insisting that they first apologise in the House.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-issues-whip-to-party-mps-to-be-present-in-rajya-sabha-on-thursday-1061242.html
16-12-2021||National Politics||Another year-end gift from Modi govt: Chidambaram's dig over vacant posts for teachers||Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram took a dig at the Centre over more than 10,000 vacant teaching posts across central universities, IITs and IIMs on Thursday, calling it "another year-end gift from the Modi government". In a written response to a question in Rajya Sabha, Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan said on Wednesday that 6,535 full-time teaching posts were vacant in the central universities, 403 across IIMs and 3,876 in the IITs. Attacking the government, Chidambaram said, "Another year-end gift from the Modi government: There are over 10,000 teaching posts vacant in central universities, IITs and IIMs. Of these 4126 are reserved for SC, ST and OBC." "We thought teaching through teachers is their primary objective. I wonder what these institutions do without sufficient teachers," the former Union minister said on Twitter. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/another-year-end-gift-from-modi-govt-chidambarams-dig-over-vacant-posts-for-teachers-1061320.html
16-12-2021||National Politics||'He is a criminal': Opposition demands immediate resignation of Ajay Mishra over Lakhimpur violence||Opposition stepped up pressure on the government for the sacking of Union Minister Ajay Mishra inside and outside Parliament with the Lakhimpur Kheri violence with the MPs disrupting the proceedings of both Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha, even as the government on Thursday remained non-committal on his resignation. Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi led the Opposition charge in Lok Sabha while in Rajya Sabha even before Leader of Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge could raise the issue, Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu adjourned the morning session of the House. Both the Houses did not transact any meaningful business during the day as Opposition MPs shouted slogans insisting on the sacking of Mishra, whose son was arrested in connection with the killing of four protesting farmers and journalists in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri, leading to the adjournment of the proceedings for the day. In Lok Sabha, Speaker Om Birla called Rahul to pose his question on the MSME sector and the Congress leader used the opportunity to call for the resignation of Mishra. "This minister should be removed from the government...Action should be taken against him...We should be allowed to speak about it," Rahul said in Lok Sabha. As the din continued, Birla first adjourned the House till 2 pm. When re-assembled, similar scenes repeated in Lok Sabha with the Chair adjourning the House for the day. In Rajya Sabha, Opposition members attempted to raise the issue but Naidu adjourned the House till 2 pm. Deputy Chairman Harivansh also adjourned the House soon after the House re-assembled at 2 pm as he could not take forward the debate on the situation arising out of the new Covid-19 variant Omicron. "The Supreme Court-monitored investigation is going on in the case. Parliament is a place for discussions. We want to take constructive suggestions from the Opposition. We call them for discussions but they refuse," Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi told reporters. While Youth Congress activists staged a protest near Parliament, Congress General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra attacked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for not sacking Mishra and said carefully curated spectacles of piety and wearing religious attire will not change the "fact that you are protecting a criminal". "The government's refusal to sack Ajay Mishra Teni is the starkest indication of its moral bankruptcy. @narendramodi-ji, carefully curated spectacles of piety and wearing religious attire will not change the fact that you are protecting a criminal... Ajay Mishra Teni should be sacked and charged in accordance with the law," she tweeted. …Ajay Mishra Teni should be sacked and charged in accordance with the law. 2/2 Kharge told reporters, "If the Prime Minister is not taking action against Mishra even after the SIT report, then we are forced to say that the PM is protecting the Minister." Referring to Naidu adjourning the House "without even allowing" them to mention the issue, he said, "Even before we could mention our notice on Lakhimpur Kheri, the Chairman adjourned the House till 2 pm. The moment we got up to raise the issue, the House was adjourned. What does it mean? The Chairman is supposed to protect our rights." Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/he-is-a-criminal-opposition-demands-immediate-resignation-of-ajay-mishra-over-lakhimpur-violence-1061327.html
16-12-2021||National Politics||Lok Sabha adjourned till 2 pm amid Opposition demand to sack Ajay Mishra||Lok Sabha proceedings were adjourned till 2 pm on Thursday amid protests by Opposition members demanding sacking of Union Minister Ajay Mishra in connection with the Lakhimpur Kheri violence. The Opposition members, including Trinamool leaders, trooped to the Well of the House as soon as Speaker Om Birla called for the Question Hour. As the Speaker called Congress member Rahul Gandhi, who had a question listed on Thursday, he demanded removal of Mishra from the council of minister. The Speaker asked Gandhi to limit his supplementaries to the question related to the MSME sector that was listed against his name. As Gandhi continued demanding the ouster of Mishra from the Council of Ministers, BJP members stood up and raised slogans. As the sloganeering continued, the Speaker adjourned the proceedings. Eight people, including four farmers, were killed in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence in October. The SIT has arrested 13 people including the Union minister's son Ashish Mishra in the first FIR in connection with the death of the four farmers and the journalist. In the second FIR relating to the death of two BJP workers and a driver during the violence, the SIT had arrested four people. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/lok-sabha-adjourned-till-2-pm-amid-opposition-demand-to-sack-ajay-mishra-1061333.html
16-12-2021||National Politics||Derek O'Brien feels Ajay Mishra Teni now in 'un-TENI-able' position as Opposition demands his immediate resignation||After Opposition MPs stepped up demand of Mishra Ajay Mishra Teni's resignation in the wake of the Lakhimpur Kheri violence case, TMC MP Derek O'Brien on Thursday punned on the situation saying that the BJP minister's position is "un-TENI-able" (a play on untenable). "Punning in #Parliament. The position of @AmitShah‘s deputy and MoS Home is now un-TENI-able," he tweeted. His remarks came after the Opposition parties created a ruckus in the Lok Sabha demanding "justice for Lakhimpur victims" and called on the government to "sack MoS Home". During Question Hour, when Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla gave Congress MP Rahul Gandhi a chance to ask questions, he started targeting Ajay Mishra, who he said is still in office despite damning report by the SIT. The speaker continued to appeal to him to ask questions. Birla said that the House is not for waving placards and raising slogans. He also kept saying that all members would be given a chance to raise questions, but let the Question Hour continue. Ignoring the Speaker's appeal, the MPs of the Opposition parties kept raising slogans and waving placards demanding Minister's resignation. Due to the ruckus, Speaker Birla adjourned the House till 2 pm. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/derek-obrien-feels-ajay-mishra-teni-now-in-un-teni-able-position-as-opposition-demands-his-immediate-resignation-1061339.html
16-12-2021||National Politics||Youth Congress protests demanding dismissal of Ajay Mishra||In an all-out attack on the Lakhimpur Kheri issue, the Youth Congress on Thursday held a protest against the Central Government demanding the dismissal of the Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra Teni. Youth Congress President Srinivas BV, addressing the workers said that the country has understood the chronology of the BJP, now BJP's policy of 'crush and destroy' will not work. The country is demanding the dismissal of the minister to bring justice to the farmers who died in the Lakhimpur Kheri massacre. He said, days before the Lakhimpur Kheri incident, the Prime Minister's beloved minister was threatening farmers to 'mend your ways or I will mend you' and a few days after that Lakhimpur Kheri massacre took place. He alleged that the Prime Minister's speeches are beyond the truth. The Prime Minister, who praised the farmers in the speeches, should tell - "why is the father of the accused of Lakhimpur Kheri massacre is not being sacked from the post of the minister?" he added. The involvement of the minister's son in the Lakhimpur Kheri massacre has been proved. Even after this, the government and the administration are engaged in doing injustice, so it is necessary to raise a voice, he said. Youth Congress in a statement said, "The level at which the government has come down to save the culprits of the Lakhimpur Kheri massacre is not hidden from anyone. By not sacking the Minister of State for Home, the BJP high command has exposed its anti-farmer face. He also said that we will not leave them until the Minister of State for Home Affairs Ajay Mishra Teni resigns. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/youth-congress-protests-demanding-dismissal-of-ajay-mishra-1061426.html
16-12-2021||National Politics||Caste comes to Ajay Mishra's aid as BJP fears 'Brahmin' backlash||It was Ajay Mishra's caste, which had played a crucial role in his induction in the union cabinet in its second expansion and it is his caste, which appears to have come to his aid at a time when the opposition is gunning for his head over his son's alleged involvement in the killing of farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri in October. Mishra, a 'brahmin', had been inducted into the union cabinet with a view to 'douse' the perceived anger in the electorally influential Brahmin community against the saffron party in Uttar Pradesh, where assembly poll is scheduled to be held two months later. Although Mishra, who was popularly known as 'Maharaj' and had an image of 'muscelman' in Lakhimpur Kheri, was not known to be a familiar 'Brahmin' face in the state, his sacking could result in a 'backlash' from the community which the BJP could not afford as the community was considered to be among its 'core' vote bank. In fact, the BJP got prominent Brahmin Congress leader Jitin Prasada to cross over and inducted him in the UP cabinet to further woo the community ahead of the state assembly polls. ''We cannot afford to do anything that provokes the Brahmins at a time when the election is so close....there may be a backlash,'' admitted a senior BJP leader while speaking to DH on Thursday. A section of the BJP leadership was of the view that the demands for Mishra's resignation by the opposition parties could turn out to be a ''blessing in disguise'' for the party. ''We can paint the opposition as anti-brahmin,'' the leader added.  BJP's worries over a possible 'Brahmin backlash' stemmed from the voices of discontent from among its own leaders, including MLAs, who had alleged that the Brahmins were being 'persecuted' under the current dispensation (Yogi Adityanath). A BJP legislator from Lambhua Assembly seat in Sultanpur district Deomani Dwivedi, who hailed from the 'Brahmin' community, had sought to know from the state government about the number of 'Brahmins' murdered in the state since the BJP came to power in UP and in how many cases the police were able to arrest the culprits. 'Brahmins' who form around 10 per cent of the electorate in the state, are a deciding factor on around a dozen Lok Sabha and over 50 Assembly seats. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/caste-comes-to-ajay-mishras-aid-as-bjp-fears-brahmin-backlash-1061440.html
16-12-2021||National Politics||VHP demands complete ban on Tablighi Jamaat in India||The Vishva Hindu Parishad on Thursday demanded that the government ban the Tablighi Jamaat in India and "crackdown" on Darul Uloom Deoband and Popular Front of India as they provide "direct or indirect nourishment" to Jamaat. In a statement, the VHP, a saffron outfit, also demanded that the Nizamuddin Markaz building in Delhi and the bank accounts associated with it should be sealed, and its "economic sources and resources" should be found out and plugged. "Not only Bharat (India) but the whole world is in a serious trouble today due to the transgressions of the Tablighi Jamaat and its Nizamuddin Markaz," it alleged. "The VHP demands a complete ban on Tablighis, Tablighi Jamaat and Ijtema (religious congregation) in India be imposed," the VHP said, alleging that the Tablighi Jamaat is a manufacturing hub of "radical Islamic Jihadism" as well as a host and patron of global terrorism. The VHP also demanded that authorities "crackdown on institutions and organisations like Darul Uloom Deoband and PFI (Popular Front of India) that give direct or indirect nourishment to Tablighis, Tablighi Jamaat and Ijtema". "The building of Nizamuddin Markaz and the bank accounts associated with it should be sealed. Their economic sources and resources should be found out and plugged," the saffron outfit added. Saudi Arabia has banned the Tablighi and Da'wah group, also known as Al Ahbab, calling it "danger to society and one of the gates of terrorism". However, it was unclear if the Saudi Arabian government's tweets earlier this month were directed at the Tablighi Jamaat group. Muslim organisations and clerics in India have reacted over reports of Saudi Arabia's reported ban on Tablighi Jamaat. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/vhp-demands-complete-ban-on-tablighi-jamaat-in-india-1061482.html
16-12-2021||National Politics||UP Elections: Akhilesh finally meets uncle Shivpal, alliance on cards||With the upcoming Assembly elections in focus, Samajwadi Party President Akhilesh Yadav broke the ice with his uncle Shivpal Yadav on Thursday. Akhilesh drove to Shivpal's residence, where the leaders held a discussion for about 45 minutes, indicating a definite rapprochement of sorts. The two had not met in the past five years even though they came face to face at a few family functions. Although neither of them spoke to the media, sources said that they had discussed an alliance between the Samajwadi Party and Shivpal's Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party Lohia (PSPL) and agreed to the same. "The meeting was held without aides and in a cordial and emotional atmosphere. More such meetings will be held to work out the modalities in the coming days," a source said. Samajwadi Party patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav had been repeatedly asking the two leaders to mend fences before the elections. Shivpal Yadav had, on several occasions, said that he was ready to even merge his party with SP provided his dignity and the respect of his supporters could be ensured. Akhilesh Yadav had also maintained that he would have an alliance with his uncle but had avoided meeting or talking to him, setting off speculations about their relationship.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/up-elections-akhilesh-finally-meets-uncle-shivpal-alliance-on-cards-1061484.html
16-12-2021||National Politics||Akhilesh, Shivpal shun differences, to contest Uttar Pradesh polls in alliance  ||Nurturing dreams to oust the BJP in the forthcoming Assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh, Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav on Thursday managed to persuade his estranged uncle Shivpal Singh Yadav to contest the elections in alliance with the SP. Akhilesh, who drove to Shivpal's residence in the afternoon, was closeted with the latter for around half an hour. He later tweeted a picture showing himself and Shivpal. The SP supremo said that he discussed the issue of alliance with Shivpal, who had floated the Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party (PSP) after being expelled from the SP months before the previous assembly polls in the state in 2017. "Met the PSP president and discussed the alliance... SP is gaining in strength through alliances with regional outfits... we are heading toward a historical win in the polls," Akhilesh said in his tweet. प्रसपा के राष्ट्रीय अध्यक्ष जी से मुलाक़ात हुई और गठबंधन की बात तय हुई। According to the sources, SP patron Mulayam Singh Yadav played a crucial role in bringing the uncle and cousin together.  Akhilesh has already allied with the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) and Suehldev Bhartiya Samaj Party (SBSP), and some other smaller outfits.  Leaders of both the SP and PSP hailed the alliance and said that it would prevent division in the core vote bank of the SP. "BJP will now not be able to take advantage of the family feud in the elections," said a senior SP leader while speaking to DH in Lucknow. Shivpal, who was one of the founders of the SP, had played an important role in strengthening the party at the grass-root level, party leaders said. Although Shivpal's party could not win any seat in the state in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, it certainly affected SP's prospects on at least four to six seats. Shivpal, who had contested against Akshoy Yadav, his nephew, from Firozabad LS seat, ensured defeat of the latter by bagging around one lakh votes. Akshoy's margin of defeat was less than one lakh. Similarly, he also played spoilsport at Kannauj, Etawah and some other seats.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/akhilesh-shivpal-shun-differences-to-contest-uttar-pradesh-polls-in-alliance-1061497.html
16-12-2021||National Politics||Suspended MPs plan 'Jan Sansad' to protest suspension||Suspended Rajya Sabha MPs are planning a 'Jan Sansad' on Friday at the Gandhi Statue in Parliament where they are sitting in protest against their "illegal" suspension even as opposition leaders decided to focus on people's issues inside Rajya Sabha rather than highlighting their demand for revoking the suspensions. This would not mean that the opposition is rolling back its protest, as it would continue the protest at the Gandhi Statue as well as use other avenues to highlight the issue. Sources said the leaders felt that there was no point in demanding revocation of suspension inside the House, especially after a meeting of some opposition leaders with Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu on Wednesday failed to find a way forward. The leaders were of the view that they should focus on people's issues and should not give an opportunity for the government to go on a tirade against the opposition inside the House. "Our viewpoint is not going on record. The moment we raise the issue, we are not allowed. If we protest, Leader of the House Piyush Goyal gets a chance to rebut us. Why should we allow the government to abuse us?" a senior opposition leader said. Following the decision taken at the meeting of floor leaders chaired by Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge, opposition MPs raised the issue of Lakhimpur Kheri in the Upper House during the day. "The government is not willing to listen. They are not even making an effort to resolve the impasse. We will continue our protest. But inside the House, we are changing our strategy," the leader said. Suspended MPs said they plan to hold a 'Jan Sansad' (People's Parliament) on Friday morning at Gandhi Statue to highlight the "undemocratic" manner in which the government was behaving on their suspension as well as people's issues. The idea of 'Jan Sansad' was suggested by suspended Congress MP Rajamani Patel, who is from Madhya Pradesh. The opposition leaders had earlier planned to hold a protest at Jantar Mantar, the dharna hot-spot in the national capital, this week with national leaders in attendance to build pressure to revoke the suspension. Initially, it was scheduled for Wednesday or Thursday but it has now been postponed, apparently due to disinterest among a section of opposition leaders. There was also a proposal to hold a seminar with constitutional experts. On Tuesday, the opposition MPs from Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha had held a joint march from Gandhi Statue to Vijay Chowk where leaders addressed the media.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/suspended-mps-plan-jan-sansad-to-protest-suspension-1061540.html
16-12-2021||National Politics||Putin keen to hold trilateral summit with Modi, Xi; India remains non-committal||Russia has proposed a trilateral summit among its President Vladimir Putin, Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chinese President Xi Jinping – notwithstanding China’s continued belligerence all along its disputed boundary with India. However, New Delhi remained non-committal on the proposal. Putin had a videoconference with Xi on Wednesday and one of the issues the two leaders discussed was the prospects of trilateral cooperation within the framework of the Russia-India-China (RIC). They “agreed to continue exchanging opinions in this regard and to endeavour to hold the next summit within the RIC framework in the near future”, Putin’s aide, Yury Ushakov, was quoted by Russia’s TASS news agency on Thursday. New Delhi, however, remained non-committal on the proposal from Moscow. Arindam Bagchi, the spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), on Thursday recalled the last virtual meeting of the Russian, Indian and Chinese Foreign Ministers on November 26, but declined to confirm any further development on the RIC. He was responding to questions from journalists about the possibility of Modi, Putin and Xi holding a trilateral summit, as indicated by the aide of the Russian President in Moscow. Modi, Putin and Xi had held the second RIC summit on the sideline of the G-20 conclave in Buenos Aires in December 2018 – almost 12 years after the then leaders of the three nations had held the first trilateral meeting. This was followed by the third RIC summit on the sideline of the G-20 meet in Osaka in June 2019. The summit, however, could not be held in 2020 and 2021, as the Covid-19 pandemic swept the world and India’s relations with China hit a new low over the military stand-off along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) between the two nations in eastern Ladakh. The Russian President held the videoconference with the Chinese President less than 10 days after he visited New Delhi and had a bilateral summit with the Prime Minister of India. The Modi-Putin summit in New Delhi on December 6 was preceded by the India-Russia 2+2 Dialogue, held between foreign and defence ministers of the two sides. The back-to-back engagements saw India underlining its “enhanced requirement” of military and military-technical cooperation with Russia to meet the security challenges it was confronted with, particularly the aggression by China along the LAC in eastern Ladakh. The proposal for a trilateral Putin-Modi-Xi summit came amid the continuing stand-off between the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army along the LAC – the de facto boundary between the two nations in the western sector. The stand-off started in April-May 2020, when the Indian Army had to deploy additional troops in response to the Chinese PLA’s move to amass a large number of troops near the LAC, seen as an obvious attempt to unilaterally change the status quo along the disputed boundary and the push the line westward. It reached a flashpoint on June 15, 2020, when 20 Indian Army soldiers and at least four Chinese PLA personnel were killed in a violent clash at Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh. The Modi-Putin summit on December 6 saw the two sides agreeing to intensify cooperation among Russia, India and China within the RIC framework to promote common approaches to pressing issues on the global and regional agenda, according to a joint statement issued both in New Delhi and Moscow after the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/putin-keen-to-hold-trilateral-summit-with-modi-xi-india-remains-non-committal-1061568.html
16-12-2021||North and Central||Two unidentified militants killed in encounter in Jammu and Kashmir's Kulgam||Two local militants affiliated with Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT)/The Resistance Front (TRF) were killed in an encounter with security forces in south Kashmir’s Kulgam district on Thursday. “#KulgamEncounterUpdate: 02 unidentified #terrorists killed. Search going on. Further details shall follow,” Kashmir Zone Police tweeted. The gunfight broke out in Redwani Bala village of Kulgam during the wee hours of Thursday after the security forces cordoned off the area following inputs about the presence of militants there, reports said. A police official said as the security forces approached the suspected spot, the hiding militants fired upon them, as they tried to break the security cordon. However, the two were killed during the encounter that lasted several hours, he said. While the police were yet to identify the deceased militants, sources said, they were affiliated with TRF, an affiliate of Pakistan-based LeT outfit and were locals. In the last five days, six militants have been killed in various encounters across Kashmir. On Wednesday, a top Hizb-ul-Mujahideen militant, Feroz Ahmad Dar, was killed in the neighbouring Pulwama district. 159 militants have been killed in the Valley so far this year, of which 137 were locals and 22 Pakistanis. In 2020, the number of militants killed in the Valley stood at 195. According to official estimates over 200 militants were still active in the Valley. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-unidentified-militants-killed-in-encounter-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-kulgam-1061292.html
16-12-2021||North and Central||India logs 7,974 new Covid-19 cases, 343 fatalities||India added 7,974 new coronavirus infections taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 3,47,18,602, while the active cases declined to  87,245, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. The death toll climbed to 4,76,478 with 343 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been recorded below 15,000 for the last 49 days now. The active cases comprise 0.25 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.38 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. A decline of 317 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 0.57 per cent. It has been less than two per cent for the last 73 days. The weekly positivity rate was also recorded at 0.64  per cent. It has been below one per cent for the last 32 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,41,54,879, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.37 per cent.  The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive has exceeded  135.25 crore.  India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.  India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23.  The 343 new fatalities include 282 from Kerala and 13 from West Bengal. Of the 282 deaths in Kerala, 125 were recorded over the last few days and 157 were designated as Covid-19 deaths after receiving appeals based on the new guidelines of the Centre and the directions of the Supreme Court, a Kerala state government release said on Wednesday. A total of 4,76,478 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,41,298 from Maharashtra, 43,626 from Kerala,38,277 from Karnataka, 36,644 from Tamil  Nadu, 25,100 from Delhi, 22,915 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,633 from  West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/india-logs-7974-new-covid-19-cases-343-fatalities-1061295.html
16-12-2021||North and Central||Find permanent solution to curb air pollution: Supreme Court to panel||The Supreme Court on Thursday asked the Commission for Air Quality Management to invite suggestions from the general public and experts on finding a permanent solution to pollution in Delhi and adjoining areas. A bench of Chief Justice N V Ramana and Justices D Y Chandrachud and Surya Kant expressed satisfaction at steps taken by the commission to control pollution in the capital. The court fixed the matter for further hearing in the first week of February. In an affidavit, the Commission told the court that it has permitted the resumption of full-time operation of milk and dairy processing units, medicines, drugs and life-saving equipment industries. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, representing the Centre, submitted before the bench that certain industries were permitted to function for eight hours, but some industries said their nature of industries would require continuous functioning and eight hours would not be sufficient. These industries have been asked to operate continuously but for five days, and not for seven days. Besides, the industries have been told to function on staggered manner, he said. A call on construction activities will be taken on Friday while it has been permitted for hospitals, he said. Mehta also pointed out experts, including scientists from prestigious organisations, have been examining long-term measures to combat the menace of air pollution, a recurring problem, in the national capital. He said there is continuous inspection by the 40 flying squads. We have a committee for long term solution with NEERI experts etc to find a solution so that knee jerk reaction for every year is not needed, he said. After noting that air quality was poor on Thursday, the court said the expert group constituted by the commission can look into the suggestions, made by the general public and experts to solve the problem. Senior advocate Vikas Singh, appearing for PIL petitioner Aditya Dubey, said instead of shutting down thermal plants, which leads to use of diesel generators, those should be relocated outside 300 km periphery of the city. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/find-permanent-solution-to-curb-air-pollution-supreme-court-to-panel-1061325.html
16-12-2021||North and Central||9 years after, women's safety still an untouched topic: Nirbhaya's father||It's been exactly nine years since Nirbhaya rape case was reported in Delhi -- a case that still sends shivers down the spine of anyone who gets to know about this horrible incident that took place in the national capital in 2012. But, lessons not learnt, women's safety continues to be a matter of concern, says Nirbhaya's father. The 22-year-old female physiotherapist intern was brutally thrashed, gang-raped, and tortured by six men in a private bus that she and her male friend had boarded at a bus stop near South Delhi. In an interview with IANS, Nirbhaya's father spoke about the trial and punishment to the perpetrators and women's safety. The accused in the Nirbhaya case were hanged last year. Do you think Nirbhaya got justice? Yes, according to us. Nirbhaya has got justice. It took us many years and we are thankful to everyone who joined us in this fight for justice. It would not have been possible without the mass support. Do you think that after nine years of that incident, Delhi has become safer for women? No, not at all. I believe women in Parliament should speak about the issue of women safety more often on the floor. But we do not see that happening. Since the day Nirbhaya happened so many daughters have been brutalised and murdered in a similar manner. We cannot call Delhi or any place for that matter safe for women until these kinds of incidents do not come to a halt. A web series has also been made on the Nirbhaya case. Do you think such incidents should be made into films or series? We have not watched this series as of now and we have had no say in this because we were not consulted. If we were asked to put in our inputs in the making of the series, we would have shared all, and also which policeman helped us to what extent and who did not. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/9-years-after-womens-safety-still-an-untouched-topic-nirbhayas-father-1061340.html
16-12-2021||North and Central||Rajya Sabha proceedings adjourned till 2 pm amid Opposition protest||Rajya Sabha proceedings were adjourned till 2 pm on Thursday amid protests by some opposition party members. Soon after the listed documents were tabled, Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu said he has not admitted notices by some members for suspension of scheduled business and take up their issues. To this, some opposition members protested. The chairman adjourned the proceedings till 2 pm. Among other reports and papers, the report of the Joint Committee on the Personal Data Protection Bill, 2019 was also tabled in the House. The proceedings of the House have been repeatedly obstructed following the suspension of the 12 Opposition MPs from the Rajya Sabha on November 29 for the entire winter session of Parliament for their "unruly" conduct in the previous session in August. The Opposition has described the suspension as "undemocratic and in violation of all the Rules of Procedure" of the Upper House. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajya-sabha-proceedings-adjourned-till-2-pm-amid-opposition-protest-1061341.html
16-12-2021||North and Central||Delhi's Ghazipur border partially reopens for traffic||Delhi’s Ghazipur border was partially reopened for traffic on Thursday after remaining closed for more than a year due to the farmers’ stir, police said. According to officials, one of the carriageways at the border has been reopened for now and those coming from Vaishali, Ghaziabad can pass through the border to enter the national capital. On Wednesday, the Delhi Police had allowed traffic movement as well as opened two carriageways at Singhu border after it dismantled all the barricades that were erected to prevent the protesting farmers from moving towards the national capital. “It has been decided that Singhu border be opened from Delhi side also. It has been opened for all vehicles,” Deputy Commissioner of Police (outer north) Brijesh Yadav had said. The Singhu Border on Delhi-Chandigarh highway had been the epicentre of the farmers’ movement against the three central farm laws. Farmers started leaving the protest site on the Delhi-Haryana border on Saturday after the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) suspended the agitation following the repeal of the farm laws and the government conceding to its other demands. Besides the Singhu border, farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, had laid siege to Delhi's Tikri and Ghazipur borders on November 26 last year. The roads have already been cleared for commuters at the Tikri border and traffic is plying on the stretch, police had said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhis-ghazipur-border-partially-reopens-for-traffic-1061352.html
16-12-2021||North and Central||PM Modi to address mayors' conference on December 17||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate and address the All India Mayors' Conference, which is being organised in Varanasi, on Friday via video conferencing.  The PMO said mayors from various states will participate in the conference whose theme is “New Urban India”. It has been the constant endeavour of the prime minister to ensure ease of living in urban areas, it noted, adding the government has launched multiple schemes and initiatives to address the issues of dilapidated urban infrastructure and lack of amenities. A special focus of these efforts has been the state of Uttar Pradesh, which has witnessed tremendous progress and transformation of the urban landscape, especially in the last five years, the PMO said.  An exhibition is also being organised from December 17 to 19 to showcase the key achievements of the government of India and the Government of Uttar Pradesh in the sphere of urban development. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-modi-to-address-mayors-conference-on-december-17-1061381.html
16-12-2021||North and Central||General Naravane takes charge as Chairman, Chiefs of Staff Committee; fills Gen Bipin Rawat's post||As a stop-gap arrangement before the appointment of a new Chief of Defence Staff following the demise of General Bipin Rawat, the Centre has placed in an old system and appointed Indian Army Chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane as Chairman of the Chiefs of Staff Committee. The old system was in practice before the creation of the post of Chief of Defence Staff two years ago. The practice was that the senior-most Chief would take over as the Chairman, Chiefs of Staff Committee and would be responsible for the synergy between the Army, Navy and Air Force. He would look after the better coordination and co-operative practices among the three services. Old system was brought in following the death of General Bipin Rawat. He along with his wife Madhulika Rawat and 11 armed personnel were killed in a military chopper crash on December 8 at Coonoor in Tamil Nadu. Lone survivor Group Captain Varun Singh succumbed to his injuries on Wednesday (December 15). The chopper crashed when General Rawat was on his way to Wellington for a lecture. The post of CDS was created in 2019 on the recommendations of a committee of defence experts headed by Lt. General D.B. Shekatkar. The government after creating the post had stated that the CDS will head the Department of Military Affairs within the Ministry of Defence. It had also stated that the CDS will also be the permanent chairman of the existing Chiefs of Staff Committee and a member of the Defence Acquisition Council and the Defence Planning Committee. The CDS has responsibility for coordination among the three services in equipment and arms procurement, training and staffing. This should help bring about better synergy between the forces and to prioritise requirements and optimise the use of resources, especially at a time the military budget is shrinking. The CDS functions as the single point of military advice to the government. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/general-naravane-takes-charge-as-chairman-chiefs-of-staff-committee-fills-gen-bipin-rawats-post-1061390.html
16-12-2021||North and Central||SC appoints two former judges as mediators for Lalit Modi, mother to resolve property dispute||The Supreme Court on Thursday appointed two retired top court judges Justice Vikramjit Sen and Justice Kurian Joseph as mediators to settle the family dispute between former Indian Premier League chairman Lalit Modi and his mother Bina Modi. On a request of senior advocates Mukul Rohatgi and Harish Salve, a bench presided over by Chief Justice N V Ramana suggested the names of two judges as mediators. The counsel for the parties agreed on the name of the judges. The bench, also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and Hima Kohli, also asked the parties to utilise the facilities at the recently inaugurated International Arbitration and Mediation Centre (IAMC) in Hyderabad.  The court asked the mediators to complete the mediation proceedings possibly within a period of three months.  The matter is in connection with a Family Trust Deed executed in London by KK Modi as managing Trustee and Bina, Lalit, Charu and Samir as Trustees. An appeal was filed against the Delhi High Court order, which held the suit filed by Lalit Modi family members challenging initiation of arbitration proceedings in Singapore by him regarding family property, was maintainable. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-appoints-two-former-judges-as-mediators-for-lalit-modi-mother-to-resolve-property-dispute-1061396.html
16-12-2021||North and Central||All actions taken in Lakhimpur case: Uttar Pradesh govt||The Yogi Adityanath government, on Thursday, said in the state Assembly that it had taken all appropriate steps in the Lakhimpur Kheri incident, in keeping with the law, and the Opposition should desist from raising the issue for political gains. Parliamentary affairs minister Suresh Khanna said that a minister's son was arrested and sent to jail after the FIR was filed against him. "He is still in jail along with other accused. The families of the deceased have been paid adequate compensation. Investigations are being monitored by the Supreme Court and what more does the Opposition want?" he asked. The Congress had moved an adjournment notice on the matter and Congress legislature party leader Aradhana Mishra Mona said that the matter was serious because the SIT set up by the government had found that the killing of farmers was 'well planned'. The Speaker rejected the notice. Earlier, the proceedings of the Assembly were repeatedly disrupted by the Opposition that raised slogans against the government on various issues and demanded the dismissal of union Minister of State for Home Ajay Misra Teni over the Lakhimpur Kheri violence. As soon as the House assembled in the morning, leader of opposition Ram Govind Chaudhary raised the issue of alleged police harassment of SP MLA Prabhu Narayan Yadav in Chandauli district and demanded a discussion in the House. Congress Legislature Party leader Aradhana Mishra came into the Well of the House with her party members demanding sacking of Teni and started raising slogans. The Samajwadi Party and BSP members also came into the Well and started raising slogans. Speaker Hriday Narain Dikshit later adjourned the proceedings for half an hour. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/all-actions-taken-in-lakhimpur-case-uttar-pradesh-govt-1061407.html
16-12-2021||North and Central||Merely living together for a few days not enough for live-in relationship claim: HC||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has observed that merely because two adults are living together for a few days, their claim of a live-in relationship based upon a "bald averment" may not be enough to hold that they are truly in a live-in-relationship. Justice Manoj Bajaj observed that it has to be constantly borne in mind that the length of the relationship coupled with discharge of certain duties and responsibilities towards each other makes such relationship akin to the marital relations. The court dismissed the plea of a couple of Haryana's Yamunanagar district seeking protection from the family members of the woman. The court, in its November 26 order, also imposed a cost of Rs 25,000 on the petitioners. "Merely because the two adults are living together for a few days, their claim of live-in-relationship based upon bald averment may not be enough to hold that they are truly in live-in-relationship," it said. The counsel for the petitioners – an 18-year-old woman and a 20-year-old man – said that they were in love with each other and would marry on attaining the age of majority. The parents of the woman opposed their relationship and decided to marry her with a man of their choice. But the woman ran away from the house and started living with the other petitioner in a live-in relationship, the counsel submitted. The petitioners claimed that they were threatened to be implicated in a false criminal case, therefore sought necessary directions for providing them protection. The counsel submitted that the petitioners started staying together in a live-in relationship with effect from November 24, 2021. The court observed that the apprehension of threat expressed by the petitioners does not seem to be genuine. "The petitioners have expressed an apprehension that the private respondents may falsely implicate the petitioners in some criminal case and in the considered opinion of this court, this apprehension is misplaced, as admittedly, no complaint has been made so far against them by the private respondents,” the court said. "The society, for the last few years, has been experiencing profound changes in social values, especially among exuberant youngsters, who seldom in pursuit of absolute freedom, leave the company of their parents, etc. to live with the person of their choice, and further in order to get the seal of the court to their alliance, they file petitions for protection by posing threat to their life and liberty," it said. Such petitions are ordinarily based on the sole ground of apprehension of threat predicted against the disapproving parents or other close relatives of the girl only, as the decision of the couple is rarely opposed by the family members of the boy, said the court. Their right to live together is either based on their sudden, secretive and small destination marriage or upon live-in-relationship, according to the court order. The high court said of course, the aggrieved persons can avail the alternative remedy, but a large number of petitions land in the lap of this court as according to writ petitions, alternative remedy is less felicitous. "No doubt, the other concept of live-in-relationship between two adults of opposite gender has got recognition in India also, as the legislature has injected some legitimacy in this kind of alliance, while promulgating Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act, 2005 and liberally defined domestic relationship in Section 2(f),” as per the order. "However, despite this elasticity, some sections of the society are reluctant to accept such kinds of relationships. It has to be constantly borne in mind that the length of the relationship coupled with discharge of certain duties and responsibilities towards each other makes such a relationship akin to the marital relations," said the court. "In view of the above, the petition has been filed without a valid cause of action, therefore, the petitioners deserve to be saddled with costs. Resultantly, the writ petition is dismissed with costs of Rs 25,000 to be borne by the petitioners," it said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/merely-living-together-for-a-few-days-not-enough-for-live-in-relationship-claim-hc-1061414.html
16-12-2021||North and Central||No death due to lack of oxygen during Covid-19 second wave: UP government||The Uttar Pradesh government on Thursday told the Legislative Council that there was no death due to a lack of oxygen in the state during the second wave of Covid-19, a claim rejected by the Opposition. The government said the death certificates made no mention of "death due to lack of oxygen" in any of the 22,915 patients who died due to the pandemic. Replying to Congress member Deepak Singh during the Question Hour, Health Minister Jai Pratap Singh said, "No death has been reported in the state due to lack of oxygen during the second wave." Raising a supplementary question, Singh asked whether the government had details on similar cases that were flagged by its own ministers. "Many ministers wrote letters saying deaths are taking place due to lack of oxygen in the state. Apart from this, many MPs had also made such complaints. Many incidents of deaths due to lack of oxygen had come to light. Is there any information with the government about these deaths in the entire state. Has the government not seen the dead bodies flowing in the Ganges and people suffering due to lack of oxygen?" Giving clarification, Pratap said a doctor issues a death certificate in case a hospitalised patient dies. He said there was no mention of "death due to lack of oxygen" among the 22,915 death certificates issued by doctors for Covid-19 victims in the state. The minister said several deaths during the pandemic were due to various other diseases, including terminal ones, and that the government had arranged oxygen from other states when there was a shortage. Samajwadi Party's (SP) Udayveer Singh had earlier said, "The Uttar Pradesh government took action against Paras Hospital in Agra because the video of a doctor there had gone viral... half of the patients there were given oxygen and the other half died. Oxygen supply was stopped on the instructions of the district magistrate." He sought to know when the government itself has taken action in a case, how it could make a "false statement" in the House. In response, the minister said the district magistrate and police commissioner's investigation report mentioned a "mock drill" in the hospital and it was at that time that the oxygen supply had allegedly been stopped. Udayveer objected to the minister's reply saying the "truth will not change" if the government writes "extinct" instead of "death" in the certificate. Deepak Singh also argued whether the letters written by the ministers on lack of oxygen, too, were false. The Leader of the House Dinesh Sharma, however, said the health minister had answered the questions asked. He said the members of the Opposition should acknowledge that major casualties were avoided due to the "promptness" of the Uttar Pradesh government in ensuring medicines and treatment. Earlier, the House proceedings were adjourned for 15 minutes with the SP members raising the demand for dismissal of Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra Teni over the Lakhimpur Kheri violence which had left eight people, including four farmers, dead in October. SP's Naresh Uttam asked why Mishra had not been dismissed. This was, however, disallowed by Chairman Manvendra Singh. The SP members barged into the Well of the House carrying placards leading to a brief adjournment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-death-due-to-lack-of-oxygen-during-covid-19-second-wave-up-government-1061415.html
16-12-2021||North and Central||SC Collegium approves proposal for appointment of 3 additional judges as permanent judges||The Supreme Court Collegium has approved the proposal for the appointment of three additional judges of the Bombay High Court as permanent judges. The Collegium headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana, in a meeting held on December 14, took the decision and the resolution was uploaded on the apex court website on Thursday. The three additional judges of the Bombay High Court whose names have been approved are Madhav Jayajirao Jamdar, Amit Bhalchandra Borkar and Shrikant Dattatray Kulkarni. The Collegium also resolved to recommend that Justice Abhay Ahuja be appointed as additional judge of the Bombay High Court for a fresh term of one year with effect from March 4, 2022. In another decision, the Collegium has approved the proposal for the appointment of additional judge Justice Aniruddha Roy of the Calcutta High Court as a permanent judge of that high court. Besides Ramana, Justices U U Lalit and A M Khanwilkar are part of the three-member Collegium which takes decisions with regard to high court judges.  Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-collegium-approves-proposal-for-appointment-of-3-additional-judges-as-permanent-judges-1061417.html
16-12-2021||North and Central||PSU bank strike: Banking services in Rajasthan hit||Banking services were hit in Rajasthan on Thursday where employees and officers of public sector banks went on a two-day strike to protest against the central government's move of privatisation. The bank employees held a demonstration outside SBI office near Ambedkar circle. “Transaction worth Rs 20,000 crore will be affected in two days due to the strike which is against privatisation. 25,000 officers and employees working in more than 4,000 branches of the public sector banks are participating in the strike in the state,” state convener of the United Forum of Bank Unions, Mahesh Mishra said. Services like cash deposits, withdrawal and cheque clearance were affected, though ATMs functioned normally.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/psu-bank-strike-banking-services-in-rajasthan-hit-1061419.html
16-12-2021||North and Central||Delhi to deregister diesel vehicles older than 10 years from Jan 1, 2022||In compliance with the National Green Tribunal's (NGT) directions, the Delhi government will deregister all diesel vehicles older than 10 years on January 1, 2022, and issue no-objection certificates (NOC) for re-registrations at locations other than the national capital. However, NOCs will not be issued for diesel vehicles older than 15 years on the date of application, according to an order issued earlier this week by the Delhi transport department. The NGT has issued directions relating to restrictions on registration and operation of diesel vehicles older than 10 years and petrol vehicles older than 15 years in the Delhi- NCR (National Capital Region). In an order in July 2016, the tribunal said that its direction for deregistration of diesel vehicles older than 10 years must be complied with effectively and without default. The deregistration of diesel vehicles, which are 15 years old, was to be taken up in the first instance. The transport department order said that "accordingly, the department will deregister all such diesel vehicles in Delhi on January 1, 2022, which have completed or would be completing 10 years on that date". The department has been deregistering vehicles that have completed their lifespan. NOCs for diesel vehicles older than 10 years and petrol vehicles older than 15 years can be issued for other places in the country, it said. This will be, however, subject to the condition that NOC will not be issued for the places identified by states as 'restricted' for re-registration, the order said. The NGT had directed states to identify areas where the dispersion of air is higher and vehicular density is less. The transport department order said that owners will also have the option to convert their 10-year-old diesel or 15-year-old petrol vehicles to electric ones if they want to continue using them. They will have to retrofit such vehicles with empanelled electric kits through agencies approved by the department. The empanelment process for electric kits is under process. In all other cases, the only recourse would be to scrap such vehicles. Transport department and traffic police teams are impounding such vehicles and sending them for scrapping by authorised vendors.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-to-deregister-diesel-vehicles-older-than-10-years-from-jan-1-2022-1061427.html
16-12-2021||North and Central||Couple hacked to death in Rajasthan's Hanumangarh; son detained||A couple was hacked to death, allegedly by their elder son, in Hanumangarh district of Rajasthan, police said on Thursday. The 16-year-old accused also attacked his younger brother, they said, adding the motive behind the killings and attack is not yet established. “Shivpal (45) and his wife Indra (42) were sleeping in their house when the incident occurred. They died on the spot while their younger son is injured. Primary investigation suggests that their elder son attacked them with an axe,” a police officer said. He said the teenager has been detained and is being questioned. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/couple-hacked-to-death-in-rajasthans-hanumangarh-son-detained-1061431.html
16-12-2021||North and Central||RSS chief pays tribute to soldiers on Kargil Vijay Diwas||Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh chief Mohan Bhagwat on Thursday expressed his gratitude towards soldiers and ex-servicemen on the occasion of the 50th anniversary of Kargil Vijay Diwas. Bhagwat is on a five-day visit to the state, during which he will teach and guide volunteers at the Sangh office in Kangra from December 17. He is also scheduled to meet and address ex-servicemen on December 18 in Dharamshala. Vijay Diwas is celebrated on December 16 every year to commemorate the victory of the Indian Armed Forces over Pakistan in the 1971 war. Bangladesh, then part of Pakistan, became an independent country after the war.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rss-chief-pays-tribute-to-soldiers-on-kargil-vijay-diwas-1061434.html
16-12-2021||North and Central||BJP can’t defend abrogation of Article 370 in Supreme Court, says Omar Abdullah||Jammu and Kashmir National Conference Vice President and former Chief Minister Omar Abdullah on Thursday said that the BJP government doesn’t want a hearing of petitions challenging the validity of revocation of Article 370 in Supreme Court “as it would be impossible for them to defend it.” “If the petitions challenging revocation of Article 370 had been in favour of the Centre, the hearing would have taken place in the Supreme Court a long ago. They (BJP government) know they can’t defend it that is why there has not been a single hearing so far,” he told reporters on the sidelines of a party convention in north Kashmir’s Bandipora. On August 5, 2019, the Parliament scrapped J&K’s special status under Article 370 and also bifurcated the erstwhile state into two Union Territories under the J&K Reorganisation Act, 2019. Around two dozen petitions filed by various political parties and individuals have challenged the validity of the J&K Reorganisation Act and the nullification of Article 370 in the Supreme Court. However, the petitions remain pending before the apex court for over two years. On August 28, 2019, the Supreme Court had referred these petitions to a five-judge Constitution Bench. In March last year, it had refused to refer it to a larger bench of seven judges. “The Supreme Court can always turn the clock back,” a five-judge Constitution Bench had said on October 1, 2020, when it took up the petitions challenging the constitutional validity of the J&K Reorganisation Act 2019 and the August 5 Presidential Orders nullifying Article 370 that gave special status to J&K. Abdullah said that the BJP government knows that its 2019 decision was “unconstitutional and undemocratic and they are afraid to face it in the court, which is why there has been no hearing.” “If the BJP gets a majority during elections in Jammu and Kashmir, it will pass a resolution in the assembly to support its August 5, 2019 decision. To get the majority in J&K Assembly, they have created new political parties here to divide votes,” the former CM alleged. Replying to a question on land purchased in Jammu and Kashmir by outsiders, he said that Article 370 is not about land, but about the identity of the erstwhile state. Asked whether the NC will participate in Delimitation Commission’s December 20 meeting in New Delhi, Omar said, “There should be only one agenda before the Commission that this (delimitation of assembly seats) should be done on the basis of 2011 census and not support few political parties.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-can-t-defend-abrogation-of-article-370-in-supreme-court-says-omar-abdullah-1061439.html
16-12-2021||North and Central||Like Uttarakhand people, my family made sacrifices for country: Rahul Gandhi at Dehradun rally||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday launched his party’s election campaign in Uttarakhand on an emotional note, saying like many families in the state, his family too made sacrifices for the country. That is my relationship with the state, he said during a rally at Parade Ground here on the 50th anniversary of India's victory over Pakistan in the 1971 War. "The way thousands of families in Uttarakhand lose their kin battling for the country's honour, My family too has made sacrifices. This is my relationship with Uttarakhand," he said. Referring to his grandmother and former PM Indira Gandhi, he said she took "32 bullets for the country" but her name was not even mentioned at a government event on the 1971 War anniversary in New Delhi. But families who made no sacrifice for the nation cannot feel this, he said. The Congress leader added that India won the 1971 War because it was "united" then. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/like-uttarakhand-people-my-family-made-sacrifices-for-country-rahul-gandhi-at-dehradun-rally-1061447.html
16-12-2021||North and Central||Gurugram namaz row: Former MP approaches Supreme Court seeking action against top Haryana officials||Former Rajya Sabha MP Mohammad Adeeb has approached the Supreme Court seeking contempt action against officers of the Haryana government for their alleged failure to prevent incidents revolving around the Friday prayers offered by Muslims. The state government recently banned Friday namaz at public spaces at Gurugram following opposition from residents. In his petition, the politician has sought action against the Chief Secretary and the Director-General of Police of State of Haryana, Sanjeev Kaushal IAS and PK Agrawal IPS, respectively. He alleged inaction by Haryana's top officials in curbing communal and violent tendencies.  He contended that the Haryana authorities have failed to comply with the directions issued by the Supreme Court in Tehseen S Poonawalla case of 2018, for direction to control and prevent the increasing number of hate crimes, including mob violence and lynching. His plea claimed the Muslim community offered prayers in congregations on Friday and due to the footfall in Gurugram during the daytime, Jummah Namaz (Friday prayers) was offered at various locations pre-approved by local authorities, which was not encroachment of any manner.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/gurugram-namaz-row-former-mp-approaches-supreme-court-seeking-action-against-top-haryana-officials-1061476.html
16-12-2021||North and Central||Railways equally responsible for ensuring no encroachment on its properties, says Supreme Court||The Supreme Court Thursday said the Indian Railways is "equally responsible" for ensuring that there is no encroachment on its properties and it must initiate action against unauthorised occupants immediately after the issue is brought to its notice. The apex court, while hearing two separate pleas which raised issues related to the removal of encroachments from railway land in Gujarat and Haryana, said the Railways and authorities concerned must initiate action against erring officials for permitting encroachment and not taking action in earnest. A bench headed by Justice AM Khanwilkar noted that the Surat-Udhna to Jalgaon railway line project in Gujarat is still incomplete because of the unauthorised structures on the railway property, along a 2.65-kilometre stretch. The top court directed the Railways to immediately issue notices to the occupants of these structures falling within the stretch, which is immediately required for resuming the project, and give them two weeks to vacate the premises. "In addition, since the Railways has power to initiate criminal action against the unauthorised occupants of its properties, it must resort to such proceedings against persons concerned immediately after it is brought to the notice of the officers concerned of the Railways," the bench said. The bench, also comprising justices Dinesh Maheshwari and CT Ravikumar, said that in respect of structures that are not immediately required to be vacated, six weeks can be given by the Railways in the proposed notice for eviction and removal of structures. The bench said if an occupant fails to vacate the unauthorised structure, it would be open to the Western Railways to initiate appropriate legal action or forcible dispossession and removal of such structures by taking assistance of the local police. It directed that the commissioner or the superintendent of police of the area concerned shall ensure that adequate support and force is provided to the Railways authority for commencement of removal process and demolition of unauthorised structures, as referred to in eviction notices. The top court said that Rs 2,000 per month as a solatium for a period of six months be paid to the occupants of unauthorised structures that would be removed in the demolition action. It said the solatium shall be initially paid by the collector of the district concerned and it shall be shared equally by the Railways, municipal corporation concerned and the state government. The bench said that before commencing the process of eviction and removal of unauthorised structures, the collector of the district concerned must ensure that necessary details of persons occupying the same, including their identity, are recorded and profiled. It said these records should be preserved by the collector for considering the possibility of providing suitable accommodation to the deserving and eligible persons who are affected by such demolition action. The top court said if the local authority concerned has a rehabilitation scheme, the affected persons can apply for being rehabilitated under it, if eligible. It said if there is no scheme formulated by the local authority, the persons likely to be affected by the action of demolition can apply for allocation of residential premises under the 'PM Awas Yojana' scheme and the application in this regard be processed within six months. The bench noted that according to the Railways, the primary responsibility of ensuring that no encroachment takes place on any property is that of the local corporation and also of the state government in equal measure. It said there is a special enactment that enables the Railway authorities to protect its property and they also have a police force that can be used for this. "We hold the Railways equally responsible for the situation and for which reason, it should provide for some support to the persons likely to be affected by the removal of the structures in question," it said. The apex court has posted the matter for hearing on January 28. Additional Solicitor General KM Nataraj, appearing for the Railways, said so far as the Railways is concerned, it doesn't have any policy of rehabilitation. The bench said in these two states, the same political dispensation is there right from corporation to the Centre level and the matter should have been resolved. "The entire property has to be reclaimed. If it is in the wrong hand, you have to reclaim it. Do that. It is my tax, his tax and your tax which is wasted," it said. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta told the bench that he had a discussion with the railway minister on the issue. "The policy is that if there is an encroachment and if the corporation and the state want Railways to pass through them, then they must take the responsibility of rehabilitating or removing, otherwise we will have to change the route," he said. In Gujarat, the petitioners had earlier told the apex court that the state high court had vacated its July 23, 2014, interim order of status quo and permitted the Western Railways to go ahead with the Surat-Udhna up to Jalgaon third railway line project. After the high court order, the petitioners moved the top court that granted status quo on the demolition of these hutments in Gujarat. The other plea relates to the demolition of hutments near the railway tracks at Faridabad in Haryana.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/railways-equally-responsible-for-ensuring-no-encroachment-on-its-properties-says-supreme-court-1061506.html
16-12-2021||North and Central||Rajasthan govt announces govt job to 1971 war martyrs' kin||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday announced government jobs to kin of 1971 Indo-Pak War martyrs from the state. He made the announcement while addressing a programme on Vijay Diwas at Amar Jawan Jyoti. As per the existing rules, anyone dependent of those martyred between August 15, 1947, and December 31, 1970, is given a government job. The new rule will extend the cut off to December 31, 1971, paving the way for appointments of the dependents of soldiers martyred in the 1971 India-Pakistan war. Gehlot said the new rule will be extended to include the son and daughter of the martyr's daughter (Navasa-Navasi), even if adopted, as dependents. The son and daughter of the martyr's brother and sister too will be reckoned as dependents, he said. Gehlot said he is proud of being the Chief Minister of a state where every house has the spirit of martyrdom to protect the borders of the country. On the occasion, he met and honoured the dependents of the officers and soldiers who were martyred in the 1971 War.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-govt-announces-govt-job-to-1971-war-martyrs-kin-1061524.html
16-12-2021||North and Central||No inmate speaks to me, I'm mentally disturbed: Sukesh Chandrasekhar||Multimillionaire conman Sukesh Chandrasekhar who is facing prosecution in multiple cases including a Rs 200 crore PMLA case, has alleged that he is being harassed by the Tihar Jail authority. He has alleged that the jail authority is not letting other inmates speak to him due to which he has suffered trauma. He said he needs a TV set, wants to meet his wife once a week but the jail authority is not allowing him. On Thursday, he also furnished a compliant note before the Patiala House Courts in this respect. "I am mentally tortured and being bullied in the jail. I am soon going to file an affidavit in this respect before the Supreme Court. I am already undergoing medical treatment at jail hospital and I am disturbed. I have been double locked and the authority is keeping a watch on me through four CCTV cameras. I don't understand why," reads his note. He has written he has phobia and requested the jail authority to keep him in single lock only. He has alleged that everyone in the jail has been provided a television set by the jail authority to keep them engaged except him. He has said "the jail psychiatric has suggested to keep me engaged because of my mental health". "I want to meet my wife Leena Maria Paul. As per jail manuals family visit is allowed. I should be allowed to meet my wife every week to mentally support her," he has made a request in the plea. Recently, his wife Leena had alleged before a sessions judge that she was subjected to discrimination. She had alleged that the jail authority was harassing her just because she was Sukesh's wife. Sukesh has also alleged in the plea that the jail authority has warned other inmates not to talk to him. He said that due to this, he was mentally disturbed. Now, the Tihar jail authority is likely to file a reply over his allegations. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-inmate-speaks-to-me-im-mentally-disturbed-sukesh-chandrasekhar-1061532.html
16-12-2021||North and Central||Video of Haryana cops thrashing labourers during anti-encroachment drive goes viral||A video showing Gurugram police personnel purportedly thrashing a family of labourers with sticks during an anti-encroachment drive here has gone viral on social media. A senior police officer, who did not wish to be named, on Thursday said only "mild force" was used by policemen to maintain order. The drive was conducted by the Municipal Corporation Gurugram (MCG) to evict encroachers from the land of the old jail complex near Sohna Chowk. The MCG's anti-encroachment team reached the spot with police personnel and JCBs. They asked the occupants of shanties to vacate them before using JCBs to demolish them. The video shows that some women and children were protesting the MCG action and it prompted the police to take action. In the video, the policemen are seen thrashing a woman and a child with sticks. The senior police officer said police personnel were sent to the spot on the MCG's request to maintain law and order. He said the police only used "mild force" and it is common during such drives. The MCG team demolished over 100 shanties and warned the residents against building them again on the same land, according to civic body officials. Sneh Bala, 55, who was among those whose shanties were demolished, said, "We have a two-day-old baby with us and her mother is still in hospital. We did not get any notice. Where should we go in this situation?" "We had been living here for many months and would not have fled with this land. We just wanted some time. It is an injustice," she said. Farzana, who also lost her home, said, "We are street dwellers with just a roof on our heads. People gave us blankets, food and other items. We have lived here for many months. The officers who live in air-conditioned homes do not feel our pain." Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/video-of-haryana-cops-thrashing-labourers-during-anti-encroachment-drive-goes-viral-1061567.html
16-12-2021||North and Central||CBI chargesheets former Allahabad HC Judge S N Shukla in corruption case||The CBI has filed its charge sheet against retired Allahabad High Court Judge Justice S N Shukla in a corruption case for allegedly favouring a private medical college in his orders, officials said. The agency has moved with its charge sheet against Shukla after getting a go ahead from the government to prosecute the retired judge, they said. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) had booked Justice Shukla with other accused in December 2019 under Section 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code and provisions of the Prevention of Corruption Act. In its FIR, besides Justice Shukla of the Lucknow bench of the Allahabad High Court, the agency had also named retired Chhattisgarh High Court judge IM Quddusi, Bhagwan Prasad Yadav and Palash Yadav of the Prasad Education Trust, the trust itself and private persons Bhavna Pandey and Sudhir Giri, they said. Several other accused in the FIR have also been named in the charge sheet. It is alleged that Prasad Institute of Medical Sciences was debarred by the Centre from admitting students due to substandard facilities and non-fulfilment of the required criteria in May 2017, along with 46 other medical colleges that were also debarred on similar grounds, the officials said. The decision to debar was challenged by the trust before the Supreme Court through a writ petition, they added. Subsequently, a conspiracy was hatched by those named in the FIR and the petition withdrawn with the court's permission. Another writ petition was filed before the Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court on August 24, 2017, the officials said. It was further alleged in the FIR that the petition was heard on August 25, 2017, by a division bench of the court comprising Justice Shukla and a favourable order was passed the same day, they added. Justice Shukla had allegedly defied the categorical restraint orders passed by a Chief Justice of India-led bench of the apex court to permit private colleges to admit students for the 2017-18 academic session. The then Chief Justice of India (CJI) Dipak Misra had taken note and constituted a three-member in-house committee to look into allegations. A three-judge in-house committee of the Supreme Court, comprising Madras High Court Chief Justice Indira Banerjee, Sikkim High Court Chief Justice S K Agnihotri and Madhya Pradesh High Court Judge Justice P K Jaiswal, had concluded there was sufficient substance in the allegations contained in the complaint against Justice Shukla and that the aberrations were serious enough to call for initiation of proceedings for his removal. After getting the report, Justice Misra in 2018 had asked Justice Shukla to resign or seek voluntary retirement but he refused to do following which judicial work was taken away from him. On March 23, 2019, Justice Shukla wrote to the then CJI Ranjan Gogoi seeking permission to start his judicial work in the Allahabad High Court. Justice Gogoi then wrote to the prime minister to remove Justice Shukla. When a CJI writes to the President and the prime minister for removal of a high court judge, the Rajya Sabha chairperson appoints a three-judge inquiry committee in consultation with the CJI under the provisions of the Judges (Enquiry) Act, 1968, to look into the allegations. However, the process could not be completed. Sources said the CBI does not need sanction to prosecute Quddusi as he was a retired judge at the time of the commission of the alleged offence and acting in the capacity of a private person. Shukla had joined the Allahabad High Court on October 5, 2005, and retired on July 17, 2020, according to the high court web site.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cbi-chargesheets-former-allahabad-hc-judge-s-n-shukla-in-corruption-case-1061578.html
16-12-2021||North and Central||BJP slams Rahul Gandhi for 'using' Gen Rawat's posters in Uttarakhand rally||The BJP mounted an attack on the Congress ahead of Congress MP Rahul Gandhi’s rally in Dehradun on Thursday after posters of former CDS General Bipin Rawat were propped up at the rally along with pictures of Gandhi and his grandmother, former PM Indira Gandhi.  Several posters questioning Gandhi’s stand on the matter cropped up along his route to the venue of his rally, the Vijay Samman Rally.  The BJP alleged that Congress was gaining “political mileage” out of the men in uniform. General Rawat and 13 others passed away after the IAF chopper Mi-17 they were travelling in crashed at Coonoor in the Nilgiris at Tamil Nadu.  BJP Parliamentary Affairs minister Prahlad Joshi said that it was immature of Gandhi. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi talked about the martyred soldiers in the 1971 war. Is it necessary to talk about politicians at all events? Congress party does not have any issue, hence they are only doing drama. The party should be ashamed for using late Gen Ratwat’s posters in its rallies in the poll-bound Uttarakhand,” Joshi told reporters outside the Parliament.  BJP’s IT Cell in-charge Amit Malviya was among those who trained guns on the Congress on Twitter. “Uttarakhand calls out Congress and Rahul Gandhi’s hypocrisy, and welcomes him with these posters enroute to the rally venue… Congress must realise that it can’t malign our men in uniform and then gain political mileage in their name. Shame on such despicable politics,” Malviya tweeted.  The Congress, in reply, said that Gandhi's rally was not a political one, and it was organised to commemorate the 50th Vijay Diwas, to celebrate India's victory in the 1971 war. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-slams-rahul-gandhi-for-using-gen-rawats-posters-in-uttarakhand-rally-1061612.html
16-12-2021||Oasis||Saving environment, a collective responsibility||We all dream of a world without poverty, a world that is equitable, a world that respects human rights and a world that is environmentally, socially and economically sustainable, where economic growth is accomplished within the constraints of realising social objectives of poverty eradication and social equity. Though this is an achievable dream, in order to realise it, there is a need to understand the triple interdependence of economic, social and environmental factors and integrate them into decision-making in governments and the private sector. Today, most countries are facing a common challenge, that is, how to manage natural resources in order to contribute to poverty alleviation while maintaining the ecological life support system. Economics mainly deals with what, where and how much of the natural resources are required to alleviate poverty, while social issues deal with for whom are the resources developed and how much. Environmental issues address how natural resources can be managed with a minimum negative impact on ecosystems. The need of the hour is to realise economic growth within the constraints of social and environmental sustainability. This is however not an easy task mainly, because there are many countries that resist the call for having population control. The problem is that about 90% of population growth would be in those developing countries, where people value children all the more as forms of investment and security. That, however, does not absolve the developed countries of their share of responsibility. 25% of the world’s population which lives in industrially-developed countries consumes about 75% of the world’s resources and their industries have been a major factor in polluting the environment. So, looking at the overall situation, it is a question of collective security in which all nations, institutions and individuals have to play a role. The challenge is to generate substantial benefits simultaneously across multiple economic, environmental and social objectives. So, if we are to achieve our dream, the time to act is now by coming together and developing a spirit of cooperation, a sense of responsibility and sharing of mutual concerns. If we fail to act now, it will impoverish our current and future generations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/saving-environment-a-collective-responsibility-1061623.html
16-12-2021||Opinion||Growing old before getting rich, India has a people problem||By Mihir Sharma By the middle of this century, India will have 160 crore people. That’s when the country’s population will finally start to decline, ending up at perhaps a billion by 2100. While that is still around 25 crore more people than China will have then, every time India’s population is projected, its peak seems to come earlier and crest lower. While India will be a young country for decades yet, it is aging faster than expected. The latest round of India’s massive National Family Health Survey underscores the point. The average Indian woman is now likely to have only two children. That’s below the “replacement rate” of 2.1, at which the population would exactly replace itself over generations. A few decades ago, this would have been considered miraculous in a country dismissed as a Malthusian nightmare. As modern health care became increasingly available after independence in 1947, population growth exploded — rising from 1.26 per cent annually in the 1940s to 2 per cent in the 1960s. Twenty years after independence, the demographer Sripati Chandrashekhar became India’s health minister and warned that “the greatest obstacle in the path of overall economic development is the alarming rate of population growth.” The India in which I grew up was plastered with the inverted red triangle of the government’s family planning campaign. In the end, increasing prosperity, decreases in infant mortality and — crucially — female education and empowerment achieved more than government propaganda ever could. In urban India, the fertility rate is now 1.6, equivalent to the US. This is good news. But unalloyed good news is rare in India and this is no exception. The unexpected speed of the demographic transition has forced India to confront a new problem. China-watchers have long debated whether that country will grow old before it gets rich. India now has to answer that same question, with far fewer resources at its disposal. Draconian though China’s one-child policy was, those born under it received unprecedented attention from their families: Average education levels rose sharply, as did the quality of their nutrition. In India, by contrast, the NFHS shows that not only is child malnutrition high, it isn’t improving fast enough. In fact, in the five years after 2015-16, acute undernourishment actually worsened for children in most parts of India. Meanwhile, India’s education system is clearly failing. Indian companies are already reporting a shortage of skilled manpower. That isn’t because schools aren’t turning out enough graduates: In fact, the Centre for Monitoring the Indian Economy reports the unemployment rate for college graduates is 19.3 per cent, almost three times higher than the national average. Universities just aren’t producing the kind of workers that companies feel they can employ. In large-scale surveys, employers have said that less than half the college graduates entering the workforce have the cutting-edge skills they need or the ability to pick them up in the workplace. Moreover, too few of these young people are trying to get into the workplace at all. Two-thirds of working-age Chinese are currently either employed or looking for a job, according to the International Labor Organization; at the beginning of the country’s high-growth spurt in the early 2000s, this labour force participation rate hit 80 per cent. (The global average is close to 60 per cent.) In India, by contrast, CMIE estimates that the country’s LPR stands at a mere 43 per cent and that the pandemic has “lowered the LPR structurally” to 40 per cent. One big reason: Just one in five Indian women work, which the World Bank has argued is linked to the social stigma of holding jobs outside the home.   Forget about growing rich: An India in which less than half of the working-age population is even looking for a job is not one that will be able to escape poverty before it grows old. More than any previous generation, it is today’s Indian youth who will determine whether India becomes a middle-class, comfortable country by the middle of the century. But they are not being fed properly or educated well, and too many are being forced to opt out of the workforce. China may yet be able to thrive despite its shrinking population. India is far less likely to do so unless it can overhaul its education system and change the norms that prevent women from working. The one thing the country can’t afford is complacency. A fundamental assumption common among Indians who grew up surrounded by family-planning propaganda is that our country has no resources except human resources and those are essentially infinite. There’s no dearth of people in India, surely? Yet there will be one — and we need to prepare for what that means for our shared future. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/growing-old-before-getting-rich-india-has-a-people-problem-1061284.html
16-12-2021||Opinion||All is right with the world!||‘Lead on, Macduff’, or should it be ‘Slumber on, Biden’? Seeing TV visuals of the president of the world’s saviour country dozing off during a very important discussion at the CoP-26 Meet in Glasgow only acted as a pointer to the somnolence with which the world views the threat of climate change. This only got further entrenched when TV images served a ringside view of the prime minister of what was once the empire over which the sun never set, also framed catching forty winks at the same summit on global warming. Little wonder then, that young climate activists have termed these talks as blah, blah and more blah and the United Nations has rapped the commitment of the countries involved. The scepticism is certainly not misplaced when you learn that a whole galaxy of cars, which even if you employed all your fingers and toes many times over, would not be able to tote up the numbers that accompanied President Biden from the USA to Rome and from there to Glasgow, not to forget the entourage that accompanied him to warm the car seats. If Covid has shown the way to digital connectivity, you wonder why this whole meeting could not have been conducted online to save on the carbon emissions of jet planes and motorcades of leaders from across the world. But then again, how would they, who are expected to show us the way, have been able to throw coins into the Trevi Fountain in Rome, to wish away the harmful impact of climate change?! Did we hear somebody say, if wishes were horses, beggars would ride? Of course, the Indian Premier has clearly shown the way by projecting zero emissions by 2070. Hurrah, not just the Coronials (those born after Corona) but the rest of the present population included are guaranteed to be around to see this happen. With the change in the Air Quality Index across the country, after Diwali, this is a given. But then, why has the country’s richest man decided to invest and move into a palatial house in the UK? Does he know something that we don’t? Surely, it cannot be the fear of having to trudge up 27 flights of stairs to the penthouse at ‘Antilla’? Is there anxiety over the nine elevators in the building shutting down all at once, on account of the power outage resulting from the coal shortage in India? Sounds as implausible as the recent threat of an attack on the fortress-like building. So, was the anxiety just over the Papers that might pop out of Pandora’s Box? It may be easier to stomp down on them in Old Blighty, which is now blighted with the influx of India’s absconding millionaires and trillionaires. Fair is foul and foul is fair and all our wealth seems to land there. The proximity to safe tax havens that the UK is turning a blind eye to, is giving a whole new meaning to the “ease of doing business” jargon. Commitments to climate change from politicians may well be like election promises. You never know if they will ever come to pass. Besides, today’s lot have become the masters of deflection. If not using the NCB to go after the possession of opium, or the lack thereof, on the basis of WhatsApp chats, they are equally adept at administering “the opium of the masses”, guaranteed to put the populace in a state of delusion. They need no longer worry about day to day matters like economic hardship and the rising price of fuels, cooking gas etc. If and when there is a possibility of pushback at a bypoll, just administer some more of the soporific stuff, which is guaranteed to send people into a state of nirvanic bliss. Add to this a string of chants, and it will have them reach out to one another with brotherly love or its opposite.   If all this still does not yield the desired result, there is nothing quite like a hug-o-fest on the international arena, to indicate that God is in His Heaven and all is right with the world. (The writer is a freelance journalist based in Bengaluru) Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/all-is-right-with-the-world-1061373.html
16-12-2021||Opinion||In India visit, Putin's message to the US and China||Just a day before talking to US President Joe Biden, Russian President Vladimir Putin made a short but significant visit to India on December 6 to attend the 21st India-Russia Annual Summit. The visit was well prepared, rich in symbolism and substantive in its outcome. It was his second overseas trip after the pandemic began, the first being to meet Biden in Geneva in June 2021. Uninformed speculation had gathered strength about differences in the India-Russia relationship after Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov's statement in December 2020 that India had become the object of the West's "persistent, aggressive and devious policy" to engage it in anti-China games by promoting the Indo-Pacific strategies. Russia had also criticised the US for its "very tough pressure" on India to renege from its commitment to buy the S-400 air defence systems. Putin's visit was a clear signal that he viewed the India-Russia relationship very differently from his foreign minister and did not want India, a privileged partner, to slip entirely into Washington's embrace. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Putin had detailed discussions for three hours during which Putin described India as a "great power", a time-tested friend and said that Russia works with India in a way that it does not work with any of its other partners. Modi said that the India-Russia friendship had "remained a constant" despite many fundamental changes in global politics and the two countries have cooperated closely, paying attention to each other's sensitivities. Before the summit meeting, the two countries held the meeting of the Inter-Governmental Commission on Military and Technical Cooperation, which worked out a 10-year programme of cooperation. The first 2+2 Dialogue of the respective foreign and defence ministers was also held. Russia is the only country outside the Quad (the US, Japan and Australia) with whom India has such a dialogue. In the past, there have been three main drivers of the India-Russia cooperation: defence, nuclear and space. An agreement was signed for the initial purchase and subsequent manufacture of 600,000 AK-203 assault rifles from Russia with complete transfer of technology. Despite considerable US opposition, India has started getting the S-400 air defence missile systems from Russia. In addition, it will be getting additional numbers of Sukhoi-30, MiG-29s for its Air Force and new frigates for its Navy. The two countries are collaborating on the Gaganyaan programme, which will carry Indian astronauts into space for seven days and return to Earth. They are working together on the construction of six nuclear reactors at Kudankulam for generating atomic power. The visit of the Russian President has given a much-needed boost to expand bilateral trade with possibilities of import of Russian coking coal, fertilisers, timber, crude oil and LNG. The operationalisation of a "green corridor" (customs-free trade) and negotiation of the Bilateral Investment Protection Agreement and Chennai-Vladivostok Corridor are expected to expand the bilateral trade currently, at about $10 billion (2019-20). Russia can live with the Indian concept of a free and open Indo-Pacific as long as it is not exclusionary. Neither will it seriously grudge the Quad provided it is not turned into a military alliance. To thwart the US pressure, Russia and China coordinate their positions on several political, economic and security issues. But Moscow is equally apprehensive about the proliferating Chinese influence in South Asia, Central Asia, the Middle East and East Europe. If the Quad can reduce China's aggressive and hegemonic activities in these areas, Moscow will welcome it quietly. Similarly, Russia has cultivated closer ties with Pakistan and the Taliban regime to check the activities of various terror groups and resist the increasing Chinese influence that can hurt its interests in Central Asia and elsewhere. There is increasing convergence between the views of India and Russia on Afghanistan now, as the latter is disenchanted with the Taliban's refusal to set up a representative government, growing activities of the IS and other terror groups and smuggling of drugs. Moscow considers the India relationship crucial in the pursuit of its objective of a multipolar world and multipolar Asia and will not be happy with a world dominated by either Washington or Beijing. Putin's visit was a signal to China that Russia is not overly dependent on her and will not compromise its strategic partnership with India. Putin's visit has also sent a signal to Washington that Russia has multiple strategic options and would not be isolated. India and Russia agree broadly on the main principles for securing a multipolar world and continuation of peace, stability, security and prosperity in the Eurasian and Indo-Pacific areas. Though some differences remain on the Indo-Pacific and Quad issues, these can be managed easily as long as they don't let their bilateral ties be influenced too much by their relationship with third countries. For India, its relationship with Russia is valuable. The latter has been a reliable partner that has provided sensitive technologies and a newer generation of military equipment, including a nuclear submarine and the new generation of fighter aircraft. Russia offers crucial options underpinning India's strategic independence and lacks adversarial elements. The US need not be unduly concerned about India-Russia ties as India's multi-dimensional partnership with her is growing rapidly and has much greater substantive content across diverse fields. (Yogesh Gupta is a former ambassador) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-india-visit-putins-message-to-the-us-and-china-1061375.html
16-12-2021||Opinion||Goa polls: Turncoat haven makes for a cynical voter||As you drive out of Goa's Dabolim International Airport, the first thing that hits you in the eye are giant hoardings bearing the smiling face of the All India Trinamool Congress (TMC) chief, Mamata Banerjee. All along the road, they crop up at regular intervals — sometimes two of them side by side — looming over the vast open spaces that await construction and development. 'Don Fulancho Kaal Goenchi Navi Sakal', shouts the slogan in suitably outsized typeface, promising a new dawn for Goa. The TMC is contesting in all 40 seats in Goa's Assembly elections early next year, and the overwhelming number of the party's hoardings, posters and buntings everywhere leaves one in no doubt that Banerjee is deadly serious about making her mark in this coastal state far from her home turf in West Bengal. This week the Bengal Chief Minister made her second campaign trip to Goa, stitched up an alliance with the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP), a regional outfit that now has just one MLA in the state legislature (two others had switched to the BJP earlier), and also got the Nationalist Congress Party's lone representative, Churchill Alemao, to join her party. She has been waxing eloquent about opposition unity under the TMC's leadership, mopping up disaffected Congress leaders and workers, reiterating her secular pitch that TMC stands for "temple, mosque, church", and is clearly positioning herself as the fittest to take on the BJP, which has governed the state for the last 10 years. But how seriously are the people of Goa taking her and the TMC? Or, for that matter, Arvind Kejriwal's Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)? The AAP, which contested the elections in Goa in 2017 and failed to win any seat, has again thrown its hat into the ring, portraying itself as the state's great white hope amidst "corrupt" and jaded legacy parties like the Congress and the BJP. Both the TMC and the AAP sense that there is anger against the BJP-led state government, both know that the Congress is in shambles (reduced to three MLAs now, down from 17), and both are riding on the belief that they can be the 'alternative' that Goans may be looking for.  Talk to the locals, though, and you are in for a surprise. Yes, there is anger on the street against the BJP, its governance, or the lack thereof. But ask who will win in 2022, and the unanimous view is — the BJP. It is pointless voting for anyone else, they say — much less outsiders like the TMC or AAP, which do not yet have any local standing — simply because, even if you do, whoever is elected will make their way to the BJP and the party will end up forming the government.  This sort of resignation, of numb acceptance that one's vote and intent does not matter, that one is powerless to influence the outcome of the elections — because who gets to govern will be decided only by the grand game between vast amounts of money and limitless greed — points to a disturbing corrosion of faith in the democratic process of elections. And, mind you, this key democratic institution is not being dismantled by brute force or diktat. It is being gnawed away from within, so the people themselves cease to value it and cease to see it as something that gives them power and agency. Goa has been witness to its elected representatives blithely subverting the will of the people and making deals with the BJP, the party with the richest war chest and the ability to make offers that MLAs cannot refuse. In the last Assembly elections in 2017, Goa's electoral verdict was clearly anti-BJP: the party won 13 seats, while the Congress won 17, the Goa Forward Party (GFP), the MGP and the independents won three seats each, and the NCP won one seat. In other words, 27 out of the 40 seats went to non-BJP parties.  However, while the Congress dithered and squabbled, the BJP moved swiftly and secured the support of the GFP and the MGP (even though both had contested on a strong anti-BJP plank) as well as the independents and succeeded in forming the government. Subsequently, 12 Congress MLAs joined the BJP. This week, Ravi Naik, another Congress MLA, jumped into the arms of the BJP, and there are indications that one more may do the same. That will bring the Congress down to just two members in the Goa legislature. Given this scenario, you begin to understand why so many Goans feel that no matter which party or candidate they vote for, the BJP will eventually claim them and form the government.  The BJP has wrested control of several states in a similar fashion, despite not having got the popular mandate to rule. Whether it was Madhya Pradesh in 2020, when Congress's Jyotiraditya Scindia crossed over to the party along with 22 MLAs, or Karnataka in 2019, Meghalaya in 2018, or Manipur in 2017, the BJP has managed to snatch the government from the Congress by engineering defections, forming alliances with smaller parties, and essentially, being more wily and fleet-footed than its principal rival. Now, political coups are hardly unheard of, nor are ruthless Machiavellian tactics to gain power a novel enterprise. However, what distinguishes the BJP from others who may have used similar stratagems to emerge on top of the political heap, is that it has managed to make its power-grab well nigh systemic. In Goa, at least, it seems to have successfully created the impression that as the party with the largest resources and the juiciest blandishments, it is invincible. What better way to march towards the holy grail of one-party rule than to convince people that no one else stands a chance? Of course, the elections in Bengal earlier this year showed that the BJP can be resoundingly defeated — and Banerjee brings that feat to the table in her Goa campaign. And, of course, the elections in Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and other states next year will be hard-fought. But Goa, a laid-back tourist haven, seems to have become a test case for what happens when there is a dominant BJP on the hand, and on the other, a denuded, demoralised Congress and opportunistic, unscrupulous politicians who change sides at the drop of a hat. (Recently, GFP chief Vijai Sardesai, who had been in bed with the BJP post the 2017 polls, joined forces with the Congress.)  Banerjee and Kejriwal want to step into the vacuum of a credible alternative to the BJP. But they are unlikely to make much headway in Goa, which seems to have been mesmerised into believing that there is simply no alternative to Big Brother BJP.  (Shuma Raha is a journalist and author)  Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/goa-polls-turncoat-haven-makes-for-a-cynical-voter-1061406.html
16-12-2021||Opinion||India between Russia and the Quad||Moscow’s concerns about the Quad are increasingly emerging as a matter of discussion and debate. Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov during his visit to New Delhi in March 2021 called Quad the Asian NATO. Primarily, it signified Russia’s opposition to the creation of security blocs in the region. Moscow’s concerns about the Quad are also driven by the China factor, India-Russia relations and the evolving contours of Moscow’s role in the Asian region. Since 2017, we have witnessed the rebooting of the Quad grouping comprising India, the US, Japan and Australia. Russia sees the Quad as an anti-Chinese construct and hence primarily targeted at China. From the Russian perspective, challenging China is akin to challenging the basics of a multipolar world. Close on the heels of the first Quad summit that took place in March 2021, Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov visited China, Pakistan, South Korea and India to re-emphasise Russia’s relevance in the region. Lavrov’s visit to Pakistan raised some concerns in India, especially the potential possibilities of greater Russia-Pakistan defence and strategic cooperation. The major Russian arguments about the Quad are as follows: One, that Quad reflects the United States’ persistent, aggressive and devious policy intended to ensnare India in its anti-China game. Secondly, that Quad is meant to undermine the close partnership between India and Russia. Third, that Quad is divisive and undermines the centrality of the ASEAN grouping of South-East Asian countries. The ‘rediscovery’ of the Quad by the Trump administration signified a reiteration of America’s Indo-Pacific strategy. Trump perceived the Indo-Pacific as a crucial theatre of competition, which is more maritime-based. Moscow has also expressed its reservations about replacing the Asia-Pacific construct with that of the Indo-Pacific. Russia perceives the Quad as a potential game-changer that could impact Moscow’s role in Asia, especially in terms of its economic and political interests in Asia. The growing economic, political and strategic complementarities in Moscow-Beijing relations has evolved over the years. Though Russia has its concerns about China, yet it perceives Beijing as a partner against the Western liberal order. Russia perceives China as an important anchor in the creation of a multipolar world. Hence, the Quad represents an attempt to isolate Russia as well as China. From its perspective, Moscow has promoted the idea of a Greater Eurasian Partnership as a platform for greater Asian engagement, through forums like the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) and Eurasian Economic Union (EEU). The underlying sense is that Russia seeks to enhance its visibility and relevance by leveraging its geographical location to act as a bridge between Europe and Asia. Russia has been making a case for greater cooperation between the ASEAN and the EEU. Russia also has its divergencies with China, though it tends to play them down. Russia does not go along with China’s self-proclaimed nine-dash line, for instance, as it would be detrimental to the Russian oil giant Rosneft’s position in Vietnam and also weaken its own Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ) claims in the Arctic region. Overall, Russia maintains a neutral stance on the South China Sea dispute. Moscow should know better that India’s engagement with the Quad is also the outcome of New Delhi’s growing concern with China’s territorial claims along the border. In terms of India’s role in the Quad, Russia realises that India matters. While India is one of the top arms importers in the world, Russia accounts for 49% of those Indian imports. The purchase of the S-400 anti-missile system is a huge decision that could attract US sanctions against India in Washington’s bid to isolate and punish Russia. From Moscow’s perspective, the strengthening of the US-India strategic and defence cooperation could dent Russia’s interests in India. Hence Moscow seems to make a case for New Delhi to prioritise the SCO, and even the BRICS grouping, rather than the Quad. Moscow sees no contradiction in its ties with China on the one hand and its ties with India on the other. It desires that extra-regional actors like the US are deterred from gaining any additional strategic advantages which could be detrimental to Moscow’s interests in the region. Russia opposes any anti-China alliance, which President Putin perceives as “un-Asian”. India, on its part, does not consider the Quad to be a NATO-like military alliance. Russia considers the Quad as a project of US strategic competition in the region. From India’s perspective, Russia’s ability to convince India about the need to distance itself from the Quad is contingent on Moscow’s ability to leverage its influence with China. Another dimension is that the interests of India, China and the US with respect to the Indo-Pacific have revolved around their respective visions, interests, strengths and weaknesses. Hence, India would have reservations about perceiving the Quad as an ‘alliance of democracies’ targeted at China. India is concerned about an aggressive China, especially across its borders.  Yet, India does not perceive the Quad as a collective security arrangement. The Quad presents both dilemmas as well as possibilities for India. The underlying sense is that the Quad’s strategic imprint is bound to grow, especially with the Chinese tentacles spreading across the Indo-Pacific region. The flip side is that the more assertive China gets on the border dispute with India, the greater will be India’s propensity to fall back on the Quad. Hence, Russia would have to be more receptive and sensitive to India’s concerns on China’s territorial aggression. The challenge before India is to strike the right balance between Russia and the Quad. (The writer is Professor, Department of International Studies, Politics and History, Christ (deemed-to-be) University, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/india-between-russia-and-the-quad-1061622.html
16-12-2021||Opinion||Who is a 'migrant'?||The term “migrants” caught everyone’s attention when militants indulged in a spate of targeted killings of non-locals in Kashmir recently. The term also depicted a sorry state of workers fleeing back to native places after losing their livelihood in host cities and towns due to pandemic-triggered lockdowns last year.  Defining a ‘migrant’ According to the Indian Registrar General of Census, “When a person is enumerated in the census at a different place than her/his place of birth, she/he is considered a migrant.”  The National Sample Survey (1999-2000) defined migration as: “persons staying away from their usual place of residence for 60 days or more for employment or better employment or in search of employment.” Going by these definitions, I have been a “migrant” all my life. At the age of two, I migrated from my village to the nearby city to get a “convent education” staying with one of my distant relatives. Then I moved to my maternal aunt’s place in the same city to continue my education. I returned to my home briefly only to move back to the city to reside in college hostels. Then to pursue my higher education, I moved to New Delhi and then to the United States. I got back to India and was employed in Delhi. Soon after the marriage, my wife became a “migrant” as she accompanied me. Now, I have moved to another city in the country along with my family. I am not sure whether this will be my final destination. Real migrants One-third of India’s population is like me: they are on the move and are technically “migrants”. The World Bank puts that number to 40 million. But I wonder why none ever called me a “migrant”?  Does it have anything to do with my white-collar profession? Or is it because of my high education level? Or is it my income and wealth? Or something else? The fact is that the so-called “migrants” are less grounded in a particular place and are ready to move according to the wind direction of the job market: a kind of economic nomadism. They take up those jobs that locals wish not to do or lack the skills to do. There is a “will issue” than a “skill issue”. They are often construction workers, housemaids, rickshaw pullers, hawkers, vendors, carpenters, plumbers, painters, loaders, harvesters, security guards, cooks, and the like, mostly in the unorganised sector. They are cheap to hire, not part of any labour union, leave less paper trail, live in shanties and mostly from the marginalised communities. They are usually not beneficiaries of social welfare programmes in the host cities. Economic option of labour That way “migrants” are considered cost-effective and hardworking. They are necessary to run the wheels of the local economy, but not given due importance. They are the modern-day “Girmityas”, who are unaware of their final destination, both in short and long terms. They mostly flee due to economic distress from eastern and northern states of India in search of better livelihood to western and southern states or even to far off places like Jammu and Kashmir. Usually, since most of the “migrants” registered themselves as voters in their native places, they do not have political clout in the place of migration. As a result, they are victims of nativist or “sons of the soil” politics and face political exclusion. Pejorative terms like “South Indian vultures” and “bhaiyas” are still in vogue in some cities of India. While Indian governments pamper Indian migrants abroad, internal migrants are the “wretched of the Earth”: ignored, forgotten, overlooked and unheeded. (The author is with the Department of International Studies, Political Science and History, Christ University, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/who-is-a-migrant-1061625.html
16-12-2021||Panorama||Pak-China nuke proliferation via Gujarat port? That seems to be the case||On November 18, based on specific intelligence, officials of the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) seized a consignment aboard a ship flying under the Singapore flag that had landed at Mundra port in Gujarat’s Kutch district. It was material that Pakistan was sending from its Karachi Nuclear Power Plant, K-2, to a Chinese nuclear facility in Shanghai. India’s two nuclear-armed rivals were exchanging nuclear material between them, using an Indian port!  What was the material? It was likely spent nuclear fuel, perhaps being sent back to China for reprocessing, although Indian officials haven’t confirmed that this was indeed the case. The consignment had seven containers, with four barrels in each container. Pakistan’s Foreign Office was quoted days after the seizure that the containers were “empty” and had been used for transporting “nuclear fuel” from China. Why Pakistani authorities thought it fit to send it via India is a question that needs to be asked.  The case was highlighted after Adani Ports and Special Economic Zone (APSEZ), which operates the Mundra port, issued a statement saying that Customs and DRI officials had seized several containers from a foreign vessel at the port on concerns that they contained undeclared hazardous cargo.  Following scientific examinations of the consignment of “empty nuclear fuel containers”, the DRI is set to issue “show cause” notices to the parties concerned, including the cargo ship that brought the consignment, before it initiates the process to formally confiscate the material for violation of several laws and for “serious breach of national security.” The examinations, sources said, have found that the consignment not only fell under the “hazardous” goods category, it also breached several laws, including the Indian Arms Act, Customs Act, Weapon of Mass Destruction and their Delivery Systems (Prohibition of Unlawful Activities) Act and also violated Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) rules as these specialised containers are regulated under the Export of Special Chemicals, Organisms, Materials, Equipment and Technologies (SCOMET) list. “Tests have confirmed that although the containers didn’t have radioactive substances, it (the consignment) breached laws that prohibit the import-export of nuclear fuel and related materials without authorisation,” a senior officer with knowledge of the investigation told DH on condition of anonymity.  “It has been confirmed that these are specialised containers meant to carry nuclear fuel. There are stickers showing them as hazardous class-7 (radioactive substance), but the bill of entry mentioned only ‘empty fuel containers’. This is a serious breach of India’s security, even if the consignment was not meant for landing at Mundra port,” he said.   Two other sources told DH that it was surmised that China had sent the fuel directly to Pakistan some months ago. “We believe that after using the fuel, Pakistan tried to transport the empty containers back through commercial sea route disregarding local laws. Since the consignee violated major Indian rules and undermined our security, these expensive and specialised containers are going to be confiscated. Discussions are also on to register a criminal case as well.” Not the first breach The November 18 seizure is not the first time that such a security breach has been reported. In the past, at least two major incidents were reported from Kandla and Mundra ports. “The Customs department needs to change its policy on consignments which are not supposed to land at our ports, known as remain on-board (RoB), so that we have all the details before a ship arrives. Our current system is not as robust as that of other nations, such as the US.” “Our investigation is still going on. More than the value and misdeclaration of the consignment, it concerns national security. We don’t know if the nuclear fuel was used for power generation or for making weapons. We can’t rule out nuclear proliferation, either. The case is still under investigation,” said a fourth source in the know of the investigation. Ballistic missile parts In February 2020, Customs officials seized an industrial autoclave — a dual-use technology machine that can be used in the production of rocket motors for ballistic missiles — from a Hong Kong-flagged ship at Kandla port. The shipment had been loaded at China’s Jiangyin port and was headed to the Karachi port in Pakistan. Then, too, the consignment had been mis-declared as “Heat Treatment Furnace Casing System.” When DRDO scientists were called in to inspect the machine, they declared that “it had critical defence applications in the vulcanisation of insulation in small motors and for chemical coating of parts used in missile launchers”. Sources in Customs told DH that earlier this year, the department had sent a “show cause” notice to three entities associated with the seizure, including the master of the vessel, the shipping firm based in Mumbai, and the sub-agent of another shipping firm. These three entities were found in violation of “section-2(b) of Indian Arms Act read with Customs Act, Section 30(2) of Customs Act, Section 11 and 13 of Weapons of Mass Destruction and Delivery System Act, Import Manifest Regulations, 1971, and SCOMET regulations.” The National Investigation Agency (NIA) also registered an FIR in this case. NIA did not respond to a request for comment on the case. Aircraft-launching gear In November 2019, officials had discovered two military-grade aircraft launching gears – used to launch aircraft from aircraft carriers – in containers marked “empty” that had been unloaded at Mundra port. Sources said that no information regarding them had been declared in the shipping manifest. Investigations revealed that “Aircraft Launching Gear, Skyhook Mark 3”, manufactured and sold by Insitu Inc. and shipped from the US, was officially marked as being meant for the Royal Saudi Land Forces, and were to be unloaded at Jeddah port. “There is evidence suggesting that cargo handlers and shipping firms were aware of the glitch but failed to take remedial steps. They didn’t feed data into their systems. They didn’t try to sort out the glitch, and the same came up only after their lapses were detected by Customs when it arrived. They were strategic military goods and their import posed a serious threat to national security,” an investigation found.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/pak-china-nuke-proliferation-via-gujarat-port-that-seems-to-be-the-case-1061301.html
16-12-2021||Right in the Middle||A visit to the post office||I visited a post office after a very long time. Even as I was entering the post office I was greeted by a loud shout of ‘backside’! I stopped, puzzled and looked behind, and in front. I realised that was the instruction from behind the counter to a customer making enquiries regarding the booking of large parcels. He was being asked to go to the rear of the building — the backside. Nonplussed, I joined a queue. I had a speed post to do. Before me, there were two persons. One with a very large number of packets, the other was a soloist, like me — just one measly letter. I looked closely at the packets the person was carrying. It was evident he was from a bank. This was no Sherlockian deduction — all the packets had the bank’s logo prominently emblazoned. I waited while he finished booking his post. The person came with very exact cash in his hand to pay for the booking of the letters. I realised that while digitisation was happening elsewhere in the country, it had gone past the post offices.  Next was the solo packet gentleman. His cost for the speed post was very precise: Rs 41. I wondered if he could have the exact cash. He gave a Rs 100 note. “Change?” asked a voice from behind the counter. The customer said “No”. From behind the counter came a Rs 50 note. I waited for the balance of Rs 9 to be given. So did the customer. “Next time, Sir?” “Yes”, said the customer. I got the distinct feeling that both the person behind the counter and in front of the counter knew that there would be no next time. I presented my packet — and it was also Rs 41. I looked around for any UPI signage. There was none, despite all the Digital India campaigns. I gave a Rs 50 note and waited. “Change?” I shook my head. The postman looked at me. So I volunteered, “Next time?” He shook his head and said: “Stamp.” It was said more in the nature of a statement rather than a query. I wondered what this would mean. He took out stamps of Rs 5 with the image of Deenadayal Upadhyaya and Rs 4 with the image of Homi Jehangir Bhabha. They are in my purse. Awaiting my next visit to a post office. In the meantime, if anybody needs stamps you know whom to ask! Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/a-visit-to-the-post-office-1061363.html
16-12-2021||Right in the Middle||Resigning to vaccination||While standing patiently in a long-winding line for my Covid jab, I harked back to my younger days in my village when school-going children were mandatorily administered smallpox vaccination whose four roundish scars are still visible on my upper arms. They are as enduring as the personal identification marks recorded in my school leaving certificate.           I often find it amusing to turn over in my mind how my cousin and I, agemates, strove to avoid vaccination. For vaccination, we learned from the already vaccinated senior students, caused excruciating pain unlike a single shot of injection. And it involved multiple puncturing of our arms by a two-pronged, bifurcated needle. Foreknowledge of the ensuing pain prompted us to steer clear of the vaccination. One evening, as we returned home from the play, we were greeted by unpleasant news: In a couple of weeks, all school-going boys and girls would be inoculated for smallpox in the school. Since my cousin’s father, head of our joint family, was the village officer, the vaccinator, we were told, would come home for inoculations — an ordeal the village officer enjoyed! Besides, there were about ten boys and girls eligible for inoculation at home, justifying the vaccinator's home visit. Nearly terrified by the news, the next few days our efforts were focused on how to be in the good books of Krishnan, the vaccinator’s son. He was our schoolmate, a year junior to us. We wanted him to talk his father into exempting us from vaccination. As sops to Krishnan, we decided to give our textbooks to him and his cousin, Krishnan’s classmate, in the following academic year for free. Usually, such books extracted a price from the juniors. Krishnan would like this idea, we assured ourselves. Upon hearing us, he couldn’t help having a mirthful laugh. Though Krishnan’s initial response bordered on indifference, he did talk to his father who asked him to tell us that those who have shunned inoculation did so at the cost of getting infected by the life-threatening scourge which had killed many and left people dreadfully disfigured. Those scary words made us throw our disinclination for inoculation to the winds. Moreover, there was a reassuring factor. The vaccinator’s face was always writhed in a disarming smile, exuding bonhomie, giving one an impression that he was incapable of inflicting pain on anyone, leave alone schoolchildren. All this led us to resign ourselves to vaccination. Smallpox no longer disquiets us, thanks to vaccination. Undeniably, vaccination would make Covid-19 too a history. In the meanwhile, let’s keep our fingers crossed!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/resigning-to-vaccination-1061624.html
16-12-2021||Second Edit||Boost for Congress, Bommai takes a hit||The BJP has upped its strength in the Karnataka Legislative Council, winning 11 seats in the recent elections from the local authorities constituency. But the results may not be music to the ears of the ruling party as the Congress has won an equal number of seats, giving the latter a morale boost. The results are also a wake-up call for the Janata Dal(S), which has managed to win only two of the six seats it contested. Unlike elections from the graduates, teachers or Assembly constituencies, these polls are significant as the voters are panchayat and municipal body members and as such represent the will of the people at the grassroots level. The results do not hold much cheer for Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, with doubts being raised over his vote-pulling capacity. The BJP had lost to Congress in the recent Assembly bypolls in Haveri, the Chief Minister’s home district. Now, in the dual-seat Dharwad constituency which also comprises Haveri, Congress candidate Saleem Ahmed has secured the highest number of votes. Bommai’s writ also did not run in the prestigious Belagavi constituency where rebel candidate Lakhan Jarkiholi, propped up by his brother and former BJP minister Ramesh Jarkiholi, trounced the official party candidate. Bommai’s anointment as Chief Minister had ruffled many BJP old-timers, who see him as an ‘import’ and not an original party man. Bommai, in turn, has tried to consolidate his position in the right-wing party by pandering to the hardliners in it. The Council election results may have rendered him more vulnerable. But it is the JD(S) that has taken the worst hit. It finds itself not only weak in numbers but also in reputation, increasingly seen by all sides as a family-run opportunistic party bereft of any ideology, often running with the hare and hunting with the hound. While it still aspires to come to power in the state on its own, in reality, it finds itself facing irrelevance. It must make an attempt to redefine itself and emerge as the strong regional alternative to the two national parties that it was meant to be. However, a big cause for concern for all citizens is the brazen use of money power in these elections, with almost every candidate estimated to have spent Rs 20-30 crore. The framers of the Constitution envisaged the Legislative Council as the House of Elders, one whose members are not driven by the need to win popular elections as members of the Assembly have to and who therefore can debate and deliberate on matters of public interest in a wiser, less partisan manner. That idea is becoming increasingly distant from reality.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/boost-for-congress-bommai-takes-a-hit-1061365.html
16-12-2021||Second Edit||A bit more grace, and transparency, BCCI?||Opulent, oligarchic and opaque. That's the Board of Control for Cricket in India for you. The abysmal lack of clarity on important cricketing matters and communication of decisions with far-reaching ramifications has left it red-faced. It's an irony that it needed one of their own, Test skipper Virat Kohli, to expose the wealthy board's utter lack of professionalism in handling issues of great interest. BCCI president Sourav Ganguly and secretary Jay Shah, basically squatters as they have completed the stipulated tenures in their respective offices long back, have run the Indian board pretty much like a private enterprise. While press releases, signed by Shah, carry the barest possible information, Ganguly is famous for off-the-cuff remarks to sections of the media. It's one of those remarks – claiming that he had asked Kohli to reconsider quitting the T20I captaincy — that has come back to haunt him. The BCCI press release after Kohli's resignation in September lends credence to his assertions that no such request had been made by Ganguly. Shah had claimed at the time that he had been in discussions with Kohli for six months about the roadmap, and that his decision to step down was "thought through". Ganguly had sung a similar tune in the same missive. What then was the need for him to claim otherwise when he had already officially welcomed the move, as Kohli alluded to on Wednesday? The issue again highlights the complete absence of transparency. Had the BCCI made public the discussions between its officials, the selectors and Kohli in that meeting, matters would not have come to such a pass. The needless zeal to control information on players' injuries, team selection and administrative matters was well-known, but on an issue as important as sacking one of the world's most successful ODI captains, notwithstanding the merits of that decision, their conduct was little short of disgraceful. As if a one-line statement on the ODI captaincy change mentioned as an afterthought while announcing the Test squad for the South Africa series wasn't bad enough, they also failed to acknowledge Kohli's contributions as skipper. That the BCCI did so through a tweet a day later merely underlined the gaffe. There has been no reaction from the BCCI or Ganguly so far to Kohli contradicting the former, but a comment of any nature will only make matters worse when the team is on an important assignment. That said, the BCCI needs to address the issue with utmost care and urgency. Whether it can do so remains to be seen but hopefully, lessons will be learnt from this episode, though the history of the world’s richest cricket board suggests otherwise.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/a-bit-more-grace-and-transparency-bcci-1061619.html
16-12-2021||South||Kerala HC modifies timings for plying tractors on Sabarimala trekking path to Ayyappa temple||The Kerala High Court has modified the timings for plying of tractors on the trekking path to Lord Ayyappa temple in Sabarimala for transporting raw materials required for preparing 'prasadam' and 'annadanam', and directed the police to ensure these vehicles are not driven rashly. The high court permitted plying of the tractors from Monday to Thursday between 10.30 AM to 4.00 PM and from 10 PM to 3 AM. "Permission is also granted for transportation of pooja articles for daily rituals in the temple from 5 AM to 7 AM every day," the court said. The directions came after the Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB) and also the Chief Vigilance Security Officer moved an application seeking permission to ply tractors for transporting raw materials used for preparing 'prasadam' and 'annadanam' as well as pooja articles. They had sought modification of the court's December 10 direction to strictly enforce its November 2017 order which permitted movement of tractors for transporting goods from Pamba to Sannidhanam by stakeholders other than Travancore Devaswom Board from 12 midnight to 3 AM only. The court modified the December 10 order and also permitted use of "one tractor of Vishudhi Sena from 8 AM to 4 PM for removal of waste from Pamba to Charalmedu, beyond the regulated timing, to keep the trekking route clean and hygienic for the use of pilgrims". The court also permitted plying of heavy vehicles for transportation of tender coconut to the stores at Chelikkuzhi, which is at the starting point of Swami Ayyappan road, between 8 AM to 5 PM. "The other stakeholders like hoteliers can be permitted to transport perishable items like vegetables, fruits, etc. from Monday to Thursday during 10 PM to 3 AM," it said. It directed the police to keep a constant watch to ensure only vehicles permitted by the court are allowed to ply during the regulated timings and listed the matter for further hearing on December 22. The orders came on a petition initiated by the court on its own after receiving a complaint from a pilgrim claiming rash and negligent driving by a tractor on the trekking path to the temple. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-hc-modifies-timings-for-plying-tractors-on-sabarimala-trekking-path-to-ayyappa-temple-1061322.html
16-12-2021||South||Suspicion on Karnataka forest authorities over tiger menace in Wayanad||As the over two-week-long efforts of the Kerala forest authorities to capture a tiger that killed over 15 domestic animals were unsuccessful, a section of local people have alleged that the tiger could have been released by the Karnataka forest officials in the adjacent border areas. The Kerala forest authorities have sought the help of the National Tiger Conservation Authority to get the identity of the tiger based on the images captured in the camera traps. Kurukanmoola near Manathavady in Wayanad district was facing the tiger menace over the past two weeks. As the efforts to capture the tiger using cages and other methods failed, the Kerala forest authorities even deployed trained elephants to trace the tiger. On Wednesday, a section of local people raised suspicion that the tiger could have been released by Karnataka forest authorities. Jacob Sebastian, a member of Mananthavady municipality, told DH that it was strongly believed that the tiger could have been released by Karnataka forest authorities in the Baveli forest areas of Kerala-Karnataka borders. It was learnt from Kerala forest officials that the picture of the tiger captured in the camera traps did not match with tigers spotted in the forest areas of Wayanad as data of tigers used to be collected by the forest authorities regularly. Moreover, tigers were not spotted in the Kurukanmoola region over the last many years even as other wild animals were spotted, he said. Meanwhile, Wayanad south divisional forest officer Shajna Karim said that there were no official confirmations to such assumptions. Only after the identity of the tiger was received from the National Tiger Conservation Authority any such assumptions could be made. The Kerala forest authorities received four pictures of the tigers from the camera traps, the latest being on Monday evening. It was also suspected to have suffered injuries. On Tuesday, also one goat was reported killed in the region. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/suspicion-on-karnataka-forest-authorities-over-tiger-menace-in-wayanad-1061331.html
16-12-2021||South||Kerala's 'Metro Man' Sreedharan to stay away from active politics||Technocrat E Sreedharan, popularly known as 'Metro Man', has decided to stay away from active politics. Sreedharan had contested as BJP candidate at Palakkad in Kerala in the Assembly elections in April this year. He was even projected as BJP's Chief Minister candidate. But the saffron party lost even the lone sitting seat in Kerala. In a press conference on Thursday, Sreedharan that he would not be involved in active politics anymore. He also said that he was involved in social service activities while staying out of politics. Sreedharan said he joined politics as a bureaucrat only. Since he joined politics at an advanced age, the 89-year-old said it was not ideal for him to be in active politics anymore. Sreedharan had put up an impressive fight at Palakkad, the Congress's sitting MLA Shafi Parambil's lead dropped to around 3,850 in 2021 from 17,400 in 2016. Sreedharan had maintained a lead untill the final hours of counting. In February this year, Sreedharan joined BJP. Party state president K Surendran made the much-hyped announcement and later 'Metro Man' was made the candidate in the state elections. He was also a special invitee to BJP's national executive recently. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/keralas-metro-man-sreedharan-to-stay-away-from-active-politics-1061349.html
16-12-2021||South||SC to examine plea against Madras HC's verdict quashing Tamil Nadu law on internal quota for Vanniyars||A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao, B R Gavai and B V Nagarathna issued notice to those, who challenged the law before the HC, and sought their response in the matter. The top court posted the matter for consideration on February 15 and 16 and clarified that no adjournment would be granted in view of importance of the matter and its implications on admission to educational institutions and appointments to jobs. The court also said the High Court's interim order would continue and that admissions or appointments already made under the quota will not be disturbed. The Tamil Nadu government, political party PMK and others challenged validity of November 1, 2021 judgement of the Madurai bench of the High Court, which had declared Tamil Nadu Special Reservation of Seats in Educational Institutions and Appointments or Posts in Services under the state within the Reservation for the Most Backward Classes and Denotified Communities Act, 2021 as ultra vires the provisions of the Constitution. The High Court found that the state lacked competence to allow such a sub-classification without any study of their backwardness. In its plea, the state government claimed that there were copious materials including various reports and data available to indicate Vanniyars were more backward among the Most Backward Classes. Senior advocate A M Singhvi, appearing for the state government, contended that Indra Sawhney judgement (Mandal Commission) recognised the concept of sub-classification among backward classes. The bench, however, said that arguments have to be made on the point of the competence of the state Legislature to enact the law. The High Court had also said the state lacked the competence to pass the law as it was brought before the 105th Constitutional Amendment which restored the power of states to identify Socially and Educationally Backward Classes by nullifying the effect of the Maratha quota judgement. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sc-to-examine-plea-against-madras-hcs-verdict-quashing-tamil-nadu-law-on-internal-quota-for-vanniyars-1061392.html
16-12-2021||South||Decent burial without delay a constitutional right, says Kerala HC; asks state to provide infra for night autopsies||Right to dignity and fair treatment is available to a person after death also and laws of procedure cannot be a hurdle to the early burial of a body even it is a case of unnatural death, the Kerala High Court said on Thursday while directing the state to provide adequate infrastructure in five government medical colleges to carry out night autopsies there. The high court said that nowadays, in cases of unnatural death, bereaved family members as well as people's representatives -- like MLAs, Panchayath presidents and ward members -- can be seen queuing outside the police stations and hospitals for early conduct of inquests and post-mortems, respectively, for early release of the body so that they can pay their respects and carry out the last rites. The court said the first hurdle in getting the body to the relatives was probably autopsying timings as "from time immemorial" post-mortems are conducted during daytime as there was a belief that such procedures can not be done at night. The court also noted that in cases of unnatural death, even the inquest proceedings take time as "the police authorities will not reach immediately" and thereafter, an authorised or senior officer conducts it "after a long time". It also said that the Health Department had issued an order in 2015 for implementing 24 hours autopsy and accorded sanction for post-mortems at night in five Government Medical Colleges namely, Thiruvananthapuram, Alappuzha, Kottayam, Thrissur, and Kozhikode and also in the General Hospital Kasaragod as a pilot project. The court said that after issuing the order in 2015, the government did not withdraw it but was even now saying that there were no infrastructure facilities for implementing night autopsy. "This stand itself is surprising. What has the government been doing for the last six years," it asked. Justice P V Kunikrishnan said it was the duty of the state to complete the legal formalities forthwith if an unnatural death happened and the officials of the government should hand over the body to the kith and kin of the deceased person immediately. "It is part of the fundamental right of a person under Article 21 of the Constitution of India to live with dignity and the dignity includes not only the dignity of a person when he is alive but also the dignity following his death. Society should not be permitted to show any disgrace to the deceased." "A decent burial of the dead body immediately after death without unnecessary delay in completing legal formalities is also a part of the constitutional right. The state cannot say that there is no adequate infrastructure or insufficient staff in the hospitals and there are financial difficulties to create such additional facilities for early completion of legal formalities in unnatural death cases," the court said. The high court directed the state government, its Director of Health Services and its Health department to do the needful to "forthwith" implement the 2015 order and allow night autopsy at the five government medical colleges at Thiruvananthapuram, Alappuzha, Kottayam, Thrissur, and Kozhikode. It also directed the state to ensure that adequate infrastructure, as well as medical and paramedical staff, is provided at the five government medical colleges as expeditiously as possible and at any rate, within six months from receipt of the judgement. The court said medical experts also should understand that the financial condition of our state was not good. "..if the government is providing a minimum facility without any luxury because of the poor financial condition, they should cooperate with the government especially in a situation like the conduct of night autopsies. "In other words, when the government is providing an 'air-conditioned Maruti car with full facilities, the doctors cannot claim or demand a 'BMW car with its royal facilities'," the court said. Besides that, the Chief Secretary of Kerala was asked to "convene a meeting of the officials of the Home Department including the State Police Chief and the officers of the Health Department to see that the inquest and post-mortem of a body which is involved in unnatural death cases are completed within a time limit." "The Chief Secretary will issue a circular fixing the time limit for conducting the inquest and also fixing a time limit for conducting the post-mortem. It should be done within six months from the date of receipt of this judgment and a copy of the same should be produced before the Registrar General of this court," Justice Kunikrishnan said in his 42-page judgement. The judge said that the Chief Secretary should also order that once an unnatural death is reported it is the duty of the state machinery to complete the inquest and post-mortem within the fixed time frame and the body should be released to the bereaved family. "In the circular, it should be mentioned that disciplinary proceedings will be taken against officers who delayed the conduct of inquest and post-mortem within the time limit to be prescribed by the Chief Secretary," the court said in its judgement. The court said that the Chief Secretary should also declare in the circular that the expense for taking the body in unnatural cases to the hospital for post-mortem and to other places if necessary for conducting the inquest should be at the state expense. It further said that the state government will constitute a committee as per Kerala Medico-Legal Code to find out whether the night autopsy is possible in all the hospitals, where the facility is available and "if the experts recommend the same, the government will accept the same and will do the needful". With these directions, the court disposed of the plea moved by the Kerala Medico-Legal Society seeking directions to the state to provide the manpower and facilities for implementing the 2015 order of the Health Department. The petitioner society had also sought directions to the state not to compel its members to perform autopsies on a 24-hour basis till the personnel for conducting autopsies and essential infrastructure are made available. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/decent-burial-without-delay-a-constitutional-right-says-kerala-hc-asks-state-to-provide-infra-for-night-autopsies-1061408.html
16-12-2021||South||Covid lockdown in Puducherry extended till January 2||The coronavirus induced lockdown has been extended in the union territory of Puducherry till January 2, 2022. The state executive committee (SEC) of the Disaster Management Committee here announced the extension of the lockdown on Wednesday night. A release from the SEC said although the number of new Covid-19 cases were coming down in the union territory now, there was still a need to keep vigil to contain transmission of the virus and the lockdown has therefore been extended from midnight last till January 2. The nighttime curfew would be in force from 11 pm to 5 am every day. However, the nighttime curfew has been relaxed completely on the eve of Christmas (December 24) and on Christmas day (December 25). The release said that the nighttime curfew would be relaxed on December 30, 31 and on January 1 up to 2 am in view of the new year. The curfew would be in force on these days from 2 am to 5 am. Social entertainment-related gatherings are prohibited but they would be permitted on December 24, December 30 and 31 and on New Year day (January 1) subject to adherence to Covid appropriate behaviour. Restaurants, hotels, bars and liquor shops and hospitality sector establishments would be permitted to operate subject to adherence to the Covid protocols. With the prior approval of licensing authority restaurants and hotels can function beyond normal hours on the eve of New Year, the release said. Religious places and other places of worship would be permitted to remain open for public to offer prayers and darshan and to perform 'archana' up to 10 pm every day. Churches will however be permitted to remain open for public for prayers after 10 pm on the eve of Christmas (December 24) and on Christmas day after 10 pm. All places of worship would be permitted to remain open for prayers after 10 pm on the eve of New Year (December 31), the release said. Wedding celebration would be permitted in religious institutions with a maximum of 25 invitees at any point of time, it was stated. The release said that gatherings at marriages would be permitted subject to the condition that the number of guests do not exceed 100 at any point of time. The number of persons turning up at funerals to pay last respects should also not exceed 20. The Health Department should maintain close watch and surveillance on those coming from foreign countries in view of the threat posed by Omicron. There would be no restriction on the working time of the petrol bunks, banks, ATM centres, internet services, telecommunication and other essential services. The shooting of films or TV serials would be permitted subject to condition that there should be a maximum of 100 people. All cinemas, theatres and multiplexes would be permitted to function with full capacity up to 12.30 am with adherence to Covid norms. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-lockdown-in-puducherry-extended-till-january-2-1061445.html
16-12-2021||South||Rally in support of three capitals in Tirupati ahead of Amaravati farmers' meet||A day before the public meeting by Amaravati farmers, a huge rally was organsised here on Thursday to support the proposal of three state capitals. Hundreds of people participated in the huge rally oganised by Rayalaseema Intellectual Forum to mobilise support for its proposed public meeting. The Forum is backing the state government's decision to create three capitals - Amaravati, Kurnool and Visakhapatnam. Large number of students from various colleges participated in the rally which passed through various parts of the temple town. Raising slogans of "we want justice", the participants were carrying a banner declaring support for decentralisation of development. However, some youth participating in the rally were not clear about its purpose. They said Amaravati should be retained as the only state capital. The rally came a day before the public meeting by farmers of Amaravati, opposing three capitals and to demand that Amaravati be continued as the only state capital. The public meeting coincides with completion of two years after the announcement by Chief Minister Y. S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to develop three state capitals. As announced by the chief minister, Kurnool in Rayalaseema region will be developed as the judicial capital and Visakhapatnam in north coastal Andhra will be developed as administrative capital while Amaravati will be retained only as the legislative capital. For two years, farmers of 29 villages of Amaravati region, who had given 33,000 acres of land for development of the state capital, have been staging protests against the trifurcation. Demanding that Amaravati be retained as the only capital, the farmers and women of Amaravati undertook a "Mahapadyatra" from Amaravati to Tirupati. The temple town is part Chittoor district in Rayalaseema region. Titled "court to temple" the "Mahapadyatra" began near Andhra Pradesh High Court at Amaravati on November 1. It passed through various towns and villages in Guntur, Prakasam, Nellore and Chittoor districts and concluded at Tirupati on December 14. After covering 450 km in 44 days, the "Mahapadyatra" ended at Alipiri, the foothills of Sri Venkateswara temple. Amaravati Parirakshana Samithi and Amaravati Joint Action Committee wanted to organise the public meeting at the end of "Mahapadyatra" but Chittoor district police denied the permission on the ground that this could create law and order problems due to regional sentiments. However, the Andhra Pradesh High Court on Wednesday allowed them to organise the public meeting on December 17. The court gave the permission for the meeting subject to certain conditions. The organisers were directed to hold the meeting from 1 p.m. to 6 p.m. and follow Covid-19 protocol. Rayalaseema Hakkula Sadhana Samithi, a group fighting for the rights of Rayalaseema region, wanted to organise a public meeting the same day but the court made it clear that two meeting can not be allowed the same day and suggested it to hold the meeting on some other day. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/rally-in-support-of-three-capitals-in-tirupati-ahead-of-amaravati-farmers-meet-1061479.html
16-12-2021||South||Shashi Tharoor's praise for Kerala CM embarrasses Congress||Causing embarrassment to the Opposition party in Kerala, Congress MP Shashi Tharoor praised the development outlook of Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. Tharoor already caused embarrassment to Congress the other day as he did not sign on a memorandum submitted by all Opposition MPs from Kerala to the Union Railway Minister against the semi high-speed rail project mooted by the Kerala government. Tharoor later clarified that he needed to study the project. Tharoor's praise for Vijayan came during the inauguration of a mall in Thiruvananthapuram on Thursday. He said that Vijayan was trying to remove the hindrances in Kerala's development and trying to make Kerala investor-friendly. Being a person who welcomes development he would appreciate it, said Tharoor who represents Thiruvananthapuram in the Lok Sabha. The Opposition Congress-led United Democratic Front had already announced protests against the 530-kilometre long semi high-speed rail line project across Kerala. A large section of people who fear eviction and environmentalists are also up in arms against the project citing adverse environmental impacts. Financial experts were also raising concerns about whether cash strapped Kerala could take up the project with an estimated cost of estimated cost of Rs. 64,000 crore that may even cross Rs. one lakh crore mark. Despite the protests, the Chief Minister has been reiterating that the government would take forward the project that could bring down the travel time between the southern district of Thiruvananthapuram and the northern district of Kasargod by less than four hours, while it now takes around ten hours by road and rail now. The left-front government's stand is that the project would be a major boost to Kerala's development and would generate many job opportunities.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/shashi-tharoors-praise-for-kerala-cm-embarrasses-congress-1061493.html
16-12-2021||South||Doctors at Hyderabad hospital remove 156 kidney stones through keyhole opening||A city-based renal care facility on Thursday said that doctors at their hospital have removed 156 kidney stones through a keyhole opening from a 50-year-old patient. This is the highest number of kidney stones ever removed from a single patient in the country, using laparoscopy and endoscopy, instead of conducting a major surgery, claimed Preeti Urology and Kidney Hospital. The patient, a school teacher by profession from Hubli in Karnataka, developed sudden pain near his abdomen, and screening showed the presence of a large cluster of renal stones (kidney stones), a release from the hospital said. The patient is also a case of an ectopic kidney as it was located near to his abdomen, instead of its normal position in the urinary tract. Though the presence of a kidney in an abnormal location is not the cause of the problem, removing stones from the kidney located abnormally was surely a challenging task, it said. Dr V Chandra Mohan, Urologist and Managing Director, Preeti Urology and Kidney Hospital said, "This patient might have been developing these stones for more than two years, but never experienced any symptoms in the past. However, a sudden occurrence of pain forced him to undergo all necessary tests which revealed the presence of a large cluster of renal stones in the kidney." "After assessing his health condition (in November last week), we decided to take laparoscopy and endoscopy route to extract the stones, instead of resorting to major surgery. The stones were fully extracted after a procedure that lasted for three hours. Instead of a major cut on the body, a simple keyhole opening helped extract the stones fully. The patient is hale and healthy now, and has returned to his regular daily routine," Dr Chandra Mohan added. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/doctors-at-hyderabad-hospital-remove-156-kidney-stones-through-keyhole-opening-1061512.html
16-12-2021||South||Tamil Nadu YouTuber arrested over 2020 video on Tablighi Jamaat||Days after the Madras High Court quashed an FIR against him filed over a deleted tweet vis a vis the IAF copter crash in which CDS General Bipin Rawat and 13 others were killed, well-known YouTuber Maridhas was arrested on Thursday for his video against the Tablighi Jamaat members put out in April 2020, police said. He was arrested over a complaint registered last April. The Melapalayam police here booked him for various offences under the IPC and IT Act. He was later produced before a local court which remanded him to custody till December 30. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-youtuber-arrested-over-2020-video-on-tablighi-jamaat-1061550.html
16-12-2021||South||Telangana reports four more Omicron cases||Telangana has reported four more Omicron cases on Thursday. According to Dr Srinivasa Rao, Director of Public Health, the four new cases are all among foreign arrivals, three Kenyan nationals and one Indian returnee from an unspecified country. “The investigation is on. We will share further details on Friday,” Dr Rao said in a late evening update. Telangana had reported its first two Omicron cases, in a 24-year-old Kenyan woman and 23-year-old Somalian man, on Wednesday. The who travelled by different flights via Abu Dhabi and Qatar landed in Hyderabad on December 12. Genome sequencing of their samples confirmed the Omicron variant. Health officials had shifted them from a facility at Tolichowki to the state-run  Telangana Institute of Medical Sciences at Gachibowli for treatment and isolation. While their contacts are being traced for testing, sanitisation was undertaken in the Paramount Colony locality, where they were staying. The duo has no symptoms, officials said. The top health official has asked the Telangana public “to take utmost care,” wearing masks indoors and outdoors. While ruling out the possibility of lockdowns in the coming weeks, Rao hinted at the imposition of Covid-19 restrictions wherever necessary.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-reports-four-more-omicron-cases-1061594.html
16-12-2021||South||UAE to open food park in Kerala||The UAE government has promised to open a state-of-the-art food park in Kerala, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Thursday. Vijayan, after his meeting with the UAE Minister of State for Foreign Trade, Thani Ahmed Al Zeyoudi, said the gulf nation will set up three food parks in India, and one of them will come up in the southern state. "The UAE has promised to open a state-of-the-art food park in Kerala. @ThaniAlZeyoudi, the UAE Minister of State for Foreign Trade, has said the details would be discussed with the technical team. Thanks to the Govt of UAE for their immense support for Kerala's development," Vijayan tweeted. The UAE minister invited Vijayan to visit the Dubai expo. The CM has accepted the invitation and said he will be visiting the Gulf country in February 2022. UAE Ambassador Ahmed Al Banna and Lulu Group Chairman M A Yusuff Ali took part in the meeting. The UAE dignitaries were in Kerala to take part in the inaugural function of the newly opened mall of Lulu group. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/uae-to-open-food-park-in-kerala-1061599.html
16-12-2021||State||Karnataka plans amendment to RGUHS Act eyeing Rs 1,500-cr funds||With an eye on Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences’ (RGUHS) funds worth Rs 1,500 crore, the state government has proposed an amendment to the existing Act in the ongoing winter session of the state legislature. Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar has sent a note directing the principal secretary, Medical Education Department, to propose a necessary amendment to the RGUHS Act. According to the minister’s note, a copy of which was accessed by DH read, “Chapter 4 of the RGUHS Act speaks about the utilisation of the funds, its management and audit. Under the provision to section 40, it is clear that with respect to utilisation of funds, the directions of the state government shall be final. However, if any such limitation is cast on the government with respect to the utilisation of funds, it is imperative to introduce suitable amendments to the statute so as to enable the government to ensure that funds are put to effective use in the interest of extending better healthcare services to the general public.” The minister has also instructed the officials to bring in suitable amendments to the Act during the winter session of the legislature. However, RGUHS authorities and syndicate members are not pleased with the minister’s move to take away the funds. “The funds were collected in the form of fees from students towards examinations over several years. How could the government spend it on health care services,” a syndicate memberquestioned. Dr K S Ravindranath, former vice-chancellor of RGUHS, said, “The funds available in the university are purely sourced from students and it should be utilised on the improvement of medical education services at government medical colleges to improve the quality of education. The health and family welfare department should utilise funds allocated to them for providing better health services.” Pointing out that the RGUHS is still struggling to have a permanent campus, yet another syndicate member said, “It is sad that rather than focussing on getting a permanent campus, the minister is planning to spend it elsewhere.” RGUHS officials revealed that they will write to the state government expressing their dissent over the proposal. “If the government still goes ahead with its decision to utilise the funds, then we will be forced to approach the court of law,” cautioned another syndicate member. Dr Jayakara S M, vice-chancellor in-charge, RGUHS, said, “We have received the communication from the government and will place it before the syndicate for a decision.” Sources in the department said the plan is to replace the vice-chancellor with the principal secretary of the medical education department as the chairperson of the Finance Committee. According to the provisions under the existing Act, the syndicate’s decision is final on the utilisation of funds with the state government kept in the loop. But with the proposed amendment, the government can issue directives to the university over the utilisation of funds. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-plans-amendment-to-rguhs-act-eyeing-rs-1500-cr-funds-1061229.html
16-12-2021||State||Guest faculties on strike in Karnataka for job security||The government-run degree colleges in the state are struggling to hold classes for the last six days as the guest faculties are on protest by boycotting the classes. Urging the government to fulfill their demands, the guest faculties of government degree colleges across the state are on protest. One of the major demands is job security. “Many of us are working for the last 15 years and we demand job security,” said Prof Hanumanthe Gowda R Kalmani, state president of Government First Grade Colleges’ Guest Faculties’ Association, Bengaluru. Some of the government degree colleges in the state completely depend on guest faculties.  The protesting guest faculties demanded to consider them in the recruitment process for which the department has invited applications. “Let the government consider us during recruitment based on our experience and qualification,” Kalmani said. As per the details available from guest faculties, currently they are getting a honorarium of Rs 11,000 to Rs13,000 per month based on the qualification. “We take major work load but are paid peanuts,” they say. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/guest-faculties-on-strike-in-karnataka-for-job-security-1061230.html
16-12-2021||State||PFI Protesters assault cops: Ban orders in 4 taluks||Prohibitory orders under Section 144 CrPC have been imposed in Puttur subdivision after a protest by the Popular Front of India (PFI) activists turned violent late on Tuesday night. The ban order will be in force till midnight of December 17 in Puttur, Belthangady, Sullia and Kadaba taluks in the district.  The PFI activists had staged a protest near Uppinangady police station on Tuesday morning seeking the release of three persons who were allegedly detained in connection with a riot case reported a few days ago. Later, they were dispersed by the police. However, by evening, the activists prepared themselves to perform namaz at the site of the protest which was opposed by a few persons, said to be of a right-wing organisation. This led to clashes between the two groups.  Superintendent of Police P Rishikesh Sonawane said the Uppinangady police have registered three separate cases under various sections of the IPC. In the complaint, the PSIs said the protesters assaulted the policemen with soda bottles and weapons. They also threw stones at the police vehicles and other public vehicles, the complaints said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/pfi-protesters-assault-cops-ban-orders-in-4-taluks-1061232.html
16-12-2021||State||All districts to have universities: Education Minister||Higher Education Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan has said that government will establish universities in all the districts in the state. The proposed varsities will have maximum 25 staff members, including vice-chancellor. The minister was speaking at an event in Visvesvaraya Technological University (VTU) here on Wednesday. He said varsities could now be set up on small lands with modern technology. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/all-districts-to-have-universities-education-minister-1061234.html
16-12-2021||State||High Court designates 53 advocates as senior counsels||The High Court of Karnataka has designated 53 advocates as senior counsels. They are Kiran S Javali, Suresh S Lokre, G Papireddy, S P Kulkarni, Puthige R Ramesh, Ganesh Bhat Krishna, Kantharaj H, M R C Ravi, A G Shivanna, B K Sampath Kumar, H S Chandramouli, Satish M Doddamani, Basavaraj Veerasangappa Sabarad, B C Thiruvengadam, Vighneshwar S Shastri, S S Yadrami, M R Rajagopal, V Sudhish Pai, Vilaskumar Marthandrao, K Suman, M S Bhagwat, G L Vishwanath, B L Acharya, Pramod N Kathavi, C R Gopalaswamy, R S Ravi, Basavaraju S, G V Chandrashekar, Ganapati Narayana Hegde, N Ravindranath Kamath, Dhananjay Vidyapati Joshi, B V Shankara Narayana Rao, S R Anuradha, H N Shashidhara, Rajesh Chander Kumar Rohra, P P Hegde, I Tharanath Poojary, Nalina Mayegowda, K Diwakara, D R Ravishankar, Harish Byrasandra Narasappa, Sriranga S, K S Ravi Shankar, T Suryanarayana, Promod Nair, Nandakumar C K, Ameet Kumar Deshpande, Murthy Dayanand Naik, Aruna Shyam, M, Reuben Jacob, V Raghuraman, K K Chythanya and Vikram A Huilgol.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/high-court-designates-53-advocates-as-senior-counsels-1061235.html
16-12-2021||State||Internal sabotage led to Kavatgimath's defeat: Jarkiholi||BJP MLA Ramesh Jarkiholi on Wednesday said internal sabotage led to BJP candidate Mahantesh Kavatgimath’s defeat in the Legislative Council election held in Belgaum Local Authorities Constituency. Speaking to reporters in Gokak, he said: “BJP senior leaders and RSS functionaries have asked me not to speak about the party’s internal developments in public. I will reveal the reasons for Kavatgimath’s defeat in the party’s meeting to be held soon and will also make them public later.”  Jarkiholi said he had spoken about his fear of internal sabotage to the party’s senior leaders when he visited New Delhi a few days before the election.  He claimed that he worked for Kavatgimath and wanted the defeat of Congress candidate Channaraj Hattiholi. Jarkiholi also claimed that he was not in touch with the winning Independent candidate Lakhan Jarkiholi in the last three days of the election campaign. “Now, attempts are being made to blame me for this loss. There are reports of conspiracy against me also, I will speak on these issues later,” he said. “It is left to Lakhan to decide whether he supports BJP in the Legislative Council,” he stated. Lakhan is the brother of Ramesh Jarkiholi. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/internal-sabotage-led-to-kavatgimaths-defeat-jarkiholi-1061237.html
16-12-2021||State||Prize money for gallantry awardees hiked fivefold||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has announced that the state government has increased the cash reward given to the winners of gallantry awards in the armed forces from the state, five times and the order for the same has been issued. With this, the long-pending demand of the defence personnel to increase the prize money for gallantry awardees has been met, Bommai said at the Vijay Diwas programme organised by the Maratha Light Infantry Regimental Centre (MLIRC) to mark the 50th anniversary of the victory of Indian armed forces over Pakistan in 1971. The chief minister said the prize money for Paramveer Chakra awardees that was earlier Rs 25 lakh has been increased to Rs 1.50 crore now and the Mahaveer Chakra awardees’ cash reward has gone up from Rs 12 lakh to Rs 1 crore. The cash reward for Ashok Chakra winners, which was Rs 25 lakh, has been increased to Rs 1.50 crore. Similarly, the Keerti Chakra, Veer Chakra, Shourya Chakra, Sena, Nau Sena and Vayu Sena awardees will get enhanced cash rewards up to Rs 50 lakh, he said.  Addressing the army personnel and war veterans, he said the 1971 war victory of India over Pakistan continues to inspire the countrymen. “India got Bangladesh liberated. Bangladesh is celebrating the golden jubilee of its formation. The war also made the world realise India’s military might, he said lauding the role of armed forces in safeguarding the country’s borders,” he added.  “The victory of the 1971 war also shows excellent management and MLIRC also played an important role. Men fought bravely and rigorously and the sacrifice of over 3,800 of them was supreme while over 9,000 were injured. Despite this, more than 90,000 Pakistan army personnel and officials were imprisoned,” he recalled. The war did not last long. The 13-day war resulted in the victory of the Indian forces. “The war was also a testimony of our strength, valour, intelligence and coordination,” he said. Bommai said new technology has taken over defence forces across the globe. “Our forces are ready for technological as well as men to men fight. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision has made our forces strong and proud. We are strong economic power, have human resources, natural resources and our military power makes difference between us and our enemies”. Bommai paid floral tributes to the martyrs and wrote in the visitor’s book too. He also paid respects to Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat and 13 others who were killed in the chopper crash recently. General Officer Commanding of Karnataka and Kerala Sub Area Major General J V Prasad, Home Minister Araga Jnanendra Director General of Police Praveen Sood and Chief Secretary P Ravikumar also paid floral tributes to the martyrs at the war memorial.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/prize-money-for-gallantry-awardees-hiked-fivefold-1061634.html
16-12-2021||State||e-sahamathi: where firms access data shared with citizens' consent for a fee||Karnataka, on Thursday, unveiled the e-sahamathi platform, a consent-driven system that authorities say will give citizens complete control on sharing their personal data with private companies. Private or public companies and nonprofits willing to use the e-sahamathi platform to access citizen data will have to pay a one-time registration fee of Rs 50,000.  “Citizens get full control of their data and the government won’t have any role in what they choose to share,” additional chief secretary (e-governance) Rajeev Chawla said. Consent manager The platform, which will use Aadhaar authentication, will act as a consent manager for citizens who are data principals. “Citizens are the owners of their personal data. Government departments that collect and maintain citizen information are data fiduciaries,” Chawla said. The government expects students and job seekers to be the immediate users of e-sahamathi. “Let’s say a student has landed a job with Wipro and the company requires his or her academic credentials. The student can log on to e-sahamathi and give consent for his or her data to be shared with Wipro. The government has the student’s academic data, which will be shared once there is consent,” Chawlaexplained.  So far, the government has academic data of students from 63 out of 65 universities in Karnataka. The IIM Bangalore and IIIT Dharwad are yet to come on board. “We have SSLC marks cards from 2003, PU marks cards from 2008 and university certificates from the last 10 years,” he said. Citizens can specify the purpose and validity of the consent.  Data blind “The citizen can revoke consent any time,” Chawla pointed out. “e-sahamathi per se is data blind. So, we don’t know what data is being shared.”   Allaying fears over misuse of data, Chawla said a committee will approve data seekers who apply for registration on e-sahamathi. “We want reputed, big companies to use e-sahamathi and not spurious ones,” he said. “Also, once the Personal Data Protection Bill is approved (in Parliament), citizens can sue data seekers for misuse of their data.”  Chawla said e-sahamathi is a more advanced version of DigiLocker. “DigiLocker is where you store data, which may not be genuine. Data shared through e-sahamathi is genuine as it comes from the government,” he said. e-sahamathi will be available in the form of a mobile app and web portal. It will become operational after a formal launch by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai soon.   Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/e-sahamathi-where-firms-access-data-shared-with-citizens-consent-for-a-fee-1061640.html
16-12-2021||State||Govt to take up Kannada flag burning issue with Maharashtra||Karnataka will ask the Maharashtra government to act against "miscreants", who torched the Kannada flag in Kolhapur, Basavaraj Bommai government told the Legislative Assembly on Thursday.  The issue was raised by JD(S) MLAs, led by K Annadani, who moved a motion to pass a resolution condemning the incident. The MLAs also jumped to the well of the House by waving the yellow-red flag that represents Kannada.  "Let us adopt a resolution condemning the incident and send it to the Maharashtra government. We will also talk to the minister concerned in Maharashtra and urge their government to take action," Revenue Minister R Ashoka said.  "The incident has hurt Kannadigas. The Shiv Sena and MES are repeatedly raking up the border dispute by indulging in vandalism in the border areas. They are miscreants. The government there should book them," Ashoka said.  Earlier, Annadani said the state government should take up the matter with Maharashtra. "All Kannadigas are hurt. How can we, Kannadigas, keep quiet? We should mount pressure so that the perpetrators are arrested," he said.  Supporting the motion to adopt a resolution, opposition leader Siddaramaiah said those who burned the Kannada flag were "hooligans".   Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/govt-to-take-up-kannada-flag-burning-issue-with-maharashtra-1061647.html
16-12-2021||State||Compulsory Kannada for degree courses: Centre seeks time from court||The union government on Thursday sought time to make its stand clear before the Karnataka High Court on whether making Kannada a compulsory language for degree students in the state is part of the National Education Policy (NEP). In view of this, a division bench comprising Chief Justice Ritu Raj Awasthi and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum said those students who do not wish to take Kannada language in their degree courses should not be compelled to pursue Kannada language, on the basis of circulars issued by the state government. The court is hearing two petitions on the issue. One filed by Samskrita Bharati (Karnataka) Trust, Bengaluru, and three other institutions associated with promotion of Sanskrit language/study and another filed by five students. In the previous hearing, the court had directed the union government to make its stand clear on the issue. Additional Solicitor General M B Nargund informed the court that making any language compulsory in any state on the basis of implementation of NEP would have vast ramifications and the central government has to take a decision in consultation with the state governments. He said meetings with the state governments could not be held so far and hence, he is not in a position to make the stand of the union government clear, in respect of Karnataka.  He submitted that a detailed counter affidavit on behalf of the central government will be filed shortly. The counsel for the five students requested the court to clarify the interim order dated December 13, 2021, adding that the students shall be free to choose any language in the course which they have already taken admission to, in the current academic session. Advocate General Prabhuling K Navadgi said four lakh students have already taken admission. Pointing out the specific instances of five student petitioners in the PIL, the AG said that they have studied Kannada language up to class 12 and hence, cannot have any objection studying Kannada in degree courses.  “Prima facie, we are of the view that the matter with respect to implementation of the Kannada language as a compulsory subject in higher studies on the basis of implementation of National Education Policy (NEP) is a question which requires consideration. As such, the state government at this stage shall not insist on making the Kannada language as compulsory. The students who have already taken Kannada language on the basis of their choice may do so, but all those students who do not wish to take Kannada language shall not be compelled to pursue Kannada language till further orders,” the court said.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/compulsory-kannada-for-degree-courses-centre-seeks-time-from-court-1061650.html
16-12-2021||State||Din in Council as Congress MLCs protest||The Legislative Council witnessed din for the second day on Thursday as Congress MLCs continued their protest in the Well of the House seeking a discussion on the alleged involvement of a minister and an MLC in a land-grabbing case.  The Congress MLCs - 15 of them were suspended on Wednesday - withdrew the protest when the House met again after the lunch break and Council Chairman Basavaraj Horatti held discussion with leaders of ruling and opposition parties. Leader of the Opposition S R Patil said, “We will discuss this matter in some other method, as we do not want to stall the proceedings of the session which is being held in Belagavi after more than two years.” Earlier, Patil clarified that the protest was not against Wednesday’s suspension, but to pressurise the government to uphold moral values by acting when a minister is an accused. “K J George resigned as the home minister when allegations against him were levelled,” he recalled. Law Minister J C Madhuswamy stated that the matter would be brought to the notice of the chief minister, and he would look into it. “We respect the Chair, but seeking the suspension of even the leader of opposition is a black spot on this government,” Patil added. Madhuswamy repented moving a resolution to suspend the opposition MLCs. Floor leader and Social Welfare Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary said Opposition members neglecting the chairman’s order on Wednesday was not correct. Heated exchange of words also took place between Congress chief whip M Narayanaswamy and Madhuswamy. The Congress MLCs have accused Urban Development Minister Byrathi Basavaraj and MLC R Shankar of being involved in the usurping of land worth Rs 400 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/din-in-council-as-congress-mlcs-protest-1061655.html
16-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka anti-conversion bill proposes 10-year jail term||Karnataka’s proposed anti-conversion bill suggested up to 10 years of imprisonment and placed the “burden of proof” on the person who facilitated the conversion on the basis of force or coercion.  DH has accessed the draft of the Karnataka Protection of Right to Freedom of Religion Bill, 2021, which official sources say is not yet finalised.  The bill aims to prohibit "conversion from one religion to another religion by misrepresentation, force, fraud, undue influence, coercion, allurement or marriage". Offences registered under the proposed bill will be cognizable and non-bailable. Imprisonment "shall not be less than three years, but which may extend to five years" along with a fine of around Rs 25,000. However, for conversion involving a minor, woman or a person belonging to Scheduled Castes or Scheduled Tribes, jail term can go up to 10 years with a fine of Rs 50,000. The accused person will have to prove that the religious conversion was voluntary and not by force. Further, the bill makes a provision for the accused to pay up to Rs 5 lakh as compensation to those who were made to convert.  The bill requires people willing to convert to declare at least 60 days in advance to the deputy commissioner and within 30 days of the conversion under a specified format.  After the conversion, the “authority concerned shall take steps in accordance with applicable laws with regard to entitlement of persons converted to enjoy social status or to receive economic benefits from the government (prior to conversion),” the bill says.  This means that a Dalit who converts should forego benefits he or she is entitled to as a member of the SC community.  Any institution or organisation violating the provisions of the proposed law will not be eligible for any financial aid or grant from the government, the bill says.  The bill noted that by virtue of Right to Freedom of Religion all persons are free to profess, practice or propagate any religion of their choice. However, "...Supreme Court has held that 'Right to Propagate' under Article 25 does not include the right to convert another person,” the bill notes. “In recent years the state has noticed many (instances) of conversion by means of 'allurement', 'coercion', 'force', 'fraudulent means' and also 'mass conversion'. These instances caused disturbances of 'public order' in the state,” the bill explains. “The Law Commission of Karnataka, after studying the various laws on the subject and considering the situation in the state in its thirtieth report, has made the recommendation to the government to enact a suitable law on the subject," the proposed bill says. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-anti-conversion-bill-proposes-10-year-jail-term-1061384.html
16-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Govt to provide a steady market for weavers' products: Bommai||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Thursday said the state government will take all the necessary measures to provide a steady market and price for the weavers' products. The chief minister said this during his address at a meeting to discuss various problems being faced by the weavers, an official said. Ministers Govind Karjol, Shivaram Hebbar, Shankar Patil Munenakoppa and other senior officials apart from the leaders of weavers community participated in the meeting. Responding to the charter of demands of the weavers, Bommai said the government departments would be asked to procure their need for dress materials and sarees from the weavers in accordance with the capacity of the weavers, and a specific quantum would be fixed for this. Marketing facilities on digital platforms too would be provided for handloom products through Handloom Development Corporation. He has assured of a "positive response soon" on subsidy for professional weavers like that of Tribal Sub Plan. The Chief Minister also said that the state government is mulling to impose a small cess on business units to provide various welfare schemes for weavers along the lines of Construction Workers Welfare Board. Bommai has instructed the Revenue Department officials to take action on converting unauthorised habitations into revenue villages or colonies. The Chief Minister further instructed the Pollution Control Board officials to take action to avoid harassment of weavers. He has agreed to the demand of providing scholarship for students from weavers families, medical facilities for weavers and payment of a solatium of Rs 5 lakh to families of weavers who committed suicide during the Covid-induced lockdown. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/govt-to-provide-a-steady-market-for-weavers-products-bommai-1061458.html
16-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka anti-conversion bill will also cover 'Love Jihad', says Home Minister Jnanendra||Karnataka’s anti-conversion bill has generated concerns that the new law may become a tool for the BJP government to target specific religions. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai is scheduled to chair a Cabinet meeting on December 20 where the bill’s fate will be decided. Home Minister Araga Jnanendra sat down with DH’s Akram Mohammed on the sidelines of the Belagavi Winter Session of the legislature to discuss the controversial topic. Excerpts:  When will the anti-conversion bill be tabled?  The bill will first be discussed in the Cabinet before it is tabled in the Assembly. Mostly, it will be tabled on Monday after a Cabinet meeting. If the draft bill is ready, what are the changes the government is looking at? In a bill like this, every word is crucial. It’s not an easy job. We have sought assistance from private advocates to discuss the terminology used. After the bill becomes a law, it should not be challenged in the Supreme Court or High Court. Is the bill still being revised? It's almost in the final stages now. A few elements of the bill will be discussed again in the Cabinet meeting and changes will be made before the final version is tabled. What are the major takeaways of the proposed bill? Article 25 of the Constitution says that forced conversion or conversion by allurement is not allowed. It does not specify the penal clauses for violating this, which we are introducing in the bill. We’re not stopping anyone from converting as the Constitution allows for it. It’s my choice which religion I should follow. The bill allows conversions, but they should inform local authorities. They should declare it to the deputy commissioner (DC) using a prescribed application with details about the religion he or she belonged to and the new religion being adopted. Whoever is facilitating - be it a priest, purohit or maulvi - should also declare the conversion. Following this, the DC will review these applications to see whether those who converted were under pressure or allurement, after which permission will be granted. Is there a time limit for deputy commissioners to grant permission to convert? Yes, there is. Time limit is currently being finalised. During the review, if the DC discovers any pressure or allurement, FIR will be filed immediately. Penal clauses will be invoked subsequently to imprison those converting people. Those guilty can face 3-10 years in prison. What happens after the DC grants permission? The DC will write to various departments with details of the conversion. If he or she is a government employee, the DC will write to the head of the department concerned. He or she will lose the facilities granted by virtue of their original religion or caste. In case he or she was getting benefits from the Social Welfare Department, after conversion, benefits of the Minority Welfare Department will be given. There is much opposition to the bill. Christians are protesting. The bill we are tabling is not against anyone. Nobody will stop anyone from converting, if a person wills it. The only thing is that the DC should grant permission. This will bring transparency in conversions and prevent cases where entire villages are converted to Christianity or Islam. The CM reportedly wants to table the bill only after weighing the pros and cons. Is the government going to go slow? We started the process of drafting the bill some 8-10 days ago. We have been holding regular meetings about the bill in the last 2-3 days. Until recently, we had the election model code of conduct, so we could not work on the legislation. What about ‘Love Jihad’. Is the government considering a separate bill on that? It will be part of this (anti-conversion) bill only. 'Love Jihad' involves marriage and there are provisions to curb marriages for the purpose of conversion. The government was considering a separate bill. But, if this bill ends up covering the issue, then it won’t be necessary.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-anti-conversion-bill-will-also-cover-love-jihad-says-home-minister-jnanendra-1061459.html
16-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka designs consent system for citizens to share personal data||Karnataka on Thursday unveiled the e-Sahamathi platform, a consent-driven system that authorities say will give citizens complete control over sharing their personal data with private companies. Private or public companies and nonprofits willing to use the e-Sahamathi platform to access citizen data will have to pay a one-time registration fee of Rs 50,000.  “Citizens get full control over their data and the government won’t have any role in what they choose to share,” Additional Chief Secretary (e-Governance) Rajeev Chawla said. The platform, which will use Aadhaar authentication, will act as a consent manager for citizens who are data principals. “Citizens are the owners of their personal data. Government departments that collect and maintain citizen information are data fiduciaries,” Chawla said. The government expects students and job seekers to be the immediate users of e-Sahamathi . “Let’s say a student has landed a job with Wipro and the company requires his or her academic credentials. The student can log into e-Sahamathi and give consent for his or her data to be shared with Wipro. The government has the student’s academic data, which will be shared once there is consent,” Chawla explained.  So far, the government has academic data of students from 63 out of 65 universities in Karnataka. The IIM Bengaluru and IIIT Dharwad are yet to come onboard. “We have SSLC marks cards from 2003, PU marks cards from 2008 and university certificates of the last 10 years,” he said. Citizens can specify the purpose and validity of the consent. “The citizen can revoke consent anytime,” Chawla pointed out. “e-Sahamathi per se is data blind. So, we don’t know what data is being shared.”   Allaying fears over misuse of data, Chawla said a committee will approve data seekers who apply for registration on e-Sahamathi . “We want reputed, big companies to use e-Sahamati and not spurious ones,” he said. “Also, once the Personal Data Protection Bill is approved (in Parliament), then citizens can sue data seekers for misuse of their data.”  Chawla said e-Sahamathi is a more advanced version of DigiLocker. “DigiLocker is where you store data, which may not be genuine. Data shared through e-Sahamathi is genuine as it comes from the government,” he said. e-Sahamathi will be available in the form of a mobile app and web portal. It will become operational after a formal launch by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai soon.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-designs-consent-system-for-citizens-to-share-personal-data-1061472.html
16-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt schools have 53,700 vacancies for teachers and staff: Minister||Karnataka government schools have a vacancy of 53,700 teachers and staff including primary and secondary schools, Karnataka Primary and Secondary Education Minister BC Nagesh said on Thursday. In a written reply to a question raised by Bailahongal MLA Kaujalgi Mahantesh Shivanand, Nagesh said there are 41,869 posts vacant in primary schools, 8,292 in secondary schools and 3,292 in the pre-university colleges. Shivanand wanted to know when and how the new National Education Policy will be implemented in the state. The NEP has been introduced by the Centre to bring reform in the education sector, mainly aimed at making it more practical. The Minister said it has started the process of hiring 18,000 and 5,078 guest teachers in primary schools and secondary schools respectively. Nagesh said the NEP has been implemented following the recommendation of former Chief Secretary S V Ranganath-led 15-member task force. He also told the House that the government is introducing the NEP in stages. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-schools-have-53700-vacancies-for-teachers-and-staff-minister-1061502.html
16-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka, Gujarat, Delhi report 10 new Omicron cases taking India's tally to 83||Karnataka, Delhi and Gujarat together on Thursday reported 10 fresh cases of the Omicron variant of coronavirus taking the countrywide tally of this strain to 83 even as the national capital with a total of 85 new Covid cases recorded its highest single-day rise in the last 137 days. Karnataka, Delhi and Gujarat reported five, four and one fresh cases of the Omicron variant to take the total to eight, ten and five respectively, according to a tally of the new infections from the states. Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla, meanwhile, reviewed the Covid -19 situation in the country and the preparedness of the health infrastructure of all Union territories, according to a home ministry spokesperson. Maharashtra has so far reported the highest number of Omicron cases at 32, followed by Rajasthan at 17. These cases have also been reported in the states of Karnataka (8), Gujarat (5), Kerala (5), Telangana (2), Tamil Nadu (1), West Bengal (1) and Andhra Pradesh (1) and Union Territories of Delhi (10) and Chandigarh (1). The country's first two cases of the Omicron variant were detected in Karnataka on December 2. Karnataka Health Minister K Sudhakar said five more cases of the Omicron variant were detected in the state to take its tally of the new strain to eight. "Five more cases of Omicron have been detected in Karnataka today: 19 yr male returning from the UK, 36 yr male returning from Delhi, 70 yr female returning from Delhi, 52 yr male returning from Nigeria, 33 yr male returning from South Africa," Sudhakar tweeted. The country's first two Omicron cases-- a South African national who has left the country, and the other a local person, a Doctor with no travel history-- were detected in Bengaluru. Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain said the Omicron variant was detected in 10 people so far in the national capital and none of them has developed a "severe" disease. He said 40 people have currently been admitted to the special facility at the Lok Nayak Hospital meant for isolating and treating suspected Omicron cases. Of them, 38 are Covid positive. "Ten Omicron cases have been detected in Delhi so far. One of them has been discharged," Jain told reporters. There has been no "severe" case so far, he said. The minister said many international travellers are turning out Covid positive upon arrival at the Indira Gandhi International Airport. "Eight such people were admitted to the hospital today (Thursday)," he added. On Tuesday, Jain had said the Omicron variant of coronavirus has not spread in the community so far and the situation is under control. On August 1 this year, Delhi had logged 85 Covid -19 cases at a positivity rate of 0.12 per cent along with one fatality. It was on June 29 when the positivity rate was recorded at 0.15  per cent that the number of fresh cases stood at 101 and four deaths were reported. The 85 cases that were recorded on Thursday came out of 56,027 tests, including 50,879 RTPCR tests, and there was no death due to Covid -19 in the last 24 hours in Delhi, according to the Delhi Health government data. There are currently 475 active cases of coronavirus in the national capital which include nine cases of the Omicron variant. About the rise in Covid cases, a senior doctor from Delhi government-run GTB Hospital, requesting anonymity, said, "The last three-four months went off smoothly, but the spurt in cases was impending. "World over, a spike in cases is being seen and some countries have even imposed lockdown. People only wake up when they see a rise in cases. It is essential that people wear masks and maintain social distancing because it is expected that the cases may rise again." In Gujarat, a 41-year-old woman health worker was found infected with the Omicron variant at a village in Vijapur tehsil of Mehsana district on Thursday, officials said. "The woman serves as an Accredited Social Health Activist (ASHA). She does not have any history of foreign travel, but she recently came in contact with her relatives who had arrived from Zimbabwe, one of the 'at at risk' countries," Chief District Health Officer Dr Vishnubhai Patel said. She is currently undergoing treatment in an isolation ward created in a government hospital at Vadnagar town of Mehsana and her condition is stable, he said. "The woman recently lost her husband to cancer. To attend the condolence meet, her husband's elder brother and his wife came from Zimbabwe last month. Both of them tested negative for Covid-19 in all the three tests conducted on them," Patel added. But the authorities decided to carry out contact tracing as a precautionary measure and the woman was found positive for coronavirus on December 10, following which her samples were sent to the Gandhinagar-based Gujarat Biotechnology Research Centre (GBRC) for genome sequencing, the official said. "The woman's genome sequencing on Thursday established that she is infected with the Omicron strain. Her mother-in-law and another relative, who came in her contact, also tested positive for Covid-19 yesterday. We have sent their samples to GBRC to know if they are also infected with this variant," Patel said. In Kerala, Health Minister Veena George said those who have come from abroad and have been asked to practice self-observation, as per central government guidelines, should not be complacent in doing so. The minister, at a high-level meeting, said such persons should avoid social interactions, crowded places, theatres and malls and should wear an N-95 mask if they go out, according to a state government release. She also said that such persons should observe if they have any symptoms and if they show symptoms, they should immediately quarantine themselves and inform the health workers. The decision was taken after a person who had come from Congo, a non-high-risk African nation, tested positive for Omicron and now has a large contact list as he went to shopping malls and restaurants instead of practising self-observation. Check out DH's latest videos on Covid:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-gujarat-delhi-report-10-new-omicron-cases-taking-indias-tally-to-83-1061554.html
16-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Cops didn't force Sriki to hack Bitcoins, says Karnataka HM||Karnataka Home Minister Araga Jnanendra on Thursday denied allegations that the police used hacker Srikrisha Ramesh aka Sriki to get Bitcoins.  Jnanendra said this in the Legislative Council, adding that Sriki was interrogated by the police in the presence of experts from the IISc.  "If the police forced him to hack Bitcoins, he can say it ss he is out on bail now," Jnanendra said. He also said that the government was not protecting Sriki and asserted that the police were investigating cases against the hacker properly.  The minister was responding to Congress MLC UB Venkatesh who charged that the police booked cases against Sriki under bailable sections whenever he was arrested, suggesting foul play.  “The government is trying to bury this case, and the speedy probe isn't on. Politicians and officials are said to be involved in this case, and their names should be revealed. Also, the full amount was not recovered in the e-procurement portal hacking case," Venkatesh said. Jnanendra said that 11 cases related to the Bitcoin scam were filed in the last three years, and Sriki is the accused in two of them. The minister stated that after Sriki was caught in a case of drugs supply on the dark web, it was found that he had hacked Bitcoins. "A huge network was involved in the Bitcoin scam, and many people who invested in Bitcoins lost money," he said. Venkatesh also said that Sriki’s father had alleged that the police had drugged his son in custody. The police got his stomach washed, he said. Responding to this charge, Health Minister K Sudhakar said Sriki was taken to Bowring Hospital for tests and samples were also sent to the forensic science laboratory for confirmation. Consumption of drugs was not found in the tests, Sudhakar said. Venkatesh claimed to have information that Sriki's skills were used to fudge the marks of 22 candidates in the PSI exams conducted by the KPSC last year. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cops-didnt-force-sriki-to-hack-bitcoins-says-karnataka-hm-1061559.html
16-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Ex-Karnataka Speaker makes shocking remark on rape in Assembly||On Thursday, as Karnataka Assembly Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri was struggling to impose order in the Assembly, senior Congress leader KR Ramesh Kumar proffered some advice. “There’s a saying... when rape is inevitable, lie down and enjoy it. That’s exactly the position into which you are," said Kumar, a former Speaker.  The statement provoked a hearty laugh from Kageri. None in the Assembly raised an objection. Kumar’s remarks came when Kageri lamented that he was unable to bring the Assembly under control as MLAs continued to speak one after another on the recent spate of floods and crop losses. Having tried, in vain, to end the spree of speeches, Kageri threw his hands up. “You know, Ramesh Kumar, I now feel that we should just enjoy the situation. I have decided to give up on trying to control and streamline this situation... I’ll just let them talk,” Kageri said, prompting Kumar to come up with the rape remarks. Kumar is no stranger to controversy. He was the Speaker in February 2019 when he had made a similar remark that drew the ire of women MLAs. Then, he was battling a bribery charge as claimed in an audio clip. Kumar had said he felt like a "rape victim" and elaborated thus: "I got raped once. But like every rape victim, I am being made to feel like I was raped multiple times.” Congress' KGF MLA Roopakala M, one of the 10 women in the 224-member Assembly, said she missed Kumar's statement although she was in the House.  "However, I personally don't support such remarks. Some of us women MLAs have, in the past too, requested both the ruling and opposition party leaders not to use this word in the Assembly," she said. "A woman who faces sexual assault suffers trauma all her life. It is wrong to use this as an analogy to something else. This does not have my support," she said.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ex-karnataka-speaker-makes-shocking-remark-on-rape-in-assembly-1061572.html
16-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Phased NEP rollout in select Karnataka schools from next year||The National Educational Policy (NEP) will be introduced in phases for pre-primary classes in select schools of Karnataka, Primary & Secondary Education Minister BC Nagesh told the Assembly on Thursday. Training will be imparted to teachers on NEP before the start of the next academic year, he said, responding to a question by Congress' Mahantesh Koujalagi. Nagesh said that several subcommittees were formed to review the current situation of the education sector in the state. "They are expected to submit position papers soon," he said, adding that NEP would be implemented completely by 2030. "NEP will not be introduced in one go. The government is assessing the number of phases in which it can be implemented," he said. To a question by Koujalagi on whether teachers were trained ahead of NEP implementation, he said that the curriculum under the new policy is yet to be finalised. "We can't train students without fixing the curriculum. However, only after training teachers will we introduce the new policy in schools," he said. In his written reply, the minister stated that an Implementation Task Force under retired IAS officer Madan Gopal was already in place to assess the progress of NEP in the state. "There are four subcommittees looking at various aspects of NEP," Nagesh said. 53,700 teacher posts vacant There are 53,700 vacant teacher posts in government schools of Karnataka, according to a written reply by Nagesh in the Assembly. Of this, 41,869 posts are vacant at government primary schools, 8,292 in government high schools and 3,539 posts in government pre-university colleges. To address this shortage, the government has appointed 18,000 guest teachers in primary schools and 5,078 in high schools. The Education Department is discussing with the Finance Department to fill 2,539 teacher posts in the coming days, Nagesh stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/phased-nep-rollout-in-select-karnataka-schools-from-next-year-1061614.html
16-12-2021||West||Two Moderna doses provide substantially low neutralising effect against Omicron||The neutralising activity of two doses of Moderna's Covid-19 vaccine is "substantially low" against the Omicron variant of the coronavirus, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID) Director Anthony Fauci said on Wednesday, citing NIAID data. However, a third, booster dose of the Moderna vaccine puts the neutralising activity "well within the range of neutralising Omicron," Fauci told reporters at a White House briefing. There was no need yet for a variant-specific booster shot, he added. Early data suggests Omicron is more transmissible than the Delta variant of the virus, US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Director Rochelle Walensky said at the same briefing, adding that Omicron appeared to have "a doubling time of about two days". There are confirmed cases of the variant in at least 36 states, and health officials expect to see the proportion of cases in the United States to continue growing over the coming weeks, she said. Walensky said officials were starting to see Covid-19 cases increase in fully vaccinated nursing-home residents, but residents who have had a booster shot have an infection rate that is 10 times lower.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/two-moderna-doses-provide-substantially-low-neutralising-effect-against-omicron-1061241.html
16-12-2021||West||Five labourers killed, 16 injured in blast, fire at chemical factory in Gujarat||Five labourers were killed and 16 other workers injured, some of them critically, after a huge explosion followed by fire occurred in a chemical unit in Gujarat's Panchmahal district on Thursday, officials said. The blast took place around 10 AM at the chemical manufacturing plant of Gujarat Fluorochemicals Limited (GFL), situated near Ranjitnagar village in Ghoghamba taluka, said Panchmahal district collector Sujal Mayatra. Of the 16 workers injured in the mishap, 14 received minor injuries, while two suffered over 50 per cent burns, Mayatra said, adding that all of them were referred to different hospitals for treatment and they are out of danger."A huge explosion followed by fire occurred at the chemical manufacturing plant of GFL. We have recovered five dead bodies from the blast site during our search and rescue operation after the fire was doused. The Chief Minister's Office (CMO) also contacted us and gave necessary instructions," the collector added. On being alerted, the firefighters rushed to the spot and Mayatra as well as district SP Leena Patil also reached the site. After the fire came under control, search teams initially found two bodies from under the rubble. Later during the day, the bodies of three more victims were recovered when the entire area was scanned, Mayatra said. Chief Minister Bhupendra Patel immediately contacted the collector upon learning about the incident and instructed him to make necessary arrangements for the treatment of the injured and to expedite search and rescue operation, a statement by the CMO said.  Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/five-labourers-killed-16-injured-in-blast-fire-at-chemical-factory-in-gujarat-1061343.html
16-12-2021||West||Will probe Congress's allegation of sexual exploitation against Goa BJP MLA Milind Naik: Sawant||Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant has said the state government will conduct an investigation into the Congress' allegation of BJP legislator Milind Naik being involved in a sexual exploitation case. Naik, who was serving as Goa's urban development minister, resigned from the state cabinet on Wednesday after meeting the chief minister in Panaji. Goa Congress chief Girish Chodankar had accused Naik of being involved in the sexual exploitation of a woman by misusing his power as a cabinet member. State Congress vice president Sankalp Amonkar had also filed a police complaint against Naik and released a purported audio conversation between the victim and the MLA. After meeting the BJP legislator late Wednesday night, CM Sawant told reporters that Naik has resigned for a free and fair investigation into the case. "I have accepted the resignation and also sent it to the governor. Whatever evidence the Congress has produced that we will be investigated," he said. The chief minister also said Naik told him that he will fight the case at a personal level. The cabinet post will remain vacant and there will be no fresh induction, he said. "I will handle all his portfolios," Sawant said. The state Assembly elections are due in February 2022. Chodankar has demanded that police initiate a probe into the allegation against Naik. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/will-probe-congresss-allegation-of-sexual-exploitation-against-goa-bjp-mla-milind-naik-sawant-1061354.html
16-12-2021||West||Take agriculture out of chemistry labs & link it with nature's laboratory: PM Modi||Urging farmers to turn to organic or natural farming, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said there is a need to take agriculture out of the chemical laboratory and connect it with the nature's lab. Modi, in his virtual address at the National Conclave on Natural Farming held at Anand, also expressed concern over the issue of stubble burning, saying the practice would actually harm the productivity of the agricultural land. He said time has now come to "correct the mistakes" that have become part of farming. "It is a fact that chemicals and fertilizers have played a crucial role in the green revolution. But it is also imperative to work on their alternatives. It is the right time to take big steps before the issues related to farming become severe. In Gujarati, it is said that prevention is always better than cure," the prime minister said in his virtual address. He stressed the need to find alternatives of chemical fertilizers and pesticides saying the high cost of import shoots up the cost of farming and in turn increases the prices of farm produce for the common man. Time has come to correct the mistakes that have now become part of farming, such as burning of farm residue and use of chemical fertilizers, he said, adding, "Experts say that burning farm residue would actually reduce the productivity of the land. As we know, bricks are made after heating the clay. Despite knowing that, it has become a tradition in our country to burn the stubble." Air pollution due to stubble burning, especially in northern parts of India, has become a major cause of concern as farmers burn several tons of crop waste from their paddy fields after harvesting. The prime minister added that there is another misconception among the farmers, which is higher yield is not possible without chemical fertilizers. "We need to take agriculture out of the chemical lab and connect it with the nature's lab. And natural farming is also science-based. Experts had opined that cows can play an important role in organic farming as their dung and urine can be used as both fertilizer as well as pesticide. This will reduce the cost of farming," Modi said, adding that natural farming would prove more beneficial to small and marginal farmers. During the address, he urged the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) and other such institutions as well as agricultural universities to adopt the concept of 'Lab to Land' and take their research on natural farming on the ground to help farmers. Modi appealed to all the state governments to take up natural farming as a people's movement and turn at least one village of each panchayat towards the organic methods of agriculture. "Farmers can start organic farming on a small scale on their land. You can start from a small piece of land first to check the results and then expand to the entire farm. I also urge entrepreneurs to invest in the processing of organic farm produce. Entire world's market is waiting for you," he said. Union Home and Cooperation Minister Amit Shah, Gujarat Chief Minister Bhupendra Patel and others were present at the conclave. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/take-agriculture-out-of-chemistry-labs-link-it-with-natures-laboratory-pm-modi-1061358.html
16-12-2021||West||In a big twist, Indrani Mukerjea says Sheena Bora alive||In a big twist into the sensational Sheena Bora murder case, her mother Indrani Mukerjea claimed that she is alive and in Kashmir. In a letter to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), Indrani said that a co-inmate at Byculla Jail claimed to have seen Sheena in Kashmir.  Indrani in the letter urged the CBI to find her daughter.  There was no independent confirmation from the CBI about the letter. Indrani’s lawyers could not be contacted.  Apart from Indrani, her first husband Sanjeev Khanna, her second husband and media tycoon Peter Mukerjea are also accused in the case. Peter, who has separated from Indrani, is currently on bail. Sheena was daughter of Indrani with her first live-in partner Kolkata-based Siddhartha Das.  Sheena was in a live-in relationship with her step-brother Rahul, the younger son of Peter with his first wife Shabnam Singh, who stays in Dehradun. Sheena was 24 at the time of her murder on April 24, 2012. Sheena's body was found in Pen taluka on May 23, 2012, as many as 29 days after her murder, but no ADR or FIR was filed and just an entry was made at the station diary of Pen police station. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/in-a-big-twist-indrani-mukerjea-says-sheena-bora-alive-1061360.html
16-12-2021||West||Poonawalla family pledges $66 million to Oxford University||The Pune-based Poonawalla-family -- the largest vaccine maker in the world -- has donated 50 million pounds ($66.2 million) for establishing a vaccine research centre at the University of Oxford. The donation will see physical creation of a new building -- The Poonawalla Vaccines Research Building -- on Old Road Campus, Oxford. The funding commitment came from Serum Life Sciences, according to a press statement issued by the University of Oxford.  Serum Life Sciences is wholly-owned by the Poonawalla family, owners of the Serum Institute of India, who have dedicated their life’s work to the development, manufacture and supply of affordable vaccines to low- and middle-income countries. The Poonawalla Group is spearheaded by Chairman Dr Cyrus Poonawalla while his son Adar Poonawalla is the CEO of Serum Institute of India while Natasha Poonawala is the Chair of Serum Life Sciences.  The Poonawalla Vaccines Research Building will be built on the same site as the recently announced Oxford University Pandemic Sciences Centre, on the University’s Old Road Campus.  The buildings will share infrastructure and support facilities for scientific research and academic teaching and together will form a unique hub that will significantly contribute to global pandemic preparedness and responsiveness. Sajid Javid, Secretary of State for Health and Social Care of the United Kingdom, in a tweet said: “Fantastic news that @SerumInstIndia has committed £50 million in funding to @UniofOxford to establish the Poonawalla Vaccines Research Building. The world-class @JennerInstitute team will use this new building for their critical vaccines research.” Responding to it, the SII, in a tweet said: “Thank you for those kind words, Secretary of State @sajidjavid. We look forward to building on our successful partnership and research on infectious diseases.” The building will be a new home for the world-class Jenner Institute team behind the Oxford University/AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine, and other leading Oxford teams such as those developing a malaria vaccine. The donation will be the University of Oxford’s largest-ever gift for vaccines research. The main focus of the research taking place in the Poonawalla Building will be vaccinology. This new facility will house over 300 research scientists and itself will provide the focus and scale for the University’s major vaccine development programmes allowing a rapid, productive and timely expansion of this fast-growing translational area. The donation reinforces and builds on the Serum Institute of India’s long-standing partnership with Oxford University. Importantly, the Poonawalla Building will house the headquarters and main laboratory space of the Jenner Institute, the world-leading academic vaccine institute named after Edward Jenner, the father of vaccination. The most recent Serum Institute-Jenner Institute collaboration saw the rapid development and global roll-out of the Oxford/AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine at scale. Further Serum Institute-Jenner Institute collaborations include an agreement for Serum Institute to manufacture and develop, with large scale supply, the Jenner Institute’s promising R21/Matrix-M malaria vaccine, currently in Phase III trials, prioritising countries with high malaria burdens. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/poonawalla-family-pledges-66-million-to-oxford-university-1061368.html
16-12-2021||West||Goa BJP MLA Alina Saldanha resigns||Goa BJP MLA Alina Saldanha resigned from the state Assembly as well as the party on Thursday, ahead of the Goa polls due next year, claiming the BJP was no longer the same organisation which she joined after her husband's death in 2012. Saldanha, 69, submitted her resignation at the Goa Assembly Speaker's office. Apart from Saldanha, four other legislators of different parties have resigned from the 40-member House in the recent past. Alina Saldanha's husband Mathany Saldanha, who had been a minister in the Manohar Parrikar-led cabinet, died in 2012, following which she contested the by-election on the BJP's ticket from Cortalim Assembly segment and won. She had also won the 2017 Assembly election on the BJP's ticket. “I have resigned for valid reasons...because the party that late Mathany Saldanha had joined, and after his demise I stepped into his shoes, is no longer the same party,” she told reporters in Panaji. She claimed the ruling party has forgotten all its principles and there is "bedlam" in the coastal state. “Nobody knows who is coming in or going out of the party," Alina Saldanha said. The former state environment minister said she took the decision to leave the BJP after attending a party meeting on Wednesday wherein "a sentence of a party stalwart made me realise that it is time I leave the party". Asked if she will join the Arvind Kejriwal-led Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Alina Saldanha said she has not taken any decision. “All parties are in touch with me. I have to think, I have to consult...no matter who tries to persuade me, I will weigh the pros and cons. I will consult with the people of my constituency,” she said. Prior to her, Luizinho Faleiro, Ravi Naik recently quit as Congress MLAs, Jayesh Salgaonkar resigned from the Goa Forward Party, while Rohan Khaunte quit as an independent legislator. In the 2017 state Assembly polls, the Congress had emerged as the single largest party by winning 17 seats. However, the BJP then quickly forged an alliance with some regional parties and independents to form government in the coastal state. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-bjp-mla-alina-saldanha-resigns-1061388.html
16-12-2021||West||Maharashtra govt to protect property & inheritance rights of Covid-19 widows||The Maharashtra government has expanded the scope of the district task force in the state to secure the rehabilitation and inheritance rights of women who lost their husbands due to Covid-19, by providing them proper guidance and legal assistance. Authorities will also check if such widows are facing domestic violence, State Women and Child Development Minister Yashomati Thakur said in a statement on Thursday. Since March last year, 16,627 women lost their husbands due to Covid-19. The district task force has a list of 16,516 out of them, according to the minister. Thakur said her department had received several complaints about such widows being denied their property and inheritance rights. "Hence, the scope of the district task force will be widened to authorise it to guide such women about their rights and financial matters, and provide legal aid," she said. Under the "Mission Vatsalya" scheme, launched by the Maharashtra government some months back, a team of assigned government officials need to visit the households affected by Covid-19 and check if these widows are denied their property and inheritance rights, and if they are facing domestic violence, Thakur said. The officials will submit a monthly report to the district task force headed by collector, who in-turn will monitor and review all such cases and ensure the women get justice, the minister said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-govt-to-protect-property-inheritance-rights-of-covid-19-widows-1061389.html
16-12-2021||West||BJP leader suspects Maharashtra minister of attending celebrity dinner after which Kareena tested positive||BJP leader Ashish Shelar on Thursday sought to know from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) whether a Maharashtra minister was also present at a dinner party held at Bollywood director-producer Karan Johar's house, after attending which actor Kareena Kapoor and a few other celebrities tested positive for coronavirus. Addressing mediapersons, Shelar said, "I want to know whether a Maharashtra minister was present at the dinner party organised at Karan Johar's residence here. There is discrepancy in the details of the attendees provided by the celebrities such as Seema Khan and Kareena Kapoor. Is it an attempt to hide some names?" "As per the information shared by Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) officials with me, Seema Khan did not reveal all the names of people who were present at the dinner at Johar's house. I think it was held on December 8. The names she omitted came to light when Kareena Kapoor was contacted by BMC officials for contact tracing. It raises suspicion about the exact number of people who attended that party," he said. The BMC officials have been quoted in media saying that only eight persons had attended the dinner, he added. "I wrote a letter to the BMC asking whether it has secured the CCTV footage of the Regency building where Johar resides. If not, why is it delaying it as it would reveal the number of guests present there. I am told by the BMC officials that no such footage has been obtained so far," the former minister added. Kareena Kapoor, Amrita Arora and Seema Khan, who had attended the party at Johar's residence, tested positive for Covid-19 earlier this week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bjp-leader-suspects-maharashtra-minister-of-attending-celebrity-dinner-after-which-kareena-tested-positive-1061394.html
16-12-2021||West||SC allows resumption of bullock cart race in Maharashtra||The Supreme Court on Thursday allowed bull races in Maharashtra on the basis of similar conditions and regulations as laid down in the amendments to the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act by Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. Taking up a plea by the Maharashtra government, a bench of Justice AM Khanwilkar noted that Tamil Nadu and Karnataka governments have passed amendments to the act to allow animal sports. The top court said the same dispensation must apply to the provisions of the Maharashtra government, which are similar to the amendments carried out in other states.  It said that the amendments have also been challenged in the apex court. However, the matter had been referred the matter to the Constitution Bench, without a stay on the amendments.  The bench said the validity of the Maharashtra amendment will also be decided by the same Constitution Bench. During the hearing, the bench said that it is essential to have uniformity and questioned why they shouldn't be allowed in Maharashtra if races are going on in other states. The Maharashtra government, represented by senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, challenged the 2018 Bombay High Court order which stayed the bullock cart races in the state.  The high court had passed the order in the backdrop of a top court judgment banning traditional animal sports like Jallikattu, terming it an offence under the PCA Act. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sc-allows-resumption-of-bullock-cart-race-in-maharashtra-1061399.html
16-12-2021||West||Former Goa minister Rohan Khaunte to join BJP on December 17||A day after resigning as an MLA, former Goa minister Rohan Khaunte on Thursday said he would join the ruling BJP. Khaunte, who quit as an independent MLA from the Porvorim Assembly constituency, said in a statement, "I have decided to join the BJP to ensure the continuity of Porvorim's development as well as to imbibe a culture of inclusiveness and togetherness. I will be joining BJP on Friday at Mahalaxmi temple in Panaji at 10 am." Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/former-goa-minister-rohan-khaunte-to-join-bjp-on-december-17-1061410.html
16-12-2021||West||Mumbai's Panje wetland brims with life again; villagers net huge fishes, crabs||In a successful conservation story, the Panje wetland in Uran in Raigad district across Mumbai harbour has come back to life with the resumption of free flow of tidal water.  The water started attracting migratory birds after a gap of close to two years and the fishing community too started having a good catch. “This signals the tremendous potential the wetland has,” said Nandakumar Pawar, head of Shri Ekvira Aai Pratishthan.  Crabs and fish are found in the saline water and most importantly, they breed in the adjoining mangroves, said Pawar, who hails from the fisherfolk community. He added, "The quality of fish caught here is so good that they fetch over Rs 400 a kg in the market, crabs sell at over Rs 1,800 a kg and lobsters Rs 700 a kg." “This wetland with its fantastic biodiversity can contribute to the socio-economic development of the fishing community-dominated four villages – Panje, Diongari, Funde and Bokadvira - surrounding the 289-hectare water body,” said B N Kumar, director of NatConnect Foundation. Studies by the Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS) have shown that over 50 species of birds numbering close to 2,00,000 land at the Panje wetland during the October-May season of avian flights via the Central Asian Flyway. Supporting the NatConnect idea of conserving the wetland as a Biodiversity Park of Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), BNHS director Bivash Pandav said, "Panje is best suited for these birds... we must conserve it at any cost." NatConnect has appealed to the State Government to implement its decision taken in December 2015 to maintain Panje (and NRI/TSC wetlands) as bird sanctuaries.  The Wildlife Board, presided over by then Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis had taken such a decision. Fadnavis himself had posted this on CM’s official Facebook page. BNHS correspondence with the Fadnavis government also showed that the decision to conserve Panje wetland has already been taken. The Shiv Sena, which leads the Maha Vikas Aghadi government now, was also part of the BJP-Sena alliance government. Any delay would only cause damage to the biodiversity property, Pawar said and pointed out that vested interests have managed to block tidal water entry and exit at Panje wetland to render it dry to suit plans to convert the place into a concrete jungle. It was at Pawar’s instance, the National Green Tribunal had ordered the clearing of the choke points at Panje, he said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbais-panje-wetland-brims-with-life-again-villagers-net-huge-fishes-crabs-1061452.html
16-12-2021||West||ASHA worker becomes 5th case of Omicron variant in Gujarat||A 43-year-old fully vaccinated Accredited Social Health Activist (ASHA) in Mehsana district of north Gujarat has tested positive for Omicron variant of Covid-19, the district authority reported on Thursday, taking the total case of the new strain of the virus to five in the state. Earlier, Jamnagar and Surat have reported three and one cases, respectively. Confirming the report, Mehsana district collector Udit Agrawal told DH that the ASHA worker, with mild symptoms, was tested positive for Omicron strain. He said that although the woman has no travel history, she came in close contact with her relative, who recently came from Zimbabwe. The whole street, where she lives, has been declared a containment zone. "The ASHA worker, who is fully vaccinated, has mild symptoms," Agrawal added.     Officials said that the ASHA worker and her mother-in-law were tested positive about six days ago. Their samples were sent to Gandhinagar-based Gujarat Biotechnology Research Center for genome sequencing. The results arrived on Wednesday night, confirming the presence of new strain in the ASHA worker. She is under treatment at Vadnagar medical college and hospital.  Chief District Medical Officer Vishnu Patel said, "We are tracing the source of her infection. She didn't travel anywhere in the recent past but did come in close contact with her relative, who landed here from Zimbabwe about two to three weeks ago. We have conducted Covid-19 tests on him thrice, all of which were negative." Patel added that 25 people are under constant watch while the genome sequencing report of her mother-in-law is awaited. Health officials in Gandhinagar said that "the condition of all five infected persons were somewhat similar. They had mild symptoms such as coughs or colds."  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/asha-worker-becomes-5th-case-of-omicron-variant-in-gujarat-1061499.html
16-12-2021||West||Param Bir Singh's co-accused in extortion case arrested in Mumbai||A man named an accused in an extortion case allegedly involving former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh and others was arrested here on Thursday afternoon, a police official said. The crime branch of Mumbai police, which is probing the extortion case registered at suburban Goregaon police station, arrested the accused, Vinay Singh, from a cafe, the official said. This was the fourth arrest in the case, in which Param Bir Singh, dismissed assistant police inspector Sachin Waze and one Riyaz Bhati are among the accused. Param Bir Singh, who has been suspended by the Maharashtra government over criminal cases against him, has court protection from arrest, whereas Bhati is absconding, he said. The offence was registered on a complaint of businessman Bimal Agrawal in which he had accused Waze of extortion at the behest of senior IPS officer Singh. According to the complaint, Waze, who is in jail in another criminal case, had extorted Rs 9 lakh and two high-end mobile phones from the businessman for not conducting raids on two restaurant-cum-bars run by him in Goregaon. Vinay Singh had filed an anticipatory bail application which was rejected and he was asked by the Supreme Court to surrender before the police, the official said. Crime branch officials had specific information about Vinay Singh visiting a cafe in suburban Kandivali and accordingly a team was sent to apprehend him, said Neelotpal, DCP (Detection-1). The accused did not surrender as directed by the apex court hence, the crime branch arrested him, he said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/param-bir-singhs-co-accused-in-extortion-case-arrested-in-mumbai-1061509.html
