17-12-2021||First Edit||A shameful comment||Whether former Karnataka Assembly Speaker K R Ramesh Kumar made the insensitive remark about rape in the Assembly on Thursday seriously or as a joke, it is an offence and should be treated as such. He was trying to empathise with the present Speaker, who was finding it difficult to control the situation in the House, by invoking the position of a woman who faced rape: When rape is inevitable, lie down and enjoy it, Kumar said. The choice of the rape situation for his wisecrack exposes him because there is no natural comparison between the situation of a woman in danger and that of the House Speaker. Why did he think of a woman facing rape rather than about a man giving up fight when he is attacked? It is a poor and stale men’s joke that rose from the male subconscious, a Freudian slip that speaks more about the speaker as a man than about the Speaker manning the House. What Ramesh Kumar said was not an innocent joke. A rape is not a matter for laughter but is an experience of pain and lifelong trauma for a victim. It should not be the stuff of jokes in a Legislative Assembly. Jokes always have an underpinning of assumed truth and the speaker’s conviction with them, and they convey ideas more effectively than grim statements of fact. When Ramesh Kumar told the Speaker to enjoy his situation, he made an assumption about how women react when faced with rape. Neither the joke nor the situation is for enjoyment, and those who enjoy the joke are at one remove enjoying the situation. That is the man’s callous and criminal view of an attack on women, trivialising the crime. It is devoid of sympathy for the victim and marked by a sense that such things happen and women do accept them. When such advice is passed off as humour and wisdom, the subliminal message degrades women and there is no defence for it. Such cannot be the counsel from a law-maker and the quality of conversation between a law-maker and the Speaker of the House.  Ramesh Kumar is a repeat offender because he has made a similar exceptionable statement about rape in the past also. But he is by no means an exception. There are many other leaders and legislators who have gone public with such comments. Samajwadi Party leader Mulayam Singh Yadav once said that “boys will be boys”, and defended that. That speaks of the patriarchal and retrograde views and values of our politicians. The Karnataka Assembly listened to Ramesh Kumar’s joke in silence and no-one thought of objecting to it. That is a shame. A day later, Ramesh Kumar apologised, and the Speaker decided to let the matter rest. But it is not just a matter for the boys’ club.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/a-shameful-comment-1061994.html
17-12-2021||In Perspective||Price stability: Time to Act, RBI||The RBI’s Monetary Policy Committee in its December meeting decided to maintain its policy rates – Repo at 4 per cent and reverse Repo at 3.35 per cent — as it sought to focus on economic growth. The primary goal of the MPC is price stability, with the target of 4 per cent annual inflation rate, with a plus or minus margin of 2 per cent.  Though the new Omicron variant of the coronavirus is of major concern, experts have comforting words that a more rapid coverage of the population with two doses of vaccine would reduce severity of any infection; and an additional booster shot for the elderly, the usual masking, social distancing and other precautions should be adequate. What is feared even more is the impact of faster normalisation of monetary policy in the advanced countries, with a rise in interest rates. In the US, supply disruption and shortage issues and rise in rents and wages have pushed inflation from 5.4 per cent in June to 6.8 per cent in November. In the Euro zone, Germany registered the highest inflation since 1997 at 6 per cent in November. In both US and Europe, the targeted rate of inflation is 2 per cent.  Any delay by the RBI to adjust to the new external conditions will spell disaster in terms of outflow of capital in response to widening interest rate differentials as well as loss of credibility in RBI’s approach to price stability as its primary objective. Macro-economic factors matter. The risk-loving foreign institutional and portfolio investment funds seek higher returns with predictable stability. They tend to move in and out at the click of a mouse. Depreciation of the rupee renders essential imports, including petroleum crude, more expensive.  The RBI wanted the economy to be prepared for the likely monetary tightening. By absorbing surplus liquidity through variable rate reverse repo auctions, the RBI plans to drain Rs 9 lakh crore out by end-2022, hoping that eventually the overnight rate will begin to rise and get close to the Repo rate, amounting to normalisation. The RBI’s decision was based on the assumption that consumer price index (CPI) and wholesale price index (WPI) inflation, which were due to high retail prices of petrol and diesel, would fall in November, following the cuts in central excise as well as in VAT by some states. Other assumptions were supply incentives and seasonal corrections in prices of winter vegetables and fruits would help.  November CPI and WPI inflation figures, released on December 13-14, just after the MPC met, were a shock. The CPI inflation was up at 4.91 per cent, rising from 4.52 per cent in October and 4.40 per cent in September, though still within permissible margin. On the other hand, WPI inflation was in double digits at 14.23 per cent. The MPC relied on three weeks-old inflation data of November 13. Will RBI discontinue the practice of holding the bi-monthly MPC meeting in the first week of the month and conduct it after the 15th of the month?  Inflation new ‘pandemic’  Tobias Adrian and Gita Gopinath of the IMF observed last week that in the context of supply-demand imbalances, continuing a monetary policy stance aimed at supporting recovery could fuel substantial and persistent inflationary pressures. Their advice is that in countries where economic recovery is underway with rising inflationary pressures, it would be necessary to accelerate the normalisation of monetary policy.  The US Federal Reserve is set to chart a path of higher interest rates. Its rate-setting committee will soon end its bond-buying programme to let interest rates rise from the near-zero level held since March 2020, causing jitters to capital markets.  Last week, the rupee ended at an 18-month low at Rs 75.78, as FII/FPIs turned net sellers of equities worth Rs 1,092 crore. This also added to the rupee’s weakness as the dollar strengthened on expectation that the US Fed might hike interest rate. The hawkishness of the US Fed and the continuing dovishness of RBI will contribute to further weakening of the rupee. Increases in telecom rates, a hike in GST rate on clothing and footwear are all ready to push the CPI inflation to around 6 per cent in December. Now, we have another bad news: It is the trade gap in November, $22.9 billion, the highest in two decades. Weak macroeconomic fundamentals erode confidence, leading to pulling out of capital, aggravating herd mentality. On Wednesday, the rupee weakened past Rs 76/$. On Thursday, the Bank of England became the first to raise interest rate. It raised its Bank Rate to 0.25 per cent from 0.1 per cent. Governor Bailey observed that though Omicron was already hurting the economy, BoE is compelled to “stop the recent jump in prices from becoming a longer-term problem”. The choice is between growth and price stability.  RBI has to restore credibility. Price stability is the primary goal. It is time to act now. A symbolic Repo rate increase by at least 10-15 bps? (The writer is a Honorary Adjunct Professor at Amrita School of Business, Bengaluru Campus)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/price-stability-time-to-act-rbi-1061995.html
17-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Ramesh Kumar's statement on rape 'unfortunate': Pramila Naidu||Karnataka State Commission for Women Chairperson Pramila Naidu expressed displeasure over the statement made by senior Congress MLA K R Ramesh Kumar that "when rape is inevitable, enjoy it". Speaking to reporters here on Friday, she said the statement is unfortunate. Speaking at the start of the Assembly session on Friday, Kumar said, “If my remarks have hurt women, (or) if their feelings are hurt, I regret my remarks.” Kumar said that he had "just referred to a proverb" and his goal was not to insult women or the Assembly or to speak lightly (about rape).  He said that the video of his comments in the House was aired out of context and "only a part was highlighted". The chairperson also welcomed the Union Cabinet decision to raise the legal age of marriage for women from 18 to 21 years. She said, the move would allow woman to take their own decisions. The decision was taken after a scientific study, she said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ramesh-kumars-statement-on-rape-unfortunate-pramila-naidu-1061768.html
17-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||42 students fall ill after having 'stale rice bath' for breakfast in Karnataka||As many as 42 students of Morarji Desai Residential School for Girls in Jagalur town fell sick after having breakfast on Friday. They complained of gastroenteritis and were admitted to the taluk general hospital. They are undergoing treatment in the hospital and all are said to be out of danger. Consumption of adulterated food is said to be the cause. The students alleged that rice bath was prepared for breakfast using stale rice. "So, we fell sick after having it," they added. Of the 100 students, 42 fell sick. Taluk General Hospital Chief Medical Officer Neeraj said, "Consumption of substandard food was the cause of illness. But, there is no threat to the lives of the students. All students are recovering." Backward Classes Welfare Department Officer Gangappa, Women & Child Development Department Deputy Director Vijay Kumar, and Minority Welfare Department Officer Amit Bidari visited the school and took the principal to the task. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/42-students-fall-ill-after-having-stale-rice-bath-for-breakfast-in-karnataka-1061967.html
17-12-2021||Karnataka Politics||Will not allow BJP govt to pass anti-conversion bill in Assembly: Congress leader Siddaramaiah||Senior Congress leader Siddaramaiah on Friday accused the ruling BJP in Karnataka of trying to divert the attention of the people from real issues by bringing in emotive ones like "Love Jihad, Anti Conversion" with an aim to implement its "hidden agenda". Expressing confidence about the Congress coming to power after the 2023 Assembly polls, the Leader of Opposition in the state assembly also said that his party will not allow the anti-conversion bill, which the government is planning to introduce during the ongoing winter session of the legislature, to be passed. "Hundred per cent we will come back (to power after 2023 assembly polls). During the MLC polls from local authorities constituencies we got about 44,000 out of total 94,000 votes, while BJP got about 37,000, JD(S) got some 10,000," Siddaramaiah said. Speaking to reporters here, he said that it indicates that people want Congress to come to power. Further alleging that to divert the attention of the people from real issues, the government was making attempts such as bringing an anti-conversion law, Siddaramaiah said, "is there a need for it? There is no need. If there is forced conversion, file a complaint against those involved and punish them. There is a law already." Pointing at Hosadurga BJP MLA Goolihatti Shekhar's claim that religious conversions by force or through inducement have become rampant and that his own mother is a victim of such act, he asked, "did he or his mother file a complaint?" Accusing the BJP of trying to implement its "hidden agenda" by raising emotive issues like "Love Jihad, Anti Conversion", Siddaramaiah in response to a question whether the Congress would scrap the law on coming to power, said, "we will first stop the law from being passed now....let's see (what is to be done on coming to power if it is passed now)." The proposed anti-conversion bill that is also being opposed by Christian community leaders is expected to come before the Cabinet on Monday and once cleared there it is likely to be introduced in the legislative assembly and council. The bill is expected to have penal provisions, and may also insist that the persons who wish to convert to another faith file an application before the Deputy Commissioner two months prior. Also, the person who wishes to convert is likely to lose the religion of his or her origin and facilities or benefits attached with it, including reservations; however, one is likely to receive the benefits entitled to, in the religion he or she converts to. Meanwhile defending the proposed anti-conversion bill, BJP national General Secretary and MLA C T Ravi said, religious conversion should not become the mode to garner votes, as he called on Congress leaders including Siddaramaiah to read history and try to know about Mahatma Gandhi's views on it. Claiming that Mahatma Gandhi too had opposed religious conversion, he said, "the Congress which claims that they follow Gandhi's and not Godse's Hindutva, let them read history and see what Gandhi had to say about conversion, Siddaramaiah please read history once." Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/will-not-allow-bjp-govt-to-pass-anti-conversion-bill-in-assembly-congress-leader-siddaramaiah-1061856.html
17-12-2021||Karnataka Politics||With likely introduction of anti-conversion bill, Congress issues Whip to MLAs||Amid reports that the BJP government in Karnataka is likely to introduce the contentious anti-conversion bill during the ongoing winter session of the state legislature, Opposition Congress on Friday issued a "Whip", asking its members to mandatorily take part in the assembly proceedings next week. The winter session of legislature that began here on December 13 is scheduled to go on till December 24. Stating that matters of utmost public importance are coming up for discussion next week, the Whip issued by the Opposition's Chief Whip in the assembly Ajay Dharam Singh has asked all the members to mandatorily participate in the proceedings from December 20-24, from the beginning till conclusion. The proposed anti-conversion bill that is also being opposed by Christian community leaders, according to official sources, is expected to come before the Cabinet on Monday and once cleared there, it is likely to be introduced in the legislative assembly and council. Also, the person who wishes to convert is likely to lose the religion of his or her origin and facilities or benefits attached with it, including reservations; however, one is likely to receive the benefits entitled to, in the religion he or she converts to. The Congress has also indicated that it will continue to demand for discussion on the alleged involvement of a minister and an MLC in a land-grabbing case, and press for the sacking of the minister. The government's reply to discussion regarding recent rains and floods, and the damage caused by it, is also likely next week. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/with-likely-introduction-of-anti-conversion-bill-congress-issues-whip-to-mlas-1061939.html
17-12-2021||National||1971 war: Congress, BJP spar over Indira omission||The BJP and the Congress indulged in a war of words on Thursday after the Modi government celebrated the ‘Vijay Diwas’ without recalling the role of the then prime minister Indira Gandhi in India’s victory against Pakistan in the 1971 war. The Congress slammed the BJP and called it “misogynist” for the omission, but the government argued that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had paid homage to soldiers, who had made the supreme sacrifice in the war, and it was not necessary to “talk about politicians” at all events. The war resulted in the defeat and surrender of the Pakistan Army in Dhaka on December 16, 1971, and the creation of Bangladesh as a new nation. Leading the nation in celebrating the 50th anniversary of India’s victory against Pakistan, Modi recalled the valour and sacrifice of liberation warriors and brave women of Bangladesh and the bravehearts of the armed forces of India in the war.  He, however, did not refer to Indira; neither did Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar. “Our first and only woman prime minister, Indira Gandhi is being left out of the misogynist BJP government’s Vijay Diwas celebrations. This, on the 50th anniversary of the day that she led India to victory and liberated Bangladesh,” tweeted Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, general secretary of the Congress.  Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi also attacked the government, saying the name of the woman, who had taken 32 bullets for the nation, had not been mentioned once during the celebrations.  The BJP replied by calling Rahul an “immature part-time politician”. “The Prime Minister talked about the martyred soldiers in the 1971 war. Is it necessary to talk about politicians at all events,” asked Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi. He also said that the Congress leaders were not aware of the history of India. When the Prime Minister had visited Dhaka on March 26 and 27 this year, he had referred to Indira Gandhi’s role as India’s PM in the liberation of Bangladesh in 1971. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/1971-war-congress-bjp-spar-over-indira-omission-1061686.html
17-12-2021||National||Pegasus: SC to hear Friday plea challenging Bengal probe||The Supreme Court is scheduled to hear on Friday a plea challenging the setting up of a commission of inquiry by the West Bengal government to probe into the Pegasus snooping allegations. The matter was mentioned on Thursday before a bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana by the lawyer appearing for the petitioner NGO who submitted that the commission was going ahead with the probe despite the fact that the top court has constituted an expert committee in the case. He said the state government had assured the top court that it would not proceed with the probe. The lawyer appearing for NGO Global Village Foundation Charitable Trust sought urgent hearing in the matter. The apex court on October 27 had appointed a three-member panel of cyber experts to probe the alleged use of Israeli spyware Pegasus for surveillance of certain people in India, saying every citizen needs protection against privacy violation and mere invocation of national security by the State does not render the court a mute spectator. Former Supreme Court judge Madan B Lokur and former chief justice of Calcutta High Court Jyotirmay Bhattacharya are the members of the commission of inquiry announced by the West Bengal government last month.  An international media consortium has reported that over 300 verified Indian mobile phone numbers were on the list of potential targets for surveillance using Pegasus spyware.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pegasus-sc-to-hear-friday-plea-challenging-bengal-probe-1061689.html
17-12-2021||National||Rakesh Tikait says bigger issue of MSP persists, questions govt's intention||The bigger issue of minimum support price (MSP) for crops is pending, farmer leader Rakesh Tikait said in Muzaffarnagar on Thursday, as he questioned the intention and policies of the central government. The national spokesperson of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) continued his attack on the Centre as he returned home after 383 days of protest at Ghazipur on Delhi's border. The three contentious farm laws were repealed amid continued protests by farmers at Delhi's borders and in some other parts of the country. The BKU is a part of the farmers' collective Samyukta Kisan Morcha which spearheaded the protests that had started at Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders in November 2020 and culminated last week. Addressing a crowd post-midnight at Soram village, the headquarters of the sarv-khap, in Muzaffarnagar, Tikait said, “The bigger issue of MSP persists in the country. It will be a great relief if the MSP is granted.” “There is no problem with the crops or farms. You (farmers) toil hard in farms to produce crops, there is no shortcoming on your part. If there is any shortcoming, that is on the part of the governments. The farmers and youth of the country have understood it now,” he said. “Gadbad agar hai to Dilli ki kalam hai (If there is a problem, it is with the policymakers in Delhi). There farmers are doing their part well,” the BKU leader said. Tikait, who returned to Muzaffarnagar late on Wednesday after 383 days, called on the youth to be “prepared for war” as the fight for “zameen and zameer” will continue. Separately, the BKU leader took to social media to announce support to the two-day nationwide strike by banking professionals over privatisation of banks. “I fully support the two-day strike by bankers. I also appeal to the countrymen to join this fight against the privatisation of banks,” he tweeted in Hindi. The BKU said it would be holding its monthly panchayat in Sisauli, the home village of the Tikait family and the union's headquarters, on Friday to discuss the post-protest issues in the presence of its president Naresh Tikait.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rakesh-tikait-says-bigger-issue-of-msp-persists-questions-govts-intention-1061691.html
17-12-2021||National||DH Toon | Time to borrow Bangladesh's 'liberating ideas'||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday paid tributes to the valour and sacrifices of Bangladeshi freedom fighters and Indian armed forces on the 50th anniversary of Vijay Diwas, which commemorates India's victory over Pakistan in the 1971 war.  Bangladesh, then part of Pakistan, became an independent country after the war.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-time-to-borrow-bangladeshs-liberating-ideas-1061711.html
17-12-2021||National||Modi government to revamp century-old telecom laws that bar digital dream||By Santosh Kumar and Shruti Srivastava India aims to overhaul its telecommunications sector, an industry key to the success of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s digital ambitions but one that’s throttled by century-old policies and years of bitter litigation. The government is exploring ways to allow companies to merge, expand and operate without multiple bureaucratic approvals so as to avoid subsequent court battles, Telecommunications Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw said in an interview at his office in New Delhi on Thursday. He aims to present new rules in February. “Telecom is still governed by an act made in 1885 but things have changed dramatically. And the regulations which flow out of the law are also 60-70 years vintage,” Vaishnaw said, referring to the colonial-era Indian Telegraph Act that gives the government exclusive jurisdiction on the sector. “We are looking at a complete regulation revamp.” The Wharton graduate, 51, who took charge of the influential ministries of Electronics, Information Technology and Communications in July, has since soothed a fractious relationship with the world’s largest technology companies, offered a rescue package for embattled mobile phone operators, and unveiled a plan to lure semiconductor manufacturers to the South Asian nation. India needs a thriving telecom industry to cater to its market of billion-plus users and catch up with countries like China and South Korea that already use super-fast 5G networks. However, its operators are hobbled by a brutal price war sparked by the entry of billionaire Mukesh Ambani’s Reliance Jio Infocomm Ltd. in 2016, as well as years of litigation faced by older players as the government claimed backfees for the use of spectrum. The government won’t set a floor rate for tariffs and will leave it to companies to decide based on their understanding of their customers, Vaishnaw said. He reiterated that India aims to start 5G services by October-December 2022. The moves stand to complement what is perhaps Vaishnaw’s most ambitious plan yet: starting the manufacture of semiconductors in India, to benefit from a global shortage of the chips and to reduce the nation’s reliance on expensive imports of the material used in everything from mobile phones to electric vehicles. Fine print on a Rs 76,000 crore package of incentives will be notified in a week and as many as five units will start manufacturing in a year, Vaishnaw said. He added that the government will ensure stable policies and facilitate acquiring land, electricity and other inputs. “Companies from South Korea, Taiwan and several domestic companies are interested in starting manufacturing here,” he said. “We expect import dependence to come down by at least 50% in the next five years.” Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-government-to-revamp-century-old-telecom-laws-that-bar-digital-dream-1061728.html
17-12-2021||National||India reports 7,447 new Covid-19 cases, 391 deaths||India logged 7,447 new coronavirus infections taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 3,47,26,049, while the active cases declined to 86,415, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. The death toll climbed to 4,76,869 with 391 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The daily rise  in new coronavirus infections has been recorded below 15,000 for the last 50 days now. The active cases comprise 0.25 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.38 per cent, the highest since March 2020,the ministry said. A decline of 830 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 0.59 per cent. It has been less than two per cent for the last 74 days. The weekly positivity rate was also recorded at 0.63  per cent. It has been below one per cent for the last 33 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,41,62,765, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.37 per cent.  The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive has exceeded  135.99 crore.  India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.  India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23.   The 391 new fatalities include 320 from Kerala and 19 from Maharashtra. Of the 320 deaths in Kerala, 36 were recorded over the last few days and 284 were designated as Covid-19 deaths after receiving appeals based on the new guidelines of the Centre and the directions of the Supreme Court, a Kerala state government release said on Thursday. A total of 4,76,869 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,41,317 from Maharashtra, 43,946 from Kerala, 38,279 from Karnataka, 36,656 from Tamil Nadu, 25,100 from Delhi, 22,915 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,645 from  West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation. Meanwhile, Karnataka, Delhi and Gujarat together on Thursday reported 10 fresh cases of the Omicron variant of coronavirus taking the countrywide tally of this strain to 83. The national capital with a total of 85 new Covid cases recorded its highest single-day rise in the last 137 days. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-7447-new-covid-19-cases-391-deaths-1061739.html
17-12-2021||National||Govt to move mediation Bill, RJD's Manoj Jha to move right to health Bill in Rajya Sabha||The Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) MP in Rajya Sabha Manoj Kumar Jha on Friday will move a 'Right to Health' as a private member Bill. "To move for leave to introduce a Bill to provide for health as a fundamental right to all citizens and to ensure equitable access and maintenance of a standard of physical and mental health conducive to living a life in dignity and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto. Also to introduce The Right to Health Bill, 2021," said the Rajya Sabha bulletin. The government has listed The Mediation Bill, 2021 which will be moved by Law Minister Kiren Rijiju. The Bill aims to "promote and facilitate mediation, especially institutional mediation, for resolution of disputes, commercial or otherwise, enforce mediated settlement agreements, provide for a body for registration of mediators, to encourage community mediation and to make online mediation as acceptable and cost effective process." The government and the opposition are at loggerheads in the House on the issue of suspension of 12 MPs. On Thursday, no House business could be conducted because of the opposition uproar on the issue. After two brief adjournments, the House was finally adjourned for the day. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-to-move-mediation-bill-rjds-manoj-jha-to-move-right-to-health-bill-in-rajya-sabha-1061742.html
17-12-2021||National||With eye on polls, PM Modi meets UP BJP MPs over breakfast||A meeting of Prime Minister Narendra Modi with the MPs of Uttar Pradesh is currently under way in Delhi. The PM had earlier held a meeting with the MPs of northeastern and southern states, ANI reported. A meeting of Prime Minister Narendra Modi with the MPs of Uttar Pradesh is underway at 7, LKM in Delhi. The PM had earlier held a meeting with the MPs of northeastern and southern states. The meeting comes just months ahead of the Assembly elections in the state. The PM had inaugurated the first phase of the Kashi Vishwanath Dham project earlier this week in Varanasi. Later today, Modi will inaugurate and address the All India Mayors’ Conference, which is being organised in Varanasi, via video conferencing. The saffron party is leaving no stones unturned to woo voters in UP. It plans to hold a series of 'yatras' across the state before January and cover each of the 403 Assembly constituencies.  Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/with-eye-on-polls-pm-modi-meets-up-bjp-mps-over-breakfast-1061746.html
17-12-2021||National||66 Indian-origin terrorists operating abroad with IS, which is also in India: US report||Sixty six Indian-origin terrorists were operating abroad with the global terrorist organisation Islamic State (IS) which is also present in India, according to the US State Department. The number was as of November and none of the foreign terrorist fighters were repatriated to India last year, said the annual Country Reports on Terrorism for 2020 issued by the department's Bureau of Counterterrorism on Thursday. Within India, "through the end of September, the NIA (National Investigation Agency) had investigated 34 terrorism cases it indicated were related to ISIS and arrested 160 persons", the report said. "Although ISIS lost its territory in Syria, new branches that surfaced in 2019 in Pakistan and India continued to operate," the report said, adding that "other IS-affiliated groups claimed responsibility for attacks in the Maldives and Bangladesh in 2020". Globally, the IS and Al-Qaeda have spread leading to a spike in terrorism, according to John Godfrey, the Acting Coordinator for Counterterrorism. "IS's so-called physical caliphate has crumbled, (but) it remains a determined and dangerous enemy," he told reporters. "A particular concern is IS's increased focus on branches and networks outside of Iraq and Syria," he said. The report's statistical information section shows that both the number of terrorist attacks and the overall number of fatalities resulting from those attacks increased by more than 10 per cent in 2020 compared with 2019, Secretary of State Antony Blinken said. "These figures reflect, in part, the spread of IS branches and networks and Al Qaeda affiliates, particularly in Africa," he said. Though the other major terrorist organisation, Al-Qaeda, has weakened, its regional affiliate, Al-Qaeda in the Indian Subcontinent (AQIS) "continued to operate from remote locations that have served as safe havens", the report said. The report noted Pakistan's links to terrorism: "Groups targeting India, including LeT and its affiliated front organisations, and JeM continued to operate from Pakistani territory. Pakistan did not take action against other known terrorists such as JeM founder and UN-designated terrorist Masood Azhar and 2008 Mumbai attack 'project manager' Sajid Mir, both of whom are believed to remain free in Pakistan". But it also said that Islamabad had at the same time taken "steps in 2020 to counter terror financing and restrain India-focused militant groups from conducting attacks". "Pakistan convicted Lashkar-e-Taiba founder Hafiz Saeed and four other senior LeT leaders in multiple terrorism financing cases," it said. Surveying India's counterterrorism efforts, it said India has made "significant efforts" in its campaign against major international terrorist groups like the LeT, the JeM, Hizbul Mujahideen, AQIS and Jamaat-ul-Mujahideen and the IS that have been active in the country. The NIA arrested 10 alleged Al Qaeda-affiliated operatives from Kerala and West Bengal on September 19 and 26 last year, according to the report. Overall, the report said that "the Indian government made significant efforts to detect, disrupt, and degrade the operations of terrorist organisations within its borders". Terrorists came over from Pakistan last year to attack Indian targets, the report said mentioning two incidents in which the LeT and its offshoot, the Resistance Front took responsibility. On terrorism emanating from India's eastern border, the report said that the Kolkata Police counterterrorism Special Task Force arrested Abdul Karim, the second-in-command of Jamaat-ul-Mujahideen Bangladesh, on May 29 last year on suspicion of involvement in a 2013 bombing in Bodh Gaya. The report also noted the ebb in terrorism by Khalistani and northeastern groups. It said that the many organisations involved in the Khalistan movement "have not engaged in significant recent activities within India's borders". "Although insurgent groups operate in India's northeastern states, levels of terrorist violence there are low and decreasing," the report added. But the biggest toll the report lists was taken by Maoists who killed 17 members of Chhattisgarh's District Reserve Guards and counterterrorism Special Task Force officials in an ambush in Sukma on March 21 last year. As an incident of cross-border terrorism, it mentioned the attack on May 2 last year for which LeT and its offshoot, the Resistance Front, took responsibility. Armed men infiltrated from the Pakistan-controlled part of Kashmir took civilian hostages in a village and two army officers and three police personnel were killed during the hostage rescue operation, it said. The Resistance Front also took responsibility for the killing of a Kashmiri politician, his father and his brother at their home, the report said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/66-indian-origin-terrorists-operating-abroad-with-is-which-is-also-in-india-us-report-1061751.html
17-12-2021||National||RSS-linked Bengali magazine says BJP, Mamata share dream of 'Congress-mukt Bharat'||An article in an RSS-linked Bengali magazine has stirred up a hornet's nest by claiming that both BJP and West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee share the dream of "Congress-mukt Bharat" (Congress-free India). While the BJP distanced itself from the article in 'Swastika' calling it "baseless" and far from the party's official stand, the Trinamool Congress also rubbished allegations of "understanding with the saffron camp" but the Congress said that the "cat is now out of the bag". The article titled 'Keno itihas muchte chaichen Mamata? Shilpo agroho na Sonia khotom?' (Why is Mamata keen on erasing history? To attract investment or to destroy Sonia?) was written by Nirmalya Mukhopadhyay and published in the December 13 issue of the magazine. It speaks about the TMC chairperson's recent meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi in New Delhi, and claimed that both share the dream of "Congress-free India". "It is clear from her changing stance that this is not the same Mamata Banerjee. Narendra Modi's dream is Congress-free India. I feel that Mamata now also believes in the same dream. That's why she is trying to erase the history to sell this dream," the author wrote. The writer also wondered what "political calculation" Banerjee has in her mind that she is bringing her "enemies and known rivals" close to her. Repeated calls to Tilak Ranjan Bera, editor of the magazine, went unanswered. RSS state general secretary Jishnu Basu said that he is yet to go through the article. "I am yet to read the article, so I cannot comment on it. But I don't know about any understanding as the truth is that 62 BJP workers have been killed in the post-poll violence in West Bengal," Basu told PTI. RSS sources said that the magazine is linked with the organisation as its editorial and managing committee has several people who have an RSS background. State BJP spokesperson Shamik Bhattacharya termed the article "baseless" and said it has nothing to do with the party's policy or stand. "It has nothing to do with the BJP’s policy or stand. Swastika might be an RSS-linked magazine, but many articles in it come out which are not in tandem with our policies and principles," he said. Senior TMC leader Kunal Ghosh dubbed the allegations of "understanding with the BJP" as baseless. "The allegations of understanding with the BJP are baseless. Mamata Banerjee is the strongest opposition face against the saffron camp," the TMC's state general secretary said. The opposition Congress, however, alleged that the "cat is out of the bag". "The secret is now out in the open. For a long time, we have been saying that BJP and the TMC have a covert understanding and have been working together to destroy Congress. But they won't succeed," Congress leader Pradip Bhattacharya said. The TMC, which is trying to make inroads in other states, has been up in the arms against the Congress over its alleged failure to counter the BJP. In an escalation in the war of words between the TMC and the Congress, Banerjee's party had last week claimed that it is now the "real Congress", given the fact that the "war-weary" grand old party has failed to perform its role as the main opposition to the BJP. Ties between the Congress and the TMC got further strained after the ruling party in West Bengal, in an article in its mouthpiece 'Jago Bangla', asserted that Banerjee, and not Rahul Gandhi, has emerged as the face of the opposition against Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rss-linked-bengali-magazine-says-bjp-mamata-share-dream-of-congress-mukt-bharat-1061754.html
17-12-2021||National||Inspired by the moral courage of Bangabandhu: Ram Nath Kovind||Visiting Indian President Ram Nath Kovind said here that as a youth, he was inspired by the "moral courage" of Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, Bangladesh's Father of the Nation, and his efforts to liberate the country from an oppressive regime 50 years ago. Bangladesh on Thursday celebrated its Golden Jubilee of Independence with a Victory Day parade in which President M. Abdul Hamid and his Indian counterpart Kovind were present along with Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina. Addressing the celebrations, the Indian President said: "Like millions of others, I was electrified by his (Bangabondhu) powerful voice, and the understanding that it carried the aspirations of 70 million people of Bangladesh at that time. Like millions of Indians of my generation, we were elated by the victory of Bangladesh over an oppressive regime and were deeply inspired by the faith and courage of the people of Bangladesh. "Fifty years ago, the vision of an independent Bangladesh inspired millions. But it seemed a remote and impossible dream then to naysayers, sceptics and detractors. The international context and realpolitik seemed to rule out the prospects of Liberation. Set against a brutal, determined, and well-armed foe who would stop at nothing, the odds were very much against Bangladesh. "But the inspiring statesmanship of Bangabandhu; his clear-sighted moral conviction and his unflinching determination to seek justice for the people of East Pakistan were truly the game-changers. As a result, the world learnt a valuable lesson: that the will of the majority of people cannot be subjugated by any force, however brutal." He added that although Bangabandhu and his family members were brutally killed, the anti-liberation forces failed to realise that bullets and violence cannot extinguish an idea that had captured the imagination of the millions of people Kovind further mentioned that the anti-liberation forces did not count on the determination and resilience of Sheikh Hasina, the incumbent Prime Minister who has faced assassination attempts and dictatorships with remarkable courage. "She has been driven by the strong conviction to realise the dream of Bangabandhu, and his spirit of the 'Bidrohi' (or rebel)." During the occasion, President Kovind paid tributes to the memory of the untold suffering of tens of millions of people of Bangladesh. "It is their sacrifice, and the righteousness of the cause of Bangladesh, that has transformed the region. As our nations develop and our friendship further deepens, let us continue to work together towards realizing the dreams of our peoples." President Kovind said history will always bear witness to the "unique foundation" of friendship between India and Bangladesh, forged in the people's war that liberated Bangladesh. "Veterans of that war, both from India and Bangladesh, some of whom are here in this audience, including the President of Bangladesh, are living testimony to the power of faith and friendship, which can move mountains. "Like Prime Minister Narendra Modi, I'm delighted that my first visit outside India since the outbreak of the Covid pandemic is to your country Bangladesh. I am also honoured to participate in the Mujib Borsho celebrations," he added. He also appreciates the commendable economic growth achieved by Bangladesh in the last decade, which has also created opportunities for its citizens to realise their full potential. "Your country's stellar economic performance complemented by geographical advantage can benefit the entire sub-region and the world." He added, there is a growing recognition among international experts about the fact that close sub-regional trade, economic cooperation and connectivity will help accelerate the process of achieving a "Sonar Bangla" in the shortest possible period of time. President Kovind said India has always attached the highest priority to its friendship with Bangladesh and they remain committed to doing all they can, to help realize the full potential of our friendship. "In recent years, we have seen a steady expansion of trade, economic cooperation, people-to-people ties, student exchanges, and extensive engagements across multiple areas of activity. These are guarantees of a sustainable, deep friendship, based on mutual respect, sovereign equality and our respective long-term interests. I am glad that our recent efforts have been inspired by this vision. If the first 50 years of the partnership began by surmounting extraordinary challenges that forged a deep friendship between our people, perhaps, he said, the time has come to raise the bar even higher. And to achieve that Kovind suggested, "businesses, academics and especially youth must be motivated to jointly create globally-pioneering initiatives in the world of ideas, creativity, commerce, and technology". He said their innovators should be urged to find new solutions, based on locally-appropriate technologies, to address their common development challenges. "We must urge our thinkers to leverage the power of our own unique success stories, to find 'best-in-class' ideas that are relevant in our regional context. Together we can create opportunities for seamless flow of ideas and innovation as we enter a new era of interconnectivity," said Kovind. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/inspired-by-the-moral-courage-of-bangabandhu-ram-nath-kovind-1061761.html
17-12-2021||National||10 new Omicron cases in Delhi, variant tally now at 20||Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Friday said 10 new cases of the new Covid variant Omicron have been detected in the national capital, taking the tally to 20. Ten of these patients have been discharged, he said. The minister said 10 out of the 40 samples sent for genome sequencing tested positive for the new variant. The minister had on Thursday said many international travellers are turning out Covid positive upon arrival at the Indira Gandhi International Airport. On Tuesday, he had said the Omicron variant of the coronavirus has not spread in the community so far and the situation is under control. Delhi's first case of the Omicron variant — a 37-year-old man from Ranchi — was detected on December 5. He was discharged on Monday. He had travelled from Tanzania to Doha and from there, to Delhi on a Qatar Airways flight on December 2. He stayed in Johannesburg in South Africa for a week and had mild symptoms. Meanwhile, 40 people are currently admitted to the special facility at the Lok Nayak Hospital meant for isolating and treating suspected Omicron cases, Medical Director Suresh Kumar said. Under new norms, RT-PCR tests are mandatory for the passengers arriving from the "at-risk" countries and they are allowed to leave the airport only after the results come. Also, two per cent of the passengers arriving on flights from other countries are being tested randomly. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/10-new-omicron-cases-in-delhi-variant-tally-now-at-20-1061766.html
17-12-2021||National||Bhutan confers its highest civilian award on PM Modi||Bhutan on Friday conferred its highest civilian award Ngadag Pel gi Khorlo on Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the occasion of the country’s National Day. Bhutan Prime Minister Lotay Tshering said on social media that he was overjoyed to hear “His Majesty pronounce Your Excellency Modiji’s Narendra Modi name for the highest civilian decoration, Ngadag Pel gi Khorlo”. “HM highlighted all the unconditional friendship and support Modiji extended over the years and particularly during pandemic." “Much deserving! Congratulations from the people of Bhutan. In all interactions, seen Your Excellency as a great, spiritual human being. Looking forward to celebrating the honour in person,” the Prime Minister's Office of Bhutan said in a statement on Facebook.  He wished his countrymen on the National Day of Bhutan.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bhutan-confers-its-highest-civilian-award-on-pm-modi-1061770.html
17-12-2021||National||Shirdi Temple readies to receive Amit Shah on Saturday||The Saibaba Temple at Shirdi in Ahmednagar is all set to receive Union Home Minister Amit Shah who arrives on a two-day visit to Maharashtra starting Saturday, officials said here on Friday. A trust official said Shah is likely to take 'darshan' of Saibaba Samadhi Temple prior to the pre-noon 'aarti' to ensure there is no disturbance to the regular devotees who throng here from all over the country daily. The trust is planning to felicitate the Union Home Minister -- who has been a frequent visitor to the temple in the past -- in Maharashtrian traditions with a shawl, coconut, Saibaba's 'vibhuti' (holy ash) and a miniature statue of the saint revered by all communities. Several other engagements are lined up for Shah in Mumbai, Pune and Ahmednagar during his trip. Besides the Shirdi Temple, Shah -- who is also the Union Cooperatives Minister -- will attend an event at the Padmashri Dr. Vithalrao Vikhe-Patil Cooperative Sugar Factory at Loni in Ahmednagar before attending the Institute of Company Secretaries of India (ICSI) awards function in Mumbai. On Sunday, December 19, Shah will go to Pune where he will inaugurate the new building of the Central Forensics Science Lab at its sprawling 30-acre complex in Chakan and later have lunch with NDRF personnel. Subsequently, he will attend the VAMNICOM convocation ceremony and lay the foundation stone for a large statue of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj coming up at the Pune Municipal Corporation lawns, and unveil a bust of Dr Babasaheb R Ambedkar there. Shah is also scheduled to meet the Bharatiya Janata Party Pune leaders and workers and then visit the home of the renowned historian and theatre personality Balwant Moreshwar alias Dr. Babasaheb Purandare who passed away on November 15 aged 100. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shirdi-temple-readies-to-receive-amit-shah-on-saturday-1061774.html
17-12-2021||National||Clearance of 38 lakh cheques worth Rs 37,000 cr affected by bank strike||The ongoing two-day nationwide bank strike against the privatisation of government banks has affected clearing of cheques worth about Rs 37,000 crore, said C H Venkatachalam, General Secretary of the All India Bank Employees' Association (AIBEA). "There are three cheque clearing centres in India -- Chennai, Delhi and Mumbai. In two days - Thursday and Friday - about 38 lakh cheques worth about Rs 37,000 crore were held up," Venkatachalam said. Giving a grid wise break up, Venkatachalam said in about 10 lakh cheques worth about Rs 10,600 crore in Chennai, about 18 lakh cheques worth about Rs 15,400 crore in Mumbai and some 11 lakh cheques worth Rs 11,000 crore in Delhi were not cleared. He said, in addition to public sector bank staff, employees and officers of old generation private banks like Federal Bank, Karnataka Bank, Karur Vysya Bank, CSB Bank, South Indian Bank, Dhanlaxmi Bank, Ratnakar Bank, J&K Bank and also Kotak Mahindra Bank were also on strike. Employees of foreign banks like Citi Bank, Standard Chartered Bank, Sonali Bank, Bank of America and others though very small in number are also on strike. A section of employees and officers of Regional Rural Banks are also on strike, he added. About one lakh bank branches remain closed and some others headed by senior officials were kept open as they did not participate in the strike. However, there were no transactions in those branches as other staff were on strike. Venkatachalam said cheques drawn and between private banks like ICICI Bank, HDFC Bank are getting cleared as they are not on strike. The strike was called by the United Forum of Bank Unions (UFBU), an umbrella body of several bank unions. Venkatachalam said the strike is against the Centre's move to privatise public sector banks (PSB) and to introduce the Banking Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021 in the current session of Parliament. The passage of the Bill will enable the government to reduce their equity capital in the PSBs to less than 51 per cent and allow private hands to take over them. The Centre had earlier said it would privatise two of its banks. Venkatachalam said that at the conciliation meeting held in Delhi on Wednesday, where representatives of the Indian Banks' Association (IBA) and the Finance Ministry were also present, the unions reiterated that they would defer the strike if the Central government assures them that it would defer the introduction of Banking Laws (Amendment) Bill 2021 in Parliament. According to him, the only issue being confronted with the PSBs was that of huge Non-Performing Assets (NPAs) in which the major share was that of big corporates. "Successive governments have taken initiatives such as Debt Recovery Tribunals, SARFAESI Act, IBC, etc, but they have not yielded the desired results and therefore ultimately banks were forced to write off those loans resulting into huge losses," he said. This shows that it is not the nationalisation of banks, which has failed but it is the wilful default of the corporate and big business houses, which have dragged the banks into this crisis, Venkatachalam added. "Even under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, while bad loans have been resolved and banks could get back some portion of the loan, it has been with huge haircuts for the banks," he said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/clearance-of-38-lakh-cheques-worth-rs-37000-cr-affected-by-bank-strike-1061775.html
17-12-2021||National||SC dismisses PIL against taxing of interest on accident compensation||The Supreme Court on Friday refused to entertain a petition seeking quashing of the provision mandating tax on interest earned on compensation received by a road accident victim. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and A S Bopanna dismissed the plea filed by an advocate saying he was not "personally aggrieved" in the matter. “The petitioner is not personally aggrieved by the award under Motor Accident Claims Tribunal. The challenge of this nature has to be brought forward by the person aggrieved. We see no reason to entertain the petition which has been styled as PIL,” the bench said. The apex court, however, made it clear it was not expressing any opinion on the issue of legal point raised in the petition. The top court was hearing a PIL filed by advocate Amit Sahni seeking that Central Board of Direct Taxes' (CBDT) June 26, 2019 order be set aside. It had held that the income tax levied upon the interest accrued upon compensation granted by the Motor Accident Claims Tribunal (MACT) is fair and reasonable. The CBDT had passed the order while dismissing his representation on the issue and had held that such interest falls in the category of income. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-dismisses-pil-against-taxing-of-interest-on-accident-compensation-1061787.html
17-12-2021||National||IAF chopper crash: Group Captain Varun Singh cremated with full military honours in Bhopal||The mortal remains of Group Captain Varun Singh, who succumbed to his injuries after surviving last week's helicopter crash in Tamil Nadu, were consigned to flames with full military and state honours in Bhopal on Friday. Wrapped in a tricolour, the mortal remains were brought to the cremation ground in Bairagarh area here from the Military Hospital here in a flower-bedecked Army truck with people raising slogans of 'Bharat mata ki jai' and 'Group Captain Varun Singh amar rahe'. As the mortal remains reached the cremation ground, a ceremonial guard of honour was given by the defence forces personnel, after which the senior services officers paid their tributes by laying floral wreaths on the coffin of the Group Captain. Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and Medical Education Minister Vishvas Sarang also paid their tributes to the decorated air warrior. After the rituals were performed by a priest and the family members, his younger brother, a Lieutenant Commander in the Indian Navy, and his son lit the funeral pyre amid the slogans of 'Group Captain Varun Singh amar rahe' raised by the people. Singh's wife and daughter, his father Colonel K P Singh (retd), mother Uma besides, other close relatives were also present there and bid a teary-eyed farewell to him. Group Captain Varun Singh died at a military hospital in Bengaluru on Wednesday after surviving December 8 helicopter crash in Tamil Nadu that killed Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) Gen Bipin Rawat, his wife and 11 armed forces personnel. The air warrior was conferred with the Shaurya Chakra, India's third highest peacetime gallantry award, in August this year for displaying exemplary composure and skill when his Tejas aircraft developed a technical snag during the sortie. The 39-year-old officer, who was known to be an excellent test pilot, is survived by an 11-year-old son, an eight-year-old daughter and his wife. His younger brother Tanuj Singh is posted as Lieutenant Commander in the Indian Navy. The Group Captain's family originally hails from Ghazipur in Uttar Pradesh. He was admitted to a hospital in Wellington in Tamil Nadu with severe burn injuries following the helicopter crash. A day later, he was shifted to the Command Hospital in Bengaluru, but after battling for life nearly a week he succumbed to his injuries on Wednesday. On Thursday, CM Chouhan had announced that the Madhya Pradesh government will give Rs one crore 'Samman Nidhi' to the kin of the officer. "The state government will give Rs one crore Samman Nidhi to the family of the martyred Group Captain Varun Singh and in consultation with them, install his statue, name an institution after him and also offer a job to his kin in the state government as per the laid down practices," he had told reporters. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iaf-chopper-crash-group-captain-varun-singh-cremated-with-full-military-honours-in-bhopal-1061789.html
17-12-2021||National||Explained | The roles and powers of CDS, the Chief of Defence Staff||General Bipin Rawat's sudden demise has left a gaping hole in the command structure of the Indian defence forces. As he was the Chief of Defence Staff, Rawat was responsible for managing the tri-services (Army, Navy, Air Force) and was the principal military advisor to the Defence Minister. The post of CDS was created in 2019 on the recommendations of a committee of defence experts headed by Lt General D B Shekatkar. While the search to identify the next CDS has begun, according to Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, the Centre has placed in an old system and appointed Indian Army Chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane as Chairman of the Chiefs of Staff Committee. Here are the roles and powers of the Chief of Defence Staff: The CDS heads the Department of Military Affairs within the Ministry of Defence and acts as its secretary. The mandate of the Department of Military Affairs includes, among other things, facilitation of restructuring of military commands for optimal utilisation of resources by bringing about jointness in operations, including through establishment of joint/theatre commands. The CDS is the permanent chairman of the existing Chiefs of Staff Committee and a member of the Defence Acquisition Council and the Defence Planning Committee. The CDS has a responsibility for coordination among the three services in equipment and arms procurement, training and staffing. The CDS acts the principal military advisor to the Defence Minister on all matters related to the tri-services and military advisor to the Nuclear Command Authority. The CDS assigns inter-services prioritisation to capital acquisition proposals based on the anticipated budget. The CDS is also charged with bringing about reforms in the functioning of the three services with the aim to augment combat capabilities of the Armed Forces by reducing wasteful expenditure. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/explained-the-roles-and-powers-of-cds-the-chief-of-defence-staff-1061791.html
17-12-2021||National||Rahul Gandhi attacks Modi govt over closing down of MSMEs||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday took a swipe at the government over the issue of shutting down of MSMEs during the Covid pandemic, saying it means "benefit" to friends and no employment opportunities in a weak economy. The government, he said, has admitted in Parliament that nine per cent Micro Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) have shut down during the pandemic. "I had asked some serious questions about the MSMEs from the government and in response to them they have admitted that nine per cent MSMEs have closed down during Covid times. "Meaning benefit to friends, weak economy and end to employment, Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. He also shared the written reply of the government in response to his question in the Lok Sabha on Thursday. "National Small Industries Corporation Limited has conducted an on-line survey in August 2020, covering around 5,774 MSMEs in 32 States/UTs to assess the impact of Covid-19 Pandemic on MSMEs.  It was found in the said survey that 91 per cent MSMEs were functional and nine per cent MSMEs had closed down due to the impact of Covid-19," the government said in its written response to Gandhi's question. It also said the Reserve Bank of India has informed that state-wise data on NPA in MSME sector is not available with them.  "The National Crime Records Bureau has informed that as per published reports, a total of 9,052 self-employed persons (Business) committed suicide in the year 2019 and a total of 11,716 self-employed persons (Business) committed suicide in the year 2020. The Bureau does not categorise the suicide data by MSME business owners and entrepreneurs separately," the Minister of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Narayan Rane said in his written reply to Gandhi's question.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rahul-gandhi-attacks-modi-govt-over-closing-down-of-msmes-1061800.html
17-12-2021||National||High command should step in to tame Tharoor: Kerala Congress leader||The infighting within the Congress party in Kerala has deepened after former State Congress chief Mullapally Ramachandran openly criticised Lok Sabha MP Shashi Tharoor on Friday and asked the party high command to take note of his statements. Ramachandran said that it was high time that the High Command stepped in and reined in Tharoor. "He is first and foremost a Congress MP and hence he has to follow the basic discipline that all Congressmen have to adhere to and for that the High Command should step in. It is of least importance on Tharoor's international acclaim and status as more important is the party and its policies," said Ramachandran. The state party leadership appeared to be unhappy after Tharoor while speaking at the inaugural ceremony of Lulu mall on Thursday, said he 'stands for development' and came in support of the Chief Minister. "When I say that certain people would find it awkward. But, I don't think we should refrain from congratulating people for the work they do," said Tharoor. Soon after making this statement, Tharoor came under fire from the party leaders. The state party leadership, besides several Congress MPs from the state, are also upset with Tharoor on his stand on K-Rail, when he did not sign a memorandum of all Congress MPs from Kerala asking the Union Railway Minister not to sanction the project. Earlier also, Tharoor took a diametrically opposite stand when the Left and the Congress-led UDF came together to strongly oppose handing over the Thiruvananthapuram international airport to Adani. Meanwhile, on Friday seeing the strong displeasure coming in from the Congress party Tharoor took to his Facebook and wrote, "Enjoyed discussing Kerala's development with CM Pinarayi Vijayan. On some issues, it is necessary to put political differences aside and get on with growth. The young people of our state deserve opportunities that the current economic situation does not offer them."  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/high-command-should-step-in-to-tame-tharoor-kerala-congress-leader-1061802.html
17-12-2021||National||No project will be carried out in Goa without people's consent if AAP forms govt: Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday assured the people of Goa that no project will be carried out without their consent if the AAP forms government in the coastal state. Goa is slated to go for assembly polls early next year. Kejriwal also welcomed Alina Saldanah, a MLA from Goa who resigned from the BJP on Thursday, into the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP). "I was left disillusioned with the BJP. It was no longer the party that belonged to late Manohar Parrikar ji. Now, I have come to the right party which is for the common man. I was opposed to some policies of the BJP that were not for the common man," she said in an online briefing. Alina Saldanha's husband Mathany Saldanha, who had been a minister in the Manohar Parrikar-led cabinet, died in 2012, following which she contested the by-election on a BJP ticket from the Cortalim assembly constituency and won. She had also won the 2017 assembly election as a BJP candidate. Alina Saldanha resigned from the state assembly as well as the party on Thursday, Kejriwal, while welcoming her to the party, said she has come to the right place. "I want to assure the people of Goa that no project will be carried out in the state without their consent. People have lost faith in the Congress in Goa while the BJP is itself is breaking up. The AAP is an honest party," he said.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-project-will-be-carried-out-in-goa-without-peoples-consent-if-aap-forms-govt-kejriwal-1061806.html
17-12-2021||National||India committed to assisting Bangladesh's march towards prosperity: President Kovind||India is committed to assisting Bangladesh in its efforts to achieve strong economic growth and greater prosperity, President Ram Nath Kovind said here on Friday, as he highlighted the "uniquely close" bilateral relationship based on age-old ties of kinship, shared language and culture. President Kovind made the comments while addressing the Indian community in Bangladesh before concluding his first visit to this country. He arrived in Bangladesh on Wednesday on a three-day state visit at the invitation of his counterpart M Abdul Hamid to attend the golden jubilee celebrations of Bangladesh's independence from Pakistan in the 1971 Liberation War. "Bangladesh has a special place in the hearts of Indians. Ours is a uniquely close relationship based on age-old ties of kinship, shared language and culture," he said, adding that the ties have been nurtured by the sagacious leadership of the two countries. Reiterating support for Bangladesh, Kovind said that India will stand in support of a Bangladesh that embodies the values that emerge from the Liberation Movement of this country. "India remains committed to assisting Bangladesh in its journey towards a strong economy, partnering with you as you proceed to greater prosperity," he said. He said that with Bangladesh becoming a model of growth and development in the region, the country has proven to the world that the fight of the people of Bangladesh was for a just cause. The President noted that Bangladesh has undergone a major socio-economic transformation since the Liberation War, especially under the leadership of Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina. In November, the UN General Assembly adopted a resolution on the graduation of Bangladesh, the Lao People’s Democratic Republic and Nepal from the least developed country category. "India has also witnessed commendable growth. The economic and social linkages that have been forged between the people of our two nations have also contributed to this shared story of growth and development," Kovind said. "I am glad that the leadership in both countries is cognizant that our growth trajectories are interlinked and that sharing of resources and experiences is the mantra for sustainable development," he said. President Kovind said that the two governments have also ensured that the fundamentals of the economies of the two countries remain strong and robust and they have also made strong commitments to make growth inclusive, sustainable and environment-friendly. He said that there is a huge potential in strengthening the cooperation further in the areas of green energy and clean technology. President Kovind also urged business communities on both sides to seize the opportunity to enhance trade and economic linkages to new heights especially between Bangladesh and India's North Eastern Region. Stressing on harnessing the potential of youth, he noted that the focus is being given on youth exchanges and capacity building initiatives between the two countries which will help in building skills needed to succeed in this globalised world. Addressing the Indian community, President Kovind lauded their contribution to various sectors of importance in Bangladesh. "While you have contributed to the economic and social development of Bangladesh, you have also cemented our long-standing, close bilateral relations. You are making India proud by bringing prosperity to our region," he said. Stressing on the safety, security, welfare, and well-being of Indian citizens across the world is a priority for the Indian government, President Kovind said that in every corner of the world, over the last one and a half years, the government made special efforts to enable Indian citizens to return home during the worst phase of the Covid-19 pandemic. He noted that the Indian High Commission in Dhaka was at the forefront of the ‘Vande Bharat Mission’ and other welfare activities for Indian citizens in distress. "As we celebrate ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’ in India, I urge our citizens here to come forward and contribute in their own way to the cause of nation-building," he said. President Kovind also paid tribute to the enormous sacrifices made by the people of Bangladesh to achieve freedom from tyranny. "We salute your indomitable courage in fighting against the formidable odds, and standing up against injustice," he said. He also paid homage to the "sacrifices of your friends from India and the Indian Armed Forces, who laid down their lives in support of a righteous cause." "I am confident that the bond forged by blood and sacrifice in 1971 will continue to bind our nations together in future," he said. The war in 1971 broke out after the sudden crackdown past midnight on March 25, 1971, in erstwhile East Pakistan by the Pakistani troops and ended on December 16. The same year Pakistan conceded defeat and unconditionally surrendered in Dhaka to the allied forces comprising freedom fighters and Indian soldiers. Officially three million people were killed during the nine-month-long war.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-committed-to-assisting-bangladeshs-march-towards-prosperity-president-kovind-1061817.html
17-12-2021||National||PMO holds interaction with CEC Sushil Chandra, ECs on electoral reforms; sources say no impropriety||Chief Election Commissioner Sushil Chandra and fellow Commissioners Rajiv Kumar and Anoop Chandra Pandey recently held an "informal interaction" with the Prime Minister's Office to bridge gaps in understanding of key electoral reforms between the poll panel and the Law Ministry, with EC sources insisting on Friday that the question of propriety does not arise in doing so. The commission had been pushing for reforms in electoral laws and related issues, and the virtual interaction in November was held to "bridge the gaps in understanding the points of views of the Law Ministry and the Election Commission (EC)", they said. The sources said amid a series of correspondence between the government and the poll panel on electoral reforms, the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) took the lead in organising the "informal interaction" with the three commissioners. Responding to a news report published on Friday that the Law Ministry had sent a letter to the EC saying that the principal secretary to the prime minister will chair a meeting on common electoral roll and "expects the CEC" to be present, the sources said the three commissioners did not attend that formal meeting. Responding to the news report, former chief election commissoner (CEC) S Y Quraishi said it was "absolutely shocking". When asked to explain his remarks, he said his words have summed up everything. The sources said senior EC officials attended the formal meeting, besides officials from the Law Ministry. The Legislative Department in the Law Ministry is the nodal agency for EC-related matters. The sources said the result of the informal interaction with the PMO resulted in the Union Cabinet on Wednesday clearing various electoral reforms that the EC had been insisting be brought in the ongoing Winter session of Parliament. One of the reforms is linking Aadhaar with electoral rolls on a voluntary basis. The other will allow eligible young people to register as voters on four dates every year. As of now there is one qualifying date -- January 1 of every year -- to register as a voter for those who have turned 18 or above on January 1. The sources pointed out that crucial electoral reforms have been pending for the last 25 years. The EC had been writing to the government for pushing reforms and the Law Ministry had been seeking clarifications. The informal interaction, the sources said, helped bridge the gaps in understanding on key issues. "Reforms have to be done like that," a senior EC functionary said. There is no impropriety in pushing for reforms, the sources asserted. They reminded that CECs have written letters to law ministers, including Ravi Shankar Prasad and incumbent Kiren Rijiju, seeking their help in implementing electoral reforms. Usually, law ministers and legislative secretaries have been meeting the commissioners on various issues at the Nirvachan Sadan. The commissioners never call on the ministers as part of protocol since the EC is an independent Constitutional body. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pmo-holds-interaction-with-cec-sushil-chandra-ecs-on-electoral-reforms-sources-say-no-impropriety-1061819.html
17-12-2021||National||Centre mulls changes in law to cut stake in PSBs||India’s government is considering changes that would make it easier to lower its stake in state-run banks, a key step in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s plan to unclog credit flow to the economy. The proposals -- if approved -- would allow the government to gradually lower its holding in state-run lenders to 26 per cent from 51 per cent without diluting its grip on management appointments, the people said, asking not to be identified as the deliberations are private. They would also simplify privatization of certain identified lenders and permit foreign investors to purchase bigger stakes in others without seeking parliament approval. With the proposed amendments, Modi is seeking to reduce state-run banks’ reliance on frequent injections of government capital while still maintaining their quasi-sovereign status that depositors favor. The move would dilute some of the policies India enacted in 1969 when the state swept in to nationalize its lenders, creating a swathe of banks that even today control two-thirds of the sector’s assets and the bulk of its bad debts. Key proposals: - Insert an enabling provision to speed up the process toward parliament approval for privatizations after details have been agreed with the Reserve Bank of India - Government stake reduced to minimum 26 per cent from 51 per cent; regulation wouldn’t move to the Companies Act that governs private sector lenders - Foreign stakeholdings can be allowed to breach the 20 per cent cap - Single shareholder’s voting rights will no longer be capped at 10 per cent - Early talks are still on and the details could change, the people said. The proposals would need to be studied and cleared by the cabinet before being placed before parliament, they added. A spokesperson for the Finance Ministry couldn’t be reached for comment. Bank privatisations can be fraught affairs in India, where unions still hold sway, albeit not as powerfully as they did decades ago. Thousand of employees belonging to state-run lenders continued their strike for a second day on Friday, protesting against the proposed privatisation of banks by the government. However, Modi is fresh off the success of the privatisation of Air India Ltd., the nation’s flag carrier, and is heading toward listing state insurer LIC, which is being compared with the Saudi Aramco IPO in its ambition, scope and scale. Modi’s government could be betting that investor appetite for state-run banks will improve once a recently set up bad bank buys the worst of the soured assets on lenders’ books. The sector’s bad-loan ratio is forecast to rise to 9.8 per cent by March 2022 from 7.48 per cent a year ago, hampering the disbursal of fresh loans to businesses. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-mulls-changes-in-law-to-cut-stake-in-psbs-1061823.html
17-12-2021||National||1.05 crore domestic air passengers in November; 17% higher than Oct: DGCA||Around 1.05 crore domestic passengers travelled by air in November, 17.03 per cent higher than the 89.85 lakh who travelled in October, the country's aviation regulator said on Friday. While IndiGo carried 57.06 lakh passengers in November, a 54.3 per cent share of the domestic market, SpiceJet flew 10.78 lakh passengers, accounting for a 10.3 per cent share of the market, according to the data shared by the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA). Air India, Go First (previously known as GoAir), Vistara, AirAsia India and Alliance Air carried 9.98 lakh, 11.56 lakh, 7.93 lakh, 6.23 lakh and 1.20 lakh passengers, respectively, in November, the data showed. The occupancy rate for SpiceJet was 86.7 per cent in November, the DGCA noted. The occupancy rates for IndiGo, Vistara, Go First, Air India and AirAsia India were 80.5 per cent, 77 per cent, 78.2 per cent, 82 per cent and 74.6 per cent, respectively, in November, it added. The aviation sector has been significantly impacted due to the travel restrictions imposed in India and other countries in view of the pandemic. India resumed domestic passenger flights on May 25 last year after a gap of two months due to coronavirus. The DGCA data mentioned that in November 2021, Vistara had the best on-time performance of 84.4 per cent at four metro airports -- Bengaluru, Delhi, Hyderabad and Mumbai. AirAsia India and IndiGo were at the second and third positions at these four airports in November with 82.4 per cent and 80.5 per cent on-time performance respectively, the DGCA said. During the last two years, all airlines in India have opted for cost-reducing measures such as pay cuts, leave without pay and layoffs in order to tide over the coronavirus-induced crisis.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/105-crore-domestic-air-passengers-in-november-17-higher-than-oct-dgca-1061827.html
17-12-2021||National||'Let him suffer': SC denies relief to journalist imprisoned for defamatory articles||The Supreme Court on Friday declined to grant any relief to an Editor of a Kannada weekly, awarded imprisonment for defamatory articles against a lawyer, saying one month jail was a liberal sentence against him. A bench of Chief Justice N V Ramana and Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli dismissed a petition filed by D S Vishwanatha Shetty against the Karnataka High Court's order, which had only partly allowed his plea and reduced his sentence from one year to one month simple imprisonment. "Let him suffer. What kind of journalism is this? We have to protect lawyers too. One month is very less," the bench told advocate Sanjay M Nuli, who, appearing for the petitioner, submitted that the High Court had not correctly appreciated facts of the case.  The plea also claimed the High Court's order infringed upon the 'freedom of press' and 'right to know', recognised as an intrinsic part of freedom of speech and expression as guaranteed under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution. The top court, however, noted the kind of language used by the petitioner and said one-month prison term was a lenient sentence. The petitioner was proprietor, publisher, editor and printer 'Tunga Varthe', a Kannada weekly newspaper with wide publication in and around Kopa, Sringeri, and NR Pura Taluk, Kamataka. He was sentenced to one year jail by a trial court under penal provision of defamation for publishing in 2008 a series of articles against advocate T N Rathnaraj and calling him a goon and MLA's spy for having prepared sale deeds pertaining to lands granted to SC/ST without the government's permission and by creating fake documents. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/let-him-suffer-sc-denies-relief-to-journalist-imprisoned-for-defamatory-articles-1061833.html
17-12-2021||National||CJI N V Ramana pays homage to three former HC judges, lawyers||Chief Justice of India (CJI) N V Ramana Friday paid homage to three former high court judges and eminent lawyers, Bhimrao N Naik, Nagendra Rai and Prabhat Chandra Agarwal, saying they made "rich contribution" to the profession and their demise caused a great loss for the entire legal community. Naik, born on January 23, 1940, was elevated to the Bombay High Court of Bombay on November 9, 1992 and later resigned to join back the legal practice. He died on September 16, 2019 aged 79. He is survived by his wife, Uma Naik, two sons and their families. Rai, born on January 31, 1944, was elevated as a permanent judge of the Patna High Court on July 10, 1990 and practiced law in the apex court after retirement in 2006. The former acting Chief Justice of Patna High Court died on January 25 last year and is survived by his daughter, Alka Ranjan, son-in-law Rajiv Ranjan and daughter-in-law Shefali Kumari and their families. Agarwa had joined the Judicial Service in 1964 and later became a high court judge of Madhya Pradesh in 2001 and after retirement, practiced as an Advocate in the Supreme Court. He breathed his last aged 77 on February 10, 2020 leaving behind his wife, Raj Agarwal, son Amitabh Agarwal, daughter Anuranjita Gupta and their families. “My Brother and Sister Judges join me in conveying our heartfelt condolences to the bereaved families of Shri Bhimrao Naik, Nagendra Rai and P.C. Agarwal. We pray to the almighty to give them the strength to bear this irreparable loss with fortitude,” the CJI said and referred to the contributions made by the former judges and lawyers to the legal field. Attorney General K K Venugopal and Supreme Court Bar Association President Vikas Singh also addressed the full court reference held in a hybrid mode here. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cji-n-v-ramana-pays-homage-to-three-former-hc-judges-lawyers-1061841.html
17-12-2021||National||Explained: What is the need for raising the marriage age of women?||The Union Cabinet on Thursday cleared a proposal to increase the legal marriage age for women from 18 to 21. Among other reasons, the move is being seen by some as a way to further curb child marriages and foster gender neutrality. It has been met with both plaudits and pessimism, with some activists claiming it does more harm than good. As the government is set to change the marriageable age for the first time in 43 years, here's a look at why it's being and done and why some experts are opposing it.  What do the current laws mandate? In 2006, the Prevention of Child Marriage Act was brought in to prescribe a minimum age of marriage, replacing the Child Marriage Restraint Act, 1929, also known as the Sharda Act. Section 5(iii) of the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955, stipulates 18 years as the minimum age for women and 21 for men.  The government is expected to first amend the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006, after which amendments to the Special Marriage Act and personal laws such as the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955, will be brought in. All of these legislations prescribe 18 as the minimum age of marriage. Who brought forward the proposal, and why was it necessitated? The proposal was recommended by a NITI Aayog-appointed task force formed in June 2020, headed by former Samta party chief Jaya Jaitley, to look at issues related to the age of motherhood, lowering maternal mortality rate, and increasing nutritional levels among women and children. The early age of marriage and resultant early pregnancies can impact the nutritional levels of mothers and their children and their overall health and wellbeing. It also affects Infant Mortality Rate (MR) and Maternal Mortality Rate (MMR), besides denying women access to education and livelihood. Jaitley said that the task force spoke to a lot of young people and organisations, and distributed a questionnaire in 16 universities among children spanning all religions. “Most of them said the age of marriage should be 22 or 23. We recommended 21,” she said. She said that there is a need for families to stop seeing the girl child as a burden. “Even though 18 is the present age limit, we are seeing that girls are married off at 16; there is a need to change the mentality that girls are a burden and they should be married off. Girls should have the opportunity for education and become self-sufficient through jobs. Only when there are opportunities for women and they have the support of the law, will there be changes in society,” said Jaitly. She stressed the need for a campaign to educate people. What does the data suggest? The most recent edition of the National Family Health Survey (NFHS) that the prevalence of child marriage came down slightly from 27 per cent in 2015-16 to 23 per cent in 2019-20, according to multiple reports. Why are some activists/experts against this amendment? Some argue that the decline in child marriages was not a result of the law penalising it as much as more women getting educated and employed. Flavia Agnes, a women's rights lawyer, told Al Jazeera that the move would be a "disaster." “It is going to be (a) disaster if they are going to hold all marriages before 21 as invalid,” she said. “Even now, so many girls are getting married even before 18. They are getting pregnant at the age of 13, 14 and 15. Now you are going to increase it to 21, it’s going to be a real disaster,” she added. A report by The Indian Express quoting critics suggested that if it is coercive, it would hurt members of marginalised communities like SCs and STs, where women tend to marry at an earlier age, making them law-breakers. (With DHNS inputs) Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/explained-what-is-the-need-for-raising-the-marriage-age-of-women-1061858.html
17-12-2021||National||SC asks HC to decide on FIR against Minister Anurag Thakur in Delhi riots case||The Supreme Court on Friday asked the Delhi High Court to decide expeditiously, preferably within three months, a plea for registration of FIR against Union minister Anurag Thakur, BJP MP Parvesh Verma and BJP leader Kapil Mishra, for allegedly making hateful comments, triggering 2020 Delhi riots. A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao and Justice B R Gavai,  however, declined to entertain a writ petition filed by Mohd Nazim and others, who claimed to be victims of Delhi riots. The petitioners, led by senior advocate Colin Gonsalves, contended that they were losing hope as the Delhi High Court was delaying the proceedings, despite the top court's order to decide the matter in a time-bound manner. They said that theirs was a "simple and straightforward" case for registration of FIRs based on video evidence of speeches already in the public domain, and the delay in deciding the cases was wholly unjustifiable.  The counsel said it was in March 2020, that the Supreme Court had asked the High Court to decide the matter as soon as possible. He pleaded, in the circumstances, the top court should take up the matter and decide. The bench, however, said, "We cannot do anything once the matter is sent back to HC. We can only request the High Court to hear this matter early and dispose of them." The top court asked the High Court to decide the matter expeditiously, preferably within a period of three months. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-asks-hc-to-decide-on-fir-against-minister-anurag-thakur-in-delhi-riots-case-1061859.html
17-12-2021||National||India-UK FTA negotiations likely to start next month: Goyal||Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal on Friday exuded confidence that negotiations for a free trade agreement between India and the UK would be launched next month and with Canada by March-April. He was speaking at the 94th Annual Convention of industry body Ficci here. Goyal said he will be in Mumbai on Saturday and engaging with exporters and the retail industry to examine the benefits of the free trade pact with the UAE. "Along with that we are looking at other engagements with the UAE, which will be announced shortly, but we are still working to see whether we can have something like a large India Martin Dubai where a huge number of stores can come up to display Indian products, a huge amount of warehousing can be picked up at affordable prices," he added. The minister said that such a mart will help Indian exporters to increase their presence all across Africa, the Middle East and other parts of the world. He said that India is in discussions with other countries and regions too for free trade pacts. "So, we are looking at new ideas along with the FTA with the UAE. We are also simultaneously in discussion with Australia...The UK, we launch possibly next month. Canada we may launch by about March or April," he said. Goyal, who also holds the textiles portfolio, said a "trillion-dollar opportunity" is waiting for the textiles industry, which is the largest job-creating sector in the country after farming. The proposed FTA between India and UK is expected to unlock extraordinary business opportunities and generate jobs. Goyal said most of the industries in the country are doing reasonably well, but still, there are few sectors that are under stress. He also said a USD 400 billion of merchandise exports in the current fiscal looks to be a reality. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-uk-fta-negotiations-likely-to-start-next-month-goyal-1061865.html
17-12-2021||National||India's Omicron cases cross 100, Centre asks people to stop non-essential travel||With the number of Omicron cases crossing 100-mark in India, top health officials on Friday appealed to people not to undertake “non-essential travel” and follow “Covid-appropriate behaviour” even during the upcoming assembly elections in five states in order to avoid a recurrence of the emergency situation now seen in a few European countries where Omicron cases are spiraling up. India currently has 109 cases of the Omicron variant of SARS-CoV-2 with Maharashtra topping the list with 40 such patients followed by Delhi (22), Rajasthan (17), Karnataka (8) and Telangana (8). Barring the lone example of a Bengaluru-based doctor, all Omicron-infected persons so far are either international travelers or people who came in contact with such passengers. The central officials have asked the state authorities to impose curbs in districts if the test positivity rate goes beyond 5 per cent. Also, a consultation process has begun with the Election Commission on the conduction of the assembly polls in five states including Uttar Pradesh – the country's most populous state. Punjab, Goa, Uttarakhand and Manipur are the other states where elections would be held. “This is the time to avoid non-essential travel and mass gatherings. Also, it is time to observe low-intensity festivals,” said Balram Bhargava, director general, Indian Council of Medical Research. Globally more than 27,000 Omicron cases have been found in 91 countries but the most concerning rise has been experienced by the UK and Denmark with nearly 12,000 and 9,000 plus cases, respectively. Norway too has close to 2,000 cases. “A new phase of the pandemic is being experienced in Europe. Such a spread should not happen here,” said NITI Ayog member V K Paul, the government's principal advisor on Covid-19. One of Omicron's worrying trend is its ability to spread very fast. Omicron is spreading faster than the Delta variant in South Africa where Delta circulation was low. But at the same time, it spread more quickly than Delta in places like the UK where the Delta circulation is high. Government officials and health experts are keeping their fingers crossed on the so-called mild nature of the Omicron. “We should not dismiss Omicron as mild. Even if Omicron does cause less severe disease, the number of cases could once again overwhelm health systems,” said Poonam Khetrapal Singh, Regional Director, WHO South-East Asia. The concerns on Omicron come at a time when the reproduction number (R value) is more than one in almost all the metros with Delhi, Mumbai and Pune leading the chart. “The large metros (with the exception of Bengaluru whose R has just gone below 1 it seems) all have R more than one and they have been showing such a situation for the past several weeks. Thus, urban India is definitely showing a rise in cases while the rest of India has not yet followed through,” said Sitabhra Sinha, a mathematician at the Institute of Mathematical Sciences, Chennai, who is successfully tracking the pandemic with his model. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-omicron-cases-cross-100-centre-asks-people-to-stop-non-essential-travel-1061871.html
17-12-2021||National||HAL bags ADE-DRDO order for ABHYAS target platform||Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) has secured an order for the manufacturing, assembly, integration, testing and supply of the High Speed Expendable Aerial Target (HEAT) system known as ABHYAS from Aeronautical Development Establishment, DRDO. Post successful completion of this initial order, HAL would be identified as Development-Production Partner (DcPP) for supply of this target system along with a private firm (50% of the volume). The platform is estimated to have large requirements from the tri-services, DRDO laboratories for evaluation trials of missile programmes. ABHYAS was first successfully flight-tested in May 2019 and subsequent evaluation trials are being conducted by ADE- DRDO. This order would mark the beginning of the series production of ABHYAS. ABHYAS is designed and developed by DRDO’s Aeronautical Development Establishment (ADE), Bengaluru. The air vehicle is launched using twin under-slung boosters which provide the initial acceleration to the vehicle. Powered by a gas turbine engine, the machine can sustain a long endurance flight at subsonic speed. The target aircraft is equipped with Micro Electro Mechanical System (MEMS) based Inertial Navigation System (INS) for navigation along with the Flight Control Computer (FCC) for guidance and control. The vehicle is programmed for fully autonomous flight. The check-out of the air vehicle is done using laptop-based Ground Control Station (GCS). Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hal-bags-ade-drdo-order-for-abhyas-target-platform-1061872.html
17-12-2021||National||Nothing wrong if a girl marries at 16, says Samajwadi Party MP S T Hasan||With the Centre planning to introduce a bill raising the minimum age at which women can marry from 18 to 21 years, Samajwadi Party MP ST Hasan on Friday opposed the change, adding that there is nothing wrong in a girl getting married even at the age of 16. "Girls should be married when they attain age of fertility. There is nothing wrong if a mature girl is married at 16", Hasan was quoted as saying by ANI. "If a girl can vote at the age of 18, why can't she marry?" he asked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nothing-wrong-if-a-girl-marries-at-16-says-samajwadi-party-mp-s-t-hasan-1061877.html
17-12-2021||National||Amarinder Singh announces alliance with BJP for Punjab polls||The BJP Friday formally announced that it will contest the upcoming assembly elections in Punjab in alliance with Amarinder Singh's Punjab Lok Congress. Singh on Friday called on the BJP's Punjab incharge and Union minister Gajendra Shekhawat at his residence here. After the meeting, they officially announced the alliance between the two parties. "Today, I want to make it clear that the BJP and Amarinder Singh will contest assembly elections in Punjab together and we are working together," Shekhawat told the media, Singh by his side. Shekhawat said the details of seat-sharing will be announced at an "appropriate time". Singh said, "The alliance will definitely, 101 per cent win the elections. And winnability will be the main criterion in finalising seats." Singh formed his own party Punjab Lok Congress days after he resigned as the chief minister and quit the Congress. Earlier, the BJP had also broken its alliance with longstanding partner Shiromani Akali Dal over the issue of farm sector laws. Shekhawat had met Singh in Chandigarh earlier this month. Assembly elections in Punjab are expected to be held early next year.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amarinder-singh-announces-alliance-with-bjp-for-punjab-polls-1061885.html
17-12-2021||National||CBI chargesheets former CMD, 2 officials of Corporation bank in fraud case||The CBI on Friday said it has filed a supplementary chargesheet against a former chairman/managing director and two others of the Corporation Bank in connection with a bank fraud, officials said on Friday. The chargesheet was filed in a Mumbai Court. The case in which Ramnath Pradeep, the former CMD, Corporation Bank, SN Murthy Shankar, the former Chief Manager, and AP Shiva Kumar, the former senior manager of the Bank have been chargesheeted, was registered in 2017. According to the officials, the Corporation Bank had lodged the case against it's officials and a Mumbai based private firm. The private firm was incorporated in 1994 was engaged in manufacturing of Aluminium Foil Containers. They allegedly took credit of Rs 60 crore from e-Corporation Bank (now UBI). The firm which took the loan for doing business allegedly diverted the fund. . After diverting the fund, the firm invested it into real estate. Thus they caused a huge loss to the bank in the name of loan. The complaint filed by the bank had mentioned about the involvement of it's high rank officials. The Bank officials allowed disbursement of Rs 59 crore without confirming the drawing power with the lead bank. As per he officials, the accused bank officials also extended the time limit to the private firm for seeking NOC from the lead bank inducting Corporation Bank in consortium. They subsequently dispensed with the condition of seeking NOC from the lead bank of the consortium. The former CMD of the bank sanctioned working capital limit of Rs 60 crore to the firm on the pretext of refusal by three of the existing banks of consortium to share the enhanced limits. It was alleged that the accused did not ensure seeking confirmation from three banks about the reasons for refusal to take their share in enhancement of limits and sanctioned their share without ascertaining the factual position of financial closure and tie-up status. Sanction of said CC limit was in contravention of the lending policy of the bank. The accused bank officials also waived the condition of obtaining NOC from Lead Bank which caused the bank financial loss. As per the officials, the accused associated in the appraisal of the sanction proposal of private firm knowing fully that the applicant of the loan was neither a director nor an authorized signatory of borrower company. They associated in preparing the memorandums for modifications of the sanction terms with regard to the private firm and did not verify the actual position of the working capital requirement of company from the lead bank, the sources said. It was also alleged that the accused did not comply with the modified sanction terms and allegedly disbursed the loan without informing the Lead Bank about the sanction. In December 2020, the CBI had filed it's first chargesheet in the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbi-chargesheets-former-cmd-2-officials-of-corporation-bank-in-fraud-case-1061886.html
17-12-2021||National||French Defence Minister Florence Parly reviews military ties in India||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and his French counterpart Florence Parly reviewed their existing military-to-military cooperation, which has increased in spite of pandemic challenges, on Friday. The discussions were held during third annual Defence Dialogue in New Delhi wherein a wide range of bilateral, regional, defence, and defence industrial cooperation issues were taken up, including the situation in Afghanistan after the Taliban takeover and India's border issues with China and Pakistan. The two ministers also discussed ways to increase defence cooperation in all domains. India and France had recently concluded their annual bilateral army exercise, Shakti, with focus on counter-terrorist operations, in France in November 2021. About her visit to Delhi, the French Minister said: "I am delighted to be here. The friendship between France and India is very precious. The trust we have in each other has developed in recent years to such an extent that distance between the Ganga and the Seine seems to be lessened." She also said that France truly understands the necessity of Indian content. "We are fully committed to the 'Make in India' initiative. 'Make in India' has been a reality for the French industry, particularly for defence equipment like submarines," Parly said. She also said that France is ready to supply more Rafale jet fighters if India wants. "We're ready to answer any additional needs or requests that could be made by India. We know that an aircraft carrier will soon be delivered. Aircraft are needed. So we're open and ready to provide any more Rafales if this is India's decision," she said. Defence industrial cooperation was discussed with focus on future collaborations and co-production between the two countries. The ministers acknowledged their convergences on a number of strategic and defence issues. They expressed commitment to work together to enhance cooperation in bilateral, regional and multilateral forums. France is the current chair of Indian Ocean Naval Symposium and shall take over the Presidency of the European Union from January 1, 2022. The two Ministers decided to work closely on a number of issues during the French Presidency. Earlier, Parly called on Prime Minister Narendra Modi. She is expected to meet other Indian dignitaries during her visit also. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/french-defence-minister-florence-parly-reviews-military-ties-in-india-1061891.html
17-12-2021||National||New CDS appointment: List of probables to be submitted to Rajnath soon||The government has started the process to appoint the next Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) and a list of names based on recommendations from the three services will soon be submitted to Defence Minister Rajnath Singh for approval, officials said on Friday. They said that the government is finalising a panel comprising senior commanders from the Army, the Navy and the Air Force to choose the successor of Gen Bipin Rawat, who died in a helicopter crash near Coonoor last week. The list is being finalised based on recommendations from the three services and it will soon be submitted to Singh for approval, two people familiar with the development said. Following the approval by the defence minister, the names will be sent for consideration by the Appointments Committee of the Cabinet for taking the final decision to appoint a new CDS, they said. It is learned that there is a strong possibility of appointing Army Chief Gen MM Naravane to the top post considering his overall experience. The Army Chief was due to retire in April. Gen Naravane is the senior-most among the three service chiefs. IAF chief Air Chief Marshal VR Chaudhari and Navy Chief Admiral R Hari Kumar had taken over their respective positions on September 30 and November 30. If Gen Naravane is appointed as the CDS, then the government will also have to look for his replacement. Vice Chief of Army Lt Gen CP Mohanty and Northern Army Commander Lt Gen YK Joshi will be the front-runner for the Army Chief's post. Lt Gen Mohanty and Lt Gen Joshi are from the same batch and are the senior-most commanders after Gen Naravane. Both of them are due to retire on January 31. Gen Rawat, his wife Madhulika and 11 armed forces personnel were killed in the helicopter crash on December 8. The lone survivor of the crash, Group Captain Varun Singh died on Wednesday. On January 1 last year, Gen Rawat took charge as India's first CDS with a mandate to bring in convergence in the functioning of the Army, the Navy and the Indian Air Force and bolster the country's overall military prowess. Another key mandate of the CDS was to facilitate the restructuring of military commands for optimal utilization of resources by bringing about jointness in operations, including through the establishment of theatre commands. A high-level committee set up to examine the gaps in India's security system in the wake of the Kargil war in 1999 had recommended the appointment of the CDS as a single-point military adviser to the defence minister. In the last two years, Gen Rawat carried out the extensive groundwork to roll out tri-services reforms. The CDS is also the Secretary of the Department of Military Affairs (DMA) in the defence ministry and the Principal Advisor to the defence minister.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-cds-appointment-list-of-probables-to-be-submitted-to-rajnath-soon-1061893.html
17-12-2021||National||Rajnath Singh, French counterpart Parly discuss defence co-production amid nuclear-powered submarine talks||Even as India is exploring the possibility of clinching a deal with France for a nuclear-powered submarine along with transfer of technology, the two nations held the annual defence dialogue in New Delhi on Friday and discussed future collaborations on and co-production of military hardware. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh hosted French Minister for Armed Forces, Florence Parly, in New Delhi for the third India-France Annual Defence Dialogue. They discussed defence industrial cooperation with focus on future collaborations and co-production between the two countries, according to a press release issued by the Government of India. Parly also had a meeting with National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and called on Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The details of the future collaboration and co-production projects discussed during the annual defence dialogue were not made public. A source, however, pointed out that the Singh-Parley meeting had been held even as New Delhi had already started exploring the possibility of clinching a deal with Paris for a French Barracuda-class nuclear-powered submarine with transfer of technology to India. Parly also discussed with Singh the possibility of French shipbuilder Naval Group’s participation in Project 75I for manufacturing six conventional diesel-electric submarines in India, according to another source in New Delhi. The Naval Group of France in fact might be excluded from the project as India insisted that the Project 75I submarines should have Air Independent Propulsion systems tested and proven on an operational vessel. Singh and Parly on Friday discussed a wide range of bilateral, regional, defence and defence industrial cooperation issues. They reviewed the existing military-to-military cooperation, which increased in spite of challenges posed by the Covid-19, according to a press release issued by the Ministry of Defence. “They discussed ways to increase defence cooperation in all domains.” New Delhi's Rs 59,000 crore government-to-government deal with Paris to procure 36 Rafale fighter jets “off the shelf” had turned into a major political controversy in India, with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government being accused by the opposition Congress of nudging the Dassault Aviation to choose Reliance Defence as its offset partner, brushing aside state-owned Hindustan Aeronautics Limited. India already received 33 Rafale fighter jets from France. Parly on Friday said that France would be ready to meet any additional requirement of India for Rafale fighter aircraft. She also said that both France and India wanted to preserve the Indo-Pacific as an open and inclusive area. “It must be free from any coercion and based on compliance to international law,” she said. France was irked by the US move earlier this year to join Australia and the UK to launch a trilateral security coalition – AUKUS – for development of joint military capabilities and sharing of defence technologies to counter the military aggression of China in the Indo-Pacific region. The AUKUS is intended to create a framework for the US and UK to support Australia in acquiring a fleet of nuclear-powered submarines. The launch of the AUKUS triggered a sharp reaction from Paris, as it scuttled a $ 37 billion deal inked in 2016 for France to provide Australia with 12 conventional submarines. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajnath-singh-french-counterpart-parly-discuss-defence-co-production-amid-nuclear-powered-submarine-talks-1061897.html
17-12-2021||National||Avoid non-essential travel, urges government as Omicron spreads to more regions||It said that though daily Covid-19 cases are below 10,000 for the past 20 days, there is a need to stay vigilant in view of the new variant and rising cases in other countries. With the coronavirus' Omicron variant spreading very fast across Europe and other parts of the world, people need to avoid non-essential travel. They must also avoid mass gatherings, and new year celebrations need to be at low intensity, the government said. Giving details of Omicron cases in India, it said Maharashtra has reported 32 cases of the variant, Delhi (22), Rajasthan (17), Karnataka (8), Telangana (8), Gujarat (5), Kerala (5), Andhra Pradesh (1), Chandigarh (1), Tamil Nadu (1) and West Bengal (1), the government said. Citing the World Health Organization (WHO), it also said that the Omicron variant is spreading faster than the Delta variant of the coronavirus in South Africa, where Delta circulation was low. It is likely that Omicron spread will outpace Delta variant where community transmission occurs, the government said citing the WHO. On the Covid-19 situation in the country, it said 19 districts are reporting weekly positivity between 5 and 10 per cent and five districts over 10 per cent. Districts with over 5 per cent Covid case positivity rate need to ensure restrictive measures until it is below 5 per cent for at least two weeks, the government said. It assured that sufficient systematic and strategic sampling is being undertaken for genome sequencing for detection of Omicron cases in India. On Covid-19 vaccination, the government said that India has so far administered 82.8 crore first doses and 53.72 crore second doses. More than 136 crore doses have been administered in the country which is 2.8 times the total doses administered in the US, it said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/avoid-non-essential-travel-urges-government-as-omicron-spreads-to-more-regions-1061902.html
17-12-2021||National||Rs 44 crore spent to assist Indian citizens abroad in view of Covid-19: Muraleedharan||The government on Friday said it spent Rs 44 crore in assisting Indian citizens abroad in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. Replying to a question in Lok Sabha, Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan said the amount has been spent from the Indian Community Welfare Fund (ICWF). "Since the spread of Covid-19 pandemic till October, the government of India has spent approximately Rs 44 crores from the Indian Community Welfare Fund," he said in his written reply. Muraleedharan was answering a question on whether the government has assisted Indians in distress abroad using the ICWF in view of the pandemic. To a separate question, Muraleedharan said an estimated 1.35 crore Indian nationals were residing in various countries, including 88 lakh in the Gulf region. In response to another question on whether there was a delay in securing the approval from the World Health Organization (WHO) for the Covaxin vaccine, the minister said it is based on a technical process. "The grant of Emergency Use Listing (EUL) by the WHO is a technical process which is undertaken by independent experts appointed by the WHO," he said. Muraleedharan said the process involves submission of necessary data by the concerned vaccine manufacturing company and its analysis and evaluation by the WHO experts. "Bharat Biotech International Limited applied for the WHO's EUL for Covaxin in July 2021. Covaxin was granted EUL by the WHO on November 3 after the WHO's expert body so recommended," he said. Muraleedharan also said that there is no multilaterally agreed upon the requirement of vaccination for travel purposes. "International travel can also be undertaken with negative RT-PCR and quarantine related health protocols to a large number of countries. " Further, different countries have different requirements for travel, including nature of passports, type of visas, the purpose of travel, duration of stay etc," he said. The minister said these are sovereign decisions of foreign countries. "Travels including by VIPs are in accordance with the prescribed protocols of the countries concerned," he added. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rs-44-crore-spent-to-assist-indian-citizens-abroad-in-view-of-covid-19-muraleedharan-1061907.html
17-12-2021||National||Modi thanks Bhutan for highest civilian honour, says India will support it in every possible way||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday thanked Bhutan's king for according the country's highest civilian decoration on him, and said India will always cherish the country as one of its closest friends and neighbours and will continue to support its development journey in every possible way. Modi also conveyed his greetings to the neighbouring country on the occasion of its national day. The prime minister tweeted that he admires Bhutan for its unique model of sustainable development and the deeply spiritual way of life. "Successive Druk Gyalpos - Their Majesties the Kings - have given a unique identity to the Kingdom, and nurtured the special bond of neigbhourly friendship that our nations share," he said. Bhutan Prime Minister Lotay Tshering said on social media that he was overjoyed to hear "His Majesty pronounce Your Excellency Modiji's (Narendra Modi) name for the highest civilian decoration, Order of the Druk Gyalpo". Replying to him, Modi said, "Thank you, Lyonchhen @PMBhutan! I am deeply touched by this warm gesture, and express my grateful thanks to His Majesty the King of Bhutan." "I have been privileged to receive the utmost love and affection from our Bhutanese brother and sisters, and take this occasion to convey my greetings to all of them on the auspicious occasion of the National Day of Bhutan," he added. The highest civilian honour from Bhutan joins a long list of awards Modi has received from foreign countries. Last year, Prime Minister Modi received the 'Legion of Merit by the US Government' award of the US Armed Forces that is given for exceptionally meritorious conduct in the performance of outstanding services and achievements. In 2019, Russia conferred on him its highest civilian honour 'Order of St. Andrew' award. The UAE also conferred its highest civilian honour 'Order of Zayed Award' on Modi in 2019. He had received the 'Order of Abdulaziz Al Saud', highest honour of Saudi Arabia awarded to non-muslim dignitaries, in 2016 and 'State Order of Ghazi Amir Amanullah Khan', highest civilian honour of Afghanistan, in the same year. He was conferred 'Grand Collar of the State of Palestine Award', highest honour of Palestine awarded to foreign dignitaries, in 2018 and 'Order of the Distinguished Rule of Nishan Izzuddin', highest honour of the Maldives for foreign dignitaries, in 2019, officials noted. Modi received 'King Hamad Order of the Renaissance', the top honour from Bahrain, in 2019. He has also been conferred numerous honours from international organisations and foundations. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-thanks-bhutan-for-highest-civilian-honour-says-india-will-support-it-in-every-possible-way-1061909.html
17-12-2021||National||India 4th most spam-call affected nation: Truecaller||India has moved up in rankings from ninth to the fourth spot this year in the tally of top 20 countries affected by spam calls, owing to a significant increase in sales and telemarketing calls, as per a report by Truecaller. This year, all categories of sales-related calls made up a vast majority (93.5 per cent) of all incoming spam calls. Interestingly, over 202 million spam calls were made by just one spammer in India this year between January to October - which is over 6.64 lakh calls every day and 27,000 calls every hour of every day. One of the most common scams in the country remains the popular KYC (know your customer) scam where fraudsters pretend to be a bank, wallet, or digital payment service, asking for user KYC documents as mandated by the Reserve Bank of India. The average number of spam calls per user per month stood at 16.8, while total spam volumes received by Truecaller users alone are in excess of 3.8 billion calls in the month of October. At a global level, Truecaller identified 184.5 billion calls and 586 billion messages. Of those, 37.8 billion spam calls were identified and blocked, while 182 billion messages were identified and blocked. Brazil has retained its title of the most spammed country in the world (four years in a row) with 32.9 spam calls per user per month. There is a significant gap between the average number of spam calls received in Brazil (32.9 calls per user per month) versus Peru (18.02 calls per user per month) which stands in the second position, the report said. In terms of incoming spam messages per user per month, Cameroon topped the list, followed by Somalia, Tanzania, Congo, Burkina Faso, Ivory Coast, and Benin.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-4th-most-spam-call-affected-nation-truecaller-1061929.html
17-12-2021||National||PM Modi in Goa on December 19, to attend liberation day events, inaugurate development projects||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will visit Goa on December 19 and attend an event marking Goa liberation day celebrations at the 'Dr Shyama Prasad Mukherjee Stadium', his office said on Friday. Modi will felicitate freedom fighters and veterans of 'Operation Vijay', undertaken by the Indian armed forces to liberate Goa from Portuguese rule, and will also inaugurate multiple development projects, including the renovated Fort Aguada jail museum, super speciality block at the Goa Medical College and new South Goa district hospital. Besides these, the prime minister will inaugurate an aviation skill development centre at the Mopa airport and a gas insulated substation at Dabolim-Navelim in Margao. He will also lay the foundation stone for the India International University of Legal Education and Research of the Bar Council of India Trust at Goa, the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) said. Goa is among five states which are headed for assembly polls early next year. The PMO noted that it has been Modi's constant endeavour to improve medical infrastructure and provide top class medical facilities across the country. In line with this vision, the super-speciality block at the Goa Medical College and Hospital has been constructed at a cost of over Rs 380 crore under the 'Pradhan Mantri Swasthya Suraksha Yojana' scheme, it said. It is the only state of the art super-speciality hospital in Goa, providing high-end super speciality services. It will provide specialised services like angioplasty, bypass surgery, liver transplant, kidney transplant and dialysis, among others, the PMO said, adding that the super-speciality block will also house a 1,000 liter per minute (lpm) oxygen pressure swing adsorption (PSA) plant installed under PM-CARES. The new South Goa district hospital, built at a cost of around Rs 220 crore, is equipped with modern medical infrastructure, including OPD services in 33 specialities, latest diagnostic and laboratory facilities and services like physiotherapy and audiometry. The hospital has 500 oxygenated beds, 5,500 litre liquid medical oxygen tank and two PSA plants for generating the life-saving gas at 600 lpm, the PMO said. The re-development of the Aguada Fort jail museum as a heritage tourism destination under the 'Swadesh Darshan Scheme' has been done at a cost of over Rs 28 crore, it said. Before Goa’s liberation, the Aguada Fort was used to incarcerate and torture freedom fighters, the PMO said. The museum will highlight the contributions and sacrifices made by prominent freedom fighters who fought for the liberation of Goa and will be a befitting tribute to them. Modi will also release a Special Cover and Special Cancellation to mark the commemoration of Indian armed forces freeing Goa from Portuguese rule, it said. This special episode of history is shown on the special cover, whereas the special cancellation depicts the war memorial at the Indian Naval Ship Gomantak, constructed in memory of seven young gallant sailors and other personnel who laid down their lives in 'Operation Vijay'. Modi will also release 'My Stamp' depicting the 'Hutatma Smarak' at Patradevi, which salutes the great sacrifices made by those who made the supreme sacrifice in the Goa liberation movement. A 'Meghdoot Post Card' depicting a collage of pictures of different events during the movement will also be presented to the prime minister, the statement said. He will also distribute awards to the best panchayat/municipality, 'Swayampurna Mitras' and beneficiaries of 'Swayampurna Goa Programme'. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-in-goa-on-december-19-to-attend-liberation-day-events-inaugurate-development-projects-1061930.html
17-12-2021||National||India wasn't taken seriously when it spoke at international forums earlier, says Rajnath Singh||India was not taken seriously when it spoke at international forums till a few years ago, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Friday. Addressing an NCC event, he said had the Covid-19 pandemic not struck, India's economy would have grown to $5 trillion by 2024. Singh, however, stressed that India will probably take a year more to reach the target of a $5 trillion economy. "India's power has increased today. Its international reputation and trustworthiness have increased, whether it is in the IT sector, education sector, trade, defence or economy. India is growing in all of these sectors," Singh said.  "We are moving ahead in economy. India is the third-largest country in terms of purchasing power parity," he said, adding, "We will also achieve a 100 per cent literacy rate in the next few years." While observing that India "used to import everything, even small arms, from abroad" earlier, the defence minister said the country is among the top 25 defence exporters of the world. Singh said, "Till just a few years ago, the situation was such that no one used to take India seriously when the country spoke at international forums."  India is the only country that has given a message of 'Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam', the whole world is one family, he said. "India's culture is the best. You will say that every country must be saying the same. But I can give you 20-25 examples to prove that India's culture is the best culture," Singh noted. The minister congratulated the NCC cadets for their lively dance performance during the 'Vijay Shrinkhala' event commemorating the 50th anniversary of India's victory over Pakistan in the 1971 war and India's 75th year of Independence.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-wasnt-taken-seriously-when-it-spoke-at-international-forums-earlier-says-rajnath-singh-1061943.html
17-12-2021||National||WHO issues emergency use listing to Serum Institute's Covovax Covid vaccine||The World Health Organization on Friday issued an emergency use listing to Serum Institute of India's version of Novavax Inc's Covid-19 vaccine, paving the way for the two companies to ship their doses for the COVAX program. The EUL to the shot, Covovax, marks a significant milestone for Novavax as well, after the vaccine had been caught up with delays, especially in ramping up production. Shares of Novavax were up 6.4% on the news. Novavax's own vaccine Nuvaxovid, though, is currently under assessment by the European Medicines Agency, and the WHO said it will complete its own assessment of the shot once the EMA has issued its recommendation. For WHO, the clearance for Covovax will provide a significant boost to improve access to Covid-19 vaccines in poor countries under the COVAX program, which has been marred by delays this year. "This listing aims to increase access particularly in lower-income countries, 41 of which have still not been able to vaccinate 10% of their populations, while 98 countries have not reached 40%," Dr Mariângela Simão, WHO assistant-director general for Access to Medicines and Health Products said in the statement. Novavax and Serum Institute, the world's largest vaccine producer, have together committed to providing more than 1.1 billion doses to the COVAX facility. The protein-based vaccine by Novavax in June was shown to be more than 90% effective, including against a variety of concerning coronavirus variants, in a late-stage US trial. "This vaccine can be used in a variety of contexts and will provide countries with another critical option in the quest to protect their populations," said Seth Berkley, chief executive officer of GAVI, the Vaccine Alliance.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/who-issues-emergency-use-listing-to-serum-institutes-covovax-covid-vaccine-1061944.html
17-12-2021||National||52 petitions related to 'habeas corpus matters' pending in SC: Govt||A total of 52 petitions under a category that relates to "habeas corpus matters" are pending in the Supreme Court as on December 13, Lok Sabha was informed on Friday. Broadly, a habeas corpus plea is a writ used to challenge the unlawful detention or imprisonment of a person and is meant to protect fundamental rights. Responding to a question on the number of habeas corpus pleas pending in the Supreme Court and high courts till date, Law Minister Kiren Rijiju explained in a written reply that the information is not maintained in the apex court as sought for. However, he shared the number of pending cases, according to the Supreme Court Subject Category Code 1300 which relates to "habeas corpus matters" in the Supreme Court, as retrieved from the Integrated Case Management Information System (ICMIS). The minister said at the end of 2020, 53 such matters were pending in the top court, and 40 in the end of 2019. At the end of 2018, 43 such cases under the category relating to "habeas corpus matters" were pending in the top court. Referring to high courts, he said as on December 14, 108 habeas corpus cases were pending in the Bombay High Court. Similarly, till December 9, 35 such cases were pending in the Gauhati High Court. In the Kerala High Court, 24 such cases were pending as on December 10 and in the Madhya Pradesh High Court, 97 habeas corpus cases were pending as on December 1.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/52-petitions-related-to-habeas-corpus-matters-pending-in-sc-govt-1061946.html
17-12-2021||National||Disciplinary proceedings against those with mental disabilities indirect discrimination: SC||The Supreme Court on Friday said the initiation of disciplinary proceedings against persons with mental disabilities is a facet of indirect discrimination. It also held that a person with a disability is entitled to protection under the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act as long as the disability was one of the factors for the discriminatory act. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud, Surya Kant and B V Nagarathna ruled that the disciplinary proceedings initiated against an employee with mental disabilities are discriminatory and violative of the provisions of the law. The top court allowed an appeal filed by Ravinder Kumar Dhariwal, an assistant commandant in central police force who faced a string of inquires and suspension for alleged use of unparliamentary language, appearing in television channels and other print media without the prior approval of the department, and trying to intentionally cause an accident, and assaulted a deputy commandant. It adverted to the medical history of the appellant to note that he started facing obsessive-compulsive disorder and secondary major depression in 2009 and he was categorised as permanently disabled, having 40 per cent to 70 per cent disability. "The mental disability impairs the ability of persons to comply with workplace standards in comparison to their able-bodied counterparts. Such persons suffer a disproportionate disadvantage due to the impairment and are more likely to be subjected to disciplinary proceedings. Thus, the initiation of disciplinary proceedings against persons with mental disabilities is a facet of indirect discrimination," the bench said. The bench set aside the disciplinary proceedings against him in the first inquiry, saying he was entitled to the protection under the RPwD Act in the event he is found unsuitable for his current employment duty. The court directed that while re-assigning the appellant to an alternate post, should it become necessary, his pay, emoluments and conditions of service must be protected.  The authorities will be at liberty to ensure that the assignment to an alternate post does not involve the use of or control over firearms or equipment which may pose a danger to the appellant or others in or around the workplace, it added. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/disciplinary-proceedings-against-those-with-mental-disabilities-indirect-discrimination-sc-1061948.html
17-12-2021||National||Sheena Bora murder case: Here's all you need to know||The 2012 high-profile murder case of Sheena Bora took a fresh turn when it was found on December 16 that former media personality and murder-accused Indrani Mukerjea, in a letter to the director of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) last month, has claimed that her daughter Sheena was alive and is currently in Kashmir. Here's a look at the significant developments in the case over the years: In April 2012, 24-year-old Sheena Bora was allegedly strangled in a car by Indrani Mukerjea, her then driver Shyamvar Rai and her former husband Sanjeev Khanna. Her body was later found in a forest in Raigad district where it was reportedly burnt. The killing came to light three years later, in 2015, when Shyamwar, who had helped dispose of the body, was arrested in another case. Rai later turned an approver in the Sheena Bora case. Thereafter, Indrani was arrested in August. Former media baron and Indrani's husband Peter Mukerjea was also later arrested on November 19, 2015, for allegedly being part of the conspiracy. After spending more than four years behind bars, Mukerjea was granted bail by the Bombay High Court in 2020. His 17-year-old marriage to Indrani Mukerjea ended during the period of incarceration as the two got divorced in October last year. What was the motive? Sheena was in a live-in relationship with her step-brother Rahul, the younger son of Peter Mukerjea with his first wife Shabnam Singh. According to the CBI, Peter, Indrani and Sanjeev entered into a criminal conspiracy to kill Sheena in April 2012. Financial disputes as well as Indrani's opposition to Sheena's relationship with Rahul were key motives for the killing, the agency said. Other twists in the case Reports suggest that in the beginning, Indrani maintained Sheena has gone to the United States for higher studies and accused Rahul of stalking Sheena. It has also been claimed that on the day of her "disappearance", Sheena submitted her resignation letter and a "break-up text" to Rahul was sent from her phone. Indrani, on several other occasions, has claimed that her daughter is alive and has only talked in terms of "abduction" and "disappearance" when referring to the case. Though she did not expressly accuse Peter, in 2017, she had alleged that he might have caused her daughter's disappearance out of "greed and ill-will".  Indrani is likely to move an application regarding claims of her daughter being alive before the special CBI court on December 28, the next date of hearing in her case, her lawyer said.  (With agency inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sheena-bora-murder-case-heres-all-you-need-to-know-1061951.html
17-12-2021||National||Uttarakhand minister admits illegal mining in two rivers; probe ordered||Uttarakhand Forest Minister Harak Singh Rawat on Friday said enough proof exists that illegal mining was being carried out in two state rivers, after which an inquiry has been ordered into the issue. He told reporters here that the divisional forest officer (DFO) accused of involvement in illegal mining has also been attached to the department headquarters. The minister has been under fire over the allegations of illegal mining in Malan and Sukhro rivers of Kotdwar. The minister admitted at a press conference that illegal mining had been carried out in the two rivers in the name of "channelisation", in violation of the norms. Lansdowne DFO Deepak Singh kept denying the allegations but preliminary investigation confirmed the charges, Rawat said. Rawat said he had personally inspected the rivers and found "enough signs" of illegal mining. DFO Singh has been attached to the Forest Department headquarters in Dehradun and a probe has been ordered into the allegations, the minister said, adding that the guilty won’t be spared.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uttarakhand-minister-admits-illegal-mining-in-two-rivers-probe-ordered-1061954.html
17-12-2021||National||Tendulkar thanks traffic cop for going beyond duty and saving his friend||Cricket icon Sachin Tendulkar once again showed his human side as he met a traffic cop, who saved his friend after he had met with an accident and also thanked the entire community for going beyond their call of duty. The legendary right-handed batsman took to Twitter to laud the traffic cops and shared an elaborate note titled "The world is a beautiful place because of such people...". "A few days ago, a close friend met with a serious accident. By God's grace, she is better now. However, it was the timely help from a traffic cop, which made the difference," Tendulkar wrote in the note. "He immediately took her in an auto to a hospital and applied real presence of mind – ensuring her severely damaged spine had minimal movement while travelling," added the legendary cricketer, who has numerous world records to his name. Tendulkar said that he met the cop, who went beyond his duty and thanked him for his help. "I met him and thanked him for his help. There are several people like him all around us – who go beyond the call of duty. The world is a beautiful place because of such people. When you see such people, especially those who serve the public, take a moment to thank them. We may not know it, but in their own way, they strive to make a difference in peoples lives. Silently," said Tendulkar. The former India opener also lauded the traffic police in general for their efforts and appealed to the public to obey traffic rules. "To traffic police across India, thank you for your efforts towards ensuring people's safety. To all of us: Let's respect the traffic rules and not take shortcuts. It is not worth saving yourself some time, at the cost of putting someone else's life at risk," the master blaster signed off.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tendulkar-thanks-traffic-cop-for-going-beyond-duty-and-saving-his-friend-1061959.html
17-12-2021||National||BSE, NSE come out with guidelines on technical glitches for members||Leading stock exchanges BSE and NSE have put out comprehensive guidelines for handling technical glitches at members' end in order to prevent disruptions.     Under the new framework, members will have to pay Rs 20,000 per day in case of failure to report the incident to the exchanges within the required timeline, BSE and NSE said in separate circulars.       The guidelines outline technology infrastructure and system requirements that a member should put in place to prevent any incident of business disruption resulting from technical glitches.           Also, the guidelines prescribe a Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) for reporting of technical glitches by members, handling business disruption, management of such business disruption, including the declaration of disaster and framing of provisions for disciplinary action in case of non-compliance in reporting or inadequate management of business disruption.      Technical glitches include malfunction in hardware, software or any products and services provided by members.       The exchanges said members with a client base of more than 50,000 unique registered clients across all bourses will be required to mandatorily establish a business continuity plan or disaster recovery set up to ensure that there is a well-defined continuity plan in case of such business disruptions.       The move will ensure that there is continuity of business and stability in operations of members in case of any technical glitches so that the interest of investors and the market at large is not adversely impacted, the circulars issued on Wednesday noted.       With regards to reporting requirements, the exchanges have asked members to intimate them about the incident within two hours from the start of the glitch.        Besides, a preliminary incident report will be submitted to the exchange within T+1 day of the incident (T being the date of the incident). The report will include the date and time of the incident, its details, its effect and the immediate action taken.       Further, Root Cause Analysis (RCA) of the issue will have to be submitted within 21 working days.       With respect to the timeline for setting up the Business Continuity Planning (BCP)/Disaster Recovery (DR), BSE and NSE said members having 50,000 unique registered clients (across all segments/exchanges) need to comply with the requirements within 12 months.       Those related to internal policy for technical glitch and preventive recovery -- pertaining to system control, network integrity, backup and recovery -- need to be completed by March 2022.       In case of failure to report the incident to the exchange (non-submission of the preliminary report and/or RCA), members will be liable to pay a fine of Rs 20,000 for each working day after the due date specified, the exchanges said. In case of repeated instances of non-compliance on two or more occasions, appropriate disciplinary action will be initiated, after following due process and providing the opportunity of a hearing, they added.     In the event that members fail to move to DR site within the time specified, appropriate disciplinary action will be initiated by the exchanges.     In July, the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) had issued a detailed framework for penalising market infrastructure institutions (MIIs), which include stock exchanges, clearing corporations and depositories, for technical glitches. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bse-nse-come-out-with-guidelines-on-technical-glitches-for-members-1061961.html
17-12-2021||National||Supreme Court questions Maharashtra, Kerala, Rajasthan govts on slow disbursal of Covid ex-gratia||The Supreme Court on Friday questioned Kerala, Maharashtra, and Rajasthan governments over the slow rate of disbursal of compensation of Rs 50,000 ex-gratia to next of kin of Covid victims. A bench of Justices M R Shah and B V Nagarathna noted that Maharashtra has recorded more than 1.41 lakh Covid deaths, but the state government has received merely 12,000 applications in connection with Covid compensation.  The bench pulled up the Maharashtra government counsel, saying that the number of deaths will be more. “Tell your government whatever we say should not fall on deaf ears," the bench told the state counsel.  The bench noted that out of 1.41 lakh deaths, the state government has only approved approximately 4,000 claims for Covid compensation. The court directed the Maharashtra government to complete the ex gratia payment within one week. The bench also voiced its dissatisfaction with the Rajasthan government’s failure to submit data on various counts, including no information on number of persons to whom compensation has been paid so far. “How come the state still doesn't even have the figures of the number of persons who have applied for compensation or any other data," the bench asked. The bench wondered if the Rajasthan government is suppressing something. The bench said how could the state government, which has so far recorded close to 9,000 Covid deaths, disburse compensation without data on applications received. It pointed out that the state government has also not provided any information on advertisements issued in this regard. The bench also pulled up the Kerala government, which has recorded 40,855 Covid deaths so far but received claims for just over 10,000, saying “it is a sorry state of affairs”. The court said the state government has only paid Covid compensation to 528 and approved over 1,900 applications for Covid claim.  The bench said as a welfare state, it is the duty of the state to make payment of compensation to the next of kin of those who succumbed to the pandemic. The top court asked the Kerala government to complete the Covid compensation payment within one week.   The court was examining the compliance of its October 4 judgement for disbursal of Rs 50,000 ex-gratia to the kin of Covid victims. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-questions-maharashtra-kerala-rajasthan-govts-on-slow-disbursal-of-covid-ex-gratia-1061963.html
17-12-2021||National||Kolkata gears up for municipal polls on December 19||Over 40 lakh registered voters of Kolkata will have an opportunity to choose local political representatives for the 144 wards that form the Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC), one of the country’s oldest municipal bodies. The Trinamool Congress, which has held the board for the last two consecutive terms is a strong contestant. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the Left, the Congress Party, and a large number of independent candidates are in the fray, besides the Trinamool. A total of 950 candidates are contesting elections to the 144 wards. The Trinamool and the BJP, are fighting on all 144 seats. The Left has put up candidates on 128 seats, whereas the Congress has 121 candidates. In this four-cornered fight (after the Left and the Congress decided to go alone, out of their political alliance in the state), there are 413 candidates who represent other parties or are independent candidates. The polling is to take place between 7 am and 5 pm, at 1,707 polling premises. The counting of votes will take place on 21 December. While the polls are local in nature, the leading political parties have campaigned exhaustively. Party chief Mamata Banerjee and national secretary Abhishek Banerjee, both participated in the campaign for the local candidates. The BJP’s star campaigner has been Suvendu Adhikari, current MLA from Nandigram constituency, who pioneered Trinamool’s growth in south Bengal but joined the BJP before the last assembly elections that took place this year. Unlike the assembly elections, where the national leaders of the party had campaigned in the state, the Uttar Pradesh campaigns have apparently kept them engaged this time. The Left and the Congress had fought the assembly elections in an alliance against the ruling Trinamool. For the municipal election, however, the sides failed to agree to fight together. A major challenge before city police and administration is to ensure that the elections are peaceful. The usual poll-related restrictions on liquor shops, movement of people, malls, shops, and restaurants and hotels are being enforced. The BJP has been to court demanding the deployment of central forces. The state election commission, however, doesn’t see the need.  The city, being one of the oldest, has limited road space, and inadequate parking facilities. An old and inadequate drainage system often leaves the city flooded after heavy showers. The hawkers have encroached pavements in certain parts of the city, and illegal construction is a common sight in the densely populated pockets of the city. The party manifestos promise the voters a better city and modern amenities. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kolkata-gears-up-for-municipal-polls-on-december-19-1061964.html
17-12-2021||National||BJP, Congress condemn Karnataka MLA Ramesh Kumar's 'rape' remark||The row over the rape remarks made by Karnataka Congress legislator KR Ramesh Kumar in the state assembly on Thursday had its echo in the National Capital with both the BJP and the Congress joining hands to slam it.  While Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra condemned the remarks by her party’s MLA, calling it “indefensible”, BJP spokesperson Aparna Sarangi, too, questioned the Speaker Vishweshwara Hegde Kageri, BJP legislator for laughing it off.    “What is sad is that the Speaker said nothing after such objectionable comments were made and even laughed,” Sarangi said. In her tweet, Vadra said, “I wholeheartedly condemn the statement made earlier today by Sri. K.R.Ramesh Kumar. It is inexplicable how anyone can ever utter such words, they are indefensible.”  I wholeheartedly condemn the statement made earlier today by Sri. K.R.Ramesh Kumar. It is inexplicable how anyone can ever utter such words, they are indefensible. Rape is a heinous crime. Full stop. Former speaker Ramesh Kumar came under fire from politicians across parties for saying that when a rape survivor is overpowered, they must sit and enjoy. Kumar later apologised for his remarks.  Earlier, the BJP questioned Congress leaders Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi for not condemning the remarks.  Union minister Smriti Irani in the Lok Sabha condemned the remarks. “If you truly believe issues for the welfare of women, you should first denounce the legislator who says that if you are raped as a woman in this country, you should enjoy it. You should first go back to your political organisation, and bring justice to the man. Then we will see who speaks for the women and children in this country,” Irani said in the Parliament. During a press conference, BJP leaders Anil Baluni, Rajeev Chandrasekhar and Rajyavardhan Rathore, too, trained guns on the Congress. “This is shameful and sad. The Congress has a history of denigrating women,” said the party’s chief spokesperson Anil Baluni.  Minister of state IT Rajeev Chandrasekhar took to Twitter to condemn the remarks. “This MLA Ramesh Kumar who thinks crimes against women like rape are a joking matter was chosen by Rahul/Priyanka Cong to be speaker of Assembly - a constitutional position! (sic),” he tweeted.  Ramesh Kumar issued an apology after his comments led to a political slugfest. “I would like to express my sincere apologies to everyone for the indifferent and negligent comment I made in today’s assembly … My intention was not trivialised or make light of the heinous crime, but an off the cuff remark,” the legislator from Srinivaspur tweeted.  In the Congress, chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala, as well as Karnataka unit president DK Shivakumar denounced the comments.  “Speaker as custodian & Sr legislators are expected to be role models & should desist from such unacceptable behaviour,” tweeted Surjewala, denouncing the comments.  Apologising for the comments on Twitter, Shivakumar said that “the incident in the assembly is a sign that all of us men in politics need to do better to shed our inherent regressive attitudes towards women.” Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-bjp-condemn-karnataka-mla-ramesh-kumars-rape-remark-1061969.html
17-12-2021||National||BSP leadership sold party to SAD; AAP modern East India Company: Channi||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Friday accused the BSP leadership of backstabbing the Scheduled Castes community by "selling" the party to the Shiromani Akali Dal. He also slammed the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), calling it the modern day East India Company aimed at "plundering the wealth of the state", and said its national convener Arvind Kejriwal does not even know how to milk a cow. Targeting the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), Channi said it no longer represents the ideology of its founder Kanshi Ram. Its leadership backstabbed the Scheduled Castes community by "selling" the party to the Akali Dal, Channi said. He alleged that the BSP "sold" 15 of 20 seats allotted to them to the Akali Dal. The BSP leadership has made itself a "slave" of the Akali Dal, he added. For the Assembly polls next year, the SAD has forged an alliance with the BSP. As per the seat-sharing arrangement, the Mayawati-led party will fight 20 of the 117 Assembly seats in Punjab while the rest will be contested by the SAD. Taking on AAP national convener Arvind Kejriwal, the CM dared him to explain why Punjabis should believe him when his own "flock does not have faith in him". He claimed three of four AAP MPs elected in 2014 have left the party and even 11 out of 20 MLAs elected in 2017 have too left. Channi said this is indicative of the fact that the Aam Aadmi Party is a "house of cards that is bound to doom in a day or two". The chief minister said Kejriwal has no basic knowledge about the state due to which he does not know that in Punjab, every youth has to do multitasking every day for running his household. Kejriwal does not even know how to milk a cow, what does he know about problems of the state, Channi said. Terming AAP the "modern East India company”, he said Kejriwal’s party aims at "plundering wealth of the state". Channi said he himself faced hardships, so he is well aware of problems of the common man. Due to this reason only, he is ensuring optimal utilisation of all government funds for the well-being of the poor and common man, he claimed. Addressing the gathering, former Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar urged people not to vote by falling in the "malicious" propaganda of any party. "Those leaders who are teaching the lesson of nationalism to us today were nowhere in scene when India was fighting for freedom and only the Congress Party did the fighting," he added. In his address, AICC general secretary Harish Chaudhary slammed the Akalis, the BJP and the AAP leadership for working against the interest of the state. He said Channi is the representative of the poorest of poor in the state.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bsp-leadership-sold-party-to-sad-aap-modern-east-india-company-channi-1061971.html
17-12-2021||National||Two Congress MLAs object to Khattar's statement over 'namaz'||Two Congress MLAs on Friday in the Haryana Assembly objected to CM Manohar Lal Khattar’s recent remarks over "namaz", terming it unfortunate and demanding that he take back his statement. With several right-wing Hindu groups objecting to Friday prayers being offered by Muslims in open spaces in Gurugram, Khattar had on December 10 said the practice of offering 'namaz' in the open "will not be tolerated". He, however, had said an amicable solution will be found over the issue. The Mewat MLAs raised the matter during the Zero Hour in the state Assembly, whose winter session began here on Friday. Mamman Khan, MLA from Firozpur Jhirkha, said when the country gained independence, the Constitution gave freedom to practice religion of one's choice. He said the CM recently gave a statement that Muslims "cannot offer namaz in open spaces". "Why this grave injustice with us," he asked. "I request him that he must take back his statement," Khan said. Punhana MLA Mohd Ilyas dubbed Khattar's statement as "unfortunate". "Be it Gurugram or any other place, we should have freedom to offer namaz," he said. Three years ago, the administration had designated 37 sites in Gurugram city for Muslims to offer Friday namaz. A few months ago, a group started protests against the prayers offered in the open, after which there have been protests on Fridays for the past several weeks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-congress-mlas-object-to-khattars-statement-over-namaz-1061984.html
17-12-2021||National||Election Commission has reported no case of EVM misuse: Rijiju||Law Minister Kiren Rijiju on Friday told Lok Sabha that according to the Election Commission no cases have been reported regarding misuse of electronic voting machines. Responding to a question on the number of cases regarding the misuse of voting machines which came to notice during the last five years and till date, the minister said in a written reply that "the Election Commission of India (ECI) has informed that no such cases have been reported." To a query in the same question on whether the government proposes to adopt the methodology being used by the developed countries for voting in place of voting machines, the minister said no such proposal is under consideration. The EC, Rijiju said, has informed that voting machines used by it are designed to meet the requirements of electoral laws and processes, being followed in India. "According to ECI, EVMs are fully secure due to their technical and administrative safeguards," he said. At last one ballot unit and one control unit makes for one EVM. Voter Verifiable Paper Audit Trail (VVPAT) or paper trail machines are now also attached to the EVM for greater transparency.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/election-commission-has-reported-no-case-of-evm-misuse-rijiju-1061985.html
17-12-2021||National||Scientists looking into Covid-19 booster dose; primary vaccination foremost goal, says Centre||The Union government on Friday said the scientific community is looking at all aspects of administering a booster dose of Covid vaccine while asserting that providing primary vaccination coverage to the maximum possible population remains the foremost goal. These interventions and measures are driven by science, local epidemiology and resources, said NITI Aayog Member (Health) V K Paul at a press conference. "This time around vaccine resources, broadly speaking, are in a good shape. What we are doing concurrently is engaging our scientific community to look at these issues on an ongoing basis," he said. "When there is no resource constraint, our epidemiology and scientific discourse will decide this (booster dose of vaccine)," Paul said. While stressing that competent teams are examining the issue of a booster dose, he said it would be opted for with appropriate evidence and at a proper time. "But the fact remains that all this approach comes after we have provided primary vaccination coverage to the maximum possible population and that remains the foremost goal," Paul said while assuring the press conference that discussion on booster dose is ongoing. According to the government, India has so far administered 82.8 crore first doses and 53.72 crore second jabs of Covid vaccine. More than 136 crore doses have been administered in the country which is 2.8 times the total doses administered in the US, it said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/scientists-looking-into-covid-19-booster-dose-primary-vaccination-foremost-goal-says-centre-1061986.html
17-12-2021||National||Two more Omicron cases detected in Kerala||Two more persons in Kerala were found to be infected with the Omicron variant, taking the strain's tally in the state to 7. A couple who came down from UAE recently were found to be infected. They are both in their mid sixties. They touched down in India on December 8 from Sharjah and were tested Covid positive in tests done on December 11 and 12. Subsequent genome sequencing at Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology confirmed that they were infected with Omicron variant. Among the seven who have tested positive for Omicron in Kerala so far three are from countries that were not in the high risk category. The health department seeks strict adherence to home quarantine by those coming from aboard. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-more-omicron-cases-detected-in-kerala-1061990.html
17-12-2021||National||ED attaches assets of 3 NSCN-IM members in money-laundering case||The Enforcement Directorate has attached assets worth Rs 7.65 crore belonging to three members of Naga insurgent group NSCN-IM in connection with a money-laundering investigation against them linked to charges of alleged extortion. The attached properties belong to Alemla Jamir alias Mary Shimrang alias Atula Tongar, P H Shimrang alias James Jamir and Massasosang Ao and some other members of the National Socialist Council of Nagaland (Issac–Muivah), the probe agency said in a statement. NSCN-IM is a Naga separatist and insurgent organisation and Thuingaleng Muivah is its general secretary. It is currently engaged in peace talks with the Union government. Funds parked in 17 bank accounts, three fixed deposits and a residential property bought by Alemla Jamir in her name at Mohammadpur in R K Puram area of Delhi have been attached as part of a provisional order issued under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), the Enforcement Directorate (ED) said. Alemla Jamir is the wife of the self-styled ex-army chief of NSCN-IM Phunthing Shimrang. While she and her brother-in-law Massasosang Ao are currently lodged in Delhi's Tihar jail, P H Shimrang is absconding, the ED said. It said Alemla Jamir, her husband, Ao and other NSCN-IM members had "created a network for terrorising businessmen and disrupting their operations with an intent to collect extortion/illegal tax money from them." "Alemla Jamir had created false identities in the names of Mary Shimrang and Atula Tonger to obtain multiple PAN cards, passports, etc. "Numerous bank accounts were opened in the name of Alemla Jamir, Mary Shimrang and Atula Tonger, her relatives and entities. Those and were being operated by Jamir and her associates for collecting, layering and laundering of proceeds of crime received through extortion or illegal taxation," it said.  The ED claimed the "extorted" money was used by Jamir and her associates to give loans to business entities and an exorbitant rate of interest was charged by them to "continuously grow" the illegal funds accumulated by them.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ed-attaches-assets-of-3-nscn-im-members-in-money-laundering-case-1062000.html
17-12-2021||National||Over 62 lakh Covid vaccine doses went to waste in India, half from 3 states||More than 62 lakh doses of the Covid-19 vaccine have gone to waste in India, half of which are from just three states – Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan. Madhya Pradesh tops the list with 16.48 lakh wasted doses followed by Uttar Pradesh (12.60 lakh) and Rajasthan (6.86 lakh). Taken together the three states squandered nearly 36 lakh doses, which is over 50 per cent of the total loss. Responding to a question in the Lok Sabha, Union Minister of State for Health Bharati Pravin Pawar presented a list of 25 states and union territories that reported Covid-19 vaccine wastage in the last 11 months. There are eleven states that wasted more than one lakh doses. Other states wasting more than one lakh doses are Assam (4.58 lakh), Jammu and Kashmir (4.57 lakh), Andhra Pradesh (3.80 lakh), Gujarat (2.28 lakh), Tamil Nadu (2.38 lakh) Tripura (2.10 lakh), West Bengal (1.4 lakh) and Karnataka (1.27 lakh). "An expenditure of Rs 19,675.46 crore (till Dec 19) has been incurred for procurement of Covid-19 vaccines by the Centre for free of cost supplies of vaccine doses to State and UTs," the minister informed the Lok Sabha. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-62-lakh-covid-vaccine-doses-went-to-waste-in-india-half-from-3-states-1062001.html
17-12-2021||National||PM Modi meets investors ahead of Budget, asks them to help boost investment||Ahead of the Union Budget in February next year, Prime Minister Narendra Modi Friday held wide-ranging discussions with representatives of venture capital and private equity funds seeking suggestions to boost investment climate in the country by attracting more capital and furthering the reform process. Modi also discussed the efforts undertaken by the government to bring in more reforms, future potential of initiatives like PM GatiShakti, and steps taken to reduce the unnecessary compliance burden. He mentioned the innovation happening in India at the grass-root level and the boost to the startup ecosystem. The Prime Minister also sought suggestions towards improving ease of doing business in India The meeting was attended by nearly two dozen business leaders, venture capitalists and startups. Emerging from the meeting, said Sandeep Naik, Managing Director and Head of General Atlantic’s business in India, his company will invest upto $15 billion in the next 10 years in India as he considered the country a critical destination in the coming times as there were big changes on its way after the government heralded several reforms. The American equity firm already has a $5 billion investment in India. “The Venture Capital and Private Equity Fund representatives also talked about the entrepreneurial potential of the country, and how it can be leveraged so that our startups can attain global scale,” an official statement issued after the meeting said. Another participant Accel’s Prashant Prakash highlighted the opportunities that are present in the Agri startups. Rajan Anandan, who served as vice president of Google India, suggested working towards making India the global hub in education by leveraging technology. The representatives also discussed the opportunities that are emerging because of India's exemplary climate commitments including the ones in the sphere of energy transitions. They also gave inputs about areas like FinTech and financial management. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman also attended the meeting along with a host of officials. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-meets-investors-ahead-of-budget-asks-them-to-help-boost-investment-1062002.html
17-12-2021||National||Two-day bank strike ends; services across country hit||The two-day nationwide bank strike called by United Forum of Bank Union ended on Friday, impacting normal operations across the country. Lakhs of employees of public sector banks were on strike to protest against the proposed privatisation of banks by the government. Banks will work as usual on Saturday, as it is a working day. United Forum of Bank Union (UFBU) is an umbrella body of nine bank unions, including All India Bank Officers' Confederation (AIBOC), All India Bank Employees Association (AIBEA) and National Organisation of Bank Workers (NOBW). Services like deposits and withdrawal at branches, cheque clearance and loan approvals remained paralysed due to the two-day strike. ATMs at different parts of the country went dry on the second day. Government treasury operations, negotiating of import and export bills, grant of loans, cash transactions, etc. were not possible and clearing operations were affected. In the three clearing centres of Mumbai, Delhi and Chennai, about 39 lacs cheque worth about Rs 37,000 crore could not be taken up for clearance, (AIBEA) general secretary C H Venkatachalam said. AIBOC General Secretary Soumya Dutta said that about 7 lakh bank employees across the country enthusiastically participated in the two-day strike. In the Union Budget presented in February, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had announced the privatisation of two public sector banks (PSBs) as part of its disinvestment plan. To facilitate privatisation, the government has listed the Banking Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021, for introduction and passage during the current session of Parliament. The government has already privatised IDBI Bank by selling its majority stake in the lender to LIC in 2019 and merged 14 public sector banks in the past four years. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-day-bank-strike-ends-services-across-country-hit-1062004.html
17-12-2021||National||15 military chopper accidents since March 2017||Thirty-one people were killed in accidents involving 15 military helicopters since March 2017 that included the December 8 crash of the Mi-17V5 near Coonoor, according to details provided by the government in Lok Sabha on Friday. The 15 choppers that met with accidents included four Advanced Light Helicopter (ALH), four Cheetah, two ALH (weapon system integrated) versions, three Mi-17V5, an Mi-17 and a Chetak. Minister of State for Defence Ajay Bhatt shared the details of all helicopter accidents in the last five years in all three services. He was replying to a question. The list of crashes provided by him began with the accident involving a Cheetah helicopter of the Indian Air Force on March 15, 2017, in which no one was killed or injured. Seven helicopters each from the Indian Army and the Indian Air Force were involved in accidents during the period while the number from the Navy was one, according to the details. The data showed 31 people were killed and 20 injured in the accidents. The total number of deceased in the 15 accidents included 14 people killed in the December 8 crash near Coonoor. CDS Gen Bipin Rawat, his wife Madhulika and 12 armed forces personnel were killed in the crash. To a specific query on the crash of an ALH Rudra (WSI) in Ranjeet Sagar dam near Pathankot on August 3, Bhatt said there was no restriction on the helicopter flying over the water body. "Lt Col A S Bath and Capt Jayant Joshi lost their lives after their helicopter Rudra-WSI crash landed in Ranjeet Sagar Dam on August 3. There is no restriction on the helicopter flying over water," the minister said. "However, low flying over water needs specific authorisation. A Court of Inquiry has been ordered to investigate the crash," he added. Asked whether the pilots were not given specialised training required to fly over water, Bhatt said the training has been structured to meet the operational requirements. He said, however, operations over a large expanse of water are restricted. To a separate question, he said following the Pathankot incident, the government approved an integrated smart power fencing called Integrated Perimeter Security System (IPSS) for 23 airbases. There was a terror attack on Pathankot airbase on January 2, 2016. He said Bharat Electronics Ltd signed a contract with Indian Air Force for establishing the IPSS in the airbases across eight states. He said the pilot site was commissioned in February 2021, adding the BEL has given sub-contract to many several Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEM) and system integrators to implement the project. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/15-military-chopper-accidents-since-march-2017-1062006.html
17-12-2021||National Politics||Amarinder heads to Delhi, likely to meet BJP leaders||Former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Thursday left for Delhi where he is likely to meet senior BJP leaders to discuss a possible seat-sharing arrangement for the upcoming state assembly polls, according to sources. Singh is expected to meet the BJP's central leadership on Friday, the sources said. On December 7, Singh and Union Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, who is the BJP's incharge for the Punjab Assembly polls, had met over lunch at the former's residence. Notably, Union Home Minister Amit Shah had said earlier that the BJP was in talks with Singh and former Shiromani Akali Dal leader Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa to forge an alliance with their parties ahead of the state assembly polls. Singh had an unceremonious exit from the Congress in September when he was forced to resign as the Punjab chief minister amid a power tussle with state party chief Navjot Singh Sidhu. Later, Singh floated his own party, Punjab Lok Congress, to contest the 2022 Punjab Assembly elections. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/amarinder-heads-to-delhi-likely-to-meet-bjp-leaders-1061690.html
17-12-2021||National Politics||PM Modi to meet MPs from UP over breakfast on Friday||PM Narendra Modi will meet BJP MPs from Uttar Pradesh over breakfast on Friday. Modi will also inaugurate and address the All India Mayors’ Conference, which is being organised in Varanasi, via video conferencing. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-modi-to-meet-mps-from-up-over-breakfast-on-friday-1061738.html
17-12-2021||National Politics||Lok Sabha adjourns till 2 pm amid Opposition protests||Lok Sabha proceedings were adjourned on Friday till 2 pm amid vociferous protests by Opposition members demanding the removal of Union minister Ajay Mishra in connection with the Lakhimpur Kheri violence in Uttar Pradesh. The Question Hour in the Lower House was disrupted for the third straight day as Opposition members demanded the removal of the minister whose son Ashish Mishra is among the accused in the Lakhimpur Kheri incident. Eight people, including four farmers, were killed in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence in Uttar Pradesh in October. Soon after the House met for the day, Opposition members started shouting slogans and displaying placards, demanding the sacking of the minister. Many members also trooped into the Well of the House. Amid the din, Speaker Om Birla told the protesting members that the Question Hour was important and it was not a good practice to indulge in sloganeering. "You don't want to run the House, you don't want discussions...," a peeved Birla asked the protesting members. The Speaker also warned the members protesting in the Well against damaging any properties of the House. "If any property of the Lok Sabha is damaged, then it will be your responsibility," he told the members. Four questions and their supplementaries were taken up during the Question Hour. As the ruckus continued, the Speaker adjourned the proceedings till 2 pm.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/lok-sabha-adjourns-till-2-pm-amid-opposition-protests-1061778.html
17-12-2021||National Politics||'Denounce him': Irani raises Congress MLA's 'enjoy rape' remark amid Opposition din in Lok Sabha||Union Women and Child Development Minister Smriti Irani on Friday said a Karnataka Congress leader's remarks on rape should be condemned and demanded that the political party concerned should first bring the person to justice. Opposition members, including from the Congress, have been protesting in the Lok Sabha demanding the removal of Union minister Ajay Mishra in connection with the Lakhimpur Kheri violence that happened in Uttar Pradesh in October. On Friday, when Irani was responding to supplementaries, some protesting members sought to block her view by standing in front of her seat and displaying placards. Amid the ruckus, Irani said she was being blocked by certain gentlemen who have placards on their hands and that if they truly believe in serving the needs of poor women and children in the country, then she should be allowed to speak. Without mentioning the party's name, Irani said those gentlemen who belong especially to a particular party, one of their representatives on Thursday made remarks about women which need to be condemned by every public representative in Karnataka. "If you truly believe in the cause of women, first stand here and denounce that legislator who said that if you are raped, as a woman in the country you should enjoy it. Those men who stand in this Well today, go back to your political organisation and first bring to justice such a man, then we will see who speaks for women and children in this country," the minister said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/denounce-him-irani-raises-congress-mlas-enjoy-rape-remark-amid-opposition-din-in-lok-sabha-1061808.html
17-12-2021||National Politics||Suspended MPs hold ‘Jan Sansad’ in Parliament House||The Gandhi Statue in Parliament House has been witness to many protests in the past several decades but Friday was different as it became the venue for a novel protest – a 'Jan Sansad' or 'People's Parliament' for the first inside the complex. The protest, the brainchild of suspended Congress MP Rajamani Patel, was part of the Opposition’s plan to highlight the “illegal” suspension of the MPs for the conduct during the previous Monsoon Session, which they said was precipitated by the government’s actions. Twelve suspended MPs, whose sit-in entered the 17th day at the Gandhi Statue, were joined by a couple of their colleagues in Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha and they changed the Gandhi Statue to a Parliament sitting. The novel protest started soon after Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu adjourned the House for the day during the morning session itself with an appeal to the government and Opposition to sit together and resolve the impasse over the suspension. The Opposition MPs divided themselves into the government and Opposition sides. CPI(M) floor leader Elamaram Kareem was chosen as the Chairman of the ‘Jan Sansad’ while Patel became the Leader of Opposition. Ripun Bora and Akhilesh Pratap Singh, both Congress, became the Leader of the House and Parliamentary Affairs Minister respectively. A chair with the photo of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and a poster ‘“Parliament? Not Needed for Me !!!” Rajya Sabha MP Phulo Netam Devi and Lok Sabha MP MA Ariff became marshals accompanying the Chairman while Priyanka Chaturvedi, Jaya Bachchan, Dola Sen, Chhaya Verma, Binoy Viswam, Shanta Chhetri, Mausam Noor, Vishwambar Prasad Nishad, Nadimul Haque and Dr V Sivadasan among others became Opposition MPs. The MPs sought to recreate the scenes inside at the Gandhi Statue with Kareem calling for Zero Hour and Chhaya Verma starting her speech on price rise and demanding the revocation of suspension. On behalf of Opposition at the ‘Jan Sansad’, Patel then said that the Prime Minister was running away from debate on various issues of people they want to raise. He also demanded the revocation of suspension. The Leader of ‘Jan Sansad’ Ripun Bora countered the demand saying the Prime Minister has ordered the suspension and they cannot revoke the suspension till they apologise, referring to the Modi government’s stand. Dola Sen, who had a noose around her neck, then raised the issue of selling off national assets in the name of privatisation. While the government remained adamant The MPs also carried posters like ‘Save Democracy’, ‘Democracy Killed’, ‘Justice for Lakhimpur Kheri victims’, ‘Save Constitution’, ‘Sack MoS Home’. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/suspended-mps-hold-jan-sansad-in-parliament-house-1061809.html
17-12-2021||National Politics||Rajya Sabha adjourned till Monday||The proceedings of Rajya Sabha were adjourned for the day soon after the laying of papers on Friday, with Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu urging the government and opposition to arrive at a consensus over the issue of suspension of MPs. Soon after the tabling of listed papers, the chairman said he has met the leader of the house Piyush Goyal and some senior members of the opposition and asked them to hold discussions. "Today, I had a talk with the Leader of the House and also some senior members of the opposition. I would like to appeal to each one of you to please arrive at some sort of consensus to see that the house functions normally," he told the members. "In order to facilitate discussion among yourselves, I am adjourning the house to meet on Monday," the chairman announced within minutes after it met for the day. The opposition has been disrupting the proceedings of the house for the last many days. There has been a stalemate in the upper house over the issue of suspension of 12 MPs and the functioning of the house has been affected due to the protests by the opposition members seeking revocation of their suspension. The opposition is demanding that the suspension of MPs be revoked as the action is undemocratic and against the rules while the government wants them to apologise for their behaviour first, saying they were open to revoking their suspensions. Twelve MPs of various opposition parties in Rajya Sabha were suspended on the first day of the winter session over their unruly behaviour on the last day of the Monsoon session on August 11.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rajya-sabha-adjourned-till-monday-1061810.html
17-12-2021||National Politics||Fadnavis calls Congress a 'slowly-vanishing part-time party'||Senior BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis on Friday took a dig at the Congress, saying that it is now a "part-time" party which is slowly vanishing from the country, and added that the parties from Delhi and West Bengal have arrived in Goa ahead of the Assembly elections to carry out their experiments and to create division. He was referring to the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress (TMC), which have announced their decision to contest the upcoming polls in Goa. Slamming the TMC and Banerjee, he said there is no democracy left in West Bengal and that the state is at the top in terms of unemployment and crime. Fadnavis, who is BJP's election in-charge of Goa, was addressing people in Panaji after the induction of former Porvorim MLA Rohan Khaunte into the party fold. Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant and BJP's state unit chief Sadanand Shet Tanavade were also present. "People are here for experiment. They want to conduct experiment of their own (political) parties in Goa. But Goans are wise enough to understand all this. Goans know who will be with them and who will fly away after the election," the former Maharashtra chief minister said. Fadnavis said that political parties from Delhi and Kolkata have come to Goa only to create division and play their own politics. "When they lose election, they disappear for five years only to return during the next election. They don't have any plan or programme for the development of Goa," he added. Fadnavis said that the Congress is slowly vanishing from the country. "Congress has remained a part-time party in the country. Congress leaders are part-time, they don't get into full-time politics and hence their party has also become a part-time party," he said. The Congress leaders are running the party for the sake of it, he added. "They want to run the party on its past accomplishments, but that has also got over. Even old leaders are no more with them," he said. Fadnavis said the TMC has started claiming that it is the original Congress. "But I want to question Mamata didi that if your administration is good, then why is West Bengal in a bad situation?" he said. He asked why investors are not coming to West Bengal and why the state tops the list in unemployment and crime rate. "There is no democracy in West Bengal. If any opposition party leader raises any issue, in the next four days, you will find him hanging," Fadnavis alleged. He said he was surprised to know that a local party like the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP), which understands the political situation in the state and knows its history, has joined hands with the TMC. Fadnavis also took a dig at the Arvind Kejriwal-led AAP, saying the "party shows only trailer, but no movie". "They go everywhere to show the trailer. You know that trailer of every film is always a hit. But when you actually see the movie, you realise that whatever was shown in the trailer is not there," he said. The Assembly elections in Goa, which is currently ruled by the BJP, are due in February.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/fadnavis-calls-congress-a-slowly-vanishing-part-time-party-1061826.html
17-12-2021||National Politics||Congress slams Modi govt for summoning EC chief to PMO||The Congress on Friday criticised the BJP government for making Chief Election Commissioner Sushil Chandra and the two other Election Commissioners interact with an official at the office of the Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The opposition party accused the Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government of treating the EC as “a subservient tool”. Chandra and the two other Election Commissioners, Rajiv Kumar and Anup Chandra Pandey, had a virtual meeting with the Principal Secretary at the PMO, P K Mishra, on November 16. An official of the Ministry of Law and Justice had earlier written to the EC, conveying that Mishra would expect Chandra to be present at a meeting on common electoral roll. The CEC did not attend the meeting as the way the Ministry of Law had conveyed the PMO’s expectation for his participation in the meeting had not been in sync with the stature of the EC – an autonomous constitutional authority. The senior officials of the commission attended the meeting, but later the CEC and the two other Election Commissioners also had an informal interaction with the Principal Secretary of the PMO. “(The) PMO summoning (the) ECI (Election Commission of India) was unheard of in independent India,” Congress’s general secretary and chief spokesperson, Randeep Surjewala, posted on Twitter. “Treating EC as a subservient tool is yet another low in Modi Govt’s record of destroying every institution.” The communiqué from the union Ministry of Law and Justice to the EC seeking the CEC’s presence in the meeting with the PMO Principal Secretary raised the questions of constitutional propriety. Chandra, along with Kumar and Pandey, apparently chose to attend the informal interaction with Mishra in order to find a middle way between completely disregarding the expectation of the PMO and lowering the dignity of the EC by attending the main meeting. The Congress and the other opposition parties repeatedly criticised the Modi government for allegedly trying to use the EC for the advantage of the ruling BJP. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-slams-modi-govt-for-summoning-ec-chief-to-pmo-1061828.html
17-12-2021||National Politics||Naidu meets with Opposition leaders to break impasse in Rajya Sabha over suspended MPs||Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu on Friday dialled some Opposition leaders, held a meeting with them in the presence of Leader of House Piyush Goyal to break the impasse over the suspension of 12 MPs and adjourned the House without transacting any business to facilitate a discussion among themselves. "Today I had a talk with the Leader of the House and also some senior members of the Opposition. I would like to appeal to each one of you to please arrive at some sort of consensus to see that the house functions normally. In order to facilitate discussion among yourselves, I am adjourning the house to meet on Monday," Naidu said. Sources said Naidu met Leader of Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge and Congress Chief Whip Jairam Ramesh in the presence of Goyal, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi and Minister of State for Parliamentary Affairs V Muraleedharan. Both sides reiterated their stand on the issue. Sources said Goyal cited an instance of then Leader of Opposition Arun Jaitley expressing regret on behalf of some MPs who were suspended, following which the punishment was revoked in a week. Goyal is also learnt to have said that the Opposition should cooperate by apologising, but Kharge said that was out of the question. "We had a short discussion where I demanded the government to revoke the suspension but they are not ready to talk about it. It is a collective decision of the Opposition to make an appeal against the illegal suspension of 12 MPs. They want the suspended members to apologise one by one in the House but they are not going to do anything of that sort," Kharge told reporters. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/naidu-meets-with-opposition-leaders-to-break-impasse-in-rajya-sabha-over-suspended-mps-1061838.html
17-12-2021||National Politics||Punjab polls: Navjot Singh Sidhu promises urban employment guarantee mission||Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Friday promised to launch an urban employment guarantee mission to provide the right to jobs to urban labour in the state if his party returns to power. Noting that urban poverty in Punjab was double the rural poverty, he said the employment guarantee scheme will also cover unskilled labour. “The Punjab model will launch an urban employment guarantee mission, right to employment for urban labour,” Sidhu told reporters. “It is like MGNREGA (Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act) in urban areas,” he said while dubbing this mission as “radical and revolutionary” of his 'Punjab model' of governance. According to Sidhu, less than one per cent of daily wager labourers and construction workers among others have registered themselves as beneficiaries of various government schemes. He said he met some labourers at Madanpura Chowk in Mohali earlier in the day and asked them how many of them were registered for availing benefits of government schemes. “Of the 150 daily labourers, only one hand was raised. I asked how many of them had labour cards to which they said officials demanded money,” he said. “You cannot give benefits of government schemes if you do not know who the recipient is,” he said. Sidhu pointed out hardships faced by the daily-wagers in the wake of rising cost of essential commodities.  The Punjab assembly polls are due early next year. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/punjab-polls-navjot-singh-sidhu-promises-urban-employment-guarantee-mission-1061842.html
17-12-2021||National Politics||Lok Sabha adjourned after passage of Surrogacy Bill amid uproar||Lok Sabha proceedings were adjourned for the day after the House agreed to the amendments made by Rajya Sabha in the Surrogacy (Regulation) Bill, 2019, amid protest by Opposition members demanding the removal of Ajay Mishra as Union minister in connection with the Lakhimpur Kheri violence. As Lok Sabha reconvened at 2 pm, three bills-- the National Anti-Doping Bill, 2021, the Wild Life (Protection) Amendment Bill, 2021, and the Chartered Accountants, the Cost and Works Accountants and the Company Secretaries (Amendment) Bill, 2021 --were introduced after laying of various papers and reports. Besides, Minister of State for Health Bharti Pravin Pawar introduced the Surrogacy (Regulation) Bill, 2019, as passed by Rajya Sabha for consideration and passage. Last week, Rajya Sabha passed the bill after amendments and returned it to Lok Sabha on December 14. The bill aims to constitute a National Surrogacy Board and state surrogacy boards and appoint appropriate authorities for regulation of the practice and process of surrogacy.  It was earlier passed by Lok Sabha on August 5, 2019, and transmitted to Rajya Sabha for its concurrence. Lok Sabha passed the amended bill amid uproar by Opposition members demanding the removal of the minister whose son Ashish Mishra is among the accused in the October 3 Lakhimpur Kheri incident in Uttar Pradesh. Eight people, including four farmers, were killed in the violence. Soon after the passage of the bill, Rajendra Agrawal, who was chairing proceedings, adjourned Lok Sabha till Monday. The 228th report of the Law Commission had recommended that the government should enact legislation to ensure that there is only restrictive surrogacy in the country and commercial surrogacy is banned. According to the Statement of Objects and Reasons of the bill, only Indian couples who have been legally married for at least five years would be allowed to opt for surrogacy. The bill seeks to "allow ethical altruistic surrogacy to the intending infertile Indian married couple between the age of 23-50 years and 26-55 years for female and male, respectively." Earlier in the day, the House was adjourned soon after taking up four questions and their supplementary during the Question Hour. As the ruckus continued, Speaker Om Birla had adjourned the proceedings till 2 pm. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/lok-sabha-adjourned-after-passage-of-surrogacy-bill-amid-uproar-1061863.html
17-12-2021||National Politics||BJP keeps Ajay Mishra away from campaigning in Uttar Pradesh||Notwithstanding union minister Ajay Mishra's continuance in the union cabinet despite vociferous demand for his sacking by the Opposition over his son's alleged involvement in the killing of farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri in October, BJP has kept him away from election campaigning in Uttar Pradesh so far. According to the sources in the UP BJP here, barring Mishra, all the other ministers in the union cabinet who hailed from UP had been entrusted with election related tasks. Although Mishra had shared the stage with union home minister Amit Shah on the inaugural day of the All India DGP Conference in Lucknow last month, the BJP state leadership had not invited him to take part in the organisational meetings held to discuss electoral strategy. Although it was not clear if Mishra would be sharing stage with PM Narendra Modi, who was scheduled to address a public meeting on Saturday at Shahjahanpur, the neighboring district of Lakhimpur Kheri from where he was the MP, sources in the saffron party said that the possibility of him being present on the stage was 'remote'. Congress and Samajwadi Party (SP) leaders have asked Modi not to share stage with Mishra. "The prime minister should not allow Mishra to share the stage with him given his son's involvement in the Lakhimpur violence," said a senior SP leader here. "We don't want any controversy. Involving Mishra in the campaign may invite criticism from the Opposition parties and others," said a senior UP BJP leader while speaking to DH here. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-keeps-ajay-mishra-away-from-campaigning-in-uttar-pradesh-1061864.html
17-12-2021||National Politics||Congress to conduct 'Yatra' from Gen Bipin Rawat's village||The Congress on Friday announced it will conduct a three-day ‘yatra’ to commemorate chief of Defence Staff (CDS) Bipin Rawat, who died recently in a helicopter crash in Tamil Nadu, from his village in Uttarakhand on his ‘terahvi’. The ‘yatra’ will begin from either December 20 or 21, whichever day happens to be the ‘terahvi’, the day that marks the end of the mourning period in many Hindu families. The three-day campaign will be launched by Pradesh Congress Committee president Ganesh Godiyal from Rawat's village, Congress campaign head for Uttarakhand Harish Rawat said at a press conference here. Congress leader and former state assembly speaker Govind Singh Kunjwal will launch another ‘yatra’ -- part of the same initiative -- on the same day from the village of the first army chief from Uttarakhand General BC Joshi in Kumaon. The procession - named ‘Veer Gram Parikrama Yatra’ -- will cover villages of all martyrs who died fighting for the country's freedom or during the agitation for a separate Uttarakhand or defending the country's borders, Rawat said. The BJP had on Thursday accused the Congress of using the photograph of Gen Bipin Rawat for “purely political reasons” ahead of elections, and had asked it to explain why one of its leaders had once described him as a "roadside hooligan". Rawat on the other hand described Rahul Gandhi's rally at the Parade Ground here as a big success. He said that by honouring war veterans and martyrs, the Congress leader had deepened the ties Uttarakhand has had for years with the Gandhi family. "Indira Gandhi's mother Kamla Nehru was at a sanatorium here, Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru was lodged in a jail here. Our ties with the family are very old and they have been further deepened after yesterday's rally," Rawat said. The former Uttarakhand chief minister said he will also launch a campaign named "Bhajpai dhol ki pol khol" from Moonakot in Pithoragarh district from Dec 19 to expose the failures of the state government as reflected in the Kumbh testing scam and “shoddy” handling of the religious congregation. The massive Kumbh event was alleged by many to be responsible for the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic. He said the Congress' poll manifesto for the state will be drafted as envisioned by Rahul Gandhi with emphasis on employment for youths, and empowerment of women, weaker sections and the minorities. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-to-conduct-yatra-from-gen-bipin-rawats-village-1061913.html
17-12-2021||National Politics||At Nishad rally Amit Shah invokes Ayodhya||Union home minister and senior BJP leader Amit Shah on Friday sought to remind the Nishad (boatmen, Fishermen) community about their close relationship with Lord Rama and appealed to them to help the BJP alliance win the forthcoming assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh. Addressing a joint rally of Nishad Party and BJP here, Shah cited from the Hindu epic 'Ram Charit Manas' and said that tears had rolled down the eyes of the 'Nishad Raj' (king of Nishads) when he saw Lord Rama and Sita Mata sleeping on the floor in the forests. ''You (people) all know very well that Ram Lala had to spend so many years under the tarpaulin (makeshift Ram Temple in Ayodhya).....you also know who had created obstacles in the way of construction of the Ram Temple,'' Shah said apparently referring to the opposition Samajwadi Party (SP). ''It was Narendra Modi who laid the foundation stone of the new grand Ram Temple,'' he added. The former BJP national president also referred to the Kashi Vishwanath Dham Project in Varanasi and said that the BJP governments were trying to restore the cultural glory of the religious places. Shah also listed the achievements of the Centre and the state government and said that the 'double engine' government had worked for every section of the society. ''The SP and BSP worked only for some communities but we work for everyone,'' he added. He heaped praise on UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath and said that the latter had forced the mafia elements to flee from the state and established the rule of law in the state. The Nishad community, which formed around four per cent of the total electorate in the state, was a deciding factor in over 50 assembly constituencies in the state, especially in the eastern and central UP districts. BJP had entered into an alliance with the Nishad Party in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. This time also the saffron party would be leaving some seats for the Nishad Party. An NDA ally in Bihar, Mukesh Sahni, who calls himself 'son of mallah' (boatman) and was the founder of the Vikassheel Insan Party, has also decided to take a plunge in the UP polls and contest the seats where the Nishad community members in sizable strength.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/at-nishad-rally-amit-shah-invokes-ayodhya-1061919.html
17-12-2021||North and Central||Rohini court explosion: Sources say several suspects identified||The Delhi Police Special Cell has identified several suspects in connection with the low-intensity explosion inside the Rohini district court here earlier this month, source said on Thursday. The explosion that took place inside the courtroom no. 102 on December 9 injured one person. Police sources said the Special Cell investigators have identified several suspects in the case, but refused to divulge further details. Further investigation in the matter is underway, they added. The explosion took place months after jailed gangster Jitendra Gogi was shot dead by two men, who were dressed as lawyers, inside a Rohini courtroom on September 24. Police in retaliatory fire killed the assailants who were from the rival Tillu gang. Sources had said that the powder recovered from the spot seems to be ammonium nitrate. It has been handed over to the NSG which will ascertain the further details regarding the substance. Prima facie, it appears that the explosive was planted in a tiffin inside a laptop bag. Battery parts have also been recovered. It seems like a battery was set up for the explosion, sources had said. Court officials had said that there are around 75 cameras on the Rohini court premises. However, there is no camera at the corridor and inside courtroom number 102 where the incident happened. The cameras are installed at the main gates, court hall area and the police post.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rohini-court-explosion-sources-say-several-suspects-identified-1061697.html
17-12-2021||North and Central||Cold wave likely to hit north, northwest India: IMD||Cold wave to severe cold wave conditions are likely over Punjab, Haryana, western Uttar Pradesh, parts of Gujarat and north Rajasthan over the next five days, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Thursday. The mercury is predicted to drop by two to four degrees Celsius in most parts of northwest India, adjoining central India and Gujarat over the next four to five days, it said. The minimum temperature in most parts of east India and Maharashtra may also drop by two to three degrees Celsius over the next four days. "Cold wave/severe cold wave conditions over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Saurashtra and Kutch during December 17 to December 21; over north Rajasthan during December 18 to December 21; over West Uttar Pradesh during December 19 to December 21 and over Gujarat region on December 19 and 20," the IMD said in a statement. Dense to very dense fog is predicted in the morning hours in isolated pockets over Punjab and Haryana on Friday and Saturday and over northwest Rajasthan, Assam, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram and Tripura on Friday. "Ground frost conditions in the morning hours in isolated pockets very likely over Saurashtra and Kutch, Punjab and Haryana during the next four days," the IMD said. In the plains, the IMD declares a cold wave if the minimum temperature dips to 4 degrees Celsius. A cold wave is also declared when the minimum temperature is 10 degrees Celsius or lower and is 4.5 notches below normal. A severe cold wave is declared when the minimum temperature dips to two degrees Celsius or the departure from normal is more than 6.4 degrees Celsius. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cold-wave-likely-to-hit-north-northwest-india-imd-1061712.html
17-12-2021||North and Central||SAD will defeat every other party in Punjab polls: Sukhbir Badal||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Thursday exuded confidence that his party will defeat the BJP, the AAP and the Congress in the 2022 Punjab Assembly elections. Addressing a gathering in Sujanpur here, Badal asserted that Punjabis will not let outsiders govern them and will place their trust in the SAD, which represents the regional aspirations. "Just like Mamata Banerjee was successful in West Bengal, we will also defeat all three forces pitted against us to emerge victorious in 2022," he said. Targeting the Congress, Badal said its countdown has started. He claimed the infighting within the Congress will lead to its destruction in the coming days. The Akali leader said the SAD government will never ask Punjabis to fill forms as the Congress did. "We have always stood by all the commitments made in our election manifesto. Be it giving free power to farmers or introducing novel social welfare schemes like the Shagun scheme and the 'atta-dal' scheme, all was done immediately after government formation," he added. Taking on Aam Aadmi Party national convenor and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, Badal asked him to tell the people of Punjab as to why he allegedly filed an affidavit in the Supreme Court seeking the closure of the state's four thermal plants. "Kejriwal also stands for handing over the river waters of Punjab to Haryana and Delhi," he alleged. Badal said even Kejriwal's "drama" of promising to give Rs 1,000 every month to all women in Punjab if his party is voted to power did not cut ice with the people of the state. "Punjabis are asking why not one woman in Delhi has received Rs 1,000 per month till now," he said. Similarly, Kejriwal talked about regularising all contractual employees in Punjab but his government has not regularised 10,000 contractual employees in Delhi, the Akali leader said.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sad-will-defeat-every-other-party-in-punjab-polls-sukhbir-badal-1061713.html
17-12-2021||North and Central||Chhattisgarh: 17 wagons of iron ore-laden goods train derail in Naxal-hit Dantewada, no casualty||Seventeen wagons of a goods train derailed on the Kirandul-Visakhapatnam railway section in Chhattisgarh's Maoist-hit Dantewada district on Friday, a senior police official said. No casualties were reported in the incident, he said. The incident took place at 4.05 am between Bhansi and Kamaloor stations, when the iron ore-laden train was heading to Visakhapatnam from Kirandul (Dantewada), Dantewada Superintendent of Police Abshishek Pallava said. The movement of trains was disrupted between Jagdalpur and Kirandul due to derailment, he said. Ruling out the possibility of involvement of Maoists in it, Pallava said, "prima facie, the incident occurred due to mechanical reasons. It does not appear to be the handiwork of Naxals as Maoist banners or posters were not found at the site and the movement of ultras was also not reported there." The exact cause of the incident will be known after the investigation by railway personnel, he said. A teams of District Reserve Guard (DRG) and Railway Protection Force (RPF) has reached the spot, the SP said, adding that track restoration work is underway to facilitate the movement of trains. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chhattisgarh-17-wagons-of-iron-ore-laden-goods-train-derail-in-naxal-hit-dantewada-no-casualty-1061743.html
17-12-2021||North and Central||Punjab govt replaces officiating DGP, gives charge to IPS officer Chattopadhyaya||The Punjab government has appointed senior IPS officer Siddharth Chattopadhyaya as the officiating director general of police. Chattopadhyaya replaces senior IPS officer Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota. The order to appoint Chattopadhyaya as the officiating DGP was issued late Thursday night. A 1986-batch IPS officer, Chattopadhyaya would hold this charge until a regular DGP is appointed out of a panel of three IPS officers shortlisted by the Union Public Service Commission. The UPSC is set to hold a meeting for shortlisting the panel of three officers from the state government's list of 10 on December 21 in Delhi. Chattopadhyaya would also continue to hold the charge of chief director of the vigilance bureau. Sahota, 1988-batch IPS officer, was appointed as the officiating DGP after Charanjit Singh Channi became the chief minister of Punjab in September. Sahota was considered as Channi's choice. However, Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu has been pressing for replacing Sahota, who had remained the head of the special investigation team formed by the previous SAD-BJP government to probe desecration incidents. Sidhu was learnt to have been backing the name of Chattopadhyaya as the DGP after Channi replaced Amarinder Singh as the Punjab chief minister. Last month, the Channi government replaced the state's advocate general A P S Deol after strong opposition from Sidhu. Later, senior advocate D S Patwalia was appointed as the AG. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-govt-replaces-officiating-dgp-gives-charge-to-ips-officer-chattopadhyaya-1061755.html
17-12-2021||North and Central||Mentally ill UP man bites flesh off girl's cheek||In shocking a incident, a mentally unstable man bit flesh off a two-year-old girl's cheek in a village in Uttar Pradesh's Bareilly district. The child was playing in the courtyard of her house when the man, pounced on her and bit the flesh straight off of her cheek. He let the girl go after the bystanders beat him up with sticks. The toddler was rushed to a district hospital by her father, Sunil Kumar. Doctors said she would need plastic surgery. The accused has also been admitted to the same hospital. The girl's father said: "I was at home when my daughter was attacked by a man who was in an inebriated condition. The flesh on the left side of her face was missing. My daughter is having panic attacks and her condition is serious." The girl hails from a Dalit family and her father works as a daily wage labourer in the village. Circle officer Dileep Singh, who rushed to the spot, saw the accused lying unconscious with multiple injuries on his body. He was sent to the hospital under police custody. The man has been identified as Chedalal Gangwar, a resident of Khajua Jageer village. His family members told police he was undergoing treatment at a mental hospital and was kept inside his house. He escaped from his house and attacked the child. The man, on Thursday afternoon, created a ruckus in the hospital and tried to attack the medical staff. Bareilly SSP Rohit Singh Sajwan said: "This looks like an act of a mentally ill person. We have registered an FIR against the man under section 326 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt by a weapon or other means) and other relevant sections of IPC. We will send him to mental hospital after doctors provide a report about his condition." Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mentally-ill-up-man-bites-flesh-off-girls-cheek-1061764.html
17-12-2021||North and Central||Supreme Court stays proceedings of West Bengal commission to probe Pegasus snooping claims||The Supreme Court on Friday stayed all proceedings before the Justice M B Lokur Commission, formed by the West Bengal government, to inquire into charges of snooping of citizens by use of Isreal's Pegasus spyware. A bench of Chief Justice N V Ramana and Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli issued notice to the Commission in the matter as the West Bengal government submitted that the panel was no longer under its control. Earlier this month, it was reported that the Lokur Commission had asked Rahul Gandhi, Abhishek Banerjee, Prashant Kishor, Delhi Police Commissioner Rakesh Asthana, Bengal Chief Secretary H K Dwivedi among 31 people to appear before it in its probe. Notably, the top court had already set up an experts panel for the purpose. On Friday, the top court reminded senior advocate A M Singhvi about his oral assurance that he would convey to the Commission about the restraint to be observed in the matter. "What is this Singhvi? You told us there is no need to order," the bench asked him. To the query, Singhvi said, "I had conveyed the need for restraint but the Commission is not controlled by the state government. They did not work till the court's orders were out." "We understand your predicament," the bench said, issuing notice to the state government and the Commission on a plea to stay its functioning and quash the notification on its formation. Senior advocate Harish Salve, who appeared for NGO-petitioner, sought permission to implead the Commission as a party to the petition. Advocate M L Sharma, who filed the PIL along with several others including journalist N Ram, contended before the court the Commission's functioning was gross contempt of court. On August 25, the top court had told the West Bengal government, which formed the Justice M B Lokur-headed Commission of Inquiry to probe Pegasus snooping case, to observe restraint as the matter with pan-India effect was being examined by it. The court was then hearing the PIL, filed by Global Village Foundation Public Charitable Trust. On October 27, the court had formed an independent experts committee, to be supervised by a retired judge Justice R V Raveendran, a retired top court judge, to examine charges of snooping. “Right to privacy and freedom of speech are alleged to be impacted, which needs to be examined. The entire citizenry is affected by such allegations due to the potential chilling effect,” it had said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/supreme-court-stays-proceedings-of-west-bengal-commission-to-probe-pegasus-snooping-claims-1061779.html
17-12-2021||North and Central||No corruption allegations against Modi government in 7 years: Amit Shah||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has given a corruption-free government in the last seven years and no one can question its intention when a decision is taken, Union Home Minister Amit Shah said on Friday. Addressing the annual general meeting of FICCI, Shah also said one of the greatest achievements of the Modi government has been that it has brought 60 crore people in the country's development process, who were otherwise deprived of it since independence, and helped increase their faith in democracy. “There has not been a single instance of corruption in the last seven years. We have provided a corruption-free government. We have taken many decisions and one or two may be wrong. But no one, not even critics, can say that our intention (niyat) is bad,” he said. The home minister said there have been massive changes in the economy and 60 crore people, who were deprived of the country's development process since independence, were made participants. “There were 60 crore people, who did not have a bank account, they did not have electricity connection, gas connection or health facilities. The Modi government has given all of these to them and it has helped increase their faith in India's democratic process,” Shah said at the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry's meeting. Listing the achievements of the Modi government, he said the Covid-19 pandemic has been brought under control due to the charismatic leadership of Prime Minister Modi and the participation of the country's 130 crore people. Shah said no one had thought that Article 370, which gave special status to Jammu and Kashmir, would be abolished without bloodshed and no one had thought that the Ram Janmabhoomi dispute would be resolved peacefully. Left-wing extremism has almost been finished, there has been a massive improvement in health infrastructure, a significant and new education policy has been framed, and even a water policy has been formulated taking into consideration the next 100 years, the minister said. "There has not been a single area that has not been touched by the Modi government. There have been massive changes in the last seven years,” he said. Shah said a government takes four to five major decisions in 50 years but the Modi government has taken at least 50 major decisions in the last seven years. He said as 155 crore anti-Covid vaccine doses have been administered, there have been speed in the economy, manufacturing and production, and exports have also increased. If there is any country that has come out with strong economic activities after the pandemic, it is India. It has happened due to the farsightedness of the prime minister, he said. The home minister also gave a few suggestions to FICCI so that the industry body can be more deeply get involved in the country's development process. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-corruption-allegations-against-modi-government-in-7-years-amit-shah-1061783.html
17-12-2021||North and Central||PM Modi suggests making list of cities ignoring cleanliness campaign to nudge them to work||Prime Minister Narendra Modi Friday mooted the idea of publicising a list of cities where a blind eye has been turned to the cleanliness campaign so as to build public pressure on the authorities there to work. Inaugurating the All India Mayors' Conference in Varanasi via video conferencing, he also suggested that cities with rivers celebrate "river festival" (Nadi Utsav) to spread the glory of rivers so that people take pride in them and keep them clean. The prime minister said in several cities, rivers get ruined in due course, "at times reduced just to a dirty drain or a rainy season river". "We have to adopt a sensitive approach towards rivers," he told the conference on the theme of 'New Urban India'. As many as 120 mayors from across the country are participating in the conference. The prime minister exhorted them to build their political career using the opportunity they have got the serve the people. Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel was the mayor of Ahmedabad city during the colonial era when it was a nagar palika, the PM told them. "Sardar sahab started his journey from there, and today, the nation remembers him." Stressing on cleanliness, he asked Union Minister for Housing and Urban Affairs Hardeep Singh Puri to not only give awards to the city excelling in cleanliness but also recognise those making earnest efforts towards cleanliness. "Also prepare a list of cities that have kept their eyes closed as if they have nothing to do. We should come out with a list, and publicise them. After this, there will be so much pressure from the public that everybody will want to work," he said. "All the mayors should resolve that in the coming competition, their city does not lag behind." The prime minister stressed the cleanness drive should not be a once-in-a-year affair and proposed hosting a monthly inter-ward contest on beautification to nudge them to work continuously for cleanliness. "Like cleanliness, beautification is also important. Can we organise a beautification contest so as to find the most beautiful ward. The parameters can be cleanliness, beautification initiatives, how the walls have been painted, boards of shops and the signboards," Modi said. Referring to the ongoing Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav, Modi said rangoli contests related to freedom movement can be organised till January 26. He also asked the mayors to run programmes such as freedom struggle themed 'rangoli' competitions, songs competition on freedom struggle and lullaby (lori) competition. He also suggested that the mayors should find out and celebrate the foundation day of cities. He told them to get in touch with NCC units of the city and create groups to clean statues and organise speeches on the personalities in the spirit of 'Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav'. Similarly, mayors can identify a place in their city and create a monument in sync with the Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav through PPP mode, he said. On celebrating rivers, he said taking good care of these water bodies becomes essential as the world debates water crisis, global warming and climate change. "Can we organise a week-long Nadi Utsav, and make the entire city a part of it.” As part of the utsav, he said, rivers could be cleaned and Kavi sammelans organised on the banks. "Rivers should be brought back to the centre of city's life. This will bring a new life to your cities and enthusiasm." Talking about his recent visit here, he said, "Recently, when I was in Kashi, I had said that the development of Kashi, can be a roadmap for the development of the entire country." He told the mayors to revitalise the campaign to eliminate single-use plastic and also look into ways to create wealth from waste. Modi welcomed them as the host in the capacity of being a Lok Sabha member from Varanasi. He also suggested the mayors to keep small businesses and MSMEs in focus while carrying out development activities. In that regard, he told them about the "PM SVANidhi Yojana" and asked them to make a list of vendors and teach them how to use mobile phones for transactions. "Vendors are a big force as far as micro-economy is concerned. But, they have been neglected the most. Coronavirus made us realise how precious ('bahumulya') are these people who helped us, and also made us realise their power," Modi said. He also urged them to promote the use of public transport and also ensure that LED lights are used at homes and in street lights. Referring to the Uttar Pradesh government's 'One District One Product' programme, Modi asked the mayors to build a unique identity for their cities based on their signature product or place. He asked the mayors to see that every facility in their city is friendly as per Sugamya Bharat Abhiyan- Accessible India Campaign and also friendly to especially-abled people. Modi also requested the mayors to give suggestions from their experiences for the development of Kashi. "I will be grateful for your suggestions and I will be your first student”, he said.  Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-modi-suggests-making-list-of-cities-ignoring-cleanliness-campaign-to-nudge-them-to-work-1061798.html
17-12-2021||North and Central||PM Modi to lay foundation stone of Ganga Expressway||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will lay the foundation stone of Ganga Expressway in Shahjahanpur on Saturday. The government spokesman said that the 594 km long six-lane Expressway will be built at a cost of over Rs 36,200 crore. Starting near the Bijauli village in Meerut, the Expressway will extend till near the Judapur Dandu village in Prayagraj. It will pass through Meerut, Hapur, Bulandshahr, Amroha, Sambhal, Badaun, Shahjahanpur, Hardoi, Unnao, Rae Bareli, Pratapgarh and Prayagraj. Upon completion of work, it will become the longest expressway of Uttar Pradesh, connecting the western and eastern regions of the state. A 3.5 km long air strip for assisting emergency take-off and landing of Air Force planes will also be constructed on the Expressway in Shahjahanpur. An industrial corridor is also proposed to be built along the Expressway. The Expressway will also give a fillip to multiple sectors including industrial development, trade, agriculture, tourism, etc. It will provide a big boost to the socio-economic development of the region. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-modi-to-lay-foundation-stone-of-ganga-expressway-1061843.html
17-12-2021||North and Central||Delhi court stays action against pan masala company for indirect tobacco advertising||In relief to a pan masala company, a Delhi court has stayed a notice sent to it by the Directorate General of Health Services (DGHS) for allegedly indulging in surrogate or indirect advertisement of tobacco products in violation of the law.  While allowing the company to carry out its advertisement campaign, Additional Sessions Judge Rajinder Singh said that even though the Cigarette and Other Tobacco Products (COTPA) Act prohibits display, advertisement, and sale of tobacco products, there is no specific prohibition regarding surrogate advertising.  The judge said that the sale of gutka is banned and in such circumstances, there is no reason for the company to indulge in a surrogate advertisement for the promotion of a product which it cannot sell in the country. The DGHS claimed that in 2005, rules were laid down to ban the advertisement of tobacco products but the company carried out a surrogate ad campaign whereby the product 'Dilbagh Pan Masala' was advertised to promote tobacco products under the brand name 'Dilbagh'.  The directorate had issued a notice to the company on April 25, 2018, saying that it had put up a hoarding containing the indirect advertisement as brand promotion of tobacco products at Delhi's Dabri Flyover in 2018 to attract youngsters to trap them in tobacco habit, which is in violation of the COTP Act.  The health department said that 'Dilbagh' is a registered trademark for various tobacco products. This trademark is also registered for chewing tobacco, zarda, etc, it stated, adding that “the brand name of a tobacco product cannot be used for other products.” The company engaged in the business of selling pan masala of the brand name 'Dilbagh', however, said that the advertisement is not in violation of any law.  It claimed that their pan masala is 100 per cent tobacco-free and that only pan masala having tobacco is covered by the COTP Act. It also sought damages to the tune of Rs 5,00,000. The judge, while granting interim relief to the pan masala company, said the DGHS nowhere claimed that 'Dilbagh pan masala' contained any tobacco, nicotine, or any other banned substance.  “It can be summarised that the product in question is not alleged to be containing any tobacco or other banned substance. The sale of gutka is banned throughout the country. There is no reason or occasion for the plaintiff to advertise its tobacco products through 'indirect advertisement'. Accordingly, the plaintiff has a prima facie case,” he said.  The judge ordered, “The impugned notice dated April 25, 2018, under Section 5 of the COTPA Act is stayed till the final disposal of the suit. The plaintiff can carry out its advertisement campaign with regard to the product in question till the final disposal of the suit.” He said that if the advertisement for the product in question is stopped during the pendency of this suit, it will cause a loss of revenue as well as goodwill which will be irreparable. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-court-stays-action-against-pan-masala-company-for-indirect-tobacco-advertising-1061850.html
17-12-2021||North and Central||NEET-PG counselling: Resident doctors resume strike after demands not fulfilled||After a brief lull, resident doctors of the three Centre-run hospitals in Delhi resumed their strike on Friday and boycotted all services, including emergency, over the delay in NEET-PG 2021 counselling. The resident doctors at Ram Manohar Lohia, Safdarjung and Lady Hardinge hospitals said they resumed the strike as the government had made a "fake promise". They pointed out the "acute shortage" of resident doctors across the country as the counselling of NEET PG 2021 batch has already been delayed by eight months. On December 9, the resident doctors had said they were suspending the agitation, called by the Federation of Resident Doctors' Association (FORDA), for a week following the health ministry's assurance to expedite court hearing and subsequently fast-track the counselling process. However, on Wednesday, FORDA wrote to Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya informing him that it was resuming the strike. "The plight of overburdened and exhausted resident doctors seems to have fallen on deaf ears of the authorities who do not seem to be concerned about the shortage of healthcare workforce due to non-admission of fresh batch of resident doctors. "With the threat of third wave of Covid-19 looming large, the best the authorities could have done was to expedite the counselling and subsequent admission process - instead, there is inaction and lack of urgency in the matter.  Hence, as informed earlier, resident doctors are left with no choice but to go for withdrawal from all services (routine  as well as emergency) in healthcare institutions, 17th December, 2021 onwards. The onus of this unfortunate situation affecting healthcare services is on the authorities," FORDA's letter read. Functionaries of Safdarjung Hospital's Resident Doctors' Association had in a letter on Wednesday said they had been waiting patiently since the agitation was put on hold.  "However, once again, no action was taken by the ministry since one week, which is in stark contrast to its fake promises and false assurances," the letter read. "With the imminent threat of third wave of Covid-19, it is evident from the lackadaisical and ignorant attitude of the authorities that the healthcare, plight of overburdened doctors and suffering of poor patients is not of any importance to them at all," the letter stated. Dr Sunil Duchania, RDA president at Lady Hardinge Medical College, said the authorities concerned do not seem to be concerned about the shortage of force in heathcare. "Due to the irresponsible behaviour, the academic year of 45,000 NEET PG aspirants is almost wasted with the super-added ripple effect of shortage of resident doctors to combat the impending third wave of Covid-19 in all hospitals across the nation," Dr Anuj Aggarwal, general secretary of Safdarjung RDA, said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/neet-pg-counselling-resident-doctors-resume-strike-after-demands-not-fulfilled-1061860.html
17-12-2021||North and Central||3 yrs of Congress rule in Rajasthan will be remembered as 'black chapters', says Satish Poonia||Rajasthan BJP president Satish Poonia on Friday lashed out at the Congress saying the three years of its governance will be observed as "black chapters" for farmers, unemployed and women. He also called the recent Congress rally here, attended by its chief Sonia Gandhi and senior leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi, against inflation, a "political drama". “Three years of the Gehlot government will be seen as black chapters for farmers, unemployed and women. Crimes against women have increased while the government has failed to fulfil its promise of complete loan waiver of the farmers,” Poonia told reporters here as the Congress government completed three years. On the Congress' recent ‘Mahangai Hatao (reduce price hike) rally’, he said, “...Rahul Gandhi did not tell why the Rajasthan government is charging a high value added tax (VAT) on petrol and diesel. It is due to VAT that the rates of petrol and diesel are highest in the state.” He said that people of the state are tired of the Congress and will give a fitting reply in the 2023 Assembly elections. “After ruling the state, the Congress sometimes gets 21 seats and sometimes 56 seats. Next time, the Congress will not be getting MLAs sufficient enough to even fill a tempo,” he said.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/3-yrs-of-congress-rule-in-rajasthan-will-be-remembered-as-black-chapters-says-satish-poonia-1061868.html
17-12-2021||North and Central||Rare surgery of brain aneurysm done in Prayagraj||In a first, a team of doctors from the neurosurgery department of Swaroop Rani Nehru Hospital (SRNH), an associate hospital of MLN Medical College in Prayagraj, have successfully performed a rare surgery of brain aneurysm. Brain aneurysm, also known as a subarachnoid haemorrhage, is a weak spot in the wall of a blood vessel inside the brain. Head of the Neurosurgery department of MLN Medical college, Dr N.N.Gopal said: "It is for the first time that in the field of neurovascular surgery in SRN Hospital, that such a complicated operation has been successfully performed. Brain aneurysms are balloon like out-pouching of brain arteries, which bleed easily and result in hematoma or blood collection inside the brain. This is a very dangerous situation as it can cause coma or even death." Dr Shabi Ahmed, head of the surgery department, said that since it has the tendency to bleed again and again, it needs either microsurgical clipping or endovascular treatment. Therefore, it is one of the most dangerous and complicated surgeries in neurosurgical domain. The patient's condition was now stable and he is recovering satisfactorily. In this surgery, doctors explored the base of the brain, searched out the aneurysm and clipped it, which was a complicated task. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rare-surgery-of-brain-aneurysm-done-in-prayagraj-1061870.html
17-12-2021||North and Central||UP Opposition worked only for particular castes when in power: Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Friday attacked opposition parties, claiming that they worked only for particular castes when they were in power in Uttar Pradesh. He was addressing the Sarkar Banao, Adhikar Pao rally here with the BJP’s new ally NISHAD party. "Whenever the Samajwadi Party or Bahujan Samaj Party formed the government in Uttar Pradesh, they worked only for their own castes. But Prime Minister Narendra Modi has worked for all backward castes and in the interest of the poor,” Shah underlined. He also said that in the regime of Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, criminal and mafia elements have been uprooted. The Union minister added that in the previous regimes, there was mafia rule and development of the poor could not take place. Uttar Pradesh will go to polls early next year. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-opposition-worked-only-for-particular-castes-when-in-power-amit-shah-1061881.html
17-12-2021||North and Central||UP lagging behind other states in delivering renewable energy targets: Report||Uttar Pradesh has fallen behind other power-intensive states in terms of delivering on renewable capacity targets and it needs to take urgent action to get back on track and avoid slowing down India's decarbonisation journey, says a report. A joint report by the Institute for Energy Economics and Financial Analysis (IEEFA) and energy think tank Ember also highlighted that the state is lagging behind in its 2022 solar capacity target of 10.7GW as compared to its peers. Urgent action is needed to get back on track, not only for the state to meet its own targets but also to avoid slowing overall progress towards India’s targets of 175 gigawatts (GW) of renewable capacity by 2022 and 500GW of non-fossil fuel capacity by 2030, the report cautioned. As of October 2021, Uttar Pradesh had a total installed renewable capacity of 4.3GW which is only 30 per cent of its 2022 renewable capacity commissioning target of 14.1GW, it stated. In comparison, other states with high electricity demand are well ahead on their 2022 capacity commissioning targets. Gujarat and Rajasthan have achieved 85 per cent and 86 per cent, respectively, Tamil Nadu (72 per cent), Maharashtra (47 per cent), and Madhya Pradesh (45 per cent). The report said Uttar Pradesh is lagging behind its peers on its 2022 solar capacity target of 10.7GW – the second largest solar target among all Indian states. Only about 2GW, or 19 per cent, of that target has been achieved, it stated. "Uttar Pradesh has a lot of catching up to do when it comes to rolling out solar capacity to meet its targets,” says report co-author Aditya Lolla, senior electricity policy analyst at Ember. Uttar Pradesh accounts for a tenth of India’s power demand – the second largest share after Maharashtra. Over the past decade, the state’s electricity demand has increased by almost two-thirds and peak demand has more than doubled. And by 2030, electricity production is estimated to grow by 47 terawatt hours (TWh), it stated. "Until now, Uttar Pradesh has met most of its strong demand growth with coal capacity expansion. Going forward, solar can fulfil the vast majority of future electricity demand growth if the state achieves its 23.5GW by 2030 target," says Lolla. "Hitting that target requires a major effort to ramp up solar capacity additions to around 2.5GW every year on an average." Lolla and co-author Kashish Shah, IEEFA energy finance analyst, say Uttar Pradesh is now at a crossroads where the choices it makes about meeting future power demand growth could either speed up or slow down India’s decarbonisation journey. Meeting its 2030 solar target will allow Uttar Pradesh to avoid locking in resources to build new coal plants beyond those already under construction, said Shah. "Building new coal-fired power plants is becoming increasingly unviable," he said. Capital for coal power projects is drying up. Apart from state-owned non-banking financiers – Power Finance Corporation (PFC) and Rural Electrification Corporation (REC) – there is no investor willing to finance coal projects in India, he noted. In addition, coal power plant utilisation has been falling. The plant load factor of Uttar Pradesh’s 23.7GW coal fleet has dropped from 68 per cent to 61 per cent in the last five years. "And heavy reliance on coal now leaves its power system vulnerable to any disruptions, even those caused outside the state. Coal shortages in India in October 2021 forced the state to purchase very expensive power at Rs 22/kWh in the open market," the report said. It highlights various barriers to solar uptake that need to be tackled urgently. These include the cancellation of renewable energy power purchase agreements (PPAs) in recent years by state electricity distribution companies (discoms) and the discoms’ increasingly high aggregate technical and commercial (AT&C) losses of above 30 per cent. Expensive and unreliable coal-fired generation has put tremendous pressure on the finances of discoms. In 2019-20 Uttar Pradesh discoms incurred a loss of Rs 4,917 crore (USD 660 million), despite tariff subsidies of Rs 10,120 crore (USD1.36 billion).  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-lagging-behind-other-states-in-delivering-renewable-energy-targets-report-1061894.html
17-12-2021||North and Central||Akhilesh Yadav prays at Hanuman temple near Rae Bareli, kicks off latest leg of SP's poll campaign||Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Friday sought the blessings of Lord Hanuman at a temple near Lucknow-Rae Bareli as he started the seventh leg of his 'Samajwadi Vijay Yatra' from Rae Bareli ahead of the Uttar Pradesh assembly elections early next year. In a tweet in Hindi, Yadav wrote the final 'dohaa' of Hanuman Ashtak (eight stanza prayer dedicated to Lord Hanuman), and also posted his photographs at the Hanuman temple. "With the blessings of Lord Hanuman, and with His glimpse, the Samajwadi Vijay Yatra started from Rae Bareli," he said in a tweet in Hindi. SP spokesperson and MLC Sunil Singh Sajan told PTI that this is the seventh leg of the Samajwadi Vijay Yatra. समाज में सबके भले के लिए कार्य करना, भेदभावहीन समानता एवं साम्य के लिए निरंतर प्रयासरत रहना ये वो मूल सिद्धांत हैं जो रामराज्य व समाजवाद में पाये जाते हैं। रामराज्य का पर्याय ही समाजवाद है। "SP chief Akhilesh Yadav visited the Hanuman temple in Churuva in Bachhrawan assembly constituency in Rae Bareli district, and sought blessings of Lord Hanuman before the commencement of the seventh leg of the Samajwadi Vijay Yatra," he said. The temple is located close to Lucknow-Rae Bareli border. Friday's visit to Rae Bareli by Yadav also assumes significance as it comes a day before the padyatra of Congress general secretary Priyanaka Gandhi Vadra and his brother Rahul Gandhi in the neighbouring district of Amethi. Both Rae Bareli and Amethi are considered to be bastions of the Congress. In 2019 Lok Sabha elections, Congress president Sonia Gandhi won from Rae Bareli, while Union minister Smriti Irani defeated Rahul Gandhi from Amethi parliamentary constituency. The Churuva Hanuman temple has been one of the favourite halts of politicians while going to Rae Bareli from Lucknow. Both Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi have visited the temple on their way to Amethi and Rae Bareli. In January 2018, after becoming the Congress president, Rahul Gandhi had visited the temple while on his way to Amethi from Lucknow during a two-day tour. In September this year, Priyanka Gandhi began a two-day tour of her mother's parliamentary constituency by making her first pit stop at the Hanuman temple, and offered prayers.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/akhilesh-yadav-prays-at-hanuman-temple-near-rae-bareli-kicks-off-latest-leg-of-sps-poll-campaign-1061899.html
17-12-2021||North and Central||Kafeel Khan pens his version of Gorakhpur’s hospital tragedy||Kafeel Khan, the doctor embroiled in the Gorakhpur hospital incident controversy, on Friday released his book on the subject. Titled 'The Gorakhpur Hospital Tragedy, A Doctor’s Memoir of a Deadly Medical Crisis', the memoir projects Khan’s version of the incident and subsequent developments that have kept him tangled ever since. On Friday, Khan tweeted, “Announcing the publication of my book, an honest, heartfelt account of the terrible events of 10 Aug 2017 & after. I dedicate it to all the parents who lost their children in the tragedy. Yeh kitab un 63 bachchon aur 18 vyasakon ko samarpit hai (This book is dedicated to those 63 children and 18 adults).” “I thought of giving readers facts and evidence. This is not only the story about me. It’s about kids and adults who died, and about families who are waiting for justice,” Khan told DH. The book, claims Khan, has stories that expose the system’s failures and expose “real culprits”. “The Gorakhpur Hospital Tragedy is Kafeel Khan’s first-hand chronicle of the events of that fateful night in August 2017 and the gut-wrenching turmoil that followed – a suspension without end, an eight-month-long incarceration and a relentless fight for justice in the face of extreme apathy and persecution,” a note shared from Khan’s end, states. When asked if the book is timed keeping in mind the Uttar Pradesh elections, Khan said that he has been writing the book for a long time. “The most important (point the book talks about) is the broken health system. The system collapsed. It also talks about doctors’ struggle. The poor and the marginalised community depend on public hospitals. I have talked about the public health system,” he said.   Born in Gorakhpur, Khan had completed his MBBS and MD from Kasturba Medical College, Manipal, in Karnataka. He was suspended from Baba Raghav Das Medical College’s Nehru Hospital after the August 2017 incident. With jail terms in between and after a long legal battle, Khan was terminated from service in November this year. There are still pending cases against him in lower cases. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kafeel-khan-pens-his-version-of-gorakhpur-s-hospital-tragedy-1061912.html
17-12-2021||North and Central||DU approves paid maternity leave for ad hoc, contractual staff||The Delhi University’s executive council on Friday approved paid maternity leave for ad hoc and contractual staff and constituted a committee to look at concerns related to setting up a nanomedicine institute by the varsity. A panel was constituted to examine whether ad hoc and contractual staff should be granted maternity leave. According to the report submitted by the panel, “recognising the fact that availing maternity leave is a basic and vital necessity for the physical and emotional well-being of the mother and the child, the committee recommends that paid maternity leave be granted to ad hoc/contractual women teaching and non-teaching employees working in the university/colleges of the university". The committee also noted that ad hoc and contractual staff are hired for a fixed period of time. "... paid maternity leave may be granted to such women employees by the university/colleges for a maximum period of 26 weeks within the specified period of such fixed term engagement," it said. The panel also said that the benefits may be made available to women with less than two surviving children, in accordance with the guidelines. The move was welcomed by the teachers. "Paid maternity leave for ad hoc teachers/contractual staff was adopted in the DU EC today. It is a big relief to thousands of women teachers working in the varsity and its colleges and is a result of the continuous work of the teachers' collective and many individuals. “The movement will continue to demand parliament order/UGC regulations for absorption of working teachers to bring the real relief and professional and academic growth these young teachers deserve," Abha Dev Habib, secretary, Democratic Teachers' Front, said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/du-approves-paid-maternity-leave-for-ad-hoc-contractual-staff-1061958.html
17-12-2021||North and Central||Punjab govt replaces officiating DGP; BJP, BSP alleges Sidhu hand behind move||Yielding to Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu’s alleged pressure to replace senior IPS officer Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota, the Punjab government has made Siddharth Chattopadhyaya as the state’s new officiating police chief. The order to appoint Chattopadhyaya as the officiating DGP was issued late Thursday night. Reacting to the development, the Punjab BJP and BSP said it has now become clear that Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi had “no authority” in the state and Sidhu is “running the show”. Sidhu has been pressing for replacing Sahota who had headed the special investigation team formed by the previous SAD-BJP government to probe desecration incidents. Sidhu was learnt to have been backing Chattopadhyaya’s name as the state DGP after Channi replaced Capt Amarinder Singh as the Punjab chief minister in September. A 1986-batch IPS officer, Chattopadhyaya would hold this charge until a regular DGP is appointed out of a panel of three IPS officers shortlisted by the Union Public Service Commission. The UPSC is set to hold a meeting on December 21 in Delhi for shortlisting the panel of three officers from the state government's list of 10 officers. Sahota, a 1988-batch IPS officer, was appointed as the officiating DGP after Channi became the chief minister of Punjab in September. Sahota was considered as Channi's choice. Last month, the Channi government replaced the state's advocate general A P S Deol following strong opposition from Sidhu. Later, senior advocate D S Patwalia was appointed as the AG. Chattopadhyaya, meanwhile on Friday, assumed the charge of Punjab’s officiating police chief. Chattopadhyaya would also continue to hold the charge of the director-general of police, Punjab State Power Corporation Limited, Patiala and the additional charge of chief director of the Vigilance Bureau. After assuming the charge, Chattopadhyaya held a meeting with the top brass of the state police. An official release quoting Chattopadhyaya said besides maintaining law and order ahead of the Punjab assembly elections, he will focus on the fight against drug trafficking, human trafficking and improving road safety in the state. A President's Police Medal for Gallantry awardee, Chattopadhyaya had served in various critical and sensitive capacities in the state police during days of terrorism and on deputation at the Border Security Force (BSF), said the release. Reacting to the appointment of a new officiating DGP, Punjab BJP general secretary Subhash Sharma took on the Congress-led government in Punjab, saying this move reflected that Channi has "no authority" in the state. Before that the AG who was appointed by the CM was also replaced, said Sharma. He alleged that Sidhu had been "running" the government from the “backdoor” with the "blessings" of the Gandhi family while Channi has just remained a “rubber stamp.” With Sidhu also being appointed as the chairman of the Punjab election committee of the Congress, it has become clear that Channi was appointed as the CM just to "garner" votes of the scheduled caste community. Punjab Bahujan Samaj Party chief Jasvir Singh Garhi also took an exception to the replacement of Sahota and said with the replacement, an officer belonging to the scheduled caste community, the “anti-Dalit face of the Congress has been exposed”.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-govt-replaces-officiating-dgp-bjp-bsp-alleges-sidhu-hand-behind-move-1061975.html
17-12-2021||North and Central||VHP demands nationwide anti-conversion law||The Centre should come up with an anti-conversion law on the lines of the draft bill in Karnataka, the Vishwa Hindu Parishad demanded on Friday. The outfit is also mounting a mass awareness campaign nationwide to this effect.  Among other demands, the VHP said that a commission of inquiry along the lines of the Niyogi Commission and the Venugopal Commission should be set up. The saffron outfit has made similar demands for statewide legislation in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh.    Apart from the draft bill in Karnataka, the Karnataka Protection of Right to Freedom of Religion Bill 2021, anti-conversion laws have come into effect in BJP-ruled states such as Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh and Gujarat. The legislation in these states have penal provisions for forced religious conversions and can land those accused in jail for up to 10 years. A functionary of the outfit said that they will launch a countrywide campaign in the next ten days.  In June, the joint secretary Surendra Jain issued a statement pressing these demands. “The VHP is of the view that now for a comprehensive inquiry into such atrocious forms of conversions, a commission of inquiry on the lines of the Niyogi Commission should be formed and mandated with jurisdiction to cover the entire country,” the statement said. Earlier, the outfit had identified 70 places in Uttar Pradesh where they said Hindus were in fear of conversion.  In UP, 128 people were arrested under the anti-conversion law within a year of its implementation, and in MP, nine people were arrested. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/vhp-demands-nationwide-anti-conversion-law-1061976.html
17-12-2021||North and Central||Wrestling federation chief Brij Bhushan Sharan Singh loses cool, slaps wrestler in public||Brij Bhushan Sharan Singh, the president of the Wrestling Federation of India, landed in an awkward situation on Friday when he slapped a wrestler from Uttar Pradesh on the stage during the first round of the Under-15 National Wrestling Championship at Shaheed Ganpat Rai Indoor Stadium here. Many wrestlers from other states including Uttar Pradesh protested strongly and demanded an apology from the WFI president. However, Jharkhand Wrestling Association president Bholanath Singh and others intervened and pacified the matter. During the age verification, a wrestler from Uttar Pradesh was found to be above 15 years of age. He was stopped from participating in the competition. However, the wrestler first lodged a complaint and then stepped onto the stage and started arguing with the WFI president. Later, the wrestler insisted he step into the ring. Singh tried to pacify him and asked the wrestler to step down from the stage. He refused to do so and continued shouting on the stage. After that, the WFI president lost his temper and slapped the wrestler in front of everyone. After the incident, Singh said that no one will tolerate indiscipline and if the wrestler would have participated in the competition despite his overage, then it would have left a bad impression on other wrestlers. Bhola Nath Singh also said that overage wrestlers taking part in competitions for younger wrestlers are a big problem and sports authorities should acknowledge this issue and try to stop this practice. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/wrestling-federation-chief-brij-bhushan-sharan-singh-loses-cool-slaps-wrestler-in-public-1061980.html
17-12-2021||Opinion||Strategic consequences of Chinese lending||After Sri Lanka, it is Uganda's turn. According to reports, Uganda is likely to lose its only international airport to China due to its inability to repay a loan. The East African country is landlocked, and the international airport is strategically significant for Uganda. The Ugandan authorities and the Chinese Embassy in Uganda denied the news. But the controversy around Uganda's Entebbe airport raises serious questions about the strategic implications of Chinese lending. According to the agreement between China and Uganda, signed in 2015, the Entebbe International Airport was to be expanded at the cost of $200 million, with repayment in 20 years. So far, nearly 75 per cent of the work has been completed with two runways built, and the airport handles 1.9 million passengers annually. Earlier this year, Uganda sought to renegotiate the loan. However, China refused to change the terms of the agreement. Recently, Uganda's Finance Minister Matia Kasaija apologised to a parliamentary committee over the loan clauses. In the last few years, several smaller developing countries have turned to China for loans free of conditionalities that western lenders and multilateral institutions impose, like human rights records, democratic norms, and the rule of law. Since its inception in 2013, China marketed its signature foreign policy project of the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) as an opportunity for developing countries and branded as China's Marshall Plan. The original Marshall Plan of the US was launched after the Second World War to rebuild the war-ravaged Western Europe. The assistance under the Marshall Plan was disbursed in grants that were not required to be repaid. However, the BRI, despite its plans to invest in building much-needed infrastructure projects, extends loans to the recipient countries, which are to be repaid at a high cost. Often, the interest rates are high and burden countries with expensive debt. Sri Lanka is the starkest example of the strategic implications of Chinese loans. In 2017, Sri Lanka was forced to hand over the deep-water port of Hambantota and 15,000 acres of surrounding land to China for an equity swap deal for 99 years. China portrayed the deal as purely commercial. However, its intelligence and strategic implications are hard to miss. Chinese political, economic, and infrastructure footprint in Sri Lanka is now a structural reality. The strategically located Indian Ocean archipelagic country, the Maldives, too is indebted to China. The Maldivian debt to China is between the US $ 1.5 billion and $ 3.1 billion. Exact figures are difficult to obtain. Chinese debt is a concern for Djibouti as well. Djibouti is described as the "most valuable military real estate in the world" owing to its geostrategic location at the crossroads of Africa, West Asia, and the Indian Ocean. In 2018, the former Commander of the United States Africa Command (AFRICOM), General Thomas Waldhauser, publicly raised concerns about Djibouti's debt to China and the vulnerability it generates for that country. Djibouti owes $ 1.2 billion to China and also hosts China's only overseas military base. China's economic footprint in Djibouti is expanding at a fast pace. Other than Sri Lanka, the Maldives, and Djibouti, many smaller states like Kyrgyzstan, Laos, Tajikistan, Mongolia, and Pakistan are at greater risk due to the high share of loans from China in their overall national debt. Lack of transparency and expensive Chinese lending imposes severe costs on the receiving countries. The unsustainable levels of Chinese loans will likely force many of these countries to approach international institutions, like the International Monetary Fund (IMF), for support or repayment in some other form, such as handing over strategically critical national assets. Pakistan is a case in point. It has been in negotiations with the IMF for a bailout package. China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) is considered the flagship project of the BRI, which will connect landlocked Western China with the Indian Ocean via Pakistan. The development of the port of Gwadar on the Arabian Sea is a crucial project in the CPEC. The investment estimates for CPEC are to the tune of US $ 62 billion. However, questions remain whether Pakistan can absorb the proposed investments, repay the expensive Chinese loans, and the future of CPEC projects in the context of internal security challenges. Will the proposed Chinese military base at Gwadar be a price for Chinese loans even if Pakistan may see strategic benefits in such a proposition? China's lending and the willingness to extract a high price in the form of control over national assets is often called "debt-trap diplomacy". Some scholars believe "debt-trap diplomacy" is a myth. However, in many instances across the world, Chinese lending has had an adverse political and strategic impact on smaller states with a limited ability to repay Chinese loans. The politics surrounding expensive Chinese loans and the costly infrastructure projects compel regional powers to take necessary corrective steps to limit the growing Chinese influence. After the Chinese takeover of the seaport of Hambantota, India had to step in to acquire the airport, dubbed as the "emptiest airport in the world", at a considerable cost. Notwithstanding the actual course of action to be taken by the Ugandan authorities on the handover of the Entebbe International Airport, the episode has underscored the strategic and political consequences of Chinese loans in contemporary international politics. (The writer is a strategic analyst based in Delhi) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/strategic-consequences-of-chinese-lending-1061723.html
17-12-2021||Opinion||Shame that even Ganguly cannot change BCCI's ways||Anyone looking for small mercies can seek solace from the fact that Virat Kohli came to know of his removal as India's ODI skipper first-hand from the chairman of the national selection panel. Chetan Sharma might have conveyed his committee's decision off-handedly and as an afterthought ahead of a selection meeting to pick the Test squad for South Africa, but Kohli was at least accorded a privilege two of his predecessors weren't. In 1979, as India were flying back from England after a long tour that involved a winless World Cup campaign and a 0-1 Test series loss to the hosts, S Venkataraghavan came to know of his sacking when the captain of the Air India aircraft congratulated Sunil Gavaskar over the in-flight public address system on his appointment as the skipper. Eighteen years on, Sachin Tendulkar was out with his friends when a journalist called him with the news of his ouster from the helm of the Indian team. Neither man had been done the courtesy by the Board of Control for Cricket in India of so much as a 'thank-you-very-much-but-we-feel-it's-time-to-move-on'. One would have expected, given how much professionalism the BCCI has embraced in the intervening 24 years since the end of Tendulkar's first term as national skipper, that there would be a greater streamlining of the processes that iron out the potential creases when it comes to captaincy swaps. On the evidence of what's transpired in the last week, that is quite clearly not the case. It can be argued that the BCCI/selection panel chairman is under no obligation to inform the incumbent captain that he is being replaced. But isn't that the decent thing to do, obligation or not? Should not a man who has been at the top of the leadership charts in Test cricket since 2015 and the limited-overs formats since 2017 have been taken into confidence, the roadmap of the future outlined so that even in a non-captaincy role, he would still be as heavily invested in taking the team forward? What would the Board have stood to lose in that instance? Kohli should have seen the writing on the wall as early as September when he announced his intention to quit the T20I captaincy at the end of the World Cup in the UAE in October-November. International men's cricket isn't replete with examples of one person leading the T20I side and another handling the reins of the Test and ODI teams. However, that's precisely the case currently with India Women, where Mithali Raj is the Test, and ODI captain and Harmanpreet Kaur heads the T20I side of which Raj is no longer a member. The two white-ball versions largely necessitate the same leader both to define the brand of play and to ensure that different voices, however much in resonance, don't clutter the minds of the players. Kohli ought to have realised that when while quitting the T20I leadership role, he expressed his desire to focus on Test and ODI captaincy. If he didn't, that's still alright. After all, that's what the selectors are there for. Not too many have an issue with Rohit Sharma supplanting Kohli as the 50-over captain – not even Kohli, going by what he said at Wednesday's press conference. It is the manner in which the entire issue has been handled that has left a bitter taste in the mouth. This wasn't unavoidable. All it needed was a channel of communication to be open. Why that wasn't the case is the big question. Even assuming that the selection panel head was justified in his throwaway line to Kohli about looking beyond him when it came to the 50-over captaincy, where was the need for Sourav Ganguly, the BCCI president, to queer the pitch with his assertions that Kohli has subsequently contradicted? Even in his first week in charge, Ganguly had spoken more to the media than perhaps all his predecessors combined. In keeping with that tradition, he chose to inform the world that he had requested Kohli not to relinquish the T20I captaincy. Kohli denies such a request was ever made. Ganguly also let it be known that he and Chetan Sharma had informed Kohli that Rohit Sharma would be elevated as the ODI captain too. Again, Kohli has no recollection of these conversations. Clearly, only one of them is being truthful, and Ganguly's studied unnatural silence in the aftermath of the Kohli presser hasn't helped matters any. For reasons best known to it, the BCCI has made it a habit of keeping the rationale behind even its most far-reaching decisions wrapped in cotton wool. It is convinced there is no need to justify its calls to the largest stakeholder, the cricket-invested fan who has helped the sport reach dizzying heights with his unstinted patronage. And when statements do emanate, they are either addled or confusing – such as treasurer Arun Dhumal's insistence that Kohli had sought leave of absence from the ODI series in South Africa even before Rohit Sharma's appointment, which too Kohli has shot down – and not from the men whose responsibility it is to throw knowing light on subjects. One would have expected greater empathy from the current BCCI president, not only because he is a 100-Test veteran but also owing to his unceremonious ouster from the captaincy in 2005. Instead, Ganguly has reiterated the truism that in Indian cricket, the more things change, the more they remain the same. Now, that's a real shame, no matter if one is sympathetically inclined towards Kohli or not. (R Kaushik is a Bengaluru-based senior cricket writer)  Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/shame-that-even-ganguly-cannot-change-bccis-ways-1061725.html
17-12-2021||Opinion||'Theirs not to reason why – theirs but to follow the ‘Hindutva’ cry': Praying to the gallery||The gods must be amused.  Come election time and political leaders scramble to visit temples, vying with each other in the anxiety to be seen as devout human beings (read Hindus). The ruling party has made a fine art of basing their politics on religion; scaling up ‘Hindutva’ to Himalayan heights, bringing secularism to an abysmal low. The other parties are not far behind. The coming elections in Uttar Pradesh have triggered a frantic sprint, left, right and centre, from politicians of all hues to worship at Hindu shrines, an unrelenting frenzied charge that completely outstrips Tennyson’s Light Brigade. With apologies to the great poet:  Theirs not to reason why – theirs but to follow the ‘Hindutva’ cry.  Before going further on ‘Hindutva’ and elections, and the impunity of public figures falling foul of the Constitution, one needs to talk about secularism in India, and the connecting electoral law.  There’s a perception that being secular necessitates a rejection of traditions, religious principles. Not so. In the Indian perspective, there’s due reverence for the great faiths and beliefs emanating from our land. Articles 25 to 28 of the Constitution provide for freedom of religion. However, the Indian State is constitutionally bound to be secular, to be religiously neutral.  Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan put it succinctly: “Secularism does not mean irreligion. It means we respect all faiths and religions. Our State does not identify itself with any particular religion.”  Thus, it is anathema for political parties to play the religious card. It is significant to refer to the Representation of the People Act, 1951 (RPA), and the relevant provision to uphold secularism in the electoral sphere. Section 123 (3) of the RPA states that an appeal by a candidate, or his agent “…to vote or refrain from voting for any person on the ground of his religion, race, caste, community or language...” would amount to a “corrupt practice”.    In January 2017, a seven-judge Constitution Bench of the Supreme Court, interpreting the above-mentioned provision, held that any appeal on the basis of religion, race, caste, etc., “would constitute a corrupt practice.” (Abhiram Singh v CD Commachen).  The court stated, among other things, “…The elections to the state legislature or to the Parliament…is a secular exercise...the constitutional ethos forbids the mixing of religions or religious considerations with the secular functions of the State.”  Regarding elections and the interpretation of ‘Hindutva’, whether it’s a “way of life” or pertains to the Hindu religion, the Supreme Court, in 1995, in the Manohar Joshi case (the ‘Hindutva judgement’), held that “…it is the context and the manner of its use which is material for deciding the meaning of the word ‘Hindutva’ in a particular text.” Justice JS Verma’s decision still holds the field, leaving political groups to use the judgement to suit their self-serving ends.  To come back to Uttar Pradesh, campaigning is already in full swing, long before the election schedule is announced. What’s the clarion call to voters? Not roti, kapda, makaan, internet, or vaccination. Not social justice. No, the bugle is loud and clear, calling for the ‘Hindu’ vote. The BJP set the ball rolling with the Bhoomi Puja for the Ram Mandir in Ayodhya in 2019, setting up the template for electioneering on religious grounds. The agenda was transparent. ‘Hindutva’ all round. And Mathura-bound. The other parties, with no minds or platforms, or spines of their own, follow dumbly, like sheep.  We have Priyanka Gandhi Vadra take off on sudden devotional yatras, landing up at various temples in UP, performing puja, perceivably not for her inner soul, but for the television cameras. Rahul Gandhi, too, takes great pains to project himself as a devout Hindu, frequenting shrines in Jammu, UP, Karnataka, and other election areas. Mamata Banerjee, chanting verses from the Chandipath.  Arvind Kejriwal scurries to Ayodhya, carrying out elaborate rituals (AAP jaisa Ayodhya mein aaye…toh vote ban jaaye?!)  Yes, a politician has every right to practice his faith. Nonetheless, there’s a constitutional obligation for public authorities to uphold secular practices, and abstain from wearing their religion on their sleeves.  Technically, Section 123 (3) of the RPA doesn’t prohibit electoral candidates from worshipping at sacred places. The prohibition is on ‘appealing’ for votes on religious grounds. For example, a candidate is forbidden from saying: “I am a Hindu, therefore you, as a Hindu, vote for me…”  Nevertheless, the People’s Representatives are visibly breaking the spirit of the law, and unabashedly negating secular practices. As Justice JS Verma explained in the ‘Hindutva’ judgment: “…it is the context and the manner of its use which is material…” In dashing to Hindu temples in election time, the message is loud and clear: “See how devout a Hindu I am…vote for me...”    Yet, there is hope that the electorate, desperate for improvement in their lives, will see through the disingenuous campaigning, the comical scenes of party leaders hopping from one temple to another, of posturing piousness, and reject the sectarian appeals! Incidentally, I am a Hindu, brought up on, among other things, the inspiring epics, Ramayana and Mahabharata. Rama was the epitome of Dharma. Devotion to the people was the mantra in his Ayodhya.  Prime Minister Narendra Modi has upped the ante on public performance of temple worshipping. Seen recently at the Kedarnath temple, ahead of the Uttarakhand polls early next year, and then in full “aarti” flow in Kashi, in Uttar Pradesh!   Ironically, he has himself stated that “service to the people is the highest form of worship”.  Exactly so. The PM and every public servant must walk the talk, eschew grandiose shows of temple rituals, and kneel down to worship at the altar of secularism. Serving one and all should be the electoral call. (The writer is a Bengaluru-based lawyer)  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/theirs-not-to-reason-why-theirs-but-to-follow-the-hindutva-cry-praying-to-the-gallery-1061997.html
17-12-2021||Second Edit||Higher fine won’t end medical seat scam||Karnataka Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar has announced that a fine of Rs 25 lakh will be levied on students who surrender their medical seats at the last moment. But the question is, will this really end what has come to be known as the ‘seat surrendering scam’, considering that most medical colleges are owned by powerful politicians belonging to all parties. This is how the scam works: A few students who have obtained high ranks in the National Eligibility and Entrance Test (NEET) are identified by certain private medical colleges and made to apply to the Karnataka Examination Authority (KEA) and block their seats. During the last round of counselling, these students surrender their seats and get admitted to a college in another state. Since the Supreme Court has ruled that only three rounds of counselling can be held, the seats that fall vacant have to be transferred to private colleges, which then sell them for exorbitant sums under the management quota to students with much lower merit. In the process, many deserving candidates lose out.  Until now, the government levied a fine of Rs 5 lakh per surrendered seat but the problem persisted with private colleges making good this amount to the students. What’s more, the colleges bear the costs of their travel and stay and even pay them a ‘fee’ of Rs 5 lakh or more for their ‘services’. This pay-out does not pinch the managements, since they sell the surrendered seats for crores of rupees. Last year alone, the KEA collected Rs 40 crore in fines and other fees, which gives an indication of the extent of the scam. Former DGP Shankar Bidari had some time ago alleged that it’s a Rs 1,000-crore racket; BJP member N Ravikumar, who raised the issue in the Council, recalled that the Income Tax department had unearthed Rs 400 crore in unaccounted money during raids on medical colleges.  Increasing the penalty is fine, but it is doubtful if it will put an end to the scam. Instead, the government should approach the Supreme Court and seek permission to hold an additional round of counselling exclusively for surrendered seats. Indeed, the state could seek a review of the apex court’s various orders on professional college admissions to make them relevant to the current times. The Centre, too, should consider linking the examination authorities of all states to prevent a student from seeking multiple admissions and thereby blocking seats. There are ways to put an end to this scam, what is needed is the political will to do so.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/higher-fine-won-t-end-medical-seat-scam-1061993.html
17-12-2021||South||5 more suspected Omicron cases in Tamil Nadu||Five more persons in Tamil Nadu have tested Covid positive with the presence of 'S' gene drop, which indicates a high possibility of the Omicron variant, taking the total number of suspected Omicron cases in the state to 13. Among the five is a woman passenger form Tamil Nadu's Arani, who reached the state from the Republic of Congo in Africa. The other four are the relatives of the person who has already been tested and confirmed positive for Omicron variant. The woman, according to health department authorities of Tamil Nadu, has been isolated and admitted to Tiruvannamalai General Hospital. The Tamil Nadu health department also informed her co-passengers, who had travelled on a Qatar flight QR 530 from Doha to Chennai on December 10. The state health department, according to officials, has traced the contact details of the Covid positive person. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/5-more-suspected-omicron-cases-in-tamil-nadu-1061753.html
17-12-2021||South||After INL, LJD, rift in yet another ally of Kerala's Left front||After bickering in two CPI(M) allies, the Indian National League (INL) and Loktantrik Janata Dal (LJD), trouble has now broken out in another one of its allies -- the Kerala Congress(B). In KC(B) discontent against actor-turned-former State Minister and present legislator K B Ganesh Kumar has been simmering for sometime but the situation has worsened with a section of party workers, opposed to him, planning to bring in his sister as the new chairman of the party. KC(B) was founded by veteran R Balakrishna Pillai but after his death in May, a sibling war has broken out in his party over the properties. A soured relation between the two sisters of Kumar was one of the reasons why he failed to get a Cabinet post as Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan decided to let the 57-year-old Kumar settle his family disputes first. A media critic, on condition of anonymity, said Pillai was a seasoned politician and due to his huge experience in the political arena, he was able to run the party efficiently. "But, Kumar who is now a five-time legislator, was always playing second fiddle to his father in the party and all was not well between the father-son. The party workers were also divided between the two. Today, those opposed to Kumar in the party has decided to see if they can bring in his sister Usha Mohandas as the chairperson of the party. Given the family issues, Kumar who might get a cabinet post after two years will lose a chance yet again as the Chief Minister is very clearly not tolerant towards bickering. So one has to wait and see how Kumar plays his cards," said the media critic. Vijayan had spoken tough against the warring INL factions and the moment he gave an ultimatum to the rival factions to settle the issues, the sqaubbles ended. Similarly, last month after the rival factions of the LJD took actions against one another, Vijayan's warning resulted in a patch-up. Meanwhile, with feathers ruffled in Kumar's party all eyes are on its crucial party meeting scheduled for next week on how it's able to go about it, with Vijayan keeping a close tab on it. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/after-inl-ljd-rift-in-yet-another-ally-of-keralas-left-front-1061790.html
17-12-2021||South||Tamil Nadu declares 'Tamil Thai Vaazhthu' as state song||Tamil Thai Vaazhthu (Invocation Song) penned by renowned scholar Manonmaniam Sundaranar was on Friday declared as the state song of Tamil Nadu. Chief Minister M K Stalin made the announcement in a press statement in which he said all should remain standing when the song is sung at the beginning of functions organised by the state government and educational institutions. “The following lines penned by Manonmaniam Sundaranar known as Tamil Thai Vaazhthu is declared as state song of Tamil Nadu. The song should be sung in 55 seconds,” Stalin said in the statement recalling a recent order that the song should be sung at events, avoiding recorded versions of the same. He said everyone, barring physically-challenged, should stand when the song is sung. The Chief Minister said the state song should be sung mandatorily at all government functions and events hosted at educational institutions across the state. In the statement, Stalin also said private companies will be encouraged to play Tamil Thai Vaazhthu at the beginning of the functions or events organised by them as part of the efforts to take the tradition of singing the anthem to the younger generation. The announcement by the government comes close on the hells of the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court observing that Tamil Thai Vaazhthu was just a prayer song and that there was no order requiring attendees to stand up when it is played. The court was hearing a petition relating to a controversy over Vijayendra Saraswathi Swamigal, then junior pontiff of the Kanchi Kamakodi Peetam, not standing up for the Tamil Thai Vaazhthu at an event in Chennai in 2018 even as the then Governor Banwarilal Purohit was standing. Vijayendra Saraswathi’s act in 2018 had triggered a massive controversy with many accusing him of “deliberately insulting” Tamil. Political parties had sought action the pontiff for sitting through the Tamil Thai Vaazhthu. However, the pontiff had justified his action, saying he was “meditating” when the song was played. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-declares-tamil-thai-vaazhthu-as-state-song-1061803.html
17-12-2021||South||Kerala HC accepts plea on re-appointment of Kannur VC||A division bench of the Kerala High Court on Friday accepted a petition questioning the re-appointment of Kannur Vice Chancellor Gopinath Ravindran. The court directed that notices to be sent to Kerala Governor Arif Mohammed Khan as he is the chancellor and the state and the Kannur University. It said notice need not be send to Ravindran and when the case gets heard on January 12, his counsel can put forward his arguments. On Wednesday, a single bench of the court dismissed the same plea filed by Kannur University senate member K. Premachandran and another person Shino Jose. This had come as a relief for Vijayan, who has been under severe attack from several quarters, including Khan, who after signing the re-appointment order, had backtracked, saying that his "hands were tied and now he regrets the decision". He even went public stating that he (Khan) no longer desires to continue as the Chancellor. The Congress and the BJP have demanded the resignation of State Higher Education Minister R. Bindhu after her two letters to Khan seeking re-appointment of Ravindran as Chancellor, surfaced. As soon as the Single bench verdict came, it was celebrations in the Vijayan camp and Bindhu, who was ducking the media for long, said she has done everything within the rules and that she is not duty-bound to convince the media. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-hc-accepts-plea-on-re-appointment-of-kannur-vc-1061812.html
17-12-2021||South||Man pours petrol on woman, sets her on fire; attempts to end his life||A 22-year old woman suffered serious burn injuries after she was set on fire by a man on Friday at a grama panchayat office in this north Kerala district, police said. Police said the man, after setting the woman on fire by pouring petrol on her, attempted to end his life by setting himself on fire. Both have been admitted to the Government Medical College hospital here, they said. The incident was reported from the Thikkodi grama panchayat office at around 10 am. An employee of the Panchayat said the flames were contained and both were rushed to a hospital in Koyilandi before shifting them to Kozhikode Medical College. A postgraduate in computer science, the woman had joined as a project assistant in the Panchayat only four days ago. Police said that the man's identity and the reason behind the crime are being investigated. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/man-pours-petrol-on-woman-sets-her-on-fire-attempts-to-end-his-life-1061836.html
17-12-2021||South||Omicron cases go up to eight in Telangana; One Kenyan yet to be traced||Two more cases of Omicron were reported from Telangana on Friday, taking the tally of the Covid-19 variant infections in the state to eight. All these cases were described as “imported” by Dr Srinivasa Rao, director, state public health department from various countries: Kenya: 3, UAE: Abu Dhabi – 1, Dubai – 2, Sudan – 1, UK – 1. Only two of the above persons had arrived from countries categorized as at-risk for Omicron. Rest were found positive from the two percent random testing the state is conducting at the Hyderabad airport of all the passengers arriving from foreign countries. While seven of them have been isolated in government health facilities, a Kenyan who went to stay in Paramount Colony of ToliChowki area is yet to be traced, Rao admitted on Friday in a press conference. Apart from these eight cases which are in Telangana, one Omicron case was detected in a 7 year old boy who along with his family had landed in the Hyderabad airport but traveled on to Kolkata. Except one case – of a UK returned woman in Hanumakonda – the rest were located in ToliChowki area of Hyderabad. Rao termed the UK returnee case as “interesting” as she had tested Covid-19 negative on her arrival at Hyderabad airport about 10 days back but a retest after a week showed her as positive. Subsequent genome sequencing of samples identified her as infected by Omicron. “There is no cause of worry. All of them are fine, they have zero symptoms- not even cold,” Rao said. Though the top health official stated Paramount Colony as a hot-spot, it has not been declared a containment zone. “We are however taking all containment measures like contact tracing, testing of the locals. So far we have tested about 600 samples, half of the results came but none of them were Covid-19 positive,” Rao said. “There is no alarming situation in Telangana. No local has been infected by Omicron till now,” the official said even as he advised the public to take utmost care, “completing two doses of Covid-19 vaccine and wearing masks.” Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/omicron-cases-go-up-to-eight-in-telangana-one-kenyan-yet-to-be-traced-1061844.html
17-12-2021||South||Massive fire at Vatakara Taluk office; probe ordered||A massive fire broke out at a taluk office in nearby Vatakara engulfing several important official records and files in the early hours of Friday, following which the government ordered a comprehensive inquiry into the incident. Though the blaze is under control now, three units of fire engines, which rushed to the spot from Nadapuram, Vatakara and Perambra are still fighting to douse it completely, official sources here said. The office building and the piles of files and records kept there, have almost been completely gutted in the fire, they said. The roof of the renovated old building collapsed in the fire, sources added. Revenue Minister P Rajan told reporters that all aspects including the possibility of any "external intervention" into the incident would be probed. "Directions have been given to carry out a comprehensive probe as soon as a preliminary report into the incident is received. All aspects including the possibility of any external intervention behind the incident will be included in the investigation," he said. District Police Chief, Srinivas A also did not reject the chances of external intervention behind the unexpected fire break in the government office. "I am not accepting or rejecting any such possibility at the moment. A comprehensive probe will be carried out by a special team led by Vatakara DYSP," he said. The officer also said the special branch has been entrusted with the preparation of a preliminary inquiry report sought by the Collector in this regard and scientific evidence would be collected soon. The district administration made it clear that only old records and files were destroyed in the fire as an e-filing system has been in place after the year 2019. Located in the heart of Vatakara town adjacent to the district court complex and other state government offices, most of the files and properties at the Taluk office have been destroyed in the fire, sources said. The fire was noticed in the early hours of the morning. The documents that were gutted in the fire will be ascertained later, they added.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/massive-fire-at-vatakara-taluk-office-probe-ordered-1061846.html
17-12-2021||South||TRS MP Srinivas likely to rejoin Congress||Rajya Sabha member from Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS), D Srinivas is likely to return to the Congress. Srinivas has been inactive in the ruling party for over two years after he was accused of indulging in anti-party activities. Srinivas, who headed the Congress twice in undivided Andhra Pradesh, called on party President Sonia Gandhi in Delhi on Thursday evening. The meeting lasted for 40 minutes and she was believed to have given the green signal for his return to the party. Congress sources said the former minister will soon call on party leader Rahul Gandhi and join the party. Srinivas was one of the top Congress leaders who switched loyalties to the TRS after it formed the first government in the newly-created state in 2014. The Chief Minister and TRS President K. Chandrasekhar Rao rewarded him with the post of special advisor to the government and later made him a Rajya Sabha member in 2016. Srinivas had led the Congress to victory in 2004 and 2009 Assembly elections in the united Andhra Pradesh. After the defeat in 2014 elections, he joined the TRS. However, on the eve of 2019 Lok Sabha elections, the senior leader from Nizamabad faced allegations of anti-party activities. KCR's daughter K. Kavitha, who was seeking re-election from Nizamabad Lok Sabha constituency, and other TRS leaders complained to KCR that Srinivas was working against the party by promoting his son D. Aravind, who had joined the BJP. Kavitha lost the election to Aravind. Though Srinivas denied the allegations of working against the TRS and tried to meet KCR to clarify his stand, he was denied the appointment and since then, he remained inactive. Srinivas had met Sonia Gandhi before the 2019 elections and wanted to return to the Congress but this did not happen. With his term as Rajya Sabha member ending in June next year, the senior leader is now eyeing an active role in politics by returning to the Congress. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/trs-mp-srinivas-likely-to-rejoin-congress-1061903.html
17-12-2021||South||Three students die in wall collapse at Tamil Nadu school ||Three students died and four others were injured when a wall constructed near the toilets of a government-aided higher secondary school in Tirunelveli town collapsed on Friday morning.  K Anbazhagan, D Vishwa Ranjan, and R Sudhish, who were studying in ninth, eighth and sixth standards, respectively, were crushed to death. Four of their schoolmates are receiving treatment at the Tirunelveli Government Medical College Hospital.  The wall collapsed at around 11 am when students came to the toilet during break, police said, adding that the wall was built by the school to prevent the view from outside.  After the incident, students of the Schaffter Higher Secondary School protested against the management and alleged that the walls were built using poor quality raw materials. They also staged a road roko and withdrew the protest after intervention from the police.  Tirunelveli district collector V Vishnu, Tirunelveli Police Commissioner N K  Senthamaraikannan visited the school. The school’s correspondent, headmaster, and the contractor who constructed the wall have been arrested. Chief Minister M K Stalin condoled the “unfortunate and tragic” death of the students and ordered a solatium of Rs 10 lakh each to the parents of the children who died in the wall collapse.  School Education Minister Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi said a detailed inquiry into the incident will be conducted by the Tirunelveli District Chief Educational Officer. He also said the government will take steps to ensure such incidents do not recur by inspecting schools across the state. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/three-students-die-in-wall-collapse-at-tamil-nadu-school-1061918.html
17-12-2021||South||IUML, CPI(M) oppose move to raise women's legal marriage age||The Centre's move to raise legal age of marriage for women from 18 to 21 has been opposed by Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) and CPM leaders in Kerala. While CPM leaders maintained that raising the age was not the solution to prevent child marriages, the IUML and other Muslim outfits fear that the move was aimed at implementing uniform civil code. Former CPM MP P K Sreemathi Teacher said that the government should initiate steps to address nutrition issues of young women and children and raising the marriage age of women was not the solution for it. She also pointed out that even as women's age for marriage was raised to 18, child marriages could not be prevented. IUML MPs from Kerala gave adjournment motion notices in Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha over the plans to raise women's legal marriage age. The party alleged that it was an attempt to encroach on Muslim personal law and demanded the government to desist from the move. Even as the number of child marriage cases being reported in Kerala was comparatively low, a report of Kerala government's economic and statistics department had revealed that 22,552 women in the 15-19 age group gave birth in the state during 2017. While it was widely considered that child marriages were rampant among the Muslim community, a study published in 2018 found that child marriages were increasing among Hindu and Christian communities as well. Financial backwardness of families was found to be a key factor prompting parents to conduct marriage of girls at the earliest. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/iuml-cpim-oppose-move-to-raise-womens-legal-marriage-age-1061924.html
17-12-2021||South||Kerala parties divided over high-speed rail project||The proposed semi-high-speed rail project in Kerala has led to political turmoil within both the ruling and Opposition parties in Kerala. While Congress MP Shashi Tharoor caused embarrassment to United Democratic Front (UDF), differences within the CPI, the second-largest party in the ruling CPM-led Left Democratic Front, is causing embarrassment for the ruling front over the much-hyped project. While Congress in Kerala has openly expressed resentment over Tharoor's stand, the parliamentarian made a post on social media on Friday hailing Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan's development outlook. "Enjoyed discussing Kerala’s development with CM Pinarayi Vijayan. On some issues, it is necessary to put political differences aside and get on with growth. The young people of our state deserve opportunities that the current economic situation does not offer them," he said. Tharoor has kept off from signing a memorandum submitted by Congress MPs from Kerala opposing the semi-high-speed rail project maintaining that he needed to study more about the plan. A committee of the Congress-led UDF did a detailed study on the project and the party has decided to launch agitation against it, citing environmental concerns and financial burdens.  The Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee has taken up the matter seriously with senior leaders like opposition leader V D Satheesan and former Kerala PCC president Mullappally Ramachandran coming out openly against Tharoor's stand. Kerala PCC president K Sudhakaran said that the party would ask the MP about his stand. He also said that the party would be going ahead with the protests against the rail project. The indifferences within the CPI over the project came up during the party state council meeting on Thursday. While there were reports that CPI MP Binoy Viswam kept off from a delegation of Left MPs who called on railway authorities on Friday, party state secretary Kanam Rajendran maintained that the MP could not join the delegation due to personal inconveniences. Many CPI leaders reportedly maintained in the state council meeting that the government was showing undue haste in taking forward the project amid serious issues and financial crunches of the state. However, since the project is highlighted in the front's election manifesto, the party would not openly oppose it. The 530-kilometre project aims at bring down travel time between Thiruvananthapuram in south and Kasargod in north to less than four hours. It takes at least ten hours by road and rail. Environmental concerns and huge financial obligations are the key points of resentment. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-parties-divided-over-high-speed-rail-project-1061925.html
17-12-2021||South||Delay in capturing tiger in Kerala leads to tension||With efforts of Kerala forest authorities to capture a tiger that killed 17 domestic animals over the last three weeks yet to yield any result, Wayanad district was even witnessing tension between the local people and the forest officials. Kurukanmoola near Manathavady in Wayanad has been facing the tiger menace for nearly three weeks. Even as forest officials were not able to spot the tiger so far it kept on the killing spree with 19 domestic animals being killed so far. The picture of the tiger was captured in camera traps of the forest department four times. On Friday, a section of local people claimed that they had spotted the tiger in the morning and alerted the forest authorities. But the forest officials allegedly failed to reach the spot swiftly. This even led to an altercation between a section of local people and forest officials. Forest Minister A K Saseendran said that a team of over 100 forest officials were engaged in the search for the tiger over the last two weeks. Chief wildlife warden Bennichan Thomas was also deputed to Wayanad to coordinate the activities. A section of local people had raised suspicions that the tiger could have been released by the Karnataka forest officials in the adjacent border forest areas as tigers were not spotted in the Kurukanmoola region earlier. Kerala forest officials had sought the help of the National Tiger Conservation Authority to get the identity of the tiger on the basis of the images captured in the camera traps. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/delay-in-capturing-tiger-in-kerala-leads-to-tension-1061932.html
17-12-2021||South||AIADMK protests against DMK, accuses of 'cheating people'||Days after getting elected as leaders of the AIADMK through internal elections, party coordinator O Panneerselvam and joint coordinator Edappadi K Palaniswami on Friday hit the streets by protesting against the DMK government’s “false promises” and demanding that the new dispensation change its “anti-people” attitude.  While Panneerselvam led a protest in his native Theni district, Palaniswami addressed a protest rally in Salem district in western Tamil Nadu. Besides the two leaders, senior leaders and former leaders led the protests in their respective districts across the state and launched a sharp attack on the DMK government.  The leaders accused the DMK of coming to power by “giving false promises” to the people during elections and laid the blame for “deteriorating law and order” at the doorsteps of Chief Minister M K Stalin. The party warned that it will organise a huge protest rally if the DMK did not implement all the promises made during the election campaign.  “People will come back to us (AIADMK) if the DMK does not fulfil promises. What is the DMK government doing? They made so many promises before coming to power and forgot them completely after assuming office,” Panneerselvam said.  Palaniswami launched a frontal attack on the DMK accusing the government of renaming the schemes only because they were named after late Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa. “No development has taken place in the past seven months. The DMK has not fulfilled its promises. We are seeing for ourselves what is happening in the state,” he said.  This was the first protest after the AIADMK elected Panneerselvam and Palaniswami as coordinator and joint coordinator of the party through organizational elections. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/aiadmk-protests-against-dmk-accuses-of-cheating-people-1061949.html
17-12-2021||South||'We are still in shock': Nilgiris' villagers on helicopter crash||Residents of Nanjappanchathiram, a nondescript village near Coonoor in the Nilgiris, attained a heroic status for their courage and determination in joining the rescue operations in December 8 helicopter crash by risking their own lives.  The villagers have received all-round praise from all quarters, especially the Armed Forces – Lt. Gen. A Arun, General Officer Commanding, Dakshin Bharat, visited the tiny hamlet of 70 families earlier this week to personally thank them for rushing to the spot where the chopper carrying Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat and 13 others crashed.  However, the villagers told DH they are not yet “out of the shock” and regret that “we were not able to save anyone” from the crash. According to eyewitnesses, three persons, including Gen Rawat, were pulled out alive, though the Indian Army has not yet commented on the exact details.  While two are believed to have died on their way to Army Hospital in Wellington, Captain Varun Singh succumbed to injuries a week later.  “The villagers did not care about their lives. They went to the site and did whatever they could. The villagers helped the police and fire service personnel in pulling out charred bodies and dousing the fire. No words to laud their courage and selfless service,” the Lt. Gen told the media on the sidelines of an event in Chennai.   The villagers pulled out everything that they had in their modest dwellings, most importantly blankets, to carry the survivors out of the crash site.  Almost all of them are labourers who work in the nearby tea estates or in the construction sector.  In an extraordinary gesture, Lt. Gen. Arun visited the hamlet on Monday along with state government officials to thank the villagers for standing with the Indian Army. The Army Commander distributed a kit containing blankets and other household items to the villagers and announced a free check-up for them for a year at the Army Hospital in Wellington. “I want to give something in return to you for all the selfless service you people did on December 8 when the helicopter crashed. Till December 8, 2022, for one year, every month, I will send a doctor and a nurse to your village for a medical check-up. And for one year, you can get a free consultation at the Army Hospital,” the Lt. Gen told the villagers in Tamil. Sagayaraj, a resident of Nanjappanchathiram, said the villagers are “unhappy” that they could not save anyone who was on board the helicopter.  “We are happy that the Army Commander visited us. But we are not happy with the fact that we could not help anyone. We were shocked to know the lone survivor, Capt Varun Singh also died. We are yet to come out of the shock. We thought at least the people who were pulled out alive will survive. But that too didn’t happen,” Sagayaraj told DH over the phone.  V Jaishankar, an MGNREGA worker, said several people rushed to the crash site almost immediately with the intention of saving lives. “We came to know those inside the helicopter were Army officers only after reaching the site. We were hoping that at least a few of them survive. We are so lucky to help the Army men who stand guard at the border saving us. But we are stressed that we could not save anyone,” Jaishankar told DH. “We never helped expecting anything in return. But we are happy that the Army Commander visited our village and spoke to us. I have been a fan of the Indian Army, and we all would have been happily accepting the help if at least one person was alive,” Jaishankar added. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/we-are-still-in-shock-nilgiris-villagers-on-helicopter-crash-1061968.html
17-12-2021||South||India's first box-packed wellness diet products launched in Kerala||Food Flavours, a Kochi-based startup, has launched India's first box-packed wellness diet products including ready to cook chapatis with moringa-leaves and ragi. The company is ready to launch millet-based noodles and tortilla wraps with the same range of wellness ingredients and is also planning to launch frozen variants of its products. Food Flavours, promoted by a techie-turned-foodpreneur teamed up with a homemaker-turned-chef, has launched the box-packed wellness diet products including five variants of whole-wheat ready-to-cook chapatis with moringa leaves, ragi (finger millet), flaxseeds, palak (spinach) and thena (foxtail millet). Renjith George, Managing Director of Food Flavours, said the company had test-marketed these Fresh Start brand of wellness chapatis in northern Kerala since the last one and half years. "Even those least-urbanised parts of Kerala gave us good response to these niche, premium products which made us soft launch them in Kochi a few months back. Now, with our newly opened 1600-sq ft unit in Chowara, near Aluva, we are going full-fledged with various other wellness food products in addition to our five types of wellness chapatis," he said. He added that the wellness diet was catching up fast especially since Covid but developing new wellness products was not that easy. "We took up the challenge and my co-founder Chinju Philip, after regular improvising, developed these ready-to-cook chapatis with ingredients traditionally known and scientifically proven for good health and wellness. We also developed box-packets made of carton boards to pack them to ensure freshness, convenience for handling and storing," George said. At present, the company's newly-opened unit in Chowara has a capacity to produce 15,000 to 20,000 chapatis a day for all the five variants combined, which they want to increase to 50,000 pieces soon. Fresh Start ready-to-cook wellness chapatis are priced at Rs 100 for packet of 10s with oil papers separating each chapati. "Millet-based noodles, with these same wellness ingredients, are also ready to be launched soon as successful trials were completed recently, which will be followed by tortilla wraps. Remaining authentic is a tough task. But we enjoy being on a pedestal," George said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/indias-first-box-packed-wellness-diet-products-launched-in-kerala-1062013.html
17-12-2021||South||Amaravati should remain sole capital of Andhra Pradesh, say Oppn parties; show solidarity with farmers||Leaders representing various political parties in Andhra Pradesh came on one platform to express their solidarity with the Amaravati farmers' agitation against the YSRCP government's three capital plan for the state. A mega rally was organised in Tirupati on Friday to mark the culmination of a 400 km long padayatra of the protesting farmers and other locals from Amaravati. Themed as “Nyayasthanam (high court) to Devasthanam (temple),” their march passed through four districts, over six weeks. It was on December 17, 2019, that CM Jaganmohan Reddy had first unveiled his controversial plan of three capitals in the Andhra Pradesh assembly. The Amaravati farmers have been agitating since that day with their 'One State - One Capital' demand. During the course of the padayatra, Jagan on November 22 took back the two contentious legislations stripping Amaravati of its sole capital status while allowing the relocation of the executive to Visakhapatnam, judiciary to Kurnool with Amaravati remaining only the legislative capital. However, Jagan said that the withdrawal was only to bring in more effective, inclusive laws. His capital shift is on hold since last year following directions of the Andhra Pradesh high court which is reviewing the petitions of farmers. Speaking at the Tirupati rally on Friday, Leader of Opposition and Telugu Desam party supremo N Chandrababu Naidu asked, “Why CM Jagan was not changing his adamant stand when all opposition parties – TDP, Janasena, BJP, Congress and the Left parties - were opposed to three capitals?” “The BJP, in power at the Centre, has clearly expressed its support to Amaravati as the one and only capital,” Naidu said. The opposition leader alleged that over 180 Amaravati agitators have died so far for their cause and that “thousands of false cases were filed including those against the padayatris.” The TDP chief said that Jagan is alarmed by the all-around support Amaravati is receiving. A big rally was organised in the temple town on Thursday in favour of three capitals. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/amaravati-should-remain-sole-capital-of-andhra-pradesh-say-oppn-parties-show-solidarity-with-farmers-1062030.html
17-12-2021||State||600 elephants electrocuted in India in 10 years||As many as 600 elephants have been killed due to electrocution in India from 2009-10 to 2019-20 with Karnataka accounting for 116 of the deaths, second only to Odisha (117). Officials warn that constant pressure of development work in elephant ranges and climate change may pose more challenges to conservation. Data presented by the Ministry of Environment Forests and Climate Change (MoEF & CC) in the Rajya Sabha on Thursday showed varied performances of 16 states, many of which had reported a decline in electrocution deaths over the past few years. There were, however, instances of when deaths spiked with Assam and Odisha recording a surge in 2018-19. In comparison, Karnataka has fared slightly better than other states with the deaths dropping to single digits in recent years, thanks to the intervention of the Karnataka High Court. Following the death of 25 elephants in a span of six months in 2008, the high court had taken up a suo motu case and set up an expert task force which had made a set of recommendations. Raman Sukumar, honarary professor at IISc’s Centre for Ecological Sciences, who was the chairman of the task force, said the man-elephant conflict was a complex issue that requires comprehensive measures involving all stakeholders. “We have found that farmers are illegally drawing power from main lines, mostly to contain wild boars. One of the less appreciated issues is the fact that more elephants are roaming areas outside the forests and elephant zones. Some are going to places where they were not seen even 50 years ago. This is why the framework and the recommendations that we gave should be adopted by all the elephant states in the country,” he said. Among the major recommendations made by the task force was the setting up of an expert group within the state wildlife board, checking land use change in elephant zones and adjoining areas, preventing fragmentation of forest zones and corridors. Retired IFS officer Ajai Mishra, who was also part of the task force and worked on other elephant projects, said the steps taken by the department helped in bringing down the annual deaths from over 25 to less than 10. “There is still a long way to go. We need very active committees at the district level to create awareness on conservation and take action against violations,” hesaid. Noting that elephants are long range animals that wander around 500-700 sq km areas, he said prevention of forest degradation and taking up works that will help make elephant ranges climate change-resistant were crucial steps going forward. PCCF (wildlife) Vijay Kumar Gogi was not available for comment. An official, however, said violations in forest corridors need close monitoring. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/600-elephants-electrocuted-in-india-in-10-years-1061688.html
17-12-2021||State||Around 45,000 practising nurses in Karnataka, but none with national unique ID||The Indian Nursing Council (INC) has introduced the Nurses Registration and Tracking System (NRTS) to empower nurses with National Unique Identity Number (NUID). This would enable states to know the exact number of nurses practising in a particular state and plan accordingly in the event of disease outbreaks. It would also ensure hassle-free work for nurses practising in other states. But in Karnataka, only around 13,000 nurses have been enrolled on NRTS and not a single one has the ID, even in Union government-controlled hospitals like NIMHANS. The Karnataka State Nursing Council (KSNC) told DH following protests by private nursing school managements in 2017, the INC had to stop enrolling nurses for generating NUID as the managements wanted to use this as leverage to get the requested number of seats in private nursing schools. The KSNC has requested INC to restart enrolling nurses for generating the IDs. In all, there have been more than 5.98 lakh NUIDs issued in the country so far as per the INC website though more than 10 lakh have been enrolled. KSNC Registrar Usha Bhandari told DH that in 2017 INC staff went district-wise and enrolled nurses to issue the NUIDs. "Though there are 35,000 to 45,000 nurses, only 13,000 have been enrolled for the NUIDs. None of the 13,000 enrolled nurses have got NUIDs. There are as many as 2.5 lakh nurses who have done their General Nursing and Midwifery (GNM) course and another 1.4 lakh nurses who have done BSc Nursing and are registered with KSNC. "Some 11,500 nurses are practising in other states. Another 10,000 nurses who have done BSc Nursing have gone abroad. We have written to INC to restart enrolling," said Bhandari.  A NIMHANS Nurses Welfare Association executive member requesting anonymity told DH, "There are many lecturers who are shown to be working in a college but are actually working abroad. There are several clinical instructors required to train nursing students. But nursing schools don't have required faculty. In NIMHANS, there are 750 nurses and all have enrolled for the NUID but none have got it." Prof (Dr) Roy K George, National President, Trained Nurses Association of India (TNAI), said, "Nurses having NUIDs will enable us to create a live register of all nurses and midwives currently working in India. Twenty-three lakh nurses and midwives have registered with INC since 1947. Our estimate is 10 lakh-11 lakh nurses are available now in the country. Others may have died, gone abroad or stopped working. Neighbouring Kerala has the highest registrations of over one lakh in the country for NUIDs." Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/around-45000-practising-nurses-in-karnataka-but-none-with-national-unique-id-1061692.html
17-12-2021||State||KSRTC bus collides with car in Nyamathi taluk, leave 4 dead||Four persons including three women were killed in a head-on-collision between a KSRTC bus and a car on the bridge at Savalanga in Nyamathi taluk on Friday.  According to police, Sharadamma (60), Suma (45), and Daakshayini (45) - residents of Yadehalli in Bhadravathi taluk - died on spot. Sunil, the car driver, succumbed to injuries in District McGann General hospital in Shivamogga. They were heading towards Hale Joga village to attend a wedding ceremony in a car from Shivamogga and the bus was heading towards Shivamogga.  Nyamathi police has registered a case against the bus driver and seized the vehicle.   Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/ksrtc-bus-collides-with-car-in-nyamathi-taluk-leave-4-dead-1061834.html
17-12-2021||State||NCW slams Karnataka Congress MLA's 'rape' remark||The National Commission for Women (NCW) chairperson Rekha Sharma on Friday slammed Karnataka Congress MLA Ramesh Kumar for his 'rape' remark made in the state Assembly. "It is extremely sad and unfortunate that we still have a public representative who is misogynist and have a horrible mindset towards women," she said in a tweet. The NCW chairperson asked in a subsequent tweet 'if they sit in assemblies and speak like this, how they must be behaving with women in their lives?' Karnataka Congress MLA Ramesh Kumar during the ongoing Assembly winter season on Thursday said, "There is a saying that when rape is inevitable, lie down and enjoy it. That is exactly the position in which you are." His distasteful comment came when MLAs demanded time from Speaker Vishweshwara Hegde Kageri to discuss farmers' issues.   "I am in a situation where I have to enjoy and say 'yes, yes'. This is what I feel. I should give up controlling the situation and take the proceedings in a systematic manner, I should tell everyone to continue your talks," Kageri said. After the speaker's comment, Congress MLA said, "See, there is a saying- when rape is inevitable, lie down and enjoy it. That's exactly the position in which you are". However, the Congress MLA Kumar later apologised for his remark, saying that his intention was not to trivialise or make light of the heinous crime after the nationwide flak.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/ncw-slams-karnataka-congress-mlas-rape-remark-1061848.html
17-12-2021||State||Letter sent to RSS chief by CUK registrar goes 'viral'||A letter written by Central University of Karnataka in-charge registrar Basavaraj Donur to RSS leader Mohan Bhagwat seeking his appointment for meeting has gone viral on social media. The registrar has received criticism from some quarters for writting a letter to a private person by using the university letterhead. Basavaraj Donur told DH that he has to visit Kavikulguru Kalidas Sanskrit University in Maharashtra state to deliver a lecture in January next year. The organisers had asked him to send a letter as they planned to introduce him to RSS leader Mohan Bhagawat. Hence, he had sent a letter, he explained. Clarifying that there is no malafide intention in sending the letter, the registrar asked what was wrong in meeting an Indian as another India. "Someone is deliberately making it controversial. I will take legal course of action against those who made this letter viral and their false allegations", he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/letter-sent-to-rss-chief-by-cuk-registrar-goes-viral-1062022.html
17-12-2021||State||Karnataka govt tells staff not to air their views on social media||The state government, which issued an order recently restricting social media appearance of the government employees, has now directed the officers at the local level to implement the order effectively. In the latest circular, the government has come down hard and warned the employees that any criticism of the government or any particular political party will attract action. The department of personnel and administrative reforms has directed the officers at the local level to initiate disciplinary action against such employees. The circular issued reads: “It has come to the notice of the government that some employees have taken to websites and social media platforms to air their opinions and share their views against other employees and humiliate them by violating the Karnataka Civil Services (Behaviour) Norms 2021. Some employees are even found posting the articles, videos and opinions on particular political parties despite clear instructions under Karnataka Civil Services (behaviour) Norms 2021.” However, the government has exempted those who use social media to express their opinion to uphold the conditions, status of the employees, and to improve the working atmosphere. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-govt-tells-staff-not-to-air-their-views-on-social-media-1062071.html
17-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||'I am sorry, let’s end this here': Ex-Karnataka Speaker apologises for 'enjoy rape' remark||A day after he courted controversy over his remarks on rape, former Karnataka Speaker and senior Congress leader K R Ramesh Kumar issued an apology on the floor of the House on Friday.  Speaking at the start of the Assembly session on Friday, Kumar said, “If my remarks have hurt women, (or) if their feelings are hurt, I regret my remarks.” Kumar said that he had "just referred to a proverb" and his goal was not to insult women or the Assembly or to speak lightly (about rape).  He said that the video of his comments in the House was aired out of context and "only a part was highlighted". Kumar pointed out that even Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri was a “co-accused”. But, Kageri did not apologise.  “We’re one family. We also have family ties in our respective lives. I did say, “Let’s enjoy the situation”, to which Kumar said something that has become the subject of a controversy. This House, all of us, have respect for women. We’re committed to protecting that and increasing that,” Kageri said.  Kageri did not allow Muzrai Minister Shashikala Jolle and other MLAs to speak on the issue. Congress MLA Anjali Nimbalkar, meanwhile, sought an apology to women from the entire Assembly for the remarks. On Thursday, Kumar stirred a controversy on Thursday evening at the Assembly after he he told Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri, “There’s a saying... when rape is inevitable, lie down and enjoy it. That’s exactly the position into which you are." "If anyone is hurt…I am not ashamed to apologise," he said. Following his remarks, Speaker Kageri said, "We are bound to uphold their (women's) dignity." He requested members of the House not to drag the controversy further.   Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/i-am-sorry-let-s-end-this-here-ex-karnataka-speaker-apologises-for-enjoy-rape-remark-1061760.html
17-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Delhi lawyer seeks dismissal of Karnataka MLA Ramesh Kumar over 'rape' remark||A Delhi-based lawyer on Friday wrote to Karnataka Governor Thawar Chand Gehlot seeking dismissal of MLA K R Ramesh Kumar from the state's Assembly over his "obnoxious" rape remark. "The obnoxious remark by KR Ramesh followed by the other MLAs in the Assembly laughing at it, including Speaker Vishweshwara Hegde Kageri, was a shocking event," said Vineet Jindal, vice president, Society For Securing Justice. The remark was made in the Karnataka Assembly on Thursday when legislators were vying with each other to initiate the discussion on flood situation in the state and relief measures. Speaker Vishveshwara Hegde Kageri's repeated appeals to maintain decorum went in vain. He had then asked the members to decide amongst themselves and then voice their concerns. At this juncture, Speaker Kageri, addressing former speaker Ramesh Kumar, stated: "You know I am now in 'let's enjoy the situation' mode. I am finding it very difficult to control the House. I will have to throw all rules, guidelines into the air and allow everyone to talk on the topic of their choice at the session. I will have to say yes to everything." At this, Ramesh Kumar stood up and addressed the chair saying: "There is a saying. When rape is inevitable, lie down and enjoy it." To the shock of women MLAs, he further stated "that's exactly the position into which you are. "Speaker Kageri smiled at the remark and the whole session also had a good laugh over it". Advocate Jindal said: "It is a matter of great shame for our nation where women are treated as divine souls and endless endeavours have been carried out by our government for women empowerment, the situation in state assembly of Karnataka shows a pitiable and pathetic picture of the status of women with said remark by Ramesh while it was to be objected there and then only but rather it was a matter of mockery in the Assembly." He requested Governor Gehlot to give direction to take strict legal action against the MLA and "further disqualify him as member of Karnataka Assembly for his insensitive and offensive remark against women which is against our constitution as his comment hampers the right to live with dignity of women." He further said that this offensive, outrageous, and disgusting remark by the MLA reflects his pessimistic outlook towards women. "It is an ignominy for a progressive and empowered society like ours that such kind of statement has been used in Assembly by the MLAs in a very insensitive manner," he added. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/delhi-lawyer-seeks-dismissal-of-karnataka-mla-ramesh-kumar-over-rape-remark-1061773.html
17-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Are frontline health workers prepared for Omicron?||When Covid-19 first struck in early 2020, it turned out to be a trial by fire for frontline health workers completely weighed down by the severity and the sheer number of cases. More than one-and-a-half years later, a new variant – Omicron -- has raised its head, and the frontline health workers are pulling up their socks, preparedness being their watchword. But by all accounts, how prepared is the healthcare system in Karnataka? "At this juncture, given the rising number of Omicron cases in countries like South Africa and the UK, the Government of India has already given necessary directions to hospitals, healthcare professionals, and associations to raise awareness about Covid-appropriate behaviour which comprises two doses of vaccination coupled with mask, ventilation, social distancing, and hand hygiene,” Dr Vishal Rao, member of the Genomic Surveillance Committee of the state Covid Task Force, said. "In addition, healthcare entities will have to be ready to cope with the likelihood of a hike in Omicron cases in January-February 2022 in the guiding light of the experience of the second wave, as also further intensify the vaccination drive pan India," he said. On Thursday, Karnataka Health Minister K Sudhakar had said that five more cases of the Omicron variant were detected in the state which took cases with Omicron strain in the state to eight. Already, the state government has increased the availability of both oxygenated and ICU beds in most hospitals, Dr Rao said. “The state government has also increased capacity building and training of ICU staff and critical care teams in collaboration with various associations like the IMA and Karnataka Pulmonary Association.” For frontline health workers, being more exposed to the virus translates into increased stress and added anxiety as well. With children yet to be vaccinated, the fears of parents can’t get more real and concerns about the new strain in children are palpable. Meanwhile, the state government has constituted a third wave committee comprising experts from paediatrics and critical care pulmonology who will play a crucial role in close monitoring and analysis of cases, Dr Rao said. “Besides that, all hospitals will assume the role of a vigilante in proactively sharing with the government the trends and patterns of, as also changes in, symptoms and severity of cases based on age groups and other key factors as actionable input for decision making.” Moreover, he informed that the genomic surveillance committee will also continue to sequence samples to identify any new variants emerging during this critical phase. Dr Nikhil Swamy, a specialist in a Critical Care Unit in a Bengaluru hospital said, “yes and no” when asked how well-prepared the frontline health workers are to meet Omicron cases. “We have gone through two waves of Covid and the government is taking firm steps to re-train health workers and we are physically and mentally sufficiently prepared. However, given the staff attrition at various levels, we may still be underprepared from a manpower point of view," he said. As the Omicron cases rose, the IMA had demanded Covid-19 booster doses for healthcare and frontline workers. Dr Swamy feels that at this point, the best booster is probably giving a shot of vaccine for an unvaccinated neighbour as “we haven't yet achieved vaccination for 50-60% of our population”. He said that studies have shown that the vaccine is effective in preventing severe illness up to 12 months after vaccination. “Since we aren't yet post 12 months of our vaccination programme, right now it would make more sense to target shots for the unvaccinated.” “Beyond 12 months, however, if a booster for the individual does come into play, then yes, we should take it," he noted. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/are-frontline-health-workers-prepared-for-omicron-1061782.html
17-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka detects five new Omicron cases; tally rises to 8||Karnataka on Thursday reported five new cases of Omicron Covid-19 variant, taking the total count to eight. Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar announced the fresh cases in a tweet.  The health department said in a statement: “The current health status of these Omicron affected patients is good and no one has serious symptoms.” The new cases include: A 19-year-old woman from the UK, a 52-year-old man from Nigeria housed at the Belagavi district hospital, a 70-year-old woman from Delhi, a 36-year-old man from Delhi and a 33-year-old man from South Africa. The 19-year-old woman’s samples were collected at the city airport on December 13.  She tested Covid positive, though she carried a negative report from the UK. She has been fully vaccinated with Covishield. She had got her second dose on August 12.  She was shifted in an ambulance from the airport to Bowring Hospital on the same day, and to a private hospital on December 14. She has no primary contact, as she travelled directly from the airport to hospital. The 52-year-old man from Nigeria was carrying a negative report, but when tested on December 13 on arrival at the city airport, he tested positive. Since he had a connecting flight to Belagavi in the next two hours, he was supposedly given permission to travel. He took a flight to Belagavi on December 14 and received a positive report there. The 70-year-old woman’s sample was collected on December 5 at a private lab in Mahadevapura, as she was a primary contact of an Omicron-confirmed case in Delhi. The 36-year-old man from Delhi, a contact of the 70-year-old woman, also had his samples collected at the same lab on December 5. The 33-year-old man from South Africa, who travelled via Delhi, had his samples collected at a private city lab on December 10. He tested positive on December 11. The man had travelled on December 9. He received his second vaccine dose on August 27.  He was tested at Delhi airport and was negative for Covid on December 8. He was isolated at home in Bengaluru on December 9. He had developed mild symptoms on December 10. He has been shifted to a private hospital for treatment. All four of his primary contacts and 25 secondary contacts tested negative.  None of the designated private hospitals acknowledged receiving these patients.  Pattern repeating? Dr C N Manjunath, member, State Covid Task Force, noted that the spread of Omicron cases now is following the pattern of previous years, especially of weeks before the first and second waves. “We are reaching that period of time between December and February where historically cases prompted by new variants started to rise,” he said. As per reports, Omicron cases are currently doubling every 1.9 days, down from 2.5 days on November 30. In Karnataka, growth of Omicron cases has implications for people in public spaces and in closed-door settings. “With Omicron, there is also the added threat of reinfections,” he added. Check out DH's latest videos on Covid:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-detects-five-new-omicron-cases-tally-rises-to-8-1061816.html
17-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||BJP slams Congress for Karnataka MLA's 'rape' comments||The BJP on Friday slammed the Congress for its Karnataka MLA's comments on rape on the floor of the state assembly, and questioned its leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra's silence over the issue, alleging that its leaders have a history of making such insulting comments about women. The BJP was, however, also left embarrassed when its spokesperson Aparajita Sarangi also criticised Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri, who is from the ruling party, for not objecting to Congress MLA K R Ramesh Kumar's rape remarks. "What is sad that the Speaker said nothing after such objectionable comments were made and even laughed," she said. Union minister Rajeev Chandrasekhar and another BJP spokesperson Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore, however, defended the Speaker. Rathore said Kageri made no statement, and things should not be implied. Chandrasekhar accused Kumar of trivialising crime against women. Sarangi, who was also at the dais with them for a party press conference, later clarified that she meant to refer to Kumar as he is also a former speaker. Even as speaker he had made such remarks by equating himself with a rape victim for being dragged to court over various issues, she noted. She said Congress leaders have a history of making humiliating and shameful comments about women and referred to remarks made by the likes of former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Digvijay Singh. Noting that the Gandhi siblings had rushed to Hathras, where a Dalit girl was allegedly raped and murdered, Sarangi questioned their silence over the issue. BJP chief spokesperson said Kumar's comments were very painful and shameful and alleged that the Congress has a history of making such remarks against women. Kumar, who had courted controversy by saying "when rape is inevitable, lie down and enjoy it", apologised for his remarks on Friday. As the proceedings of the Assembly began, Kumar stood up and said he made a statement (in the Legislative Assembly on Thursday), which people found outrageous. "However, my intention was never to demean the prestige of this House or behave in an inferior way. I will not defend myself. I tender my sincere apology for my utterance during the proceedings of the House if it has hurt people from any part of the country," Kumar said.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bjp-slams-congress-for-karnataka-mlas-rape-comments-1061829.html
17-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Religious conversions create conflicts in society: RSS' Indresh Kumar||Religious conversions create conflicts in society and pose a threat to the country's unity and integrity, senior RSS leader Indresh Kumar has said, favouring the Karnataka government's proposal to bring a law against forced conversions in the state. Speaking to PTI, Kumar who is the founder and chief patron of the RSS’s Muslim Rashtriya Manch, also supported the state government’s plan to bring a law to prohibit 'love jihad'. The BJP government in Karnataka is likely to introduce an anti-conversion bill during the ongoing winter session of the state legislature. The proposed legislation is expected to have penal provisions, and it may also insist that the people who wish to convert to another faith file an application before the deputy commissioner two months in advance. Also, the person who wishes to convert is likely to lose the religion of his or her origin and facilities or benefits attached with it, including reservations. However, one is likely to receive the benefits entitled to in the religion he or she converts to. “Converting anybody to another faith is inhuman, unconstitutional. It creates conflict between the religions. It is also a threat to the country's unity and integrity," the RSS leader said when asked for his view on the Karnataka government's move. “Conversion is a sin, a crime and a dishonesty with God. And, if it continues, the government will have to enact a law to stop such inhuman, sinful acts," he said Those who would oppose the move should be considered "disbelievers in God”, he added. Karnataka Energy Minister V Sunil Kumar had on December 13 said a law prohibiting 'love jihad' will also be introduced in the days to come. 'Love jihad' is a term generally used by right wing activists to refer to the alleged campaign of Muslims forcing Hindu girls to convert in the guise of love. “When one hides his identity (religion), entraps a girl deceitfully on pretext of love, marries her and later subjects her to violence and cruelty, it is love jihad,” the RSS leader said when asked if such a law was required. It would have been better if “such people” stopped indulging in “such inhuman activities”, he said. “Love jihad is enemy of human relationships. Law has to be enacted when people do not stop indulging in such inhuman activities,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/religious-conversions-create-conflicts-in-society-rss-indresh-kumar-1061849.html
17-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||'To women of Karnataka, I am sorry': D K Shivakumar on Ramesh Kumar's rape 'joke'||Karnataka Congress president D K Shivakumar on Friday said sorry to all women of Karnataka following his senior party colleague K R Ramesh Kumar’s 'joke' on rape in the Assembly.  “To all the women of Karnataka, I am sorry and I will ensure words like these are never repeated,” Shivakumar said in a tweet, adding that he is “deeply saddened” over Kumar’s comments.  On Friday, Kumar, a former Speaker, issued an apology on the floor of the Assembly.  The Congress party condemns the words spoken by one of our own legislators in the Karnataka assembly. The insensitive remarks against women are contrary to the values of gender equality the Congress party champions. 1/2 “While we note that the legislator has tendered an apology, the incident in the assembly is a sign that all of us men in politics need to do better to shed our inherent regressive attitudes towards women,” Shivakumar said.  Shivakumar also said that Kumar’s “insensitive remarks against women” are contrary to the values of gender equality that the Congress bats for. Entire Assembly should apologise Congress MLA Anjali Nimbalkar demanded that the entire Assembly should apologise for the incident. Speaking to reporters, Nimbalkar said that women legislators from the Congress wanted to raise the issue in the Assembly and protest the remarks. However, Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri denied the request. “Elected representatives are forgetting the pain of the victims when the word 'rape' is used lightly. We wanted to raise the issue as none of the women legislators was present when the statement was made," she said. Soon after Kumar said he was sorry, Muzrai Minister Shashikala Jolle rose to speak further, but Kageri did not allow it.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/to-women-of-karnataka-i-am-sorry-d-k-shivakumar-on-ramesh-kumars-rape-joke-1061857.html
17-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Excess commitments: Karnataka govt asked to stop clearing new works||Karnataka's top-level bookkeepers have asked their boss, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, to stop sanctioning new projects in two of the government's busiest departments - Public Works and Irrigation - after finding that they have bitten off more than they can chew.  In other words, the government's Fiscal Management Review Committee (FMRC) has flagged that these two departments have commitments that were five to eight times their annual budget.  This startling revelation finds mention in the Mid Year Review of State Finance that was tabled in the Assembly on Friday.  The FMRC has not only pulled up the government on this but also recommended that new works should not be sanctioned to the Public Works and Irrigation departments "till the commitments are brought down to a ratio of 1:3 (budget: cost of work approved)". Official sources say that the practice of sanctioning works over and above the budgetary resources is the reason for pending bills worth Rs 22,000 crore, according to the Karnataka State Contractors' Association.  The Mid Year Review also raised concerns over the increase in the government's total outstanding liabilities (TOL), which currently stands at 26.6% of the state's GSDP. This is expected to hit Rs 4.57 lakh crore by the end of 2021-22. Expenditure on relief activities in flood-affected districts increased, the report noted. "The FMRC also observed that the state is providing funds beyond the SDRF and NDRF norms for flood-affected districts because of which the financial burden has increased on the state," it said, recommending the government to stick to the Centre's guidelines when granting aid. Reduced expenditure in key areas of social infrastructure - health and education - was also flagged. Encouraging signs The review noted that there are signs of economic recovery in the state. "The economic slowdown due to the Covid pandemic reduced the revenue collections of the state. So, the state budgeted a revenue deficit budget in 2021-22. However, the state's stringent efforts to combat the pandemic had resulted in the recovery of the economy and increase in revenue collections," it said. The state recorded a revenue surplus of Rs 3,294 crore in the first half of 2021-22, compared to a deficit of Rs 4,041 crore in the corresponding period last year. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/excess-commitments-karnataka-govt-asked-to-stop-clearing-new-works-1061936.html
17-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt tables second supplementary estimates for over Rs 3,500 crore||The Karnataka government on Friday presented the second installment of supplementary estimates for FY 2021-22 aggregating to Rs 3,574.67 crore relating to "new services" in the Karnataka Assembly. While tabling the second installment of the supplementary estimates for the current fiscal, the government said the estimates relate to advances sanctioned from the contingency fund after the 2021-22 supplementary estimates-I installment was placed before the legislature in September. The supplementary estimate also relates to additional or supplementary grants or appropriation required during the current year and accounting adjustments. The introductory note said the net outgo from the consolidated fund is Rs 3,418.59 crore. Rs 599.03 crore is covered by the central assistance. "Hence, net cash outgo is Rs 2,819.56 crore. This amount will be met through proper reprioritization of expenditure," it said. The government had earlier sought additional funds of Rs 10,265.33 crore with a net cash outflow of Rs 6,367.19 crore through the Supplementary Estimates-I installment. Meanwhile, the mid-year review of state finances, which was also presented in the assembly on Friday, said the total expenditure is estimated at Rs 2,31,642 crore including revenue expenditure of Rs 1,87,405 crore and capital expenditure of Rs 44,237 crore. The total receipts is estimated at Rs 1,72,402 crore, which includes revenue receipts of Rs 1,72,271 crore and non-debt capital receipts of Rs 131 crore. It also said that due to COVID-19 and reduction in tax devolution, the state resources were reduced compared to the budget estimates of 2020-21. This resulted in revenue deficit. Understanding the situation, the Government of India allowed the state to borrow four per cent of Gross State Domestic Product for the current fiscal, the government note said. "Accordingly, the state government has made suitable amendments to Karnataka Fiscal Responsibility Act, 2002," the review said.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-tables-second-supplementary-estimates-for-over-rs-3500-crore-1061950.html
17-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Land-grab case against Karnataka minister rocks Houses||The Opposition Congress on Friday staged a protest in both houses of the legislature on Friday demanding a discussion on Urban Development Minister Byrathi Basavaraj's alleged involvement in a land-grabbing case.  This led to a din in both the Assembly and Council.  During zero hour, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah sought a discussion on the issue under Rule 60 (adjournment motion) and demanded Basavaraj's resignation. Kageri rejected this, saying the matter is sub-judice. This left the Congress livid and a furious exchange of words followed. Siddaramaiah said that there was precedence. "We have allowed this the past," he said, citing how the suspected suicide of DySP MK Ganapathy was discussed in the House despite being subjudice. "Let him (Byrati) resign and take charge as minister if the charges against him are not proved," he said, pointing at how the then home minister KJ George resigned and came back into the Cabinet after his name was cleared.  Congress leaders said a metropolitan magistrate court has ordered a criminal case to be registered against five accused, including Basavaraj and MLC R Shankar, in connection with creation and registration of fake documents for land in Kalkere village, KR Pura hobli, Bengaluru East taluk. Law Minister JC Madhuswamy said that there was no provision in law for such a discussion. "Exceptions given once cannot be a precedent for all," he said. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said that the FIR against the minister was based on a private complaint and mere registration of FIR did not make anyone guilty. "Allowing discussion will set a bad precedent," he said, warning of future ramifications if discussions are allowed. "The trial of the case cannot be done in the Assembly." Congress MLA Krishna Byre Gowda said that the discussion should be allowed based on an order by the People's Representatives Court. Congress MLAs jumped to the well and Kageri adjourned the House till Monday. Siddaramaiah, speaking to reporters later, said they would continue the stir on this issue. Similar scenes were witnessed in the Council.  'Sudhakar intervened' Earlier, Congress MLC M Narayanaswamy told reporters that he was approached by Health Minister K Sudhakar who tried to reach a compromise on the issue concerning Basavaraj. "Sudhakar tried to speak to Siddaramaiah also," he said. Both Sudhakar and Basavaraj were earlier with the Congress. In fact, Basavaraj was seen as a Siddaramaiah loyalist.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/land-grab-case-against-karnataka-minister-rocks-houses-1061972.html
17-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Former Union Minister RL Jalappa dies at 96||Former union minister RL Jalappa, 96, breathed his last on Friday evening, drawing curtains on a political career that spanned four decades.  Jalappa died at a hospital named after him in Kolar. He was admitted a month ago and was shifted to the ICU a few weeks ago. Besides age-related ailments, Jalappa suffered kidney and lung problems.  Born on October 19, 1925, at Rajanukunte, Doddaballapur, Jalappa's first foray into politics was in 1968 when he became president of the Taluk Development Board.   Jalappa, an Idiga, represented Chikballapur in the Lok Sabha four times from 1996 until his political retirement in 2009. He was a union minister in the HD Deve Gowda government. He was associated with former chief minister D Devaraj Urs. They were with the Congress before they broke away to form Kranti Ranga, which was later merged into the Janata Party. It was Urs who got Jalappa into the Legislative Council in 1980. In 1983, Jalappa entered the Assembly as a representative of the Doddaballapur constituency.  Such was his connection with Urs that he started the Sri Devaraj Urs Educational Trust for Backward Classes in 1984. The trust runs educational institutions, including a Deemed-to-be university. From Janata Party, Jalappa went to the Janata Dal and then came back to the Congress. This journey was filled with colours, including controversial shades. In 1987-88, the then home minister Jalappa was linked to the sensational murder of lawyer Abdul Rasheed. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, JD(S) supremo HD Deve Gowda, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah, JD(S) legislature party leader HD Kumaraswamy, KPCC president DK Shivakumar and others condoled his death.  Jalappa's last rites will be performed in Doddaballapur on Saturday.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/former-union-minister-rl-jalappa-dies-at-96-1062011.html
17-12-2021||West||Gujarat government admits paper leak in clerk recruitment exams; six arrested||Minister of State for Home Harsh Sanghvi on Friday admitted that question papers for the government head clerks recruitment exam held on December 12 were leaked. He said that an FIR has been registered in Sabarkantha district in north Gujarat while police have already arrested six suspects out of ten whose names figured during the probe. 88,000 candidates had appeared for the recruitment examination for 186 posts on December 12. Aam Aadmi Party's Gujarat youth wing president Yuvrajsinh Jadeja alleged the paper was leaked from Sabarkantha district and had shared photographs as proof. The government initially denied the allegations, but following public outcry, it ordered a probe. "Following reports in press and social media and based on our inquiry, we have registered an FIR at Prantij police station in Sabarkantha district against 10 persons, six of whom, have already been arrested, while probe is on trace the remaining suspects. We have registered the FIR under various sections of Indian Penal Code including 406 (criminal breach of trust), 409 (Criminal breach of trust by public servant, or by banker, merchant or agent), 420 (cheating) and section 120 B (conspiracy) under Indian Penal Code," MoS Sanghvi said while addressing the media in Gandhinagar. Those arrested have been identified as Mahesh K Patel, a resident of Ahmedabad; Chintan P Patel, resident of Prantij; Dhruv B Barot, Darsh K Vyas, Suresh Patel and Kuldip N Patel, all residents of Sabarkantha. When asked if fresh examinations would be held, Sanghvi said, "As of now, the focus is to solve the case. The decision to hold fresh exams or not will be taken by Gujarat Subordinate Service Selection Board (GSSB)." GSSB chairman Asit Vora had been denying the leak. He had said that the exams held in Gandhinagar, Ahmedabad, Vadodara, among other districts, were "completely" transparent and the board hadn't received any complaint. Meanwhile, Gujarat congress spokesperson, Manish Doshi claimed that since 2014 till this year, question papers of at least nine recruitment examinations were leaked. Some of the exams included chief officer by Gujarat Public Service Commission, exams for talati, Lok Rakshak Dal, among others. "The main reason behind these leaks is corruption due to the involvement of influential people in the government. But, sadly, they are never caught. The big fish always escapes the law while those who get caught are mostly ordinary people," Doshi alleged.  Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-government-admits-paper-leak-in-clerk-recruitment-exams-six-arrested-1061771.html
17-12-2021||West||Three passengers from UK test Covid-19 positive in Goa, samples sent for genome sequencing||Three passengers, who arrived in Goa from the United Kingdom on Friday morning, tested positive for coronavirus and their samples were sent for genome sequencing to know whether they are infected with the Omicron variant, a state minister said. In a tweet, Goa Health Minister Vishwajit Rane on Friday said, "Three patients tested positive from a flight that arrived today morning from the UK. Their samples have been sent for genome sequencing, reports awaited." These three passengers arrived in the state in the 101st flight under the government's Vande Bharat Mission from London's Heathrow Airport, the Goa airport authorities said. "101st VBM flight arrived from London @HeathrowAirport today morning at Goa Airport. Int'l Arrival pax undergoes thermal screening and complete exit formalities upon arrival. Team Goa striving to ensure for safe and smooth transit of pax," the Goa airport said in a tweet. Information about the total number of passengers in the flight was not available. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/three-passengers-from-uk-test-covid-19-positive-in-goa-samples-sent-for-genome-sequencing-1061832.html
17-12-2021||West||Maharashtra exam chief Tukaram Supe arrested for alleged 'malpractices'||In a development that questions the sanctity of several examinations in the past, the Pune Police has arrested Tukaram Supe, the Commissioner of Maharashtra State Council of Examination (MSCE) while carrying out investigations vis-a-vis paper leak. Supe, who worked with the Pune-based MSCE, was questioned in connection with the alleged malpractices in the Teachers’ Eligibility Test (TET) - and was placed under arrest on Friday.  “We have arrested MSCE Commissioner Tukaram Supe,” Pune Police Commissioner Amitabh Gupta told reporters.  The alleged malpractice in the TET came to the light during the investigation of a paper leak in the Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (MHADA) examination, in which six people have already been arrested so far.  Among those arrested include Dr Pritish Deshmukh, a Director of GA Software Technologies Pvt Ltd, which was responsible for conducting the exam.  "With the arrest of MSCE, the sanctity of examinations in the past is being questioned. “We are making detailed investigations,” said Gupta.  The MHADA exams were scheduled to last Sunday, however, state Housing Minister Jitendra Awhad - hours before the examination - cancelled the examination following information of a possible paper leak. The examinations would not be held in January. The MHADA recruitment examination was to be held at various centres across the state with more than 275,000 candidates to appear for jobs underclasses ‘A’, ‘B’, and ‘C’. The issue has come as a major embarrassment to the Maha Vikas Aghadi government with the opposition BJP targeting it. “‘This is the culmination of corruption, apathy and shamelessness,’’ Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis had said and demanded a CBI probe. Multiple police teams are conducting investigations in Mumbai,  Aurangabad, Jalna, Beed, Pune and Thane. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-exam-chief-tukaram-supe-arrested-for-alleged-malpractices-1061845.html
17-12-2021||West||3 Omicron patients in Gujarat recover from Covid-19, get discharged||A Zimbabwe-based NRI man, his wife and brother-in-law, who were found infected with the Omicron variant of coronavirus in Jamnagar city of Gujarat earlier this month, have now tested negative for the infection and were given discharge from a hospital here, officials said on Friday. They were the first three patients of Omicron variant in Gujarat, which later reported two more such cases - one in Surat and another in Mehsana. "All the three Omicron patients have recovered from the infection. Their latest Covid-19 tests gave negative results, following which the trio was given discharge from the hospital. The Omicron ward is now empty," said Dr Saugata Chatterjee, nodal officer for Covid-19 at the government-run G G Hospital in Jamnagar city. On December 4, genome sequencing had established that the 72-year-old NRI man, who arrived here from Zimbabwe, one of the 'at-risk' countries, had contracted the Omicron variant of Covid-19. It was the first case of the new strain in Gujarat. The elderly man had taken both the doses of a Chinese vaccine in Zimbabwe. When his RT-PCR test came positive, authorities kept him in an isolation ward and sent his samples for genome sequencing. Two days later, his wife, who had come with him from Zimbabwe, and his brother-in-law, who lives in Jamnagar, had also tested positive for coronavirus. On December 10, genome sequencing had established that they were also infected with the Omicron variant. Now, Gujarat has two active cases of the new strain - a 42-year-old businessman undergoing treatment in Surat and a 41-year-old woman health worker admitted to GMERS hospital in Vadnagar, Mehsana district. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/3-omicron-patients-in-gujarat-recover-from-covid-19-get-discharged-1061855.html
17-12-2021||West||Goa MLA Alina Saldanha joins AAP from BJP; says was 'feeling suffocated'||Goa BJP MLA Alina Saldanha, who joined the Aam Aadmi Party after resigning from the Assembly, said she was feeling suffocated in the ruling party whose policies were "anti-people". Saldanha had resigned from the Assembly and BJP on Thursday and joined AAP in the presence of its convener and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal later in the evening in the national capital. "I was feeling suffocated. Even the party (BJP) also felt I was an obstruction for their goals which are anti-people. If I am with the people, I can't be with the BJP. I am in Delhi and I have seen the progress the Kejriwal government has brought here and so I joined the AAP,” Saldanha said at an online press conference in the presence of the Delhi CM. Saldanha, who had opposed the double-tracking of South Western Railway's line in Goa, said the BJP in the state was no longer that of late Manohar Parrikar. Her husband Matanhy Saldanha was part of the Parrikar government earlier and had died when he was a minister. During the online press conference, Kejriwal said no project would be imposed in Goa without the consent of the people. adding that his party was against the three linear projects which were being pushed by the BJP in the coastal state to benefit a few capitalists. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-mla-alina-saldanha-joins-aap-from-bjp-says-was-feeling-suffocated-1061875.html
17-12-2021||West||Tata Motors joins hands with Maha govt to set up vehicle scrappage facility||Tata Motors on Friday said it has joined hands with the Maharashtra government to support setting up of a registered vehicle scrapping facility (RVSF) in the state. The auto major has inked a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the state government to help set up the scrappage centre with a recycling capacity of up to 35,000 vehicles a year for end-of-life passenger and commercial vehicles. The state industries, energy and labour department will support in facilitating the necessary approvals as per the rules and regulations for setting up of the facility, the company said. "Besides the well-known benefits that appropriate vehicle scrapping offers – boosting the setup of a circular economy, this initiative will also help in reiterating our commitment to strengthen our leadership in the sustainable mobility space. We are proud to partner with the policymakers on this initiative of setting up scrapping facilities across the country. It is the beginning of a new chapter and a step in the right direction for India's transportation sector," Tata Motors Executive Director Girish Wagh said in a statement. Tata Motors had earlier signed an MoU with the Gujarat government for setting up a scrapping facility in Ahmedabad. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/tata-motors-joins-hands-with-maha-govt-to-set-up-vehicle-scrappage-facility-1061890.html
17-12-2021||West||OBC seats to be de-reserved in Maharashtra||The State Election Commission of Maharashtra would hold the elections to 106 nagar panchayats, Bhandara and Gondia zilla parishads and panchayat samitis in two phases. This was necessitated after the Supreme Court directed the SEC on Thursday to notify 27 per cent of seats reserved for Other Backward Classes to the general category so that the poll process can be taken forward. State Election commissioner UPS Madan on Friday said that elections to General, SC, ST seats will be held as per schedule on December 21, 2021. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/obc-seats-to-be-de-reserved-in-maharashtra-1061898.html
17-12-2021||West||HC stays notice to Nawab Malik over Prevention of Atrocities Act complaint||The Bombay High Court here on Friday stayed a notice issued by a court in Washim district of Maharashtra to state minister Nawab Malik in an atrocities act complaint filed by NCB officer Sameer Wankhede's cousin. Malik's lawyer Jagvijay Singh Gandhi said that Wankhede's cousin Sanjay Wankhede had filed a complaint at a special court in Washim, seeking registration of a case under the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act against the NCP leader. On December 4, the Washim court issued a notice to Malik seeking his reply, he said. "We challenged the notice before the Nagpur bench of the High Court contending that the complaint is not backed by affidavit. Besides, we need not have been made party for the purpose of the directions the complainant was seeking," the lawyer told PTI. "Moreover, the complaint does not disclose any cognizable offence. Therefore it must be quashed," advocate Gandhi added. The complaint alleged that Malik's tweets and public statements claiming that Sameer Wankhede was a Muslim but obtained a bogus caste certificate hurt the complainant Sanjay Wankhede's sentiments. He had the right to file a complaint being a member of the joint family to which Sameer belongs, the complaint stated. Justice Rohit Deo, after hearing the arguments, stayed the notice issued to Malik, advocate Gandhi said. Malik, minister for minority development, had alleged that Sameer Wankhede, the Mumbai zonal director of the Narcotics Control Bureau, was born a Muslim but got his government job under the SC quota by obtaining a bogus caste certificate. Wankhede has denied the charge and his father has filed a defamation suit against the minister.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/hc-stays-notice-to-nawab-malik-over-prevention-of-atrocities-act-complaint-1061908.html
17-12-2021||West||Goa 'Pink Force' to tackle crimes against women, children ||Under fire over the state government's inability to tackle crimes against women, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Friday launched a 'Pink Force' attached to Goa Police, which is tasked with tackling crimes against women, children and tourists. "Pink force will be available in the coastal belt, especially in places of tourist interest. It will act for women and children and tourists too. They have been specially trained and counselled on how to act in cases. This force will be available 24x7 and round the clock to prevent crime," Sawant said at the force's inaugural ceremony. Pink Force units would be first attached to 11 police stations on a trial basis, after which the force would be attached to all the remaining police stations and other uniformed units in the state. "It will be operational in 11 police stations in Goa at the outset, before it is taken to police stations across Goa to deal with cases related to women and children," the Goa Chief Minister said. The Sawant-led administration has been criticised by the Opposition as well as civil society groups over a series of high profile crimes against women. Earlier this week, a Goa government Minister Milind Naik was forced to resign after he was accused of sexual exploitation of a Bihar-based woman. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-pink-force-to-tackle-crimes-against-women-children-1061933.html
17-12-2021||West||Eight fresh cases of Omicron reported in Maharashtra||Eight new cases of Omicron were reported on Friday in Maharashtra taking the total cases to 40 of the new Covid-19 variant. As per the report given by National Institute of Virology, Pune, of the 8 new patients 6 are form Pune, one from Mumbai and one from Kalyan-Dombivli. Till date, a total of 48 patients infected with Omicron virus have been reported in the state - Mumbai-14, Pimpri Chinchwad-10, Pune (rural)-6, Pune Municipal Corporation-2, Kalyan Dombivali-2, Osmanabad-2, Latur -1, Buldhana-1, Nagpur-1, and Vasai Virar-1. Out of these, 25 cases have been discharged following a negative RT PCR test, according to the Public Health Department.  The new 8 patients are in the age group of 29-45 years. While 7 patients are asymptomatic, 1 patient is having mild symptoms. According to preliminary information, 4 patients from Pune have a history of travel to Dubai, 2 are their contacts.  One patient from Mumbai had travelled to the USA and the other patient from KDMC had travelled to Nigeria.  Out of these 8 patients, 2 are in hospital and 6 are at home isolation.o The close contacts of these patients are being tracked. All patients have been vaccinated. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/eight-fresh-cases-of-omicron-reported-in-maharashtra-1061947.html
17-12-2021||West||Twitter says Wankhede's suit in Mumbai court 'frivolous', seeks its dismissal||Social media giant Twitter on Friday termed as "frivolous" and not tenable on facts or in law the suit filed by Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) Zonal Director in Mumbai Sameer Wankhede and his wife against the company in a court here over some posts on its platform against the couple. Wankhede and his actor-wife Karnti Redkar had approached a civil court in suburban Borivali last month, seeking a direction to restrain social media giants, including Twitter, from publishing or displaying any "malicious and defamatory" content against the couple on their platforms. The duo has also sought interim and ad-interim reliefs till their application was decided. On Friday, Twitter filed its response before the court, saying it's an intermediary and not liable for content hosted on its platform under the relevant provisions of the Information Technology Act, 2000. "It is entitled to statutory immunity. If an intermediary is to regulate content which is available on its platform on its own, it loses the safe harbor immunity provided to it under the scheme of the IT Act," the reply said. Therefore, the micro-blogging and social networking site cannot be held liable for any objectionable content being posted by its users on its platform, it said. The social media company further said the suit itself, and the application herein is, "false, frivolous, and vexatious and is not tenable on facts or in law" and deserves to be dismissed. Citing provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC), the company said the court doesn't have the jurisdiction to preside over the matter. It said the couple has sought to invoke the jurisdiction of this court based on their residence. "However, it is settled law that the place of residence of the plaintiff's is not relevant to determine the territorial jurisdiction in any suit," the reply said. As per the CrPC, a suit can only be filed where the defendant resides or the cause of action arises. The plaintiffs have failed to show how the action arose within the jurisdiction of this court, it said. On the interim relief plea, the Twitter submitted that the prayer is "overbroad" and ex facie (defective) contrary to the settled principles of law, and cannot be granted. "No content has been identified in the interim application which is allegedly defamatory," it added. The micro-blogging site claimed there cannot be a blanket take down of an account, unless the court finds that all the tweets are defamatory. "This is more so because the plaintiffs have failed to make the account holder a party," it added. It also denied the allegation that gossip and rumour are blown out of proportion by various users of the social media company. There is a legal mechanism to regulate content available on the platform. However, the plaintiffs' prayers seek to circumvent that legal process, the company told the court. Besides Twitter, in the suit filed before the civil court, the couple had sought permanent injunction against Google and Facebook. The suit claimed that "sponsored misinformation" is being spread on social media platforms by various "unscrupulous elements" at the behest of individuals against whom the NCB officer has acted. It is clear that the "misinformation campaign" is a consequence of vested interests that are affected by investigations carried out by the NCB official, the plea, filed through legal firm Rex Legalis, has claimed. Google and Facebook filed their replies on previous hearing. The matter will be next heard on December 21. Wankhede and his family members had been locked in a bitter spat with Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik, who over the last few months has made a series of allegations against them, all denied by the NCB officer and his kin. Wankhede's father has also filed a defamation suit against the state minister in the Bombay High Court.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/twitter-says-wankhedes-suit-in-mumbai-court-frivolous-seeks-its-dismissal-1061952.html
17-12-2021||West||Sameer Wankhede's eventful NCB stint to end on December 31||The tenure of IRS officer Sameer Wankhede with the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), which was marked by controversy, would end on December 31, official sources said on Friday. Wankhede, a 2008-batch Indian Revenue Service officer, was on deputation to the NCB since September 2020 and is currently Mumbai zonal director of the anti-drugs agency. He was earlier posted with the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI). As zonal director of NCB, Wankhede was involved in action against the drug syndicates allegedly involving Bollywood celebrities in the aftermath of actor Sushant Singh Rajput's death by suicide. In October this year, a team led by Wankhede allegedly recovered drugs during a raid on a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast, and arrested actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan along with others. But subsequently questions were raised about the credentials of independent witnesses used by the NCB during the raid, and it was also alleged that there was an attempt to extort money from Shah Rukh Khan by NCB officials. Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik targeted Wankhede, alleging that he was born a Muslim but got his job in the Scheduled Castes quota by obtaining a bogus caste certificate. Wankhede denied the allegation and his father filed a defamation suit against Malik, an NCP leader. It is not yet clear where he would be posted after his NCB deputation ends, sources said.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sameer-wankhedes-eventful-ncb-stint-to-end-on-december-31-1061979.html
