18-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Flash protest against desecration of Shivaji statue in Bengaluru||Hindu activists in large numbers assembled at Sambhaji Circle late night Friday condemning the desecration of Chatrapati Shivaji Maharaj's statue at Bengaluru, demanding action against culprits behind the incident. Video of the statue of the warrior king's statue being desecrated went viral on social media on Friday night.  Bengaluru Police faced the mob which swelled with time. Unruly protesters were caned near Sambhaji Circle and arterial roads connecting the busy circle to bring the situation under control. People moving on streets and outside their houses were told to remain indoors by the police. MLA Abhay Patil condemned the disrespect shown to Chatrapati Shivaji Maharaj at Bengaluru. He said it was disrespect shown to the Hindu community as Chatrapati Shivaji Maharaj had dedicated his life to Hindus. He demanded strict action against those responsible for the act and a precedent be set. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai and Home Minister Araga Jnanendra should ensure the arrest of culprits. Insult of national heroes was an insult of the nation, he stated. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/flash-protest-against-desecration-of-shivaji-statue-in-bengaluru-1062093.html
18-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Sangolli Rayanna's statue vandalised in Belagavi||Miscreants vandalised the statue of Sangolli Rayanna installed at Kanakdas Colony in Angol suburb in the early hours of Saturday. The incident came to light at dawn. Miscreants damaged the statue and its sword and shield were lying next to it. As reports of the statue being damaged spread, residents from the area rushed to the spot resulting in a tense situation. Residents condemning the attack staged a sit-in protest in front of Tilakwadi police station demanding action against those responsible for showing disrespect to the national hero. They blocked the entry to the police station and raised slogans in support of their demands. The sit-in protest in front of the police station was withdrawn after police officials assured that action would be taken against the miscreants and that they would be nabbed. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/sangolli-rayannas-statue-vandalised-in-belagavi-1062157.html
18-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Amenities for pilgrims at Subramanya Road railway station upgraded||The South Western Railway has commissioned a Yatri Nivas at Subramanya Road Railway station.  The building will house separate blocks for men, women and people with mobility issues. Bona fide railway passengers can use the toilets and bathing facilities in the Yatri Nivas free of cost before leaving for the temple, said Dr Manjunath Kanamadi, Senior Divisional Commercial Manager and Senior PRO of Mysuru division of railways. "Kukke Subramanya is one the most popular pilgrim destinations in South India and the railway station serving this pilgrim centre is Subramanya Road in Dakshina Kannada. It is also the nearest railway station to the other prominent pilgrim centre of Dharmasthala. Subramanya Road Railway Station is a witness to a continuous flow of pilgrims throughout the year from every nook and corner of the country," he said. On auspicious occasions, the station caters to the needs of an extraordinary rush of traffic running into several thousands of passengers, he added. The railway passengers can use the toilets and bathing facilities in the Yatri Nivas free of cost. A dressing room and baby feeding facility are also available in the ladies' waiting room. Rahul Agarwal, Divisional Railway Manager, South Western Railway, Mysuru Division said that these facilities will go a long way in providing upgraded amenities for pilgrims reaching Subramanya by rail. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/amenities-for-pilgrims-at-subramanya-road-railway-station-upgraded-1062214.html
18-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Four out of five Omicron cases recovered in Dakshina Kannada||Of five cases of Omicron variant detected in Dakshina Kannada district, four have recovered and are healthy, Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V said on Saturday. Health officials who had interacted with the students on Saturday said that all were healthy. As per the initial contact tracing, all the five omicron cases traced in Dakshina Kannada district do not have a history of travelling abroad. Four students of Jawahar Navodaya School in Kurnad, on the outskirts of Mangaluru, had tested positive for the Omicron variant of the Covid-19. A total of 16 students were tested for Covid-19 at the Vidyalaya. The first positive case was reported on November 15. A total of 231 samples were tested for Covid-19 and 16 students had tested positive. The district authorities had sent samples for genomic study on December 10, DC informed. Another case was reported from Srinivas Nursing College in Mangaluru. As many as 19 students were tested positive for Covid-19 on December 9 and samples were sent for genomic study on December 10. The student is also healthy and has no symptoms, Covid-19 nodal officer Dr Ashok said. Dr Ashok said that all five students had no travel history to Kerala or international travel. Even their parents did not have any travel history.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/four-out-of-five-omicron-cases-recovered-in-dakshina-kannada-1062246.html
18-12-2021||Karnataka Politics||DH Toon | Rape remark brings Cong 'back in the news'||A day after he courted controversy over his remarks on rape, former Karnataka Speaker and senior Congress leader K R Ramesh Kumar issued an apology on the floor of the House on Friday.  Speaking at the start of the Assembly session on Friday, Kumar said, “If my remarks have hurt women, (or) if their feelings are hurt, I regret my remarks.” Kumar said that he had "just referred to a proverb" and his goal was not to insult women or the Assembly or to speak lightly (about rape).||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/dh-toon-rape-remark-brings-cong-back-in-the-news-1062114.html
18-12-2021||Karnataka Politics||Belagavi violence a ploy to harm national interests: C T Ravi||Speaking to reporters on Belagavi development at his home town, Ravi further said, it is a conspiracy to create unrest between Kannadigas and Marathas. "Kannada flag was burnt in Kolhapur. Which party is ruling in Maharashtra? Here in Karnataka, Shivaji statue has been desecrated, it looks like a well executed conspiracy," he said. "Few are trying to harm our national interests. Lakhs of Marathas are living in Karnataka and the same number of Kannadigas are in Maharashtra. People should not give in to these conspiracies," he appealed. Prohibitory orders have been clamped in Belagavi following flash protest by a huge mob turning violent on Friday midnight. The mob was protesting against desecration of Shivaji statue in Bengaluru. Later, the incident of vandalisation of freedom fighter Sangolli Rayanna also took place in Belagavi, creating further tension in the city. As many as 27 miscreants have been arrested and Belagavi police have booked cases against 100 others. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/belagavi-violence-a-ploy-to-harm-national-interests-c-t-ravi-1062184.html
18-12-2021||Karnataka Politics||HD Kumaraswamy defends his absence from Karnataka Assembly||JD(S) legislature party leader HD Kumaraswamy on Saturday justified his week-long absence from the Assembly session and asked why he should have attended it in the first place.  “Why should I have been there? What was the achievement in the first week of the session? The way the session was run for the first five days...were any development issues discussed,” Kumaraswamy asked, speaking to reporters.  The former chief minister said that he had intimated Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri of his absence.  The Belagavi session of the legislature started December 13 and Kumaraswamy was in New Delhi for the launch of a biography of his father, former prime minister HD Deve Gowda. Also, he stayed back in New Delhi for his birthday on December 16.   Kumaraswamy said that he tracked the Assembly proceedings while he was in the national capital. “The only thing that came out was the former speaker's (KR Ramesh Kumar) remarks on women. He's a seasoned politician who always speaks as though no one can match him. That itself is a big achievement (of the session),” he said.  “If I was in the House, things would have taken a different turn,” he said, referring to Kumar’s controversial remarks and added that the Speaker’s behaviour was also condemnable.   “What was the level of our Parliamentary system and how is it being destroyed by these great leaders in Karnataka? Should I have been there to partake in that,” he asked.  The JD(S) leader said that he would attend the session from December 20 onwards.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/hd-kumaraswamy-defends-his-absence-from-karnataka-assembly-1062257.html
18-12-2021||National||BJP Kisan Morcha national executive meet on Dec 19||With an aim to discuss the changing political situation after the repeal of the three farm laws, the BJP Kisan Morcha will hold its national executive meet on December 19 in Gurugram. Earlier, the BJP Kisan Morcha national executive meeting on October 30 in the national capital but postponed due to the scheduled party national executive meet on November 7. The inaugural session of BJP Kisan Morcha executive meet will be addressed by Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, and party chief JP Nadda will deliver the valedictory address. BJP national general secretary (organisation) BL Santhosh will be also present in the meet. The meeting will be presided by BJP's Kisan morcha national president and MP Rajkumar Chahar. The meeting is crucial with eyes on next year's assembly polls in five states Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Manipur and Goa. Election will be held in February-March next year. The meeting also held importance after repeal of three farms laws and end of year long protest by farmers at border of national capital. The farmers in western Uttar Pradesh and Punjab have been protesting since last one year against the three new farm laws passed by the BJP government at the Centre. Earlier this month, they ended the protest after the government accepted their demand and also both the houses of parliament passed a bill repealing all the three farm laws. "In the meeting, plans to reach out to farmers in the poll bound states will be discussed and the changed situation after repeal of three farm laws," a party functionary said. Another party leader said that plans to explain to people how farmers have benefited in the last seven years of the Narendra Modi government will also be discussed. "Modi government is working continuously for doubling the farmers income," he said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-kisan-morcha-national-executive-meet-on-dec-19-1062108.html
18-12-2021||National||India reports 7,145 new Covid-19 cases, 8,706 recoveries||India logged 7,145 new coronavirus infections taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 3,47,33,194, while the active cases declined to 84,565, according to the Union health ministry data updated on Saturday. The death toll climbed to 4,77,158 with 289 more fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been recorded below 15,000 for the last 51 days now. The active cases comprise 0.24 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.38 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the health ministry said. A decline of 1,850 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 0.57 per cent. It has been less than 2 per cent for last 75 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 0.62 per cent. It has been below 1 per cent for the last 34 days, according to the health ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,41,71,471, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.37 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 136.66 crore. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 289 new fatalities include 243 from Kerala and 12 from Maharashtra. Kerala has been reconciling its Covid fatalities for the last few days. Therefore, the death toll of the state is high. A total of 4,77,158 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,41,329 from Maharashtra, 44,189 from Kerala, 38,282 from Karnataka, 36,667 from Tamil Nadu, 25,100 from Delhi, 22,915 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,652 from West Bengal. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that the state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-7145-new-covid-19-cases-8706-recoveries-1062129.html
18-12-2021||National||Afghan crisis, regional connectivity to be focus of India-Central Asia dialogue on Sunday||The situation in Afghanistan and boosting connectivity and development cooperation are set to be key focus areas of the third edition of India's dialogue with five Central Asian countries on Sunday. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar is hosting the dialogue being attended by his counterparts from Kazakhstan, Kyrgyz Republic, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan. Foreign Minister of Kyrgyz Republic Ruslan Kazakbaev, his Tajik counterpart Sirojiddin Muhriddin and Kazakh Foreign Minister Mukhtar Tileuberdi have already arrived in Delhi. Muhriddin is visiting India to attend the India-Central Asia Dialogue as well as on a bilateral tour. In the last few years, India has been focusing on expanding overall cooperation with the energy-rich Central Asian countries, considering them to be part of its extended neighbourhood. The recent developments in Afghanistan reinforced the importance of the Central Asian countries with three of them — Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan — sharing borders with the war-torn nation. The national security advisors of all the five Central Asian countries attended an India-hosted regional dialogue on Afghanistan on November 10. It was also participated by NSAs of Russia and Iran. The focus of the dialogue will be to enhance connectivity and development cooperation as well as the unfolding developments in Afghanistan, officials said. "The ministers are expected to discuss further strengthening of relations between India and Central Asian countries with particular focus on trade, connectivity and development cooperation," External Affairs Ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said on Thursday. "They will also exchange views on regional and international issues of mutual interest," he said at a media briefing. The second meeting of the India-Central Asia dialogue was organised by India in October last year in digital video-conference format. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/afghan-crisis-regional-connectivity-to-be-focus-of-india-central-asia-dialogue-on-sunday-1062165.html
18-12-2021||National||India successfully test fires nuclear-capable 'Agni P' ballistic missile||The Defence Research and Development Organisation on Saturday successfully tested the new generation nuclear capable ballistic missile ‘Agni P’ (Agni Prime) from Dr A P J Abdul Kalam island off the coast of Odisha. The officials of the Ministry of Defence stated that the various telemetry, radar, electro-optical stations and downrange ships positioned along the eastern coast tracked and monitored the missile trajectory and parameters after it was launched. “The missile followed textbook trajectory meeting all mission objectives with high level of accuracy,” according to a press-release issued by the Ministry of Defence. The Agni Prime is a two-stage canisterised solid propellant ballistic missile with dual redundant navigation and guidance system. It has a range of 1000-2000 kilometres and can strike targets all across Pakistan. The first flight test of the new generation missile was conducted on June 28 this year, followed by the second on Saturday. The two tests had proven the reliable performance of all the advanced technologies integrated into the system. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh congratulated DRDO for the successful flight test and expressed his happiness for the excellent performance of the system.  Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-successfully-test-fires-nuclear-capable-agni-p-ballistic-missile-1062168.html
18-12-2021||National||Retired SC judge G T Nanavati passes away||87-year-old retired Supreme Court judge Girish Thakorlal Nanavati, better known for heading two inquiry commissions, 2002 post-Godhra riots and 1984 anti-Sikh riots in Delhi, passed away at his residence in Ahmedabad on Saturday. His family said he suffered a massive heart attack at around 1:30 pm. "He suffered a massive heart attack," said Maulik, son of Nanavati, who is a practising lawyer at Gujarat high court. Born in February 1935, Nanavati was appointed as a judge of Gujarat high court in 1979. He was elevated to Supreme Court in 1995 and retired in 2000.  After retirement, he headed a commission to probe the 1984 anti-Sikh riots in Delhi and later became part of a commission appointed by then chief minister Narendra Modi government to probe the 2002 post-Godhra riots.  Nanavati submitted his final report on the 2002 riots to the state government in 2014, which was tabled in the Gujarat assembly in December 2019. The report gave "clean chit" to the then chief minister Narendra Modi, his then colleagues and entire state machinery. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/retired-sc-judge-g-t-nanavati-passes-away-1062190.html
18-12-2021||National||National Conference confirms participation in J&K Delimitation Commission meet||Jammu and Kashmir National Conference (NC) leaders will attend the Delimitation Commission's associate members meeting in New Delhi next week, party MP Hasnain Masoodi said on Saturday. He, however, said, there was no shift in the party's stand that the exercise “offends” the spirit of the Constitution. “Seeing the overall scenario, the party has decided that its MPs will attend the meeting,” Masoodi, the MP from south Kashmir's Anantnag, told PTI. He said since the commissions cannot travel to the length and breadth of the Union Territory, they cannot hear what people have to say. “So, we will take the people's viewpoint to the commission,” he said, adding all three MPs from the party -- NC president Farooq Abdullah, Akbar Lone and himself -- will arrive in Delhi. The NC MP said the party had written to the commission seeking seek its agenda, but there was no response. “We want to know what their agenda is. We had asked them to submit the agenda of the meeting as well as the relevant supporting material. But, they did not. So, we have to go there to see what their agenda is...,” he said. Stressing that the party had not changed its stand on the matter, he said, “...This is not something new. The party (had earlier) met the commission on its Srinagar visit, submitted memorandum saying it is not a permissible route in the Constitution. We stand by that. There is no shift in our stand that this exercise offends the spirit of the Constitution” he said. He said the “right thing” for the government would have been to restore the August 4, 2019, position –- a day before the Centre revoked the erstwhile state's special status -- and then proceed with the delimitation. The NC had boycotted the first associate meeting of the commission in February saying the exercise was an outcome of Jammu and Kashmir Reorganization Act-2019, which the party had challenged in the Supreme Court. It said participation in the proceedings of the commission was “tantamount” to accepting the August 5, 2019, changes. Meanwhile, Peoples Conference chief Sajad Lone hit out at the NC for “multiple speak”. “Please atleast have the courtesy to show even some pretence and explain how it was tantamount to endorsement then and not now. Digital world. Digital proof. Chit bhi meri patt be meri won't work. Era of Multiple speeches in srinagar and Delhi— in multiple places is over (sic),” Lone wrote on Twitter. The remarks of Lone, who was earlier in the separatist camp before switching over to the mainstream in 2009 and grew close to the BJP and Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the run up to the 2014 elections, came after his party put out tweets criticising the NC. “These are the utterances of Dr Farooq Abdullah. What changed between then and now for the NC to now participate. Is it not tantamount to endorsing August 5 decisions now. There is a limit on monopoly on morality,” the Peoples Conference tweeted referring to Abdullah's remarks that the party will attend the meeting. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-conference-confirms-participation-in-jk-delimitation-commission-meet-1062191.html
18-12-2021||National||Naqvi hits out at 'Talibani mentality' opposing women empowerment||Union Minorities Affairs Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi on Saturday hit out at the "Talibani mentality" which created road blocks in women's liberty, dignity and empowerment, saying people with that mindset had opposed making the practice of instant triple talaq a penal offence. Addressing an event here to mark "Minorities Day", Naqvi said those who opposed making the social evil of instant triple talaq a crime or raised questions on removal of restrictions on Muslim women travelling alone for Haj are "professional protesters" of the essence of the Indian Constitution. According to a statement issued by his office, the Rajya Sabha deputy leader also hit out at those who were objecting to the constitutional equality regarding the legal age of marriage for women. The Union Cabinet on Wednesday had approved a proposal to raise the legal marriage age of women to 21 from 18 years. Naqvi noted that while on the one hand, believers of almost all religions of the world live in India; on the other, a large number of atheists also exist in the country with dignity and equal constitutional and social rights. He said the government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi has worked with the commitment to “Sabka Sath, Sabka Vikas, Sabka Vishwas, Sabka Prayas” during the last seven years which has ensured significant reforms and inclusive development of all sections of the society, including the minorities. The Modi government, the minister said, has provided a credible platform to indigenous artisans and craftsmen from every corner of the country through “Hunar Haat”. More than seven lakh artisans, craftsmen and people associated with them have been provided employment and employment opportunities during the last six years. He also noted that the present government has given scholarships to about five crore students from six notified minority communities -- Parsis, Jains, Buddhists, Sikhs, Christians and Muslims. About 50 per cent of the beneficiaries are girl students. It has resulted in a significant decline in school dropout rate among the minorities, especially Muslim girls. School dropout rate among Muslim girls which was more than 70 per cent before 2014, has now come down to less than about 30 per cent. Our aim is to make it zero per cent in the coming days, he asserted. Minister of State for Minorities John Barla; National Commission for Minorities and Chairman Iqbal Singh Lalpura were among those who attended the event. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/naqvi-hits-out-at-talibani-mentality-opposing-women-empowerment-1062194.html
18-12-2021||National||Centre working on policy to encourage research in pharma sector: Mansukh Mandaviya||The central government is formulating a policy to encourage research in pharmaceutical sector for patented drugs, and is also trying to widen the reach of generic medicines, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said here on Saturday. He lamented that although India is making generic medicines available to the world on a large scale, people of the country are consuming branded medicines, which is increasing the cost of medical treatment. Speaking at an event on pharmaceutical sector organised here in the run up to the 10th edition of the Vibrant Gujarat Global Summit, Mandaviya said the Centre's policy to make healthcare accessible to 10 crore families is also creating an opportunity for the pharmaceutical sector. "The government has eased the policy for research in the pharmaceutical sector, and the time taken for giving permission to a company to carry out research has been reduced. But the country should not limit itself to manufacturing generic medicines, it should also conduct research and sell patented drugs to the world market," he said. Mandaviya said the government is working on a policy to encourage research in pharmaceutical companies, which will also deal with how they can be supported financially. This has helped in the research and production of Covid-19 vaccines within nine months, he said. "The situation is changing. Our scientists had the capacity, but the system was such that they would get approval for research after two-three years (of seeking nod). But our government has instructed the authorities to simplify the system while ensuring quality," said Mandaviya, who also holds the portfolio of chemicals and fertilisers. He said India has got skill, manpower and trust to attract global investment in the pharma sector. The number of health and wellness centres launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi with the aim of making healthcare accessible and affordable to the poor, has increased to 90,000, and in the next two years it will go up to 1.5 lakh, Mandaviya said. More than 8,500 Jan Aushadhi Kendras in the country are also increasing the availability quality generic medicines to the people at as low as half the price, he said. "One out of four generic tablets taken in the US, and one out of six in the world, is manufactured in India. We are making generic medicines available to the world, and we are ourselves consuming branded medicine to increase our treatment cost," he said, adding that the Centre's schemes will encourage use of generic medicines in the country. Gujarat Health Minister Rishikesh Patel said that the state will come up with an investment park in Bharuch for bulk drugs. The day-long pre-event summit on 'Holistic Healthcare: Focus on Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices' included deliberations on boosting bulk drug production through Production Linked Incentive (PLI) scheme, reducing India's dependence in Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients (APIs) and medical devices, and Jan Aushadhi Kendras – Generic Medicines. Gujarat Chief Minister Bhupendra Patel was also present at the event. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-working-on-policy-to-encourage-research-in-pharma-sector-mansukh-mandaviya-1062195.html
18-12-2021||National||Healthcare experts bat for robust digital health ecosystem in India||Calling Covid-19 pandemic an “eye-opener” in helping the Centre realise the need for a robust digital healthcare framework system in place, experts opined that it is high time India has a proper digital highway to address the growing health needs of its massive population. They were speaking at the seventh edition of IHW Summit and Awards held on Friday. Underscoring the challenges posed by the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, Dr J A Jayalal, president, Indian Medical Association, said the Government of India needs to adopt new technology, so that, even if there is a third wave, it will allow us to sail through. "Obviously, there will be multi-thronged challenges as long as Covid-19 is around, but there is no need of a lockdown anymore. That will do more harm than any good," he said. “The Covid-19 pandemic has taught us one very important thing - to provide high-quality healthcare, and that too, when physical distancing is a must, you need an around-the-clock digital healthcare system in place. That is why it is need of the hour for the government to put in a place a robust digital framework,” Swati Rangachari, vice president and country leader, Public Affairs and Strategic Engagements, United Health Group, Optum said. The Centre has taken very big steps in building a digital health ecosystem in the country and that is evident through the Ayushman Bharat Digital Mission (ABDM), the official noted. While adopting a digital healthcare system is a must, it comes with its own sets of challenges in a country, according to Vibhav Garg, Director-Health, Economics and Government Affairs, India HUB & ASEAN, Boston Scientific. “In the existing healthcare system, when a person is hospitalised, he or she understands that they would get reimbursed by the government or a private insurer. On the other hand, when it comes to digital health, do we have a costing, pricing, or reimbursement mechanism in place? “Hence, before coming up with a digital health framework, we need to see whether we have a proper infrastructure in place,” he said. The 7th edition of the IHW Summit and Awards also saw experts deliberating on India’s integrated health and socio-economic impact post-Covid-19. “One thing is for sure that Covid-19 pandemic has put an additional focus in the public health sector in India. For almost 75 years since India’s independence, public health, per se, was never seen as a comprehensive challenge. “However, the pandemic has pointed that in terms of the inequities that have long existed. Out of a sudden, we realise that public health is for the public at large, and that includes every citizen of India, notwithstanding their economic standing,” said Neeraj Jain, Country Director, PATH India. Stressing the need for an integrated healthcare system in the country in the post-Covid-19 world, Dr Harsh Mahajan, Founder and Chief Radiologist, Mahajan Imaging said the government needs to rope in more private players in the existing healthcare system. "The new variants of Covid-19 infection have shown to us the urgent need to ramp up testing capacity, in order to avoid something like the second variant caused by the Delta variant," he said. “In the last two years, while each one of us at IHW Council worked from home, we took on new challenges head on and became a leader in the health awareness and advocacy on many critical health issues that continue to overwhelm us Indians. From stroke, diabetes, cancer, mental health awareness to aiming to make India rabies-free by 2030, we have focused on some of the most critical areas of public health that deserve attention more than ever,” said Kamal Narayan, CEO, IHW Council. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/healthcare-experts-bat-for-robust-digital-health-ecosystem-in-india-1062211.html
18-12-2021||National||DRDO scientist arrested for blast in Delhi court, wanted to kill lawyer-neighbour||A 47-year-old scientist in Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) has landed in police net after he orchestrated a low-intensity explosion in a Delhi court to allegedly kill a lawyer who is his neighbour, police said on Saturday. Bharat Bhushan Kataria, a senior scientist with the DRDO, was arrested on Friday in connection with the blast that took place in Room No 102 in Rohini Court Complex on December 9 that injured one person. Kataria had allegedly planted the Improvised Explosive Device (IED) in a tiffin box inside the courtroom as he wanted to kill his neighbour. The scientist had entered the court at 9.33 am on December 9 with two bags and he allegedly left behind one of them inside the courtroom. He exited the court premises at 10.35 am. Both the parties had lodged several cases against each other earlier. They are neighbours and live in the same building. Prima facie, it seems Kataria had a grudge against the lawyer, a senior police official said. Kataria has filed five cases against the lawyer, who in turn filed seven against the scientist. Police said the lawyer lives on the ground floor while the accused lives on the third floor of the same building. The arrests came after teams constituted to probe the case checked footage from numerous CCTV cameras inside and outside Rohini Court complex. Following this, a number of suspects were identified and questioned. Investigators also looked into the background of people who were present inside the court and it was through this they managed to zero in on the scientist. During the investigation, Delhi Police Commissioner Rakesh Asthana told reporters, police identified the cars that had entered on December 9 inside the court complex. "Around 100 CCTV cameras were analysed and when suspicious movements were zeroed down. CCTVs of nearby locations were also used to corroborate the suspicious movements," Asthana said. Details of around 1,000 cars that had entered the court premises were also checked. Officials said the scientist allegedly used the anti-theft mechanism of two-wheelers to act as a remote for the explosive. The IED was not properly assembled due to which only the detonator exploded, police said. Teams from the Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) and the National Security Guard (NSG), which had visited the site of the explosion, had discovered that the materials allegedly used by Kataria for making the IED were easily available in the market.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/drdo-scientist-arrested-for-blast-in-delhi-court-wanted-to-kill-lawyer-neighbour-1062230.html
18-12-2021||National||RSS not government's remote control, says Mohan Bhagwat||The media portrays the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) as the government's remote control, but nothing could be further from the truth, its chief Mohan Bhagwat said on Saturday. He also said though India is not a world power, it certainly has the potential to become a world 'guru' in the post-pandemic era. Addressing ex-servicemen here, Bhagwat said, “The media refers to us as the remote control of the government, but that is untrue. Though, some of our workers are definitely part of the government. The government does not give assurances of any sort to our swayam sevaks. People ask us what we get from the government. My answer to them is that we may even have to lose what we own.” Highlighting the ancient Indian practices in medicine, he said, “What saw us through were our traditional Indian remedies such as kadha, kwath (herbal formulations) and hygiene. Now, the world looks up to India and wants to emulate the Indian model. Our country may not become a world power, but it can certainly be the world guru.” The RSS chief observed a minute's silence in memory of Chief of Defence Staff Late Bipin Rawat and 13 others who died in the chopper crash near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu recently. Calling for unity, he said that the undivided land of India lost several battles with foreign invaders over the centuries as the local population was not united. Quoting social reformer BR Ambedkar, he said we are never defeated by anyone's strength but by our own weaknesses. Bhagwat is on a five-day tour to Himachal Pradesh and is likely to meet Tibetan spiritual leader The Dalai Lama, sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rss-not-governments-remote-control-says-mohan-bhagwat-1062252.html
18-12-2021||National||Use freedom of expression responsibly, says Vice-Prez Naidu||Vice-President M Venkaiah Naidu on Saturday emphasised the need to use freedom of expression responsibly so that the faith or sentiments of others are not hurt.  Addressing the 33rd Moortidevi award ceremony organised by Bhartiya Jnanpith here, he called for observing decency in public utterances and said that writers and thinkers are expected to create intellectual discourse in society, not trigger controversies. Eminent Hindi author Vishwanath Prasad Tiwari has presented this year's Moortidevi awards for his outstanding work 'Asti Aur Bhavati'. According to an official statement from the Vice President Secretariat, Naidu characterised the writers and thinkers as the intellectual capital of the nation who enrich it with their creative ideas and literature. Describing 'word' and 'language' as the most important inventions of human history, he said literature is the living carrier of the thought-tradition of a society. "The more cultured a society, the more refined would be its language. The more awakened the society, the more extensive its literature would be," he observed. Praising the country's rich linguistic diversity, the vice president termed it India's national strength which has forged cultural unity.  He wanted an increased dialogue between Indian languages and suggested that everyone must learn some words, idioms and greetings in other Indian languages. It is an important exercise for the linguistic and emotional unity of the country, Naidu said. Stressing that every Indian language is a 'national language', the vice president urged the national media to give adequate space to all Indian languages and their literature. Appreciating the efforts of institutions like Sahitya Akademi for translating and promoting literature in Indian languages, Naidu said more efforts are needed in this direction and the latest technologies should be fully leveraged for this.  He also said that literary works translated from other Indian languages should be included in the university curriculum. Justice Vijender Jain, the President of Bharatiya Jnanpith, Sahu Akhilesh Jain, the Managing Trustee of Bharatiya Jnanpith and others were present at the event.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/use-freedom-of-expression-responsibly-says-vice-prez-naidu-1062253.html
18-12-2021||National||'Voice of Freedom' and the battle for airwaves over Goa||The defiance of over four centuries of Portuguese rule was not just limited to land and sea. There was another battle that was raging in the airwaves over Goa. The face, rather the voice which defined the battle, was that of a young woman named Libia Lobo, the soul behind the 'Voice of Freedom', an underground radio station functioning from salvaged wireless sets which were used to relay the signals from the jungles of the Western Ghats region in independent India, both in present day Maharashtra and Karnataka into Portuguese-held Goa. "Voice of Freedom created awareness about the freedom struggle amongst people of Goa through their regular bulletins anchored by Libia Lobo. The radio station was set up by Vaman Sardesai and Nicolau Menezes assisted him. It was no easy task to set up a radio station with the difficulties that one encountered in those jungles," according to Goa-based historian Prajal Sakhardande. The radio station went live in 1955, just as Goa emerged on the map of global diplomacy, as Portugal and India went after each other over the territory, which was one of the last vestiges of European colonial power in the Indian sub continent. Libia Lobo and Nicolau Menezes were Goans settled in Bombay, while Sardesai (Libia later married Sardesai) was a radio programmer who programmed broadcasts for the central government's external civil services division. "So the idea came, if we can produce broadcasts to beam them from Delhi to the world, why can't we do something and beam broadcast to Goa? So we wanted to keep the people informed about the day to day events that were taking place of the support that this struggle was getting from, not only from India but from all over the world," Libia Lobo said in an interview published in news platform in 2017. Lobo, 99 now, claims that the objective of 'Voice of Freedom' was to keep "people informed about the day-to-day events that were taking place of the support that this struggle was getting from, not only from India but from all over the world". Under the dictatorial regime of Portuguese Prime Minister Antonio de Oliviera Salazar, there was severe crackdown on demonstrations as well as news material published in the rest of India. Goan newspapers themselves were heavily censored. The broadcasts over 'Voice of Freedom' were a breath of fresh air for the local residents of Goa, whenever they locked in on its frequency during the broadcast. "The radio transmitters and other equipment had to be set up countering the unpredictable weather conditions. It required a bold nerve to set it in the wake of Salazar's dictatorship albeit it was not in Goa but on the border village of Castle Rock in Karnataka," Sakhardande said. Sometimes the main transmitter would be hauled in the back of a truck and operated from the forests of Amboli village, which is located in Maharashtra and close to the Goa border towards the north. In her thesis 'Voices in the Liberation Struggle - The Case of Goa 1947-61', Anita A. Raudesai has listed the four-fold purpose of the under radio platform, which includes keeping the local population updated about the developments in the region's freedom struggle, demoralising Portuguese troops, countering Portuguese propaganda and to convey a solidarity between Goa and other regions fighting for freedom in Asia and Africa. The station also ran speeches by Indian freedom fighters like Vinoba Bhave, who through the station urged the Portuguese to peacefully quit Goa. On the day -- December 19, 1961, when the Portuguese armed forces gave up and India took control of Goa, Libia Lobo literally took to the skies to broadcast the victory. "General (Lt Gen J.N. Chaudhari) came in his jeep and he said 'Kumari Lobo I have got news for you. Do you know the Portuguese have surrendered'. 'Oh' I said, 'so Goa is free. I would like to go to the skies and announce that Goa is free'. That's what I told him," Lobo said in the 2017 interview. "So we immediately wrote down leaflets and we were told that we would hover all over Goa and drop these leaflets. So exactly when the tricolour was hoisted and the Portuguese flag was brought down, we declared from the plane that Goa was free and joined the motherland," she further said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/voice-of-freedom-and-the-battle-for-airwaves-over-goa-1062255.html
18-12-2021||National||Sohrabuddin Encounter: Builder brothers withdraw petition seeking CBI probe||After nearly eight years, the owners of Popular Builders, Dashrath and Raman Patel, have withdrawn their petition from Gujarat High Court seeking CBI investigation into the 2004 firing at their office. The Patel brothers, cited as key witnesses by CBI in Sohrabuddin Sheikh encounter case whose testimonies implicated several IPS officers including D G Vanzara and then minister of state for home Amit Shah, are behind bars in nearly a dozen FIRs registered since August 2020. In 2013, the builder brothers had moved the high court requesting CBI investigation into the firing at their office executed allegedly at the behest of gangster Sohrabuddin Sheikh. They had alleged, citing the CBI probe into the encounter, that the firing was part of a "conspiracy" by Gujarat policemen to implicate Sheikh in a criminal case for his encounter killing and extorting money from the brothers.  The court of justice Gita Gopi disposed of the petition while noting in her order passed on December 6 that petition stands disposed of as withdrawn.  In December 2004, two unidentified gunmen had opened fire at Popular Builders' office in Navrangpura in Ahmedabad. The receptionist, the lone eye witness, filed an FIR with Navrangpura police station, investigation of which was later transferred to the Detection of Crime Branch (DCB). One of the key suspects in the Sohrabuddin Sheikh case, Vanzara, was posted with DCB as Deputy Commissioner of Police. Later, the case was transferred to Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS), where also Vanzara supervised its investigation after his transfer there. It was alleged that the firing was executed by Tulsiram Prajapati and Daniel Sylvester Desai, members of Rajasthan-based Sohrabuddin gang, to warn Patels to resolve a "monetary dispute". Later, the police booked Patels for destroying evidence in this case. After CBI took over Sohrabuddin Sheikh encounter case, the version changed and in 2010, CBI claimed that the firing was orchestrated by accused policemen to book Sheikh in a criminal case in  Gujarat to justify encounter and extort money from Patel brothers. All the accused in the firing case became witnesses in the Sohrabuddin encounter case. Patels also conducted a "sting" on several persons including an IPS officer and gave testimonies to CBI alleging that the police officers were trying to extort money. Over the years, suspects such as Shah, now the union home minister, ex IPS Vanzara, IPS officers Abhay Chudasama, Rajkumar Pandian, Rajasthan cadre IPS officer Dinesh MN, among others, were discharged by the special CBI court in Mumbai while several low rank accused policemen were acquitted. The CBI didn't challenge any of the orders. Appeals against orders of acquittal are pending in Mumbai high court filed by Sohrabuddin's brother Rubabuddin. Barely a year after registration of FIR with Navrangpura police station, a team of Gujarat policemen killed Sohrabuddin in an encounter alleging that he was member of Lashkar-e-Taiba. A year later, his close aide Prajapati was also killed in the encounter. The whereabouts of Sheikh's wife Kauser Bi has remained a mistry. However, CID (Crime), which investigated the case initially, and CBI claimed that she was allegedly killed and cremated at Illol village in Himatnagar district. CBI investigation alleged that Sheikh, Kauser and Prajapati had been picked up by accused Gujarat policemen from a passenger bus in Sangli, Maharashtra, while they killed Sheikh and his wife, Prajapati was let go only to be killed a year later. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sohrabuddin-encounter-builder-brothers-withdraw-petition-seeking-cbi-probe-1062258.html
18-12-2021||National||India to have an export promotion body within govt||India could soon have a dedicated export promotion body within the government. The Centre is currently working on the creation of such a body that would help boost overseas shipments as the country aims to nearly double merchandise exports to $500 billion by next year. At present, the Federation of Indian Exporters Organisation is (FIEO) is the apex export body that was set up jointly by the Ministry of Commerce and private trade and industry in 1965. “We need to create an export promotion-focused body in the government for promoting Indian exports,” said BVR Subrahmanyam highlighting Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision of 3Ts - Trade, Tourism and Technology. Addressing the FICCI Annual Convention and 94th AGM, Subrahmanyam pointed out that the government is working on future-ready commerce. This will work on multiple things. First and foremost, there will be a separate export promotion wing with a footprint in all Indian missions abroad and in every state of India, he said. A bilateral and multilateral engagement department will also be constituted under the trade negotiation wing, he said, adding the flavour of the today is bilateral trade, and the government is negotiating Free Trade Agreements with multiple countries such as UAE, Australia, United States EU, which will be completed by next year. “These will cover many other aspects such as public procurement, intellectual property, social development etc. He also shared that a market intelligence will also be set up across the states of India which will be a great boon for the industry in boosting their export,” Subrahmanyam said. In addition, the Ministry is working on a Brand India strategy under an overarching objective of trade promotion across the globe. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-have-an-export-promotion-body-within-govt-1062263.html
18-12-2021||National||India's Omicron tally crosses 100-mark after Kerala, Karnataka, Maharashtra report new cases||India's Omicron Covid count rose to 126 on Saturday after Karnataka and Kerala reported six and four cases respectively, while three more persons in Maharashtra also tested positive for the variant. According to central and state officials, omicron cases have been detected in 11 states and union territories -- Maharashtra (43), Delhi (22), Rajasthan (17) and Karnataka (14), Telangana (8), Gujarat (7), Kerala (11), Andhra Pradesh (1), Chandigarh (1), Tamil Nadu (1) and West Bengal (1). Of the six new cases in Karnataka, one is a passenger from the UK, while five others are from Covid -19 clusters in two educational institutions in Dakshina Kannada district, and their travel history or contact with the international travellers are being ascertained, officials said. "Two cluster outbreaks of Covid have been reported from two educational institutions in Dakshina Kannada today: Cluster 1: 14 cases (of which 4 are Omicron). Cluster 2: 19 cases (1 is Omicron). A traveller from UK has also tested positive for Omicron," Karnataka Health Minister K Sudhakar said in a tweet. Two cluster outbreaks of COVID have been reported from two educational institutions in Dakshina Kannada today: Cluster 1: 14 cases (of which 4 are Omicron) Cluster 2: 19 cases (1 is Omicron) In Kerala, two cases of the new variant of the coronavirus were detected from Thiruvananthapuram in patients aged 17 and 44. One case was detected in Malappuram in a person aged 37 and another was a 49-year-old patient from Thrissur district. "The 17-year-old patient in Thiruvananthapuram came from the UK while the 44-year-old reached the state from Tunisia in a chartered flight. The patient in Malappuram came from Tanzania while the Thrissur native came from Kenya," Health Minister Veena George said in a release. A couple and their 13-year-old daughter have tested positive for the Omicron variant of coronavirus after returning to Satara in western Maharashtra from Uganda, officials said. Their other daughter, who is five years old, tested positive for Covid-19 but not for the variant. All four returned to Phaltan in Satara district from the African country on December 9, state health department officials said. "The husband (35), wife (33) and their elder daughter (13) tested positive for Covid-19 while the report of the younger child was inconclusive, so the samples of all four were sent to the National Institute of Virology for genome sequencing," said Civil Surgeon Dr Subhash Chavan. The Centre has warned it is likely that the spread of the new variant will outpace the Delta variant where there is community transmission. It has advised people to avoid non-essential travel and mass gatherings and keep New Year celebrations at low intensity. While the country's first two cases of the Omicron variant were detected in Karnataka on December 2, this heavily mutated version of the coronavirus was first reported in South Africa on November 24. The national capital on Saturday recorded 86 fresh Covid-19 cases in a day, the highest in over five months. On July 8, Delhi had reported 93 coronavirus cases. The rise in cases is being recorded amid the Omicron scare in Delhi as the total number of patients infected with the latest variant of coronavirus jumped by 12 on Friday to reach 22. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday assured the people that his government is ready to tackle the Omicron variant of Covid and advised people not to panic. Other states too said they were making preparations to deal with a possible rise in Omicron cases. Odisha has arranged for an adequate number of hospital beds, medical oxygen and medicines to deal with any emergency, state Public Health Director Niranjan Mishra said. "No one can rule out the possibility of the third wave of Covid-19 with increasing Omicron cases. We are well prepared to tackle the situation," the official said. Odisha has not recorded any case of the new coronavirus variant so far but neighbouring Andhra Pradesh and West Bengal reported such infections. The World Health Organization on Saturday stressed on urgent scale-up of public health and social measures to curtail the further spread of the Omicron variant. Countries can and must prevent the spread of Omicron with proven health and social measures, Regional Director, WHO South-East Asia Region, Poonam Khetrapal Singh said. "Our focus must continue to be to protect the least protected and those at high risk,” she said in a statement. The overall threat posed by Omicron largely depends on three key questions -– its transmissibility; how well the vaccines and prior SARS-CoV-2 infection protect against it, and how virulent the variant is as compared to other variants. "From what we know so far, Omicron appears to spread faster than the Delta variant which has been attributed to the surge in cases across the world in the last several months," Singh said. Emerging data from South Africa suggests an increased risk of re-infection with Omicron, she said, adding that there is still limited data on the clinical severity associated with Omicron. Further information is needed to fully understand the clinical picture of those infected with Omicron, she said. Health care capacity including ICU beds, oxygen availability, adequate health care staff and surge capacity need to be reviewed and strengthened at all levels, she stressed.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-omicron-tally-crosses-100-mark-after-kerala-karnataka-maharashtra-report-new-cases-1062265.html
18-12-2021||National||Centre to launch good governance week from December 20||The Centre will launch a nationwide campaign on Monday for redressal of public grievances and improvising service delivery especially in rural areas as part of good governance week. A series of programmes are planned by the Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions during the week to be observed during December 20-25. There will be a launch of nationwide campaign for redressal of public grievances and improvising service delivery titled ‘prashasan gaon ki aur’ on Monday besides the inauguration of exhibition on good governance practices, said the Department of Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances (DARPG) under the ministry. Minister of State for Personnel Jitendra Singh will inaugurate the campaign on Monday. "The good governance week will start from Monday. A series of programmes are planned highlight various good governance initiatives taken by the Centre during the week. The main theme of the campaign is to take good governance to the rural areas," he said. Programmes on good governance in the Ministry of External Affairs (all missions/posts to participate in virtual conference), ease of living and next phase of reforms for reducing compliance burden, a workshop on Mission Karmayogi and experience sharing workshop by DARPG on best practices initiatives for increasing efficiency in decision making would be organised during the week, the DARPG said. The week will conclude with the celebration of good governance day at Vigyan Bhawan here on December 25, it said. December 25th is celebrated as the good governance day to mark the birth anniversary of former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-to-launch-good-governance-week-from-december-20-1062266.html
18-12-2021||National||Unlike other countries, PM Modi involved people in govt's fight against Covid-19: Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Saturday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi has involved common people in the government's fight against Covid-19, unlike other countries. Speaking at an award distribution ceremony organised by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India here, Shah said while the pandemic situation is fluctuating in many countries, India is steadily coming out of it. “Many governments fought against Covid-19 in the world but in India, Prime Minister Narendra Modi ensured that people would join the government's fight against the pandemic. Even at present, many countries are reporting ups and down in Covid-19 cases, but India is steadily coming out of it,” Shah said. The Union minister also said that everyone in the world had expressed concerns over India's population and the existing health infrastructure. However, we comparatively incurred fewer losses from Covid-19, he added. He said India's economic growth while coming out of Covid-19, has been promising. “The current growth rate is in a single-digit but I can assure you all that it would be in a double-digit by March 22. It is because we were trying to win the war against Covid-19 but the economic reforms that we had envisioned would need to overcome various challenges posed by the pandemic,” Shah added. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/unlike-other-countries-pm-modi-involved-people-in-govts-fight-against-covid-19-amit-shah-1062269.html
18-12-2021||National||NCB official Sameer Wankhede's sister files criminal complaint against NCP's Nawab Malik||Yasmeen Wankhede, sister of Narcotics Control Bureau zonal director Sameer Wankhede, on Saturday filed a criminal defamation and stalking complaint against Maharashtra minister and NCP leader Nawab Malik accusing him of making "baseless and defamatory" allegations against her. The criminal complaint filed before the Andheri metropolitan magistrate court has sought action against Malik under IPC sections 354D (stalking), 499 (defamation) and 509 (word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman). In her complaint, Yasmeen Wankhede has claimed she has recently come across tweets and televised interviews wherein Malik has made defamatory and scandalous unfounded allegations against her knowing fully well the said allegations were "absolutely untrue". Yasmeen's complaint further said her brother Sameer Wankhede is actively involved in busting drug rackets and one such case being handled by him was involving Malik's son-in-law Sameer Khan, who is currently out on bail. Out of personal "grudge and vengeance" held against the complainant's brother, the accused as a counter measure started making false, defamatory and baseless allegations against the complainant and her family. the complaint claims. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ncb-official-sameer-wankhedes-sister-files-criminal-complaint-against-ncps-nawab-malik-1062271.html
18-12-2021||National||Navjot Singh Sidhu calls Kejriwal 'political tourist', dares him for debate on employment||Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu Saturday called AAP chief Arvind Kejriwal a political tourist and a "liar" who surfaced with "fake promises" just ahead of assembly elections in the state. Addressing a public meeting here, Sidhu dared Kejriwal for a debate on the issue of employment, claiming he had promised eight lakh jobs in Delhi but gave only 440. "Come and sit (with me), wherever in Punjab. Even call me in Delhi. Will sit at your home, bring TV channels also. If Sidhu gets defeated, then (I) will leave politics,” said Sidhu. He also targeted Kejriwal for his promise of providing Rs 1,000 per month to women, asking him whether he was giving this amount to women in the national capital where he heads the AAP government. Earlier this month, Kejriwal had claimed that illegal sand mining worth an estimated Rs 20,000 crore was taking place in Punjab and if the AAP formed a government, it would stop this and the money would be used to fund his party’s polls promise of Rs 1,000 per month for women. Sidhu said Saturday this was not possible. "He (Kejriwal) says that Rs 20,000 crore will come from the sand mining sector in Punjab. The last government (Akali-BJP) deposited Rs 40 crore every year. We (Congress government) are depositing Rs 300 crore. How could you (Kejriwal) get Rs 20,000 crore?" he said. "Show me any state which generates more than Rs 3,000 crore from the sand mining." "I tell you, Kejriwal! You know nothing about Punjab,” he said. “You are a political tourist and liar who comes here after four and half years with fake promises. Why did you not come in the last four and half years?" he asked. He accused Kejriwal of privatising liquor in the national capital. Sidhu said that funds to the tune of Rs 30,000 crore could be generated from the liquor business in Punjab, Rs 2,000-3000 crore from sand mining and from cable and other sectors. The Punjab Congress chief called Kejriwal a “fraud” and said even a garden lizard (kod kirla) does not change as many colours as the AAP leader does. Targeting the AAP leader for his poll time "lollipops", he told people to ask Kejriwal why there was no woman in his cabinet. Sidhu also targeted the Shiromani Akali Dal and its first family, the Badals, for allegedly "looting" the state during their previous regime. Batting for his “Punjab model” of governance, Sidhu promised to give the minimum support price on pulses and oilseeds if his party returns to power in the state after the upcoming elections. "If the Centre does not pay MSP, does not give legal guarantee to it, the Punjab government will give MSP on 'daal' (pulses) and oilseeds. I promise it," he said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/navjot-singh-sidhu-calls-kejriwal-political-tourist-dares-him-for-debate-on-employment-1062272.html
18-12-2021||National||BJP worker travelling to PM's rally in Shahjahanpur dies in bus collision||A 50-year-old BJP worker was killed and eight others injured on Saturday when two buses carrying them to the Shahjahanpur rally of Prime Minister Narendra Modi collided with each other, police said. The incident took place on Shahjahanpur - Shahbad Road under Shahbad Kotwali Police Station area here, they said. According to police, the axle of one of the buses broke when it crossed Shahbad town causing it to come to a sudden halt and the one driving behind it to ram into it. The injured were rushed to the Community Health Center from where four were sent to Hardoi District Hospital and others were discharged after first aid. According to City Magistrate Hardoi Sadanand, a booth level worker, Roopram Rajput, died in the district hospital later. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-worker-travelling-to-pms-rally-in-shahjahanpur-dies-in-bus-collision-1062274.html
18-12-2021||National||India, Tajikistan explore ways to expand cooperation in diverse areas||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Saturday held wide-ranging talks with his Tajik counterpart Sirojiddin Muhriddin, covering bilateral ties in areas of energy, connectivity and trade, besides deliberating on the situation in Afghanistan. Jaishankar described the talks as "productive" and said views were exchanged on expanding bilateral cooperation in several areas. In his opening remarks, the external affairs minister talked about common concerns over developments in Afghanistan and said India was looking forward to easier travel with Tajikistan through recognition of vaccine certificates. Muhriddin arrived here on Friday on a four-day bilateral visit as well as to attend the India-Central Asia Dialogue. "Our support for each other during Covid, I think was very good. We were happy to provide 'Made in India' vaccines and certainly now we look forward to easier travel between India and Tajikistan through recognition of our vaccine certificates," he said. Productive discussions with my friend, Tajik FM Sirojiddin Muhriddin. Exchanged views on expanding our bilateral cooperation in energy, connectivity, trade, security and capacity building. "We've also, of course as neighbours of Afghanistan, we have been very concerned at the developments there. And the participation of the Secretary of your Security Council in the Regional Security Dialogue, which we hosted in November, is something which is deeply appreciated," Jaishankar said. He also expressed New Delhi's appreciation for Tajikistan's support in the evacuation of Indian citizens from Kabul. Tajikistan had provided transit facilities to Indian flights that were part of the evacuation mission. "I would also like to publicly thank you for the tremendous support that you gave us during the evacuation of Indians from Afghanistan in August and September, both Indians as well as some members of the Afghan minority community," he said. The external affairs minister also thanked Muhriddin for his country's decision to join the Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure, an India-backed initiative. "Productive discussions with my friend, Tajik FM Sirojiddin Muhriddin. Exchanged views on expanding our bilateral cooperation in energy, connectivity, trade, security and capacity building. Valued his insights on regional developments," Jaishankar tweeted later. The Tajik foreign ministry said the two sides discussed the security situation in the region besides exchanging views on strengthening ties in areas of trade, investment, energy, culture and education. "The foreign ministers discussed the issues of development of bilateral relations and stressed the need to implement the agreements reached by the leaders of the two countries on strengthening mutually beneficial cooperation," it said. It further said the two sides discussed other issues related to the deepening of bilateral relations in the framework of international and regional organisations, as well as the security situation in the region.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-tajikistan-explore-ways-to-expand-cooperation-in-diverse-areas-1062276.html
18-12-2021||National||India administers more than 137 crore Covid vaccine doses||The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country crossed 137 crore on Saturday, the Union health ministry said. More than 69 lakh (69,21,097) vaccine doses were administered till 7 pm on Saturday, it said. The daily vaccination tally is expected to increase with the compilation of the final reports for the day by late night, the ministry said. The countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 with healthcare workers (HCWs) getting inoculated in the first phase. The vaccination of frontline workers (FLWs) started on February 2. The next phase of Covid-19 vaccination commenced from March 1 for people over 60 years of age and those aged 45 and above with specified co-morbid conditions. The country launched vaccination for all people aged more than 45 years from April 1. The government then decided to expand its vaccination drive by allowing everyone above 18 years to be vaccinated from May 1. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-administers-more-than-137-crore-covid-vaccine-doses-1062278.html
18-12-2021||National Politics||SP is progressive, says Akhilesh; distances himself, party from MPs' views on marriage age||After two SP MPs’ remarks over the Centre’s move to increase the legal age of marriage for girls stirred a controversy, party chief Akhilesh Yadav distanced himself from the statements, saying his outfit is progressive and the views expressed are personal. The Union Cabinet had on Wednesday cleared a proposal to raise the legal age of marriage for women from 18 to 21 years, bringing it on par with that of men. Reacting to it, Samajwadi Party’s Moradabad MP S T Hasan said girls should be married off as soon as they turn "mature and fertile" as the delay in marriage leads to "infertility". "If a girl is mature, it is not wrong to marry her at 16. If she can cast vote at 18, why not marriage," he added. Similarly, party's Sambhal MP Shafiqur Rehman Barq contended that the move will give girls a "chance to roam about freely" and things will "go wrong". "The Samajwadi Party and its approach has always remained progressive. It could be their individual thinking and not the party line," Akhilesh said when asked to comment on the statements. Yadav said his party gave laptops to most girls and daughters, made arrangement for their security with the help of technology. "The SP cannot be with this kind of thinking. It can be their personal view," he said, adding that his party will work for the progress and honour of girls. The SP MPs' statements also came in for criticism from the BJP, who said that it showed their "mentality" towards women. State BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh tweeted,"People having Talibani mentality are very upset with the effective steps being taken by the Modi government for women empowerment. The ideology of the Samajwadi Party has always been anti-women, the statements of SP MPs are very shameful." Minister of State in the UP government, Swati Singh, said it has exposed the real face of the Samajwadi Party. This is not the first time that SP leaders have talked like this, she said, recalling how SP patron Mulayam Singh Yadav had in 2014 said "ladko se galti ho jaati hai" (boys commit mistakes). "Akhilesh Yadav had also said something of this kind when the Budaun rape case had taken place. The entire country is today seeing what the SP people are saying for half of the population," Swati Singh added. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sp-is-progressive-says-akhilesh-distances-himself-party-from-mps-views-on-marriage-age-1062080.html
18-12-2021||National Politics||Akhilesh compares equates Lakhimpur violence with Jallianwala Bagh, says BJP will be swept away in polls||Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Saturday sought to equate the Lakhimpur Kheri violence with Jallianwala Bagh massacre, and said the British had fired bullets from the front, while the the BJP ran over a jeep from behind. Yadav, who is in Raebareli on a two-day tour as part of the seventh leg of 'Samajwadi Vijay Yatra', claimed that the BJP will be wiped out in the upcoming 2022 Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections. Speaking to reporters here, the former chief minister said, "In Uttar Pradesh, the incident of a jeep being run over on farmers took place. If the pages of history are turned back, then one is reminded of the Jallianwala Bagh massacre, when the British fired (at people) from the front. "But, the BJP ran over the jeep on them from behind. No action has been initiated against accused persons. The Union Minister of State for Home (Ajay Mishra) has not been removed so far. For those who are accused, bulldozers have not been run over their house. This government is working in a discriminatory manner," the SP chief said. Violence had erupted in Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3 when farmers were protesting the visit of Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya to Mishra's native place. Four agitating farmers were run over by a vehicle while four others, including a journalist and two BJP workers, were also killed in the violence that ensued. Ashish Mishra, son of Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra, has been named as accused. The SP chief also said as the elections approach, the BJP puts up a lens of religion, and sees everything from that perspective. Yadav reiterated that in the BJP regime, people have faced 'dikkat' (problems), 'killat' (shortage) and 'zillat' (humiliation), which they have not faced in any other government. He also said people are feeling insulted today, and the BJP, which is in power, is insulting the people. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/akhilesh-compares-equates-lakhimpur-violence-with-jallianwala-bagh-says-bjp-will-be-swept-away-in-polls-1062161.html
18-12-2021||National Politics||Is Modi scared or ashamed to utter Indira Gandhi's name? asks Shiv Sena||In a sharp attack, the Shiv Sena on Saturday pointedly asked whether Prime Minister Narendra Modi is "scared or ashamed" of uttering the late PM Indira Gandhi's name during the recent 50 years celebrations of the liberation of Bangladesh. The Sena also took note that President Ram Nath Kovind visited Dhaka for the victory celebrations but did not even mention the name of Bangladesh's creator, Indira Gandhi there. "By ignoring Indira in such a manner you can write neither the history of India nor the world. But who will explain this to such narrow-minded rulers of our country. It's an insult to woman-power," the Sena asked in a stinging edit in the party newspapers, 'Saamana' and 'Dopahar Ka Saamana'. The Sena said its 50 years since the Bangladesh War of 1971 was won by India, and the sacrifices of our brave soldiers was remembered, but Modi "did not show the courtesy" of even making a mention of Indira Gandhi on December 16. "If Indira Gandhi had not shown guts, Pakistan would never have been taught a lesson of a lifetime. She divided Pakistan into two pieces and effectively avenged the Partition of India in 1947," the edit said. Even the then leader of Jan Sangh, and later the PM Atal Behari Vajpayee hailed Indira Gandhi as a 'Durga' and the entire world saluted the bravery of Hindustan. "After Bangladesh, she emerged as a powerful world leader, with a clear warning that if you look at India with crooked eyes, we shall break you into pieces. When she achieved the feat, the current ruler in New Delhi may have been kids in bed," the Sena said lavishing praises on Indira Gandhi's prowess. Taking another swipe at Modi, the Sena said a ruler can build temples or buildings and clean up a river, "but cannot dismember Pakistan to create a Bangladesh" which only Indira Gandhi had the courage to do. "Instead of indulging in 'surgical strikes', Indira Gandhi ordered a direct attack by the Indian Army to teach Pakistan a lesson. Even the Indian Airforce and Indian Navy were used, Karachi Port was destroyed," the Sena added. Finally 90,000 Pakistani soldiers surrendered before India on December 16, 1971, and it was only Indira Gandhi who was the 'power' behind that victory, and nobody could ever attempt a pathetic defeat of Pakistan since then, hence forgetting her is akin to ignoring Mother India. On the other hand, the Kargil War (1999) took place on Indian soil and to drive out the Pakistani infiltrators, 1,500 of our soldiers were sacrificed in their motherland, "yet we celebrate it as 'Vijay Divasa'," the Sena pointed out. "Today, the Chinese Army has entered Ladakh and we are unable to push them back, while in 1971, the entire world was stunned by the valour displayed by a Hindu woman who made even the US retreat when it came to help Pakistan." "The 1971 War bestowed the 'real identity of India' to the world. It was pettiness on the part of the current leaders not to acknowledge the courage of Indira Gandhi. You may have ideological differences with the Congress, but showing hatred towards leaders who built the country is not the sign of a 'true Hindustani'," the Sena said. "The edits showed how the BJP sought votes in elections by beating the drums of surgical strike, but now China has entered, Nepal, Afghanistan are also our adversaries and the country is surrounded by guns on all four borders. At such a time, it's the memory of Indira Gandhi's historic victory in the 1971 Bangladesh War that will always serve to inspire," the Sena said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/is-modi-scared-or-ashamed-to-utter-indira-gandhis-name-asks-shiv-sena-1062188.html
18-12-2021||National Politics||'CBI will also come': Akhilesh slams I-T raids on party colleagues||Claiming that the BJP is going the Congress way, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Saturday raised questions on Income Tax raids at the premises of his party colleagues just two months ahead of Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls. Talking to reporters here, Akhilesh Yadav said the I-T team has arrived, now Enforcement Directorate sleuths will also come in the poll-bound state. Akhilesh Yadav alleged that the raids were carried out due to political vendetta. "If they had the information earlier, then why the search agency chose this time, two months prior to polls. It shows that the ED and the CBI will also come to the state to fight the polls," he further said. "Earlier, the Congress also used to intimidate people by misusing central agencies like the I-T, CBI and the ED," he charged. "Under the BJP government, people have suffered a lot, ease of crime has increased, the government has insulted people. Three agriculture laws were taken back only because the BJP feared defeat in polls. Farmers were run over by jeeps. Probe report proves that," he claimed. He said that no action has been taken against the culprits. "Bulldozers have not run over the culprits. The BJP wears religious glasses as soon as the polls approach. It has betrayed the backward and snatched away the rights of Nishads," he said. The speed of "cycle" (SP's party symbol) will not slow down due to the BJP misusing the central agencies, he claimed, adding that "nobody is safe in this government. How many cases have been filed against Azam Khan? It is not a new way. How many cases were filed against the farmers?" The I-T raids have been carried out at residences of several close aides of Akhilesh Yadav in Agra, Mainpuri, Lucknow and Mau on Saturday morning. Raids are being conducted at premises of RCL group promoter Manoj Yadav, SP spokesperson Rajeev Rai and Akhilesh's close aide Jainendra Yadav. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/cbi-will-also-come-akhilesh-slams-i-t-raids-on-party-colleagues-1062196.html
18-12-2021||National Politics||At Shahjahanpur, PM Modi invokes Baba Vishwanath, Ram Temple; says 'UP+Yogi = UPYogi'||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday again invoked Lord Shiva, Ram Temple and Ganga and accused his rivals of being opposed to the country's 'heritage,' as he heaped praise on Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath saying that the people of the state found him 'UPYogi' (useful). Addressing a public meeting at Shahjahanpur after laying the foundation of the Ganga Expressway Project, Modi said that there are people in the country who had problems with its heritage. "Some people have problems with construction of Kashi Vishwanath Dham, Ram Temple, cleaning of Ganga...these very people raise questions on army operations and also question the corona vaccines," he said. Modi said that the Yogi Adityanath government had initiated several measures for the welfare of the people of the state and UP had witnessed progress in the past few years. "The mafia elements have been crushed...migrations from the villages have stopped....women feel safe now," he added. "Tabhi aaj pradesh ki janata kah rahi hai ki UP plus Yogi hai bohot UPYogi" (the people of the state are saying that UP + Yogi = UPYogi), the prime minister said. Modi also invoked Ram Prasad Bismil, Ashfaqullah Khan and Roshoan Singh-the three freedom fighters, who were hanged by the Britishers for taking part in a train robbery-and who hailed from Shahjahanpur and said that the true tribute to them would be to serve the country. The prime minister began his address with hailing Baba Vishwanath, Ganga and Parashuram. The 600-kilometre long Ganga Expressway would connect Prayagraj with Meerut and pass through 12 districts. A little over Rs 36 thousand crore would be spent on its construction. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/at-shahjahanpur-pm-modi-invokes-baba-vishwanath-ram-temple-says-upyogi-upyogi-1062202.html
18-12-2021||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi attacks Modi with 'hum do, hamare do' slogan||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday used the slogan 'hum do, hamare do' in different parlance to target Prime Minister Narendra Modi and said that the latter was an expert in diverting the attention of people from pressing issues like inflation and unemployment. Addressing a public meeting at Amethi, where he undertook a six-kilometre long foot march with his sister and Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, Rahul also said that the security of the country was under threat as China had established villages within the Indian territory. The Congress leader also once again sought to distinguish between 'Hindu' and 'Hindutva' and said that a true Hindu always fought for truth and never spread hatred among the people. "Narendra Modiji will never give answers to the questions of inflation and unemployment... why are the prices rising sharply... why are there no jobs for the youths of the country?... Modiji will never give the answer... but I have the answer... it is because the government has, through wrongly implemented GST, demonetisation and lack of assistance during the coronavirus pandemic, ruined the small, middle businesses and shopkeepers," he said. "Modiji will take a dip in the Ganga... travel to Kedarnath... he does all this to divert your (people) attention from the pressing issues," the Congress leader added. "Mera bhashan TV par 30 seconds chalega par aisa bhashan agar Modiji denege to woh 6 mahine chanlega... inki partnership hai... inka dhandha hai... Modiji Hindustan ka dhan in do udyogpatiyon ko denge aur badle mein woh Modiji ko 24 hour TV par dikhayenge (My speech here will be shown for only 30 seconds on TV but if the same speech would have been delivered by Modiji then it will be shown for six months... this is his business... Modiji will give the country's money to these two industrialists and in turn, they will show him on TV 24 hours a day)," he alleged. Apparently referring to the BJP, he said that there were 'Hindutva vadi', who spread hatred while on the other hand there were Hindus who always fought for the truth. ''Today the fight in the country is between the Hindu and Hindutva vadi'', he added. The Congress leader, who had lost the 2019 Lok Sabha polls from Amethi but had won from Wayanad LS seat in Kerala, sought to strike an emotional chord with the people saying that Amethi was his home. "I still see the same warmth in the eyes of the people here for me," he remarked. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhi-attacks-modi-with-hum-do-hamare-do-slogan-1062215.html
18-12-2021||National Politics||Exclusive | Conversion is the biggest crime against humanity, says VHP leader Surendra Kumar Jain||The Vishva Hindu Parishad (VHP) wants the Centre and the states to enact laws against what it terms as “illegal” conversions. Starting December 20, the organisation is initiating a nation-wide intensive campaign against religious conversion and will propagate the 'ghar wapsi' programme. Surendra Kumar Jain, national joint general secretary of the VHP, talks exclusively with Mohammed Safi Shamsi of Deccan Herald about the organisation's stands on various religious issues. Excerpts: What is VHP’s stand on conversion, and what are demands from the Centre? The entire world is against conversion. This is the biggest crime against humanity. Because of conversion, crores of people have been killed, cultures eroded. India’s division also occurred because of conversion. Atrocities on Hindus in Bangladesh or Pakistan or damaging of Hindu temples in Bengal has occured because of conversion. This is why our demand is before state governments and the Centre as this (conversion) has a national context. The Centre cannot evade from the responsibility that there should be a law against illegal conversion. Are you in talks with the Union government, at the national level? Talks have taken place with several state governments. Many state governments have enacted laws at our insistence. Eleven state governments have already made laws. You will be surprised to know that the first law (on this issue) was enacted by a Congress government in Madhya Pradesh. This is not a party-specific issue. All state governments should enact a law. We are also in talks with the Centre and hope that we will be successful in our persuasion. What are your programmes concerning Dharma Raksha Abhiyan and ghar wapsi? Under this campaign in the entire country, we will expose antinational conversion conspiracies hatched by hardliners in Islam and Christianity. Second, we will draw the attention of the people to the fact that our religion is strong. We will tell people about ghar wapsi… that your forefathers didn’t convert with intent. It was because of pressure, deception or greed. Ghar wapsi will be a parallel campaign along Dharma Rakha Abhiyan. Tell us about activities to be undertaken under Dharma Raksha Abhiyan We will expose these conspiracies through social media. The campaign will start from December 20 (and will continue for 11 days, till December 31). Literature will be prepared, printed and distributed. Third, we will generate awareness among people through public meets, wherever possible. Fourth, the ghar wapsi programme will also be carried out simultaneously. Traditionally VHP has been vocal about Kashi and Mathura (mosques) issues. What is VHP’s current stand on this? I would like to rectify this question a bit. This is not the stand of VHP. It is the stand of the Hindu society. VHP took up the Ram Janmabhoomi (issue) in 1984. The fight has been on for 490 years. Similarly, the fight for Mathura and Kashi has been on ever since the temple were razed. The society is working for it. VHP is nowhere involved (at present) in the efforts. When there will be a need, we will come forward. Are these currently issues before the VHP? The issues are before the entire country. The resolution that we had passed in 1984, includes all the three. Is VHP, directly or indirectly, involved in, or has a role in the elections, due in  Uttar Pradesh? We are not a political organisation. We don't come forward in support or against any party. We talk of principle. Whoever is in favour of the nation, of society, vote for the same. When I talk of the nation, of the society, people understand who are standing with the nation, who with the terrorists. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/exclusive-conversion-is-the-biggest-crime-against-humanity-says-vhp-leader-surendra-kumar-jain-1062216.html
18-12-2021||National Politics||Only PM Modi's friends progressed under BJP rule: Priyanka||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra here on Saturday urged people to oust the BJP from power as she alleged that under its rule, only PM Narendra Modi’s industrialist friends have progressed while they suffered. She also slammed the government over the coronavirus management, saying people were left stranded across the country and her party was not allowed to bring life-saving oxygen from Congress-ruled Chhattisgarh. The Congress leader alleged that many public sector firms set by Congress governments in the past are being "sold" to PM Modi's big friends. "During the BJP government, only prime minister’s industrialist friends have progressed. It is only they who are flourishing and you are suffering. So, I am requesting you to change this government," she said addressing a public meeting during her party's six-km-long "BJP Bhagao, Mahangai Hatao" padyatra from Jagdishpur to Harimau here. The Congress leader alleged that in the past over seven-year rule of the BJP-led government at the Centre, only lies were told. On the coronavirus pandemic, she said, "A sudden lockdown was imposed and the people of Amethi were left stranded across the country. At that time we remained connected, day and night, with the people of Amethi and Rae Bareli through phone. Everyone was crying to go home." Targeting Union minister and Amethi Lok Sabha MP Smriti Irani, the Congress general secretary asked, "Where was the BJP then, where was the MP?" "During the second wave, we were sending oxygen trucks from Chhattisgarh but these were not allowed to come. Then we said the Congress will not take credit, will not even put up banners. It was with great difficulty that cylinders reached Rae Bareli," she said. She added that her party’s proposal of ferrying stranded people was was also turned down. She also attacked the government over the Lakhimpur Kheri violence, which had left eight people, including four farmers, dead. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/only-pm-modis-friends-progressed-under-bjp-rule-priyanka-1062267.html
18-12-2021||National Politics||Row over EC's meet: Govt says letter was for secretary or an official representative, not CEC||Amid a controversy over a government communication reportedly calling the Chief Election Commissioner to a meeting, the law ministry on Saturday said that the letter was meant for a secretary of the poll panel or a representative of the CEC, and the subsequent virtual interaction with the CEC and two ECs was to iron out differences over electoral reforms. In a statement, the law ministry said that the Prime Minister's Office had written to the cabinet secretary, the law secretary and the legislative secretary for a meeting on November 16 on common electoral rolls. "It was not addressed to the Chief Election Commissioner. Since the Election Commission of India has the necessary expertise and mandate regarding electoral roll and in the light of the previous letters of the Chief Election Commissioner addressed to the Law Minister, Secretary, Legislative Department thought it appropriate to invite officials of the Election Commission to this meeting," the statement read. The letter by the legislative department was addressed to Secretary and the final operative paragraph of the letter also requested the Secretary, the Election Commission of India to attend the meeting, it said. "After receipt of the letter by the ECI, the Chief Election Commissioner spoke to Secretary, Legislative Department expressing his displeasure over the expression in the middle part of the letter which gave an impression that it was expected of the CEC to attend the meeting. Secretary, Legislative Department clarified that the letter was for Secretary or a representative of the CEC familiar with the subject to attend the meeting," the statement said. The November 16 meeting was to finalise the cabinet note on some of the reforms and it was held virtually, the ministry said. "The subsequent interaction with the Chief Election Commissioner and two Election Commissioners was an informal one and meant for ironing out two or three aspects for the final proposal," the statement said. The opposition has hit out at the government, claiming that by "summoning" CEC to the PMO, the government has undermined the autonomy of the poll panel. The Congress is likely to move a notice Monday for adjournment of proceedings in Lok Sabha over the issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/row-over-ecs-meet-govt-says-letter-was-for-secretary-or-an-official-representative-not-cec-1062270.html
18-12-2021||North and Central||Congress changing top cops to implicate Akalis in false cases: Badal||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) chief Sukhbir Singh Badal on Friday accused the Congress-led government of repeatedly changing senior police officers in order to “coerce” new incumbents to implicate top Akali leaders in false cases. He said if the SAD-BSP alliance is voted to power in the forthcoming Punjab assembly elections, then each decision taken by the Congress government in the last three months would be inquired. Talking to the media in Tanda town, Badal said the Congress government has changed the heads of the Bureau of Investigation (BOI) repeatedly, and now has even replaced the officiating director general of police to “coerce” the new incumbents to do its bidding. “A lie is a lie, this is why top police officers are refusing to toe the Congress government's directions to register false cases against top Akali leaders,” he said. The Punjab government has appointed Siddharth Chattopadhyaya as the officiating director general of police. He replaced senior IPS officer Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota. “The government affected two changes in the top leadership of the BOI-- first by changing additional director general of police Arpit Shukla and then by removing ADGP Varinder Kumar. “Now comes the third BOI in-charge ADGP S K Asthana, who exposed the government by writing to the DGP and seeking directions as to how he can register any illegal case on the directions of the government”, he alleged. Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on December 14 had ordered an FIR in connection with the leak of a letter written by Asthana, in which he spoke about legal hurdles in conducting a reinvestigation in some drug cases against a senior Akali leader. Badal requested government officers to not get embroiled in the “vendetta drive”. “The law is the same for everyone and those who break it, whether he is an ordinary person or in uniform, will be hauled once the new SAD-BSP alliance government is formed”, he said. Badal said the same fate would be meted out to bureaucrats who were acting as “political agents of the Congress party”. He also asked Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu in which capacity he had been giving the impression that he was the chief ministerial face of the party. “I challenge the Congress party to clarify as to who is its chief ministerial candidate”, he said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-changing-top-cops-to-implicate-akalis-in-false-cases-badal-1062078.html
18-12-2021||North and Central||Rajasthan panchayat polls: Voting for third phase gets under way||The third and final phase of polling for panchayat samiti and zila parishad elections in three districts of Rajasthan began on Saturday. An Election Commission spokesperson said the polling got underway in Baran, Sriganganagar and Karauli districts at 7.30 am and will continue till 5.30 pm. In the third phase, 8.72 lakh voters in the three districts will be able to exercise their franchise. Elections are being held for the 141 wards of seven panchayat samitis and their respective zila parishad constituencies. A total of 503 candidates are in the fray for panchayat samiti seats, while three have been elected unopposed. As many as 1,183 polling stations have been set up for the third phase. According to the official, 64.35 per cent voters exercised their franchise in the first phase and 68.57 per cent in the second phase. The counting of votes for all three phases will take place on December 21 at all district headquarters. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-panchayat-polls-voting-for-third-phase-gets-under-way-1062141.html
18-12-2021||North and Central||Muslims in Gurugram asked to chant 'Bharat Mata ki Jai' by right-wing group||The Gurugram namaz row showed no signs of stopping, with Hindutva and right-wing groups demanding that Muslims offering prayers at a public ground in the Udyog Vihar neighbourhood chant 'Bharat Mata ki Jai' if they want to 'stay in Bharat'. "We will force you... You will have to say it... you will have to say it... you will have to say it," a man in a maroon shirt screamed. "Why can't you say it... Do you live in Pakistan?" one of the right-wing group's members was quoted as saying. One of the Muslim men at the ground pleaded to the protesting individuals to let them pray in peace, but to no avail. Other men who had come to offer namaz, responded with their own chants of "Mahatma Gandhi ki... jai, Mahatma Gandhi ki... jai, Mahatma Gandhi ki... jai." Members of some Hindu outfits have been gathering at sites where the Muslim community offers 'namaz' in open space and raising "Bharat Mata Ki Jai" and "Jai Shri Ram" slogans. Three years ago, the district administration had designated 37 sites in Gurugram city for Muslims to offer Friday namaz after which there were protests by some Hindu groups. A few months ago, one group started protests against the prayers offered in the open after which there have been protests on Fridays for the past several weeks. (With PTI inputs) Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/muslims-in-gurugram-asked-to-chant-bharat-mata-ki-jai-by-right-wing-group-1062151.html
18-12-2021||North and Central||Srinagar freezes at -6 degrees Celsius||Even as the 40-day harshest winter period of ‘Chilai Kalan’ is three days far, Kashmir continues to reel under a severe cold wave with Srinagar recording the coldest night of the season, as the temperature plummeted to minus 6°C on Saturday. A meteorological department official said the mercury went down in Srinagar from previous night’s minus 3.8°C to minus 6°C. Overall it was below minus 4.5°C than the normal for this time of the year, he said. Barring last year, it is for the first time in one decade that mercury has plunged to minus 6°C or below before the onset of the ‘Chillai-e-Kalan’, starting on December 21. In the last ten years, on four occasions the mercury fell to minus 6°C or above in Srinagar. On December 19, 2020 and December 30, 2019 the mercury had plummeted to minus 6.6°C on both occasions. In the last ten years, the lowest recorded was on December 25, 2017 when mercury plunged to minus 7.7°C. The lowest ever temperature for the month is December 13, 1934 when mercury fell to minus 12.8°C. In other places of the Valley too, the mercury was recorded at very low levels. In south Kashmir’s Pahalgam hill resort, a minimum of minus 8.3°C was recorded while north Kashmir’s ski-resort Gulmarg witnessed a low of minus 8.5°C degrees, the official said. Water bodies, including Dal Lake, have partially frozen due to the cold wave. The drinking water taps and supply pipes have also frozen at many places, leading to water shortage. Leh, in the frontier region of Ladakh, recorded minus 13.1°C while neighboring Drass area in Kargil, the second coldest inhabited place in the world after Siberia, recorded a bone chilling low of minus 19.7°C. The MeT department has said that mainly dry weather is expected till December 22 in Kashmir.” However, a Western Disturbance (WB) is likely to affect the Valley during December 23 to 25, leading to moderate to heavy snowfall in Kashmir. The minimum temperatures were likely to drop further due to clear night sky as mainly dry weather was expected in the next three days in the region, the MeT office has forecast. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/srinagar-freezes-at-6-degrees-celsius-1062153.html
18-12-2021||North and Central||Farm leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni floats political party to fight Punjab polls||Farmer leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni on Saturday floated his political party Sanyukt Sangharsh Party and said it will contest the next year Punjab assembly polls. Chaduni is a member of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of 40 farm unions that led an over a year-long farmers' agitation against three central agri laws, which have been repealed. "We are launching the Sanyukt Sangharsh Party," he said while addressing the media here. The party will contest the Punjab assembly polls, which are due early next year, Chaduni said. "Our objective will be to purify politics and bring good people forward," said Chaduni who is also the president of the Haryana Bhartiya Kisan Union. Slamming political leaders, he said that they frame policies in “favour of capitalists while ignoring the interests of the poor”. The Sanyukt Sangharsh Party will be a secular one, he said and added that it will work for the welfare of all sections of society. Replying to a query, Chaduni said he will not fight the upcoming polls in Punjab. To another question, he said his party will try to contest all 117-assembly seats in the state. Chaduni, who had batted for 'Mission Punjab', has been asking farmer outfits from the state to fight the upcoming elections. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farm-leader-gurnam-singh-chaduni-floats-political-party-to-fight-punjab-polls-1062166.html
18-12-2021||North and Central||Income Tax raids under way at homes of SP members; Akhilesh says BJP 'scared' of defeat in UP polls||Income Tax sleuths on Saturday raided the offices and residences of several close aides of Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav in different parts of Uttar Pradesh even as the former CM termed the raids as reflective of BJP's 'fear' of losing the upcoming assembly elections in the state. Those raided included senior SP leader and party spokesman Rajiv Rai, Akhilesh's personal secretary Jainendra Yadav and another SP leader Manoj Yadav. According to sources, an I-T team from Varanasi raided the residence of Rai — who runs several educational institutions in Karnataka — at Mau, about 350 kilometres from here, in the early hours. Rai is considered to be close to Akhilesh. Raids were also conducted at the residence and offices of Jainendra Yadav and Manoj Yadav in Mainpuri, Agra and Lucknow, sources said. A few other aides of Akhilesh were also raided by the I-T sleuths. Akhilesh, who was on a visit to Raebareli, said that the raids show that the BJP feared defeat in the Assembly polls. "It is the Income Tax now... ED and CBI will follow next... why was the raid not conducted earlier?... why so close to the polls.....now the IT department has also taken a plunge into the state assembly elections...BJP will be wiped out in the polls," he told reporters. "The raids will increase with the increase in BJP's fear of losing the polls.....all the 22 crore residents of UP are against the BJP...will the IT raid all these 22 crore people," he asked. The SP president said that the BJP government had used the central agencies against its opponents in the recently concluded assembly polls in West Bengal as well, but the BJP had to bite the dust there. Rajiv Rai also termed the raids as an act of "political vendetta". Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/income-tax-raids-under-way-at-homes-of-sp-members-akhilesh-says-bjp-scared-of-defeat-in-up-polls-1062170.html
18-12-2021||North and Central||BSF shoots drone along Pakistan border in Punjab||The Border Security Force (BSF) has shot down a drone along the India-Pakistan border in Punjab, the force said on Saturday. The Chinese-made drone was "detected and downed" on Friday around 11:10 pm near the Wan border post in the Ferozepur sector, it said in a statement. The black colour flying object was shot at a distance of about 300 metres from the international border and 150 metres from the border fence, the BSF said. It said the drone, a hexa-copter with four power batteries, weighed around 23 kgs and could carry a payload of around 10 kgs. It was, however, not carrying any payload like drugs, arms or ammunition. The BSF said that a search operation is being carried out in the incident area The border guarding force, in the past, has shot down two such drones that originated in Pakistan and were carrying arms and ammunition. Both the incidents took place in the Punjab frontier area. BSF Director General (DG) Pankaj Kumar Singh had told reporters on November 30 that there have been a total of 67 drone sightings along the border in Punjab and Jammu areas this year. "Right now, the frequency of drones that are coming to our country are fairly small and these are by-and-large Chinese-made drones...they are very good...and carrying small payloads and in 95 per cent cases they are carrying drugs," the DG had said on the eve of the 57th Raising Day of the force.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bsf-shoots-drone-along-pakistan-border-in-punjab-1062172.html
18-12-2021||North and Central||PM Modi lays foundation stone of Ganga Expressway in Uttar Pradesh||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday laid the foundation stone of the 594-km Ganga Expressway in Uttar Pradesh's Shahjahanpur district.     Starting near Bijauli village in Meerut, the expressway is till Judapur Dandu village in Prayagraj.  It passes through Meerut, Hapur, Bulandshahr, Amroha, Sambhal, Budaun, Shahjahanpur, Hardoi, Unnao, Rae Bareli, Pratapgarh and Prayagraj districts of the state.     Upon completion of work, it will become the longest expressway of Uttar Pradesh, connecting the western and eastern regions of the state.     The six-lane expressway, which is expandable to eight lanes, will be built at a cost of over Rs 36,230 crore.         A 3.5 km-long air strip for assisting emergency take off and landing of Indian Air Force planes will also be constructed on the expressway in Shahjahanpur. An industrial corridor is also proposed to be built along the expressway.     It will provide a big boost to the socio-economic development of the region. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-modi-lays-foundation-stone-of-ganga-expressway-in-uttar-pradesh-1062182.html
18-12-2021||North and Central||Traders brace for third wave as Omicron cases rise in Delhi||With the gradual spread of Omicron variant of coronavirus in the national capital, the impact of dwindling number of shoppers is not lost on traders as they get ready to face an impending third wave of the pandemic. Twelve more people tested positive for the Omicron variant in Delhi on Friday, taking their number to 22, and officials said most of them are "fully vaccinated" and "asymptomatic". Sanjay Bhargava, president, Chandni Chowk Vyapar Mandal said they are "waiting and watching" for now, even as they have requested authorities to increase the police presence in the area. "…we have verbally requested the authorities to increase the number of police personnel in the area who can enforce the Covid protocol among those taking it casually. Mostly hawkers and beggars do not follow any such norms," he told PTI. While observing a "visible decrease in footfall", he said the market association will soon be sending circulars to shopkeepers in the area to enforce Covid protocols. "We will soon be asking all our traders to enforce Covid protocols in their shops. In the last 10 days, there is visible decrease in footfall in the market. The business is slowing down due to the increasing cases of Omicron in the city," Bhargava added. Atul Bhargava, president, National Delhi Traders Association said even though the risk of a crowded and congested area is small in Connaught Place (CP), they have already sent out circulars to all traders. "We have asked them to strictly adhere to Covid protocols in the shops like sanitising, insisting on wearing masks and taking temperature of people coming in. Since CP is a large and open area, it is not much of a problem. And with police presence, people usually follow Covid protocols," he said. Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain had on Thursday said many international travellers were turning out Covid positive upon arrival at the Indira Gandhi International Airport here. On Tuesday, he had said that the Omicron variant of the coronavirus had not spread in the community so far and the situation was under control. In view of the threat posed by the Omicron variant, the Delhi health department Friday evening issued an order directing hospitals to augment human resource, including doctors, nurses, paramedics, sanitation and security staff, on contract or through existing outsourcing agencies against the vacant posts and extra 25 per cent of the sanctioned strength till March 31. Traders in Sarojini Nagar, another bustling market area of south Delhi, have been asked to paste social distancing circles outside and follow all Covid protocols inside their shops. Ashok Randhawa, president, Sarojini Nagar Mini Market Traders Association, said they have sent out a circular asking shop helpers to get their second doses as soon as possible. "Almost all our traders are fully vaccinated, those who are not have been asked to do it as soon as possible. We have told everyone to follow Covid norms inside the shops," Randhawa told PTI. Even though the crowds have gone down 20-25 per cent in the area, he added that people were rushing to do their shopping now for the next wedding season in case another lockdown is announced. "Most of the buyers are those who want to finish their shopping now. We too our apprehensive about another lockdown since we have just started picking up business," he said. The official added that the association has also requested the authorities to increase the number of civil defence volunteers and police personnel in the area. "Shopkeepers can only manage people inside the shops, there are barely any policemen in the market. If people see police, they put on their masks. The authorities need to ensure that proper norms are followed," he added. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/traders-brace-for-third-wave-as-omicron-cases-rise-in-delhi-1062199.html
18-12-2021||North and Central||Yogi 'un-upyogi' for UP, says Akhilesh||Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Saturday termed Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath “useless” or "unupyogi", citing incidents of crimes against Dalits and women under his rule. He made the remark in a tweet, punning on the Hindi word “Up-Yogi” (useful) as Prime Minister Narendra Modi called him earlier in the day. In a public address in Shahjahanpur, Modi coined a new slogan "UP plus Yogi bahut hai upyogi" to praise Adityanath for “eliminating mafias" and undertaking developmental work in the state. In his tweet Akhilesh said, "The daughter of Hathras, the farmers of Lakhimpur, the trader of Gorakhpur, women who are feeling insecure, unemployed youths, the Dalits, and the backward class (people) are saying for UP, the current government is not useful, it is useless". हाथरस की बेटी, लखीमपुर का किसान, गोरखपुर का व्यापारी, असुरक्षित महिला, बेरोज़गार युवा, पीड़ित दलित-पिछड़े सब कह रहे हैं… यूपी के लिए वर्तमान सरकार उपयोगी नहीं, अनुपयोगी है। यूपीवाले कह रहे हैं अगर कोई ‘उप-योगी’ है; तो ‘मुख्य-योगी’ कौन है। "UP is today saying that it does not want the BJP," he added. Akhilesh headed Samajwadi Party government in the state from 2012-17 and was succeeded by Yogi Adityanath. The war of words between BJP and SP continued ahead of crucial assembly elections scheduled early next year in the state. Modi was addressing a rally after laying the foundation stone of 594-km-long Ganga Expressway in UP’s Shahjahanpur district. The BJP has already declared Adityanath to be its face in the upcoming polls.  "The daughter of Hathras, the farmer of Lakhimpur, the businessman of Gorakhpur, the insecure women, the unemployed youth, the oppressed Dalit-backwards are all saying… the present government is not useful for UP, it is useless", the SP chief tweeted. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/yogi-un-upyogi-for-up-says-akhilesh-1062205.html
18-12-2021||North and Central||Amarinder attacks Channi, Sidhu after Pakistani drone spotted near border||He asked Chief Minister Channi to tell his Home Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa to "get active". The Chinese-made drone was "detected and downed" around 11:10 PM Friday near the Wan border post in the Ferozepur sector, the BSF said in a statement. The black colour flying object was shot at a distance of about 300 metres from the international border and 150 metres from the border fence, it said. Chief Minister Channi was spotted doing some Bhangra steps at an event earlier this week. In September also, he was seen performing Punjab's folk dance at an event in Kapurthala. Singh also attacked Punjab Congress chief Sidhu in the same tweet. "Also tell your party president, if he listens to you, to ask his elder brother Imran Khan to stop trying to disturb our border state of Punjab!" he told Channi. Sidhu, a former international cricketer, had last month called Pakistan prime minister Imran Khan, a cricket world cup winning captain, his 'bada bhai' (elder brother) during a trip to Kartarpur Sahib gurdwara across the border. His remarks drew condemnation from the BJP and the SAD. Singh had resigned as chief minister of Punjab in September after a bitter power tussle with Sidhu. He later formed his own party and has now joined hands with the BJP to fight the 2022 Punjab assembly polls. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/amarinder-attacks-channi-sidhu-after-pakistani-drone-spotted-near-border-1062218.html
18-12-2021||North and Central||Delhi government designates four new private hospitals for Omicron treatment||The Delhi government has designated four new private hospitals as dedicated centres for treatment of new Covid variant Omicron. Earlier, only Delhi government-run Lok Nayak Jai Prakash hospital was designated for Omicron treatment. The government has notified Sir Ganga Ram City Hospital, Max Saket, Fortis Vasant Kunj and Batra Hospital Tughlakabad for the treatment of Omicron on payment basis with immediate effect. With addition of these four private hospitals, now the new Covid variant Omicron will be treated in total five hospitals in Delhi. "In order to augment the capacity of institutional isolation facility in the private sector for Covid positive international passengers who have travelled from or transited through the countries classified as 'at-risk' as per the Centre's guidelines, the authorities of Batra Hospital & Research Centre, Tughlakabad Institutional Area, Fortis Super Specialty Hospital, Vasant Kunj and Sir Ganga Ram City Hospital are hereby directed to establish separate units for such passengers on payment basis with immediate effect and to follow the SOPs issued by health ministry, government of India", reads the order issued by Delhi Health Department. According to the circular, Max Smart Super Specialty Hospital, Saket, was directed to establish separate unit for Covid positive international passengers on December 1. With 10 fresh cases of Omicron detected on Friday in Delhi, the city's tally has gone up to 20. However, 10 people of these 20 have been discharged. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-government-designates-four-new-private-hospitals-for-omicron-treatment-1062220.html
18-12-2021||North and Central||Climate change cannot be ignored or neglected: German envoy||Climate change is a topic that cannot be ignored or neglected anymore. It manifests in different ways and support from developed countries is required for developing countries, German Ambassador to India, Walter J. Lindner, said on Saturday. "Germany and India have a long-standing cooperation, especially in Himachal Pradesh, on topics such as climate change, hydropower and agriculture among others. This is a very important two-day conference, because the focus is on the exchange of views and ideas of experts rather than just long speeches," he said. He was in the state capital at the opening of the climate conference being organised by the state Department of Environment, Science and Technology, in association with The German Development Cooperation (GIZ). The conference was inaugurated by Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur alongside Lindner, and Students Educational and Cultural Movement of Ladakh Director Sonam Wangchuk. The Chief Minister said the glaciers are important part of the ecosystem and concrete measures needed to reduce the impact of climate change. He said major steps have been taken to ensure sustainable development and environment protection in the state. "To reduce the level of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere, the state is focusing on the use of green fuels like hydropower and solar energy." He said the state is rich in hydropower resources and 10,519 MW has been tapped so far. The state clean fuel policy would soon be brought to reduce air pollution. German Ambassador Lindner visited a nearby village to interact with women farmers and get a better understanding of their day-to-day problems due to the constant climate change. Titled "Secure Himalaya -- Safe India: Reducing Climate Change Induced Risks and Vulnerabilities due to GLOF-Glacial Lake Outburst Floods in Himalayas", the conference discussed climate risks, community preparedness, role of financial institutions and climate change action plan in the region to reduce climate induced risks. The Chief Minister and the Ambassador jointly launched the revised State Action Plan on Climate Change. Wangchuk said: "The future will see many unprecedented calamities if we don't act now. It is important to engage the youth to build the prosperity of the mountains. Eco literacy and climate literacy should become paramount in the education system, especially in the mountain regions." "Bigger cities owe the people in the mountains the support and finances to deal with hazards and prepare better. We have to come up with original, fundamental solutions for mountainous regions since the challenges and lives are different from those living in New Delhi or New York. One cannot just keep adapting to climate change. Mitigation is the key," he added. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/climate-change-cannot-be-ignored-or-neglected-german-envoy-1062226.html
18-12-2021||North and Central||No guns or stones, fight for restoration of 'snatched' rights peacefully: Mehbooba to youth||PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti on Saturday called on the youth to join the struggle for restoration of their rights "snatched" by the Centre and said non-violence, not "stones or guns", was the way ahead. The former chief minister also said the BJP-led government had intelligence inputs about the civilian killings by terrorists, but it deliberately refrained from cracking the whip. “You have to understand the situation and become our voice…if you do not show courage today, the coming generations will raise a question as our land, jobs and even minor minerals are going to outsiders. It is imperative for us to stand up and struggle for our rights...,” Mehbooba said at the youth convention in the border district of Rajouri. Insisting on a peaceful struggle for the cause, Mehbooba said, “God forbid, I will never ask you to pick up stones or guns. I know they have a bullet ready against those treading this path. You have to raise your voice and join us in a democratic struggle for our snatched rights.” Referring to the recent killings of civilians, including those belonging to minority communities, in the valley by terrorists, she said the government had prior intelligence inputs about the attacks but “did nothing”. “Those who were killed were our own people, but 900 Kashmiri youth were arrested. Another 1,000 youth were picked up when the home minister visited Jammu and Kashmir (last month). Our jails are packed and hence, those arrested are now being shifted to the Agra jail,” she said. Mehbooba said the government is coining words such as like “white collared militants, OGW (over ground workers) and hybrid militants” to justify the arrests and killings. She asked the youth why the Kashmir issue, with "thousands of sacrifices over 30 years", cannot be resolved peacefully when the farmers peacefully protesting against the three farm laws could convince the government to repeal them. Mehbooba said she had full faith in the words of her father, who was proud over the granting of a “separate flag, constitution and land rights by India to the people of Jammu and Kashmir”. Accusing the BJP of being “anti-Muslim”, she told the youth, “For them, we are the sons of (Mughal emperors) Babur and Aurangzeb, termites and cancer....you have to be our voice as they will continue their attempts to divide people to give legitimacy to its illegitimate decision of August 5, 2019.” “Such a decision was the only prerogative of the constituent assembly. Only it could have taken a decision on Article 370. So, the decision taken on August 5, 2019, was illegitimate and unconstitutional,” Mehbooba said. She said the people of Jammu are now realising the fallout of the decision as their land and jobs are going to outsiders, while the land in Kashmir is being provided to make concrete homes to security forces. “Jammu and Kashmir is a Muslim majority state, though the people of all faiths lived in complete harmony with each other. They are making attempts to change its demography through the August 5, 2019, decision,” Mehbooba said. The PDF chief said she had not come to seek votes but wanted to caution the people about attempts to divide them on the basis of religion and caste. “They are creating new parties every day to divide the people and want to win the next Assembly elections to validate its wrong decision (abrogation of Article 370) through the assembly,” she said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-guns-or-stones-fight-for-restoration-of-snatched-rights-peacefully-mehbooba-to-youth-1062229.html
18-12-2021||North and Central||'This is my home': Rahul Gandhi in Amethi after 2019 loss||Amid a rousing welcome by party workers, senior Congress leader Rahul Gandhi after a long time on Saturday reached Amethi, where he was defeated in the 2019 general elections, and participated in a march of Pratigya Yatra along with his sister Priyanka Gandhi Vadra. Rahul Gandhi said, this is his home, and no one can force him to go out of here. "A few days ago Priyanka came to me and told me to come to Lucknow. I told her that I want to go to my home -- Amethi first before going to Lucknow. No one can separate me from Amethi," Rahul Gandhi said. He said he first fought elections in 2004 from here. He told people that it is they who taught politics to him. "Therefore, I have come here to express my gratitude," Rahul Gandhi said. "Two biggest issues the country facing today are -- unemployment and inflation. Neither the Chief Minister nor the Prime Minister has any answer to this," Rahul Gandhi said. "A few days ago, you must have seen the Prime Minister was taking a dip in Ganga. But the Prime Minister will not tell the country why jobs are scant. Why are the youth of our country not getting employment?" Rahul Gandhi further said. He said, he has come here to explain to the people that the youth are the future of the country. "I am telling you what PM Modi will not tell you. It is the small businessmen, middle class shopkeepers who give employment in this country, but PM Modi has handed over the country to his two-three capitalist friends. You see, he brought three farm laws. After a year, the Prime Minister apologized and said that he made a mistake and all three laws were withdrawn," Rahul Gandhi said. Later, in a tweet, Rahul Gandhi said: "The streets of Amethi are the same, but there is anger in the eyes of people against the government. There is still a place for me in the hearts. We are still one, against injustice!" Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/this-is-my-home-rahul-gandhi-in-amethi-after-2019-loss-1062234.html
18-12-2021||North and Central||ED arrests CEO of NBFC in probe against Chinese-backed loan apps||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Saturday said it has arrested the CEO of a non-banking financial company (NBFC) in connection with a money laundering investigation against fintech firms "backed" by Chinese funds. Pavitra Pradip Walvekar, promoter, director and chief executive officer (CEO) of Kudos Finance and Investment Private Limited, an NBFC, was taken into custody on Friday. He was later produced before a special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court in Hyderabad that sent him to 15 days' judicial custody, the agency said in a statement. The action is linked to the ED's investigation against a number of Indian NBFCs which are in the business of instant personal loans through mobile apps (applications). "Various fintech companies backed by Chinese funds have made agreements with these NBFC companies for providing instant personal micro loans of term ranging from seven-14 days," the statement said. "Kudos NBFC purportedly engages fintech (digital lending partners) companies as a service provider to assist in identifying prospective customers, verifying their eligibility, collection of information/documents, conducting due diligence, collecting pre-disbursement documents, arranging execution of the loan agreement, assisting with collections/recovery of principal and interest payments and attending service requests or product related queries for the retail loans offered by the company," the agency said. Although it is projected that the NBFC is engaging fintech (short for financial technology) companies for these activities, the ED said, "In reality, they are allowing the fintech companies to misuse the valuable NBFC licence of Kudos." "Kudos has a paltry net owned fund (NOF), but it is taking huge amount as security deposits and then opening separate merchant ID (MID) with payment gateways for each fintech app and then depositing these security deposit in the MID of the respective fintech app," the agency alleged. The company, Kudos, it said, has no mobile app of its own. "It is not involved in the lending business at all. It has miniscule staff and is blindly allowing fintech companies to operate at the back of MoUs between self (NBFC) and fintech mobile app companies. "Thus, the entire lending operation is being done by the fintech app from its own funds," it alleged. The accused NBFC is only lending its licence and the fintech apps are the ones acting like the "real NBFCs" and doing end-to-end micro-lending and "reaping "majority benefits". "In return, Kudos is taking a commission without doing any due diligence or hardwork," the ED alleged. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ed-arrests-ceo-of-nbfc-in-probe-against-chinese-backed-loan-apps-1062242.html
18-12-2021||North and Central||Delhi records 86 new Covid cases, highest single-day rise in over 5 months||The national capital on Saturday recorded 86 fresh Covid-19 cases in a day, the highest in over five months, and zero death as the positivity rate stood at 0.13 per cent, according to data shared by the city's health department. On July 8, Delhi had reported 93 coronavirus cases. The rise in cases is being recorded amid the Omicron scare in Delhi as the total number of patients infected with the latest variant of coronavirus jumped by 12 on Friday to reach 22. The number of Covid cases recorded in Delhi so far reached 14,42,090. Over 14.16 lakh patients have recovered from the disease. On Thursday, 85 cases were recorded with a positivity rate of 0.15 per cent, while on Friday the daily cases count stood at 69 with a positivity rate of 0.12 per cent. The death toll due to the coronavirus infection in Delhi stands at 25,100. Two deaths due to Covid-19 have been recorded in December so far in Delhi. Seven Covid-19 deaths were reported in November four in October and five in September. The case positivity rate was 0.13 per cent on Saturday, according to the health bulletin. On Wednesday, 57 cases were recorded in Delhi with a positivity rate of 0.10 per cent. A total of 66,096 tests — 59,901 RT-PCR and 6,195 rapid antigen tests — were conducted a day ago, the bulletin stated. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-records-86-new-covid-cases-highest-single-day-rise-in-over-5-months-1062244.html
18-12-2021||North and Central||Have no faith in delimitation commission: Mehbooba||Jammu and Kashmir PDP president Mehbooba Mufti said on Saturday that she had no faith in the delimitation commission which was "working on the BJP's agenda". She also accused the BJP of using National Investigation Agency (NIA) and Enforcement Directorate (ED) to demoralise her party because of its moves to expose the saffron party's "false narratives" but said "the PDP is not going to be cowed down by such steps". "As far as the delimitation commission is concerned, it is BJP's commission. Their attempt is to pitch the majority against the minority and further disempower the people. They want to increase the (assembly) seats in such a way to benefit the BJP," Mehbooba told reporters after addressing a youth convention in Rajouri district. She said the PDP has no faith in the delimitation commission. Asked for her comment on the decision of the National Conference to participate in the delimitation commission's associate members meeting in New Delhi next week, the former chief minister said, "It is their decision and what else can I say about that." On the Jammu and Kashmir government's changes in the land use laws enabling conversion of agricultural land to non-agricultural purposes, Mehbooba claimed that it is a wrong decision and part of a "conspiracy of the hidden agenda of the BJP". "They want more and more people from outside to come and buy land here to engineer a demographic change," she alleged. About NIA's reported summon to PDP district Development Council (DDC) member and vice chairman DDC Ganderbal Bilal Ahmad to New Delhi for questioning in connection with a case on December 23, Mehbooba said since her party is raising its voice against their narrative and debunks their claim of restoration of normalcy in Jammu and Kashmir, they are "using ED and NIA to silence the party". "They don't have anything else against us. They cannot fight us politically and hence they are using ED and NIA to demoralise us. However, the PDP is not going to be cowed down by such moves and we are not going to stop," she said.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/have-no-faith-in-delimitation-commission-mehbooba-1062248.html
18-12-2021||North and Central||Night patrols set up to monitor compliance to pollution control norms in Delhi||Separate night patrols have been set up for each of the 11 districts of the national capital to monitor compliance to pollution control norms for construction-related activities, Delhi Environment Minister Gopal Rai said Saturday. He also said his department has received applications from multiple agencies seeking resumption of construction and demolition activities in Delhi. Applications have been received by the transport department also for plying of trucks, he said. "Only after approval by Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM), phase-wise resumption of activities will be considered." "Besides regular teams doing inspection, separate district-wise teams for night patrolling have been set up for all 11 districts to check compliance to pollution control norms in connection with construction-related activities,” Rai told reporters. Each team will have three-four members drawn from the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC), and action will be taken if violation is found, he said. Rai had said on Friday the DPCC fined the National Buildings Construction Corporation Rs 1 crore for violating the ban imposed on construction activities to curb air pollution in the city. The pollution body had also ordered the construction agency to stop work at its Netaji Shubhash Nagar site immediately. Pollution level after Diwali has increased, but there has been continuous improvement in air quality lately so as per the guidelines of the CAQM, schools for students in classes 6 and above have been opened, he said on Saturday. For children in classes 1-5, decision will be taken according to the situation, he said. The CAQM had on Friday said the ban on construction and demolition activities in Delhi-NCR will continue, with some exceptions, till further orders. Railway and metro services, airports, interstate bus terminals, national security-related activities, projects of national importance, healthcare facilities, linear public projects such as highways, roads, flyovers, power transmission, pipelines, and sanitation and public utility projects have been exempted. The CAQM had said the exemptions are subject to strict compliance to dust control norms. On a question on the resumption of plying of trucks, he said, "We have received a request from the transport department, and it has been sent to the CAQM, which is the decision-making body. We will decide our action plan accordingly as per the decision of the commission." Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/night-patrols-set-up-to-monitor-compliance-to-pollution-control-norms-in-delhi-1062251.html
18-12-2021||North and Central||Delhi shivers at 6 degree C, first 'cold day' of this season||Delhi witnessed its first 'cold day' of the season on Saturday as chilly northwesterly winds swept the city and the mercury dipped to six degrees Celsius, the lowest minimum temperature of this season, according to India Meteorological Department. The maximum temperature was 17.8 degrees Celsius, five notches below the normal and also the lowest of this season. According to the IMD, when the minimum temperature is less than or equal to 10 degrees Celsius and the maximum temperature is at least 4.5 degrees Celsius below the normal, it is said to be a 'cold day'. Cold wave-like condition prevailed in the city swept by chilly northwesterly winds on Saturday, making Delhi shiver under inclement weather conditions. "Delhi city SDF with maximum temperature today reported as 17.8 degrees Celsius is the first cold day of this season as already the minimum temperature is at 6 degrees Celsius all of which fulfilled the conditions of a cold day," the IMD said. On Friday, the national capital had recorded a low of 7.7 degrees Celsius. It further dipped to 6 degrees Celsius on Saturday, two notches below the normal, making the weather chilly. Fog in the morning dipped visibility, officials said. "Very stronger, dry northwesterly cold winds prevailed today over Delhi-NCR, and it blew at was 10-20 kmph during the first half of the day, which increased to 25 kmph, gusting to 40 kmph in the afternoon," a senior official said. The weatherman has forecast that the minimum will dip even lower to 5 degrees Celsius on Sunday, while the maximum is expected to be 18 degrees Celsius and it will thus also be another 'cold day'. The relative humidity in the morning stood at 94 per cent, and by evening it was recorded at 50 per cent. There was shallow to moderate fog during 2-8:30 am today at IGI Airport with the lowest visibility touching in the range of 200-400m during the same period, officials said. City airport saw shallow fog of 600-800m till 10 am. Visibility reached up to 1800-2000m with lesser smog due to stronger dry winds in the afternoon, they said. The air quality index (AQI) of the national capital was recorded at 280 at 8 am which falls under the 'poor' category. It was still in the 'poor' category in the evening. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe.  Watch the latets DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-shivers-at-6-degree-c-first-cold-day-of-this-season-1062254.html
18-12-2021||North and Central||Man sentenced to 7 years' jail for raping minor girl in UP town||A Special POCSO Court on Saturday sentenced a man to seven years’ jail and imposed on him a fine of Rs 40,000 for raping a minor, a court official said. Special Judge Peeyush Tiwari announced the conviction with a provision that Rs 30,000 from the fine amount will be given to the victim, he said. According to special prosecutor Sanjiv Bakharva, the incident took place on August 23, 2016, when the convict, Rohit, entered the house of his neighbour asking for water to drink and found the victim alone at the house. Taking advantage of the situation, he first started molesting the girl, and when she resisted he beat her up and raped her, Bakharva said. He also threatened the girl with dire consequences if she told anyone about the incident, he said. When the matter came to light, Sihani Gate Police arrested Rohit and booked him under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-sentenced-to-7-years-jail-for-raping-minor-girl-in-up-town-1062260.html
18-12-2021||North and Central||Government ready for Omicron variant: Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi government is ready to tackle the Omicron variant of Covid, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Saturday. He advised people not to panic saying even though the variant was said to spread faster than the previous ones, its symptoms were mild. He said Delhi was unlikely to face another wave of infections, since according to the sero survey conducted by the Delhi government, 96 per cent of the state population was found to have antibodies and a majority of them were vaccinated. "I have been holding meetings these last few days and I want to assure people that our government is ready to tackle Omicron," Kejriwal said at a Christmas and New Year event hosted by the Delhi Assembly Speaker here in the assembly premises. The CM said the government learnt lessons during the April wave and has worked on its shortcomings. "In April this year, the fourth wave of Covid in Delhi claimed many lives. We took help from everyone and together we brought it under control. We pray to god there is no next wave but if it comes we will bring it under control as we did during the last wave of infection in April," he said. Kejriwal greeted Delhiites and people of the country with a message of peace, brotherhood and wellbeing of all.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/government-ready-for-omicron-variant-arvind-kejriwal-1062262.html
18-12-2021||North and Central||People shower flower petals at BJP leaders as Nadda flags off party's 'vijay yatra' in Uttarakhand||BJP president J P Nadda on Saturday flagged off his party's Vijay Sankalp Yatra in poll-bound Uttarakhand with a roadshow in Haridwar with the pilgrimage town people showering flowers on him from roofs of their houses. Nadda began the roadshow from Pantdweep ground in Haridwar on a rath along with Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami, former Union minister and Haridwar MP Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, BJP’s state president Madan Kaushik and state election in-charge and Union minister Pralhad Joshi. The roadshow concluded at Shivmurti Chawk after meandering its way through the city’s bustling streets crowded with supporters waving at the BJP leaders and showering flowers at them. The rath also passed through Bhimgoda and Har ki Pairi. The Vijay Sankalp Yatra is aimed at highlighting the achievements of the Union and state governments over the past five years while covering all 41 assembly constituencies of Garhwal and 29 of Kumaon, Nadda said at the roadshow. "People’s response to the roadshow is overwhelming. Look at the crowds. There are people as far as you can see. It is a clear indication that people have made up their minds for electing the BJP once again," said the party president, on board the rath. "Under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, unprecedented work has been done in the state in the infrastructure sector. The all-weather Chardham road is being built and Kedarnath has been reconstructed. I am confident the party will get the blessings of the people again," he said. The yatra in-charge for the Garhwal region, Virendra Bisht, said the BJP will definitely achieve its target of winning more than 60 seats this time. The BJP had stormed to power in 2017 in Uttarakhand, winning 57 out of a total of 70 assembly seats. Asked why Haridwar was chosen to launch the party's Vijay Sankalp Yatra, Bisht said it is because it is the starting point of all pilgrimages in Uttarakhand. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/people-shower-flower-petals-at-bjp-leaders-as-nadda-flags-off-partys-vijay-yatra-in-uttarakhand-1062268.html
18-12-2021||North and Central||Man beaten to death over 'sacrilege' bid at Golden Temple||A man hailing from Uttar Pradesh was beaten to death after he allegedly attempted to commit "sacrilege" inside the sanctum sanctorum of the Golden Temple in Amritsar on Saturday evening. The incident drew sharp reactions from political leaders, with Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi ordering a probe into it. The incident took place when the man jumped golden grills inside the sanctum sanctorum, picked a sword and reached near the place where a Sikh priest was reciting the holy Guru Granth Sahib. The man was caught by Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) task force members. When he was being taken to the SGPC office, angry crowd thrashed him badly that later led to his death. Deputy Commissioner of Police P S Bhandal said the man, hailing from UP, could be around 25 to 30 years of age and his antecedents are being verified. All CCTV cameras are being checked to know when he entered the Golden Temple and how many people were with him. After the incident, a large number of Sikh devotees and various Sikh outfits slammed the SGPC for its laxity. A heavy police force has been deployed around the SGPC complex at Teja Singh Samundri Hall to maintain law and order. Several political leaders condemned the alleged sacrilege attempt at the Golden Temple. Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi ordered a probe into the matter. "CM @CharanjitChanni strongly condemned the most unfortunate and heinous act to attempt sacrilege of Sri Guru Granth Sahib in the sanctum sanctorum of Sri Harimandir Sahib during the path of Sri Rehras Sahib," according to a tweet by the Chief Minister's Office. "CM directed state police authorities to thoroughly probe into entire matter to zero in at the underlying motive and real conspirators behind this dastardly act. CM also called SGPC president and assured his government’s full support and cooperation to get into the bottom of the case," said another tweet. CM directed state police authorities to thoroughly probe into entire matter to zero in at the underlying motive and real conspirators behind this dastardly act.(2/3) Akali stalwart and five-time chief minister Parkash Singh Badal described it as a "heinous attempt", which was "deeply shocking and exceedingly painful". Badal said the crime was too reprehensible for words and it has caused "deep anguish and outrage in the minds of the Sikh masses all over the world". Badal said it was unbelievable that "such a painful and brazen crime could be committed at the holiest shrine of humanity" by a single individual, adding that the possibility of a deep-rooted conspiracy behind it cannot be ruled out. He said the whole "conspiracy" needs to be probed, exposed and those behind it be given exemplary punishment. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal too condemned the incident and said the culprit should be strictly punished. "Everybody is in shock. This could be a big conspiracy. The culprits should get the harshest punishment," said Kejriwal in a tweet. आज श्री दरबार साहिब में हुई बेअदबी की घटना बेहद दुखदायी है। सब लोग सदमे में हैं। ये बहुत बड़ी साज़िश हो सकती है। दोषियों को सख़्त से सख़्त सजा मिले। ਪ੍ਰਮਾਤਮਾ ਪੰਜਾਬ ਅਤੇ ਪੰਜਾਬੀਆਂ ਦੇ ਸਿਰ ਤੇ ਮਿਹਰ ਭਰਿਆ ਹੱਥ ਰੱਖੇ.....ਨਾਨਕ ਨਾਮ ਚੜਦੀ ਕਲਾ ਤੇਰੇ ਭਾਣੇ ਸਰਬੱਤ ਦਾ ਭਲਾ Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal expressed shock and disbelief at the incident. In a statement here, Sukhbir Badal said it is impossible to believe that this could be the act of just one person. "There is clearly a deep-rooted conspiracy behind it," he said. The former deputy CM said there seems to be a conspiracy to "disturb peace and communal harmony in the state". He criticised the state government, saying that there were strong indications of such a conspiracy was being hatched. "Only the other day, there was a shocking incident of ‘gutka sahib’ (holy book) being thrown into the holy ‘sarovar’. After that, the state agencies could not have been unaware of a deep-rooted conspiracy that led to today's shocking sequence of events," he said. "But no one did anything nor took any steps to prevent such a heinous crime from happening. What are the intelligence agencies doing," he asked. BJP leader Manjinder Singh Sirsa also condemned the incident and asked the Punjab government to unearth the conspiracy behind it. In a statement, Sirsa said the incident has sent shock waves throughout the world as never in the history of Darbar Sahib such an attempt has been made. He said the "failure" of the Congress government in solving previous sacrilege cases has resulted in repeat of such incidents. He said it should also be probed why such incidents occur at the time when elections are round the corner. Congress MP Preneet Kaur also expressed deep shock over the incident. "Deeply shocked and appalled by the attempted beadbi of Sri Guru Granth Sahib at Sri Darbar Sahib today. The matter should be probed properly to ascertain the real culprits behind this brazen attempt," she tweeted. Punjab Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Punjab BJP chief Ashwani Sharma also condemned the incident. Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee president Harjinder Singh said the incident has caused "spiritual pain" to Sikhs all over the world. "It is a matter of great sorrow that such an incident took place at Sachkhand Sri Harmandar Sahib from where the message of universal communion is conveyed to all mankind," he said. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-beaten-to-death-over-sacrilege-bid-at-golden-temple-1062277.html
18-12-2021||North and Central||In rural Kashmir, health centres have been built and disowned without treating a single patient||The abandoned Primary Health Centre (PHC) at Keach belies the government's claims of development in Kashmir, particularly in the health sector, post the nullification of Article 370. It is one of the three large abandoned health facilities in remote areas of Budgam district in central Kashmir. On account of public demand, construction began on PHCs in Keach, Gurwait and Zanigam villages of the Khansahib area in 2006-2007. Crores were spent on these PHCs that aimed at providing health facilities to dozens of villages. On completion of construction, residents were desperately waiting for the inauguration. However, years have passed, and their endless wait continues as the health department has disowned two of three PHCs. Creation and desertion all in a day's work The locals are now up in arms against the health department for failing to make the hospitals functional. Nazir Ahmad, a resident of Keach, said that an enormous amount was spent on the structure but without providing any relief to thousands of households. "Keach PHC has over two dozen rooms, including a labour room, operation theatre, and other facilities. However, they have not been utilised to date due to the apathy of the government," he rued. Ahmad said that an ambulance was sanctioned to the PHC but was later taken to the Khansahib sub-district hospital. During the first and second Covid waves, the villagers faced tremendous distress. "Despite having a spacious building meant for the welfare of locals, we had to visit other areas for treatment," Ahmad told 101Reporters. "Had the PHC been functional, it would have provided relief to people during Covid," he added. The story of the abandoned Zanigam PHC is similar. Every facility was built at the hospital, but the gates remain closed, said Fayaz Ahmad, a resident of Zanigam, adding that the government had let the PHC deteriorate. When a PHC was sanctioned to Gurwait nearly 15 years ago, it brought a sense of relief. About 20 km from Budgam district headquarters, this village receives several feet of snowfall every year, bringing life to a virtual halt in winters. The PHC was to provide healthcare at their doorstep. However, like Keach and Zanigam, the Gurwait PHC remains padlocked. Ghulam Mohammad Najar, a Gurwait resident, said that the locals face immense difficulties accessing healthcare. "During winters, our area receives over 5 feet of snowfall. We have to transport patients on charpais as the road remains blocked. At times, when patients are not taken to the hospital quickly enough, they die," he told 101Reporters. Elections over healthcare Surprisingly, the gates of Keach and Gurwait PHCs were never opened for patients but instead made available to paramilitary forces for poll duty. The abandoned hospital structures have only served the purpose of the government during elections in the valley. When polls are near, the troops come and occupy the buildings, allegedly causing damage to the structures. Locals said that soldiers had damaged geysers, electricity fittings, bulbs and other equipment in the buildings. Earlier in 2019, the landowner of the Gurwait PHC had lodged a complaint against the troops in the local police station for damaging the structure. Reyaz Ahmad Lone, a local Sarpanch said that the villagers were poor, could not afford personal vehicles, and relied on public transport. "Most people belong to the poorest sections of society in Gurwait, and they cannot even afford the fare to visit other hospitals," he said. Blaming both the health department and local politicians for the misery of people, Firdous Nabi, a local Congress leader, said, "The former MLAs, MLCs and the health department have neglected the people in remote places." Nabi added that he had raised the issue of the abandoned PHCs with every person concerned from the Block Medical Officer (BMO) to the Chief Medical Officer (CMO) to the Director of Health Services, Kashmir, and the Lieutenant Governor's administration but all in vain. Authorised in a vacuum When contacted, the officials concerned said that two among three non-functional PHCs had no government approval. Arshid Hussain, BMO, Khansahib, said that the Keach and Zanigam hospitals were constructed without any authorisation, and therefore cannot be utilised. Tajamul Hussain Khan, CMO, Budgam, also seconded his subordinate. The officers stated that former Khansahib MLA and minister Hakeem Mohammad Yaseen had constructed the PHCs without any approval from the health department. Former MLA Yaseen vehemently denied the health officials' version and said that the money for PHCs came through proper channels. "How is it possible to construct PHCs without approval? If the PHCs were not sanctioned, who released the Rs 6 crores for their construction?" he reasoned. Yaseen also pointed out that the health centres' foundation stone was laid in the presence of concerned officials, including the then Director Health Services, Kashmir, CMO Budgam and BMO Khansahib. The former MLA demanded action against those officials who have put the government assets at risk and consequently increased the suffering of common people. When confronted with the former MLA's claims, the BMO countered with a non-committal statement, "We do not know where the money for the construction of PHCs came from as it happened a long time back." About Gurwait PHC, both the officers said that there was a land dispute between the health department and the landowner whose land was acquired to construct the PHC. The landowner, Mohamad Afzal, said that the health department had promised employment and compensation for providing three kanals of land to the PHC in 2007. "I don't have any land left. I had only three kanals, which were given to the government after the assurance of employment and compensation. The government betrayed me," he declared. Afzal, a father of six, said that his family had been cultivating paddy on the land, but after the PHC's construction and the subsequent abandonment by the government, they have been left empty-handed. Following this, Afzal approached the courts in 2017. Since then, the issue has been sub judice. "It has been over 15 years since my land was taken away after false assurances. The department has made our lives terrible. Why would we give our fertile land to the government without any reason?" he asked. (The author is a Budgam-based freelance journalist and a member of 101Reporters, a pan-India network of grassroots reporters) Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/in-rural-kashmir-health-centres-have-been-built-and-disowned-without-treating-a-single-patient-1062283.html
18-12-2021||Opinion||Kim Jong Un’s decade in power: Starvation, repression and brutal rule – just like his father and grandfather||By Sung-Yoon Lee for The Conversation, By the grim metric of fatalities in the first 10 years of a dictator’s rule, Kim Jong Un has yet to match the records set by his grandfather, Kim Il Sung, or father, Kim Jong Il – the two tyrants who reigned by terror in North Korea before him. For now, the number of people Kim Jong Un has personally ordered killed – such as his uncle in 2013 and half-brother in 2017 – is likely to number in the hundreds. But his decade in power, which began after his father’s death on Dec. 17, 2011, has proved a disaster for people living in the communist nation. The isolationist state has become even more so, as the northern border to China closed during the coronavirus pandemic – cutting off an escape route for those desperate to flee. Meanwhile, food insecurity means that “an entire generation of children” are undernourished, as the United Nations has reported. Concrete numbers of how many have died from starvation and malnourishment-related conditions such as diarrhoea and pneumonia under Kim are difficult to come by. But as a scholar of Korean history, I believe the young dictator – who turns 38 next January – has the capacity to surpass even the ghastly death tolls of his two familial predecessors. Three generations of misery Kim Jong Un’s first decade in power has seen a continuation of the deadly repression and failed policies that have kept North Koreans living in fear and under the threat of starvation for the last 70 years. The Korean War that the current leader’s grandfather started in 1950, just two years after founding North Korea, claimed upwards of 4 million lives – most were North Korean civilians killed by the United Nations coalition that came to defend South Korea. Once his campaign to take South Korea by force was thwarted by the 1953 armistice, Kim Il Sung turned to purging pro-Soviet and pro-Chinese party officials who had dared to criticize him. The North Korean leader went on a killing spree in which thousands of party officials were killed or expelled from the Workers’ Party of Korea. His son, Kim Jong Il, inherited power in July 1994 and oversaw a devastating famine in which upwards of 2 million people starved to death. But instead of buying food, Kim Jong Il sought aid, most of which he diverted to North Korea’s military. At the height of the famine in 1997, the US State Department estimated North Korea’s military budget as $6 billion. During those dark times, Kim spent over a billion dollars a year on his missile programs alone and over $600 million on luxury goods imports. He also managed to eke out enough money to build an estimated $800 million mausoleum for his dead father – one in which he himself was entombed in December 2011 after succumbing to a suspected heart attack. Had he spent just $200 million of his wealth each year on grain and distributed it fairly, no one would have died. Instead, as the 2014 U.N. Commission of Inquiry Report on Human Rights in North Korea alleges, Kim Jong Il committed the “inhumane act of knowingly causing prolonged starvation.” The same claim could be made against Kim Jong Un during his decade in power. Faminelike conditions have been observed in the mid-2010s and have resurfaced during the pandemic. Even before Kim sealed the border with China in January 2020, North Korea recorded food shortages of around 1.36 million metric tons in 2018 and 2019. His solution has been to rely on aid and, in October, telling his people to eat less until 2025. Meanwhile, during his 10 years in power, Kim has diverted around a quarter of North Korea’s GDP toward the military. And under Kim Jong Un it has only become harder for North Koreans to escape chronic hunger. During the famine in the 1990s, many North Korean people were able to escape to China in search of food, despite attempts by Kim Jong Il to block them. In the first year of Kim Jong Un’s rule, the number of escapees who made their way to South Korea dropped in half from the previous year to approximately 1,500. And in the past nearly two years of lockdown under Kim, border-crossing has become far more difficult. In 2021, the number is expected to be well below 100. A deadly legacy When Kim came to power in December 2011, I predicted his rule would be marked neither by reform nor power-sharing but extreme internal repression and strategic threats against neighbours. Sadly, these projections have been proved right. The past decade has seen a continuation of the atrocious human rights record of Kim’s predecessors and a great leap forward on the despotic dynasty’s missile programmes. North Korea has fired off over 130 missiles over the last 10 years, punctuated by three intercontinental ballistic missile blasts in 2017. Of the four nuclear tests, the last in 2017, was a thermonuclear bomb. These lethal weapons are custom made for threatening the US with a nuclear war while Kim dangles the possibility of peace, thus compelling Washington to withdraw US troops and strategic weapons from South Korea – as Kim’s sister, Kim Yo Jong, called for in August. Kim Jong Un’s apparent goal is to render Washington’s longtime non-nuclear ally, Seoul, vulnerable to his nuclear-armed state bent on completing its “supreme national task” of completing the “great Juche Revolution” – the absorption of the south and unifying the Korean peninsula on North Korean terms. A nuclear war, even if limited, could cause civilian deaths in the millions – a horrendous feat already achieved under the leadership of Kim Il Sung and Kim Jong Il. What is different under Kim Jong Un is that he has built the capacity to inflict much more carnage on the outside world, including the US. (The author is a professor in Korean Studies, Tufts University) Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/kim-jong-un-s-decade-in-power-starvation-repression-and-brutal-rule-just-like-his-father-and-grandfather-1062156.html
18-12-2021||South||Workers lay siege to Chennai-Bengaluru highway over food-poisoning row||Hundreds of women working in a private mobile manufacturing unit near Sriperumbudur sat on a dharna on the busy Chennai-Bengaluru highway for over eight hours demanding to know the health status of their colleagues admitted to a hospital after suspected food poisoning, severely affecting the traffic.  The women blocked the traffic on the highway at midnight on Saturday causing severe inconvenience to those travelling towards Kanchipuram, Vellore, Tirupattur, Hosur, and Bengaluru for hours together. As the protesters showed no signs of relenting, the traffic was diverted via Sunguvarchatiram on Saturday morning after traffic came to a halt on one side of the highway for over six hours. The blockade was a nightmare for thousands of people who hit the road to go to their native places over the weekend. The Chennai-Bengaluru NH is one of the busiest roads as it connects the capital cities of Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. The women workers of the mobile manufacturing unit allege that hundreds of them took ill after they consumed food at the hostel facility being provided by the company on Wednesday. Several were admitted to various hospitals in the districts, the women said, and alleged that eight of them did not return.  Demanding the health status of the eight persons and better conditions and food in the hostel, the women workers took to the streets by sitting on a dharna on the highway. The women did not budge from their stand for hours together prompting Kanchipuram district collector Dr M Aarthi to visit the protest site and hold talks with them.  Scotching rumours that two of the workers, who did not return to the hostel, have passed away, the district collector made video calls to them from the protest site and spoke to them in front of their colleagues. The workers complained of the poor quality of food being provided by the hostel management and demanded the district administration’s intervention. After talks with the protesting women, Aarthi told reporters that the administration will conduct an audit to check the living conditions in hostels in the Kanchipuram district. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/workers-lay-siege-to-chennai-bengaluru-highway-over-food-poisoning-row-1062158.html
18-12-2021||South||Shiv Sena leader Ramdas Kadam on revolt-mode||Senior Shiv Sena leader Ramdas Kadam seems to be on a revolt-mode with the veteran openly targeting state’s Parliamentary Affairs Minister Anil Parab, who is a close aide of Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. Kadam (58) is a veteran leader from Ratnagiri district of the Konkan, the belt which forms the citadel of the saffron party. Kadam is a four-time MLA and two-term MLC and has been the state’s Environment  Minister and Leader of Opposition. It is noteworthy to mention here that Parab was among the core team members which played a crucial role in the formation of the Maha Vikas Aghadi government comprising Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress. Because of his fallout with Parab, Kadam was not re-nominated to the Upper House. Kadam was dropped after his purported audio clips of conversations between him and one of his associates went viral - heard expressing happiness after action was taken by various authorities over the alleged illegal construction on land owned by Parab in Ratnagiri and Mumbai. There were also allegations that he was in touch with BJP’s Kirit Somaiya, who was targeting MVA leaders. Addressing a news conference, Kadam accused Parab of trying to finish off Shiv Sena in the Ratnagiri district.  “Is Anil Parab bigger than Shiv Sena chief?” he asked. Kadam also expressed unhappiness over Shiv Sena leaders - Industry Minister Subhash Desai and Higher and Technical Education Minister Uday Sawant.  “There are attempts to finish me politically,” he said. Asked whether he would leave Shiv Sena, he said that he was a true Shiv Sainik and would work under the saffron flag. When asked whether it means that he would join BJP, he said: “Don’t misinterpret me….the bhagwa-jhanda of the Shiv Sena is the true bhagwa-jhanda.” Kadam said that in the last two years he had neither visited Mantralaya, the state secretariat, nor Matoshree, the bungalow of the Thackerays. “I met Uddhav ji in the Vidhan Bhavan only once briefly in the last two years,” he said. Kadam has written a detailed letter to Thackeray. “If I am called by the Shiv Sena chief, I will explain my position,” he said. “If I am expelled, I will decide what to do,” he said, however, added that in a month’s time he would meet the media again. No comments, says Anil Parab Parliamentary Affairs and Transport Minister refused to comment on the allegations made by senior Shiv Sena leader Ramdas Kadam. "No comments...I don't want to speak on it," he said. When repeatedly asked, he said: "There is no question of myself speaking. I am a loyal Shiv Sainik...whatever stands had to be taken, it would be by the party." Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/shiv-sena-leader-ramdas-kadam-on-revolt-mode-1062183.html
18-12-2021||South||Kerala Congress holds massive protest against Pinarayi Vijayan's K-Rail project||The Congress party on Saturday staged a massive protest against the proposed scheme of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan for a K-Rail in the capital city. This came before CPI-M State Secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan said that this was a project in their election manifesto and it will become a reality. If completed, the flagship railway project will set up a 529.45 km corridor connecting Thiruvananthapuram to Kasaragod and the distance will be covered within four hours. The estimated cost is in excess of Rs 64,000 crores. Before protesting against the project in Thiruvananthapuram, State Congress president K. Sudhakaran said this project will not benefit the state and it is only meant for the CPI-M to pocket commission. "Another section who will benefit are the family members of the CPI-M leadership. By now itself several posts have been created and the wife of CPI-M Rajya Sabha member John Britas, who is only a very junior staff in Indian Railways is the general manager of K-Rail. "We don't need to learn the nuances of what's development from Vijayan, who while at the helm of affairs of CPI-M for several years, opposed every developmental infrastructure project like Vizhinjam Port, Kochi Smart City and Airports and every project which are our projects. Can Vijayan name one project which he has started. Vijayan should explain to the people who will benefit from the K-rail project," Sudhakaran said adding that it is strange that while the CPI-M opposes similar projects across India, they are adamant in Kerala to go ahead with it. Sudhakaran added that he will speak to Congress leader Shashi Tharoor who did not join the party MPs in opposing this project. Meanwhile, Balakrishnan who is in Delhi to attend the politburo meeting of the CPI-M, said they have already committed to the people in their election manifesto. "So we are going forward with it and we welcome the decision of Shashi Tharoor as he is speaking the language of the people. There is no difference of opinion in the Left over this proposal, which even CPI secretary Kanam Rajendran has said." Metroman E. Sreedharan has described this project as one which is ill-conceived, badly planned and poorly handled. The BJP has also strongly opposed this project. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-congress-holds-massive-protest-against-pinarayi-vijayans-k-rail-project-1062204.html
18-12-2021||South||Kerala govt moves SC against HC order cancelling job to late MLA's son||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has moved Supreme Court against High Court's order cancelling a government job given to the son of late CPI-M MLA K.K. Ramachandran Nair. The High Court earlier this month said that a "legislator is not a government servant" and cancelled the appointment. The government petition says the High Court got it wrong as the state government did this according to the rules and procedures and hence approached the apex court. Nair, a first time legislator after being elected from the Chenganoor Assembly constituency in the 2016 Assembly polls, passed away in 2018 due to health issues. Vijayan, in a surprise decision, decided to appoint Nair's son R. Prasanth as an assistant engineer in the Public Works Department, which led to a huge criticism from several quarters. However, a petitioner from Palakkad, Ashok Kumar filed a plea in this regard at the High Court and a division bench chaired by Chief Justice S. Manikumar ruled that an "MLA is not a government servant" as they have an elected term of only five years, and hence a government job under dying in harness mode is not applicable and cancelled the appointment. Incidentally, this legal battle comes at a time when a petition is before the Lokayukta after Vijayan sanctioned a substantial sum of money from the Chief Minister's Distress Relief Fund to clear off the debts of Nair. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-govt-moves-sc-against-hc-order-cancelling-job-to-late-mlas-son-1062237.html
18-12-2021||South||TN to form committee to check stability of school buildings||On the heels of three students losing their lives after a wall collapsed in their school in Tirunelveli district, the Tamil Nadu government on Saturday announced that it will constitute a committee to check the strength of school buildings, including from the private sector, across the state.  School Education Minister Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi said instructions are being used to repair weak buildings and vacate dilapidated buildings and to make alternate arrangements to ensure that students are not affected. He also said the Chief Education Officers (CEO) of districts have been asked to check the strength of school buildings and whether they are fit to hold classes, especially in the wake of heavy rains that lashed the state.  “We have asked for reports from the CEOs. Once the CEOs submit their reports, we will take remedial steps. Please don’t ask whether we woke up only after an incident (in Tirunelveli). We have been on this work for the past few months, and this is an ongoing process. We are evaluating the stability of private school buildings as well,” Mahesh told reporters. Chief Minister M K Stalin had condoled the “unfortunate and tragic” death of the students and ordered a solatium of Rs 10 lakh each to the parents of the children who died in the wall collapse. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tn-to-form-committee-to-check-stability-of-school-buildings-1062247.html
18-12-2021||South||Workers lay siege to Chennai-Bengaluru highway over food poisoning cases||Hundreds of women working in a private mobile manufacturing unit near Sriperumbudur sat on a dharna on the busy Chennai-Bengaluru highway for over eight hours demanding the health status of their colleagues admitted to a hospital after suspected food poisoning, severely affecting traffic.  The women working with Foxconn blocked traffic on the highway at midnight Saturday causing severe inconvenience to those travelling towards Kanchipuram, Vellore, Tirupattur, Hosur, and Bengaluru for hours together. As the protesters showed no signs of relenting, the traffic was diverted via Sunguvarchatiram on Saturday morning, after traffic came to a halt on one side of the highway for over eight hours. The blockade was a nightmare for thousands of people who hit the road to go to their native places over the weekend. The Chennai-Bengaluru NH is one of the busiest roads as it connects the capital cities of Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. The women workers of the mobile manufacturing unit allege that hundreds of them took ill after they consumed food at the hostel facility being provided by the company in near-by Tiruvallur district on Wednesday. Several were admitted to various hospitals in the districts, the women said, and alleged that eight of them did not return.  In an update on Saturday evening, the Tiruvallur district administration said as many as 159 workers staying in a hostel managed by Foxconn took ill on Wednesday and only four were still in hospital. “All are doing well and completely out of danger. It is also informed that no deaths are reported in this outbreak,” Tiruvallur Collector Alby John said.  Demanding the health status of the eight persons and better conditions and food in the hostel, the women workers took to the streets by sitting on a dharna on the highway. The women did not budge from their stand for hours together prompting Kanchipuram district collector Dr M Aarthi to visit the protest site and hold talks with them.  Scotching rumours that two of the workers, who did not return to the hostel, have passed away, the district collector made video calls to them from the protest site and spoke to them in front of their colleagues. The workers complained of poor quality of food being provided by the hostel management and demanded the district administration’s intervention. After talks with the protesting women, Aarthi told reporters that the administration will conduct an audit to check the living conditions in hostels in Kanchipuram district.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/workers-lay-siege-to-chennai-bengaluru-highway-over-food-poisoning-cases-1062259.html
18-12-2021||South||Twelve more Omicron cases reported in Telangana||The number of Omicron cases in Telangana rose to 20 with 12 more people testing positive for the new coronavirus variant on Saturday. Of the 12 new cases, two were passengers from countries declared "at risk" by the Centre, while 10 came from other nations, a state health department bulletin said. The samples of three persons are awaited for their Omicron variant status. Meanwhile, Telangana today logged 185 new Covid-19 cases, pushing the tally to 6,79,430, while the death toll rose to 4,014 with one more fatality. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) accounted for the most number of cases with 78, followed by Medchal Malkajgiri (15) district, the bulletin said, providing details as of 5.30 pm today. The number of recoveries outnumbered fresh cases with 205 people recovering from the infectious disease. The cumulative number of recoveries till date was 6,71,655. The number of active cases was 3,761, the bulletin said. It said 41,484 samples were tested today and the total number tested till date was 2,92,59,376. The samples tested per million population were 7,86,119.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/twelve-more-omicron-cases-reported-in-telangana-1062273.html
18-12-2021||South||Four more Omicron cases reported in Kerala||Four more persons in Kerala were found to be infected with the Omicron variant of Covid on Saturday, taking the total Omicron tally in the state to eleven. The fresh cases include a 17 year old boy who came down from UK to Thiruvananthapuram along with his parents. The other three infected came from Tunisia, Tanzania and Kenya. Meanwhile, 3297 new Covid cases were reported in the state on Saturday taking the total active cases to 31,901.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/four-more-omicron-cases-reported-in-kerala-1062275.html
18-12-2021||South||Over 8 crore people vaccinated against Covid in Tamil Nadu||The total number of people who have been administered vaccines against Covid-19 in Tamil Nadu breached eight crore, with 19.07 lakh beneficiaries receiving the shots during the 15th mega vaccination drive conducted on Saturday, the health department said. As many as 6,21,942 people received the first dose of vaccines, while 12,85,067 the second, aggregating to 19,07,009 overall, a press release said. As on date, 84.26 per cent of the total population have been covered under the first dose of vaccination while 54.73 per cent the second dose. The vaccination exercise has been conducted at primary health centres, government hospitals and other vital locations. "The total number of vaccines administered, including both at government run hospitals and private health care facilities, breached eight crore today (Saturday)", the release said. Minister for Medical and Family Welfare Ma Subramanian visited the vaccination camps conducted in neighbouring Chengalpet district. The Health department commenced the mass vaccination programme every Sunday beginning September 12 and since then it has been conducting the campaign every week. In the 14 mass vaccination exercises held so far, 2.63 crore people have received the jabs, the release said. In view of the vaccination camp held today, Subramanian said there would not be any such event on December 19.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/over-8-crore-people-vaccinated-against-covid-in-tamil-nadu-1062286.html
18-12-2021||State||Official shifted after his report denies conversions||The state government on Friday passed orders transferring Hosdurg tahsildar Y Thippeswamy days after the officer had submitted a report to the government denying any instances of forced religious conversions in the taluk. The officer had filed the report on December 1 saying there were no instances of forced conversions reported in the town or in the taluk. The deputy commissioner of Chitradurga had directed Thippeswamy to look into the allegations made by BJP MLA Goolihatti Shekar that religious conversions by force or inducements have become rampant in the taluk in recent times. The legislator had raised the issue during the monsoon session of legislature in Legislative Assembly, quoting an example of his own mother, who he said, has embraced Christianity after being forcibly converted. Following the directions, the officer in question is said to have visited a church in Hosdurg town and had taken statements of the people at Bhovihatti and Marutinagar areas. The official had then submitted a report to the deputy commissioner saying that there was no evidence of forced conversions in the taluk. While M Mallikarjun has been appointed as tahsildar, Thippeswamy was transferred without posting. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/official-shifted-after-his-report-denies-conversions-1062086.html
18-12-2021||State||Prosecution sanction under anti-graft law is sacrosanct act: HC||The Karnataka High Court has reiterated, quoting apex court judgments, that deciding prosecution sanction under Section 19 of Prevention of Corruption Act is not an acrimonious exercise but a solemn and sacrosanct act. Justice M Nagaprasanna observed this while dismissing the petition filed by the Lokayukta police. The Lokayukta police had moved the petition challenging the rejection of prosecution sanction sought against a police inspector in a disproportionate assets case.  However, not once, twice but thrice communications of Lokayukta police were turned down by the state government refusing to accord sanction. This was questioned by the Lokayukta police. Justice Nagaprasanna quoted several orders of the apex court on the issue and said the top court has held that courts should bear in mind that sanction lifts the bar of prosecution and it is not an acrimonious exercise but a solemn and sacrosanct act, which affords protection to the government servant against frivolous prosecution and a weapon to discourage vexatious prosecution. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/prosecution-sanction-under-anti-graft-law-is-sacrosanct-act-hc-1062089.html
18-12-2021||State||HAL signs Rs 2,400-crore deal with BEL for Tejas systems||In what is the biggest-ever order placed with an Indian firm, Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) has signed a contract with Bharat Electronics Limited (BEL) for the development and supply of 20 different types of systems for the upcoming LCA Tejas Mark 1A. The Rs 2,400-crore order, which will span five years from 2023 to 2028, was signed on Thursday and will see BEL supply critical avionic line replaceable units (LRUs). These LRUs are modular systems used on the Tejas aircraft. HAL currently sources 344 LRUs from 76 companies, out of which 49 are international companies supplying 134 LRUs for current versions of the Tejas fighter. This high quantum of imported systems means that the indigenisation quotient of existing machines is 52%. The addition of these 20 indigenous systems could raise the quotient by 6%. Under the new contract, BEL said, it will be supplying LRUs related to digital flight control computers, air data computers, weapon computers, LRUs related to radar warning receiver (RWR) and head up display. These systems were designed and developed by the Aeronautical Development Agency, DRDO labs, the Aeronautical Development Establishment, the Combat Aircraft Systems Development and Integration Centre and the Central Scientific Instruments Organisation. The order for supply of these systems will be executed by two divisions of Bharat Electronics Limited - Bengaluru and Panchkula (Haryana). All the contracted items will be delivered by BEL to HAL in a ready-to-board condition. R Madhavan, CMD of HAL, described the order as a “shot-in-the-arm” for Make-in-India activity. Deliveries under 83 Tejas Mk1A order to IAF will commence from 2023-24. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hal-signs-rs-2400-crore-deal-with-bel-for-tejas-systems-1062090.html
18-12-2021||State||High court permits NeoCon-2021 meet||The High Court of Karnataka on Friday permitted the organisers of NeoCon-2021 to go ahead with the conference as scheduled. A division bench, headed by Chief Justice Ritu Raj Awasthi, observed that the organisers will have to strictly adhere to the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for Covid-19. The conference is being held at Hoskote on the outskirts of Bengaluru from December 16 to 19. The bench has directed the organisers to ensure that the participants are allowed only with an RT-PCR negative report received within 48 hours and also the certificate of two doses of the Covid-19 vaccine. A PIL, filed by a healthcare professional, raised concern about safety issues in view of thousands of medical practitioners, especially paediatricians, participating in the conference. During the hearing on Friday, the organisers submitted a memo stating that only 305 persons are participating in the conference. As per the guidelines issued by the state government, no prior permission is required for an event with less than 500 attendees, the counsel for the organisers - National Neonatology Forum – submitted before the court. Meanwhile, the government filed a memo submitting that on December 16, 2021, a spot inspection was conducted by taluk health officers and police officers. It was reported that there was no instance of violation of any condition as per the SOP notification dated December 3, 2021, found. The counsel for the petitioner contended that as per the advisory issued by the state government on November 28, 2021, the healthcare professionals have been advised to conduct conferences, seminars and CME sessions in virtual mode for a few more months to send a positive message in the larger interest of public interest. The court permitted the organisers to hold the conference as per schedule. The bench directed the organisers to ensure the compliance of SOP for Covid-19 and also to ensure that the participants give their RT-PCR negative reports within 48 hours and also the certificate of two doses of the Covid-19 vaccine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/high-court-permits-neocon-2021-meet-1062091.html
18-12-2021||State||34 O2 plants yet to be commissioned in Karnataka||Thirty-four of the total 224 oxygen generation plants are yet to be commissioned in the state. The state plans to have a mock drill at all the commissioned plants on December 28. The union health secretary has asked the states to conduct mock drills of all installed and commissioned Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) oxygen generation plants to ensure that they are fully operational so that oxygen of required quantity, pressure and purity reaches the intended patients at their bedside. These drills are to be completed by the end of December, the union health ministry said (to avert a tragedy like Chamarajanagar where 24 died due to oxygen shortage in May this year). State health commissioner D Randeep told DH, “We will be taking up mock drills on December 28. That’s what we have planned. In 190 commissioned ones.” In response to DH’s query on the functional status of oxygen plants in the state, Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar’s office, in a statement, said, “Out of the 262 allocated plants, we have received 224 plants, 190 are commissioned with total plants’ capacity of 1,08,077 LPM (litres per minute) and production of 187 MT (metric tonne)/day”.  The staff at the minister’s office explained that at the rest of the 34 plants, the majority of issues are civil and electrical in nature. “They are in advanced stages of completion. By month-end, all 224 should be commissioned and working. The plants that we have not received are ones from CSR (corporate social responsibility) funds which have been promised but are yet to come,” a staffer said. Giving a further breakdown of the total 262 plants allocated to the state, his office said, out of 170 plants being set up by the state (the rest are being provided by the central government), and CSR, 134 plants have been received, 106 commissioned, and 26 awaiting commissioning. The rest of the sites are yet to receive the plants. “There are a few post-commissioning issues in a few plants. We have trained 245 participants (in 10-hour training modules) in three batches. Five (additional) batches are being planned (which are) in discussion with the skill development department,” the statement added. An online training course on operating an oxygen plant was held by the union government for technicians, paramedical staff,  doctors, and nurses of the health and medical education department in the first week of December. Bidar district health officer Dr V G Reddy said, “We have oxygen generation plants in four taluk hospitals, one mother and child hospital, and two at Bidar Institute of Medical Sciences. In all seven are functioning, one at the community health centre at Santoor is undergoing civil work. Once turned on, it takes half an hour at the plant to start generating oxygen.” The state health commissioner D Randeep issued guidelines here on Thursday for conducting mock drills at the state's oxygen generation plants. ** Mock-drill to be conducted once every three months **  It is recommended that senior officials in the state such as ADC/DC/CMO/MS (additional deputy commissioner/ deputy commissioner/ chief medical officer/ medical superintendent) etc. oversee the mock-drill and ensure compliance **  If a facility has more than one PSA (pressure swing adsorption oxygen generation plant), then mock drill should be conducted for each PSA **  Drill should be conducted for at least six hours **  Oxygen purity should be checked in the PSA control panel display every two hours **  Check and ensure that the PSA plant is connected to facility MGPS (medical gas pipeline system) and there are no leakages either in the linked MGPS pipeline or manifold **  The oxygen pressure from PSA should be ranging from 4-6 bar **  The identified gaps should be reported and immediately resolved by the competent state agency/PSA supplier Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/34-o2-plants-yet-to-be-commissioned-in-karnataka-1062118.html
18-12-2021||State||18 students held as tension flares in Udupi college||Tension prevailed as two groups of students clashed over a trivial issue at Government First Grade College in Kaup on Friday. Two groups of students studying in first and final year Bcom clashed. Police intervened and ensured that the clashes did not incite communal tensions. As many as 18 students allegedly involved in the clashes were arrested and later released on bail. The clash broke out between the two groups of boys studying in different classes after the students had objected to a student from speaking to a girl of a different faith. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/18-students-held-as-tension-flares-in-udupi-college-1062124.html
18-12-2021||State||Karnataka reports 6 more Omicron cases; 2 new Covid clusters in Dakshina Kannada||Karnataka on Saturday reported six new cases of Omicron variant of Covid-19 taking the state's total number of Omicron cases to 14. Minister for Health and Family Welfare said that five of the six cases have been reported from two clusters at different educational institutes of Dakshina Kannada, while a traveller returning from the UK has also tested positive for Omicron in Bengaluru. Just two days ago, on Thursday, Karnataka had reported five cases of Omicron variant. Dr Rajendra KV, Deputy Commissioner, Dakshina Kannada told DH that four of the infected have recovered fully and are currently healthy. DK Health officials who had interacted with the students on Saturday revealed that all of them are healthy indeed. "One of the omicron positive cases is on the ninth day of her infection," an official explained. While the four of the students were part of a government residential school in Mangaluru Rural, another was a 19-year-old student at a Nursing college in Mangaluru City limits. In fact, the nursing college is a cluster with 19 people testing positive for Covid-19. Dr Ashok H, Covid Nodal Officer, Dakshina Kannada said, "She is from Kerala but has never been to Kerala since July. She is asymptomatic. We have tested everyone from students, teaching and non-teaching staff but are unable to ascertain the source of infection as she neither has any travel history nor contact with any international traveller. The same is true for the four other girls as well from another school." Dr Rajendra informed that as many as 19 students had tested positive at the school on December 9 and samples were sent for genomic sequencing on December 10. "The nursing student was fully vaccinated and vitals are stable. She has reported 42 primary contacts and 293 secondary contacts who have all have been tested. 18 students were positive and the rest of them tested negative. Nineteen samples have been sent for genome sequencing," he elaborated. "The Omicron infected students from the residential school reported symptoms such as fever, loss of taste and smell. They were isolated at the hostel and have recovered completely. They are also attending classes now. Subsequently, testing of 79 primary contacts and 203 secondary contacts yielded 13 covid positive cases among students and the rest are all negative. All these samples have been sent for genome sequencing," Dr Rajendra clarified. The District health officials suspect these cases to be due to community transmission as there is no travel history. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-reports-6-more-omicron-cases-2-new-covid-clusters-in-dakshina-kannada-1062224.html
18-12-2021||State||SC makes clarification on Karnataka 'compassionate appointment'||The Supreme Court has declared that the modified scheme on compassionate appointment in Karnataka would be applied based only upon a determinate and fixed criteria such as the date of death of the employee, instead of the time of consideration of the plea by dependent of the deceased staff.  A bench of Justices Hemant Gupta and V Ramasubramaian cited previous judgements, to point out in cases where the benefits under an existing scheme were enlarged by a modified scheme after the death of the employee, this court applied only the scheme that was in force on the date of death of the employee. "This is fundamentally due to the fact that compassionate appointment was always considered to be an exception to the normal method of recruitment and perhaps looked down upon with lesser compassion for the individual and greater concern for the rule of law," the bench said. The court allowed an appeal filed by the Karnataka government and set aside the orders passed by the High Court and the State Administrative Tribunal for appointment of Bheemesh alias Bhimappa. The man submitted his sister was employed as assistant teacher in a government school, and died in harness on December 8, 2010, leaving behind her surviving mother, two brothers and two sisters. He sought compassionate appointment, claiming that the deceased was unmarried and that the mother, two brothers and two sisters were entirely dependent on her income. The competent authority in the case by an order in November, 2012, rejected the claim on the ground that the amendment made to the Karnataka Civil Services (Appointment on Compassionate Grounds) (7th amendment) Rules, 2012 on June 20, 2012, extending the benefit of compassionate appointment to the unmarried dependant brother of an unmarried female employee, will not be applicable to the case. It was pointed out the employee here died before the amendment to the rules. The top court did not agree to the contention, after noting that on the date of the death of the employee, there was no provision in rules to give compassionate appointment to brother of unmarried woman staff. "We are of the considered view that the interpretation as to the applicability of a modified Scheme should depend only upon a determinate and fixed criteria such as the date of death and not an indeterminate and variable factors like date of filing application or its consideration," the bench said. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/sc-makes-clarification-on-karnataka-compassionate-appointment-1062227.html
18-12-2021||State||KMF plans QR code to protect Nandini ghee brand||A day after finding thousands of kilograms of fake Nandini ghee during a raid on a godown in Mysuru, the Karnataka Cooperative Milk Producers' Federation Limited (KMF) said surprise inspections will be conducted across the state and product authentication of Nandini products will be introduced very soon. KMF is the apex body and marketing arm of the 14 milk unions. KMF Managing Director and CEO B C Sateesh, who held a video conference with the authorities of the 14 milk unions, said short- and long-term measures will be implemented to protect the Nandini brand. "First, we want to assure that Nandini products are safe and these incidents are only aberrations. Even then, we will take up measures. For the next six months, a team from each union will visit shops as regular customers and buy 5 to 10 packets of ghee from shops, which will be tested in the lab. We aim to check all the 21,000 sale points," he said. Apart from this, he said, each milk union will set up vigilance squads that will track the movement of products between dealers and shops. "We appeal to customers not to fall for discount offers except when announced by us officially. Customers who get suspicion can call our helpline," he added. P M Prasanna, president of Mysuru District Cooperative Milk Producers' Societies' Union Limited, said products bought at Nandini stalls were safe. "People should not panic. We suspect the miscreants sold the fake products to bulk customers, especially those in Tamil Nadu and Kerala. Moreover, we are setting up a vigilance team to check such activities. We have also urged the food safety authorities to conduct regular checks," he said. Prasanna said that the demand for the QR-code based authentication system has already been made. Sateesh said discussions have been held at the highest levels on introducing QR codes or holograms. "We will introduce one of them based on the decision by the (KMF) chairman. Trial runs will be conducted soon to understand the best option," he added. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kmf-plans-qr-code-to-protect-nandini-ghee-brand-1062241.html
18-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka minister makes a ‘moo’t point, says it costs Rs 70/day for cow care||How much does it cost to look after a cow? Rs 70 per day, only. This was Animal Husbandry Minister Prabhu Chauhan’s written reply to a question raised in the Assembly. The government spends Rs 70 a day on cows that are housed in goshalas or cattle sheds across the state, he said. “As per NDRF norms, the maintenance cost for each cattle is fixed at Rs 70 per day. Of this, the state government provides 25%, that is Rs 17.50 per cattle. The remaining 75% or Rs 52.50 is borne by the goshala,” Chauhan said. This was Chauhan’s reply to Indi MLA Yashvanthrayagouda Patil, who also asked specifically if the cost fixed is enough. “Since the maintenance cost for cattle is fixed at Rs 70 per day as per NDRF (national disaster relief fund) norms, this amount will be enough,” Chauhan said. However, Chauhan stated that the government is also examining a proposal to hike the per-day cost to Rs 82.50. Farmer leader Kuruburu Shanthakumar laughed when he came to know about the minister’s answer. “It’s bizarre. It costs minimum Rs 150 a day to take care of a cow,” he said. “The maintenance cost depends on the type of cow. But, Rs 70 is not at all enough considering fodder, daily washing, medicines and other expenses.” The government’s rate does little to assuage the fear caused by the new Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Act that came into effect earlier this year. It imposes a blanket ban on the slaughter of cows in the state, forcing farmers to either take care of cows even after they become barren, or simply abandon them. The only slaughter allowed is of terminally-ill cattle. Also, buffalo above the age of 13 years can be slaughtered with permission. The government has asked farmers to leave the animals at any of the 190 private goshalas. It has also promised to construct shelters, one each in all the districts, by earmarking Rs 15 crore in the 2021-22 budget. The project is “in progress,” Chauhan said. Karnataka has 190 private goshalas that house 32,547 cattle. Of them, 139 goshalas have been granted Rs 2.79 crore till November-end. “No farmer is ready to domesticate male cattle,” Belur MLA K S Lingesh said in the House. “I don’t have a single goshala in my taluk. There are two private ones in Arsikere. They request us to bring only grass-eating cows, not ones that drink milk,” he said, adding that the law was brought without any preparation. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-minister-makes-a-moo-t-point-says-it-costs-rs-70/day-for-cow-care-1062130.html
18-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Prohibitory orders imposed in Belagavi as Sangolli Rayanna statue vandalised||According to the Police Commissioner's office, the prohibitory order is imposed under Section 144 CrPC from 8 am on December 18 to 6 pm on December 19, for Belagavi police commissionerate area, which comprises Belagavi taluk. The incident occurred when the city is hosting the winter session of state legislature at Suvarna Vidhana Soudha here. Condemning the incidents as "unruly", Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said he has directed the Home Minister to take strict action against those trying to disturb peace and order following which some arrests have been made in connection with the incident. Speaking to reporters in Hubballi, the CM said, "Incidents like stone pelting, causing damage to public property and government vehicles is illegal, so police have been directed to take long term measures, so that such incidents don't recur." Noting that the attitude of defacing or desecrating statues of national heroes and patriotic leaders was not right, Bommai said such leaders belong to every community and need to be respected. Responding to a question, he said, "several other factors including the timing of the incident when the legislature session is on, will all be part of the investigation." President of Sangolli Rayanna Sene Shivaraj Holimath on Saturday complained to the Tilakwadi police that the Sangolli Rayanna statue that was not yet installed, kept in front of his house at Angol in south Belagavi was damaged. He has alleged that some unknown people caused damage to the statue on Friday night and sped when he raised an alarm. According to police, the statue has been shifted to Tilakwadi police station and a police force has been deployed in the area. Earlier in an incident in North Belagavi, a crowd gathered near Sambhaji Circle around midnight and started shouting slogans and began pelting government and police vehicles with stones. They reportedly resorted to violence after news broke about alleged desecration of Shivaji Maharaj's statue in Bengaluru. Police intervened and brought the situation under control, official sources said. Home Minister Araga Jnanendra said police have been directed to take merciless action against those involved in such act, and an FIR has been registered in connection with the incidents and some arrests have been made. "Police have been asked to see to it that such incidents don't repeat. Both Marathi and Kannada speaking people are living peacefully in Belagavi, but some miscreants are trying to disturb and vitiate the atmosphere," he said, while urging that no one should use stalwarts like Sangolli Rayanna or Shivaji Maharaj for petty politics in the name of any community or language. Former Chief Ministers B S Yediyurappa, Siddaramaiah, H D Kumaraswamy, also state Congress chief D K Shivakumar among others have condemned the incidents and have asked the government and police to take strict action against the miscreants. Most of them have appealed to people to maintain peace. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/prohibitory-orders-imposed-in-belagavi-as-sangolli-rayanna-statue-vandalised-1062162.html
18-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Manual scavengers survey in Karnataka soon: Shivanna||State Safai Karmachari Commission Chairman M Shivanna stated that the Bommai-led government has decided to conduct the survey of manual scavengers in the state. Speaking to media persons, in Davangere on Saturday, he said, though manual scavenging had been banned in the state in 2013, it is still present in some parts of the state. As many as 5,080 manual scavengers had been identified in the state and they are being provided with compensation and rehabilitation. He said as of now, the survey of manual scavengers is in progress in 12 districts across the state and it is yet to be done in 18 districts. "We have a data of those working in urban local bodies but not of those working in general, private hospitals, shopping malls, factories," he said, promising to hold a meeting with higher officials and take steps to conduct the survey. National Law School of India had been entrusted with the responsibility of conducting the survey on a pilot basis in Mysuru, Ballari districts and the team would submit a report to the government, he explained. He admitted that there is an issue with following the roster system with regard to appointment of civic workers in urban local bodies and promised to hold a meeting with the chief minister and social welfare minister soon to resolve the issue. On a manual scavenging case in Ranebennur of Haveri district, he said, the team led by assistant commissioner is probing the case and action would be initiated against those responsible for it. Manual scavenging is not allowed in any part of the state. But some officials had asked a worker to clean the manhole violating the norms.  On houses for civic workers, he said, the work of constructing 380 houses for civic workers in Davangere is on the verge of completion. They would be allotted to them either in January or February. He said he has also directed the officials concerned to provide employment of drivers to manual scavengers or their dependents if they have valid driving licences so that they can drive vehicles that ferry waste. If not, such people could be given the responsibility of maintaining public toilets. Deputy Commissioner Mahantesh Bilagi, Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer Vijay Mahantesh Danammanavar, Superintendent of Police Rishyanth C B, State Safai Karmachari Commission Secretary Rama, City Corporation Commissioner Vishwanath Mudajji and others were present at the press conference. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/manual-scavengers-survey-in-karnataka-soon-shivanna-1062294.html
18-12-2021||West||Gujarat: Elderly couple back from Zambia found infected with Omicron; tally now 7||Days after their return from Zambia in Africa, an elderly couple from Vadodara city of Gujarat has been found infected with the newly discovered Omicron strain of coronavirus, officials said on Friday. With the addition of these two fresh cases, Gujarat's Omicron tally has reached 7, of which three patients have been discharged from hospital. Notably, Omicron has been found in the couple despite the fact that Zambia is a "non-high risk" country, said Medical Officer of Health, Vadodara Municipal Corporation, Dr Devesh Patel. The couple, a 75-year-old man and his 67-year-old wife who resides in the Fatehpura area, had arrived in Vadodara from the east African country on December 7, he said. Though the duo did not have any symptoms of coronavirus, they went for an RT-PCR test on insistence of their relatives, said Patel. "Both of them were found positive for coronavirus on December 12. Though they came from a non-high risk country, we isolated them at their home as a precautionary measure and sent their samples to a Gandhinagar lab for genome sequencing," said Patel. On Friday night, Gujarat Biotechnology Research Centre (GBRC), Gandhinagar, informed the VMC that both were infected with the Omicron variant of Covid-19, the medical officer said. Patel added that tracing of their close contacts for testing was underway. At present, a businessman in Surat and a woman health worker in Mehsana, both infected with Omicron, are in quarantine. Three persons from Jamnagar, including a Zimbabwe-based NRI man and his wife, who were detected with Omicron after coming to the coastal city, have now been discharged from a hospital following recovery. Omicron, classified as a 'variant of concern' by the WHO, was first detected in southern Africa last month. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-elderly-couple-back-from-zambia-found-infected-with-omicron-tally-now-7-1062092.html
18-12-2021||West||Maharashtra: Drone used to transport Covid-19 vaccines in remote village as part of trial||The district administration of Palghar in Maharashtra carried out an experiment, in which it used a drone to deliver Covid-19 vaccine doses in a remote village situated in a rugged terrain, its top official said. The experiment, which was successfully carried out on Thursday, is probably the first of its kind in the state, district collector Dr Manik Gursal, who coordinated in the trial, said. "As part of the exercise, a batch of 300 vaccines was transported from Jawhar to Zaap village. The task, which would have otherwise taken more than 40 minutes, was completed in just a little over nine minutes. The vaccines were delivered at the local public health centre," the district administration said in a release issued on Friday. The distance between the two points is around 20 km, an official said. District health officer Dr Dayanand Suryavanshi said this could become possible with the help of private entities that came forward to help. "This will go a long way in the vaccination drive as the doses can now easily be sent to the doorsteps of those villagers, who find it difficult to reach the inoculation centres. To some extent, it will also help remove the misconceptions related to vaccination from the minds of people," he said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-drone-used-to-transport-covid-19-vaccines-in-remote-village-as-part-of-trial-1062138.html
18-12-2021||West||Sameer Wankhede’s term with NCB to end on December 31||Controversial and high-profile IRS officer Sameer Wankhede's term with the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) is set to end on December 31.  It is not yet clear whether the tenure would be extended or if he would be posted in another department.  Wankhede (42) is an officer of the 2008 batch of the Indian Revenue Service (IRS). In the past, he had worked with Customs and Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI). Following the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, he was brought to NCB as its Mumbai Zonal Director from the DRI on deputation to probe the drug angle in the case. It may be mentioned that NCP chief spokesperson and Maharashtra Minority Affairs Minister Nawab Malik had targeted Wankhede, alleging that he was born a Muslim but got his job in the Scheduled Castes quota by obtaining a bogus caste certificate. Wankhede also faces charges of corruption in the wake of the October 2-3 Cordelia cruise ship raid in which 20 persons were arrested, including Aryan Khan, son of Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sameer-wankhede-s-term-with-ncb-to-end-on-december-31-1062164.html
18-12-2021||West||Congress announces pre-poll alliance with Goa Forward Party||The Congress and the Goa Forward Party (GFP) on Saturday announced a pre-poll alliance for the upcoming state Assembly elections due in February next year. Notably, the GFP had earlier shared power with the BJP in Goa, but withdrew its support in July 2019 after its all three MLAs, including party president Vijai Sardesai, who was then deputy chief minister in the Pramod Sawant-led government, were dropped from the cabinet. Addressing a press conference here, All India Congress Committee (AICC) in-charge for Goa, Dinesh Gundu Rao, said the Congress and the GFP have entered into an alliance for the forthcoming elections in the coastal state. "After (GFP chief) Vijai Sardesai met our leader Rahul Gandhi in Delhi and expressed his support to the Congress saying that he wants to work with us to defeat the communal and corrupt BJP government in Goa and to bring about a change in Goa, we welcomed his move," Rao said. More interaction took place in Goa between the two parties, he said, adding, "We ironed out whatever small issues were there between us and we are looking for a new beginning." "Whatever happened in the past, has happened. In politics, there is always a scope for friendship, alliances, and we have mutual trust and confidence in each other," the Congress leader said. During the talks held so far, the issue of how to go about carrying out the poll campaign was also discussed, he added. "We will be going to the elections together and I expect that this alliance will drive more people towards joining the Congress. I am sure that in this election, the people have decided to reject the BJP as they want a stable government in the state," he added. Rao said that the details of seat sharing between the two parties would be announced later. Talking on the occasion, Sardesai said this alliance will liberate the state from the "autocratic" government. "The current government in Goa is in the politics of acquisitions and takeovers that is poisoning democracy and there is a need to start a new movement to re-liberate Goa from the corrupt, communal BJP," he said. There is a need for the like-minded people to come together, he said, adding, "What began at the residence of Rahul Gandhi has culminated here on an auspicious day." Sardesai said that the people of Goa are against the BJP, but elected representatives are joining that because of the "high-handedness of the central leadership of the party. "We are sure that political strategists who are of the view that any alternative to BJP cannot be done without a Congress as principal opposition party, he said adding that this is also the view of poll strategist Prashant Kishor. After the Assembly polls in 2017, the GFP, which had won three seats, had extended support for the formation of the then BJP-led state government under the leadership of Manohar Parrikar. But after Parrikar''s death in 2019, the alliance had soured and resulted in the Sardesai-led party withdrawing its support. In that election, the Congress had emerged as the single-largest party in Goa by winning 17 seats in the 40-member House, but could not come to power as the BJP, which bagged 13 seats, allied with some independents and regional parties to form the government.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/congress-announces-pre-poll-alliance-with-goa-forward-party-1062171.html
18-12-2021||West||New co-operative sector policy in offing: Amit Shah||Unveiling a comprehensive plan and roadmap, Union Minister for Home Affairs and Cooperation Amit Shah on Saturday announced that a new cooperative sector policy would be unveiled soon which would serve the needs of several decades ahead.  Shah said that the cooperative sector is very relevant in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision of ‘sabka-saath, sabka vikas’.  “However, to take it ahead we are working on comprehensive which would be announced soon,” Shah said addressing ‘Sahakar Parishad Sammelan’ at Loni in Ahmednagar district which was hosted by senior BJP leader Radhakrishna Vikhe-Patil, whose family has started the cooperative movement in India.  “We have to take along everybody and take the movement ahead,” he said.  Taking a dig at the Maha Vikas Aghadi - albeit without naming the alliance, he said, “Why is the state not able to address the issue of sugar mills…why they have to come to Delhi….let us work together and help the sector. Let us not look at political affiliation.” According to him, the state was issuing bank guarantees to sugar mills which are linked to people of other parties. This practice is not right. The state government needs to rise above politics,” he said, adding that he was not going to be a mute spectator.  “We must know and this needs to be told that 31 per cent of sugar comes from cooperative sugar mills, 20 per cent milk from milk cooperatives. Similarly, for wheat and rice, it is around 13 per cent and 30 per cent,” Shah said.  During this speech, he also highlighted the example of the Amul milk cooperative, Lijjat Papad and IFFCO, the fertiliser cooperative. “We need to free the cooperative movement of shortcomings. There was a time when district cooperative banks of Maharashtra were looked up to, but today there are only three left. How did scams involving crores of money happen? Did RBI do it? No RBI didn't do it," he added.  Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/new-co-operative-sector-policy-in-offing-amit-shah-1062178.html
18-12-2021||West||TMC offering prospective candidates Rs 10 to 20 crore to join party: Congress||The Trinamool Congress is offering prospective candidates between Rs 10 crore and Rs 20 crore to join the political outfit, AICC Goa desk in-charge Dinesh Gundu Rao said on Saturday. He also accused West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee of trying to weaken the Congress and helping the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party. "What has the party contributed to Goa. Today they are coming with crores and crores of rupees. People are being offered, come become a candidate we will give you Rs 10 crore or Rs 20 crore. Where is this money coming from and for what purpose are they doing it?" Rao told reporters in Panaji. "The agenda is very clearly indirectly, they want to help the BJP. There is no question of accepting the TMC alliance now because they are trying to break Congress, not BJP. That is their agenda, so how can we accept their alliance?" Rao also said. The All India Congress Committee official also said that Banerjee and her party was not carving out a mahagathbandhan against the BJP, but trying to break down anti-BJP parties. "She is breaking the mahagathbandhan. She is going around the country today trying to not fight the BJP. In the name of fighting the BJP she wants to weaken the Congress, destroy the Congress," Rao said. "She is poaching Congress party leaders, she is poaching anti-BJP leaders. Why is she not poaching BJP leaders," he added. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/tmc-offering-prospective-candidates-rs-10-to-20-crore-to-join-party-congress-1062189.html
18-12-2021||West||Couple, daughter test Omicron positive in Maharashtra upon return from Uganda||A couple and their 13-year-old daughter have tested positive for the Omicron variant of coronavirus after returning to Satara in western Maharashtra from Uganda, officials said on Saturday. Their other daughter, who is five years old, tested positive for Covid-19 but not for the variant. All four returned to Phaltan in Satara district from the African country on December 9, state health department officials said. Owing to the Omicron scare, district officials traced them and asked them to undergo RT-PCR tests. The husband (35), wife (33) and their elder daughter (13) tested positive for Covid-19 while the report of the younger child was inconclusive, so the samples of all four were sent to the National Institute of Virology for genome sequencing, said Civil Surgeon Dr Subhash Chavan. "We received the genome sequencing reports today. The couple and the elder daughter have been diagnosed with the Omicron variant, while the younger daughter has tested positive for Covid-19," a statement from the Satara district administration said. All four have been kept in isolation at a sub-district level hospital and their health is fine, the statement added. Maharashtra had reported 40 Omicron cases as of Friday evening. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/couple-daughter-test-omicron-positive-in-maharashtra-upon-return-from-uganda-1062232.html
18-12-2021||West||Maharashtra government reacts sharply to Shivaji statue desecration in Bengaluru||The Maharashtra government has reacted sharply to a viral video showing the desecration of a statue of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj in the capital of neighbouring Karnataka, with Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray urging the Centre to take cognisance of the issue. The Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government also reiterated its support to members of the Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti (MES). After the incident, there were protests in the state's bordering districts of Kolhapur and Sangli. Thackeray sought the intervention of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in stopping what he described as “Kannada atrocities" and "pervert mindset”. Thackeray said Modi should direct the Karnataka government to take action. He said the incident cannot be taken lightly. "For several years, the Marathi people in Karnataka have been facing atrocities and now the statue of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj is desecrated,” he said in a statement. Thackeray recalled a statement Prime Minister Modi made recently in Varanasi that whenever the country's culture was crushed, warrior kings like Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj have emerged. “Just a few days after the statement, this incident occurred,” he said. “People of the country will not forgive such an incident. Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj is revered across the country,” Deputy Chief Minister and NCP leader Ajit Pawar said. Pawar urged the Union and the Karnataka government to look into the issue seriously. “The accused must be brought to book immediately and it must be ensured that such an incident is not repeated,” he said. Two ministers — Food and  Civil Supplies Minister Chhagan Bhujbal of NCP and Urban Development Minister Eknath Shinde of Shiv Sena — who look after the issues involving Maharashtra-Karnataka boundary dispute, Revenue Minister Balasaheb Thorat of Congress and Home Minister Dilip Walse-Patil, among others, have condemned the incident. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-government-reacts-sharply-to-shivaji-statue-desecration-in-bengaluru-1062239.html
18-12-2021||West||BMC issues Covid-19 guidelines for Mumbaikars for Christmas||Mumbai civic chief IS Chahal on Saturday said ward-level squads will be formed to take action against Covid-19 protocol violators. Amid the scare from the new Omicron variant of coronavirus and the Christmas-New Year festival season around the corner, he said people in the metropolis must avoid crowding in hotels, restaurants, cinemas, malls and asserted that attendance caps in place for marriages and other functions will have to be adhered to strictly. While the attendance limit is 50 per cent of capacity for confined/closed spaces, it is 25 per cent of capacity in open places. Any gathering of over 1,000 people will require the prior permission of the Local Disaster Management Authority, the civic chief said. "Use a mask properly, get fully vaccinated. A new variant of the Covid-19 virus called Omicron is spreading rapidly around the world, putting a strain on the health system. Despite repeated appeals by the government and administration to prevent a probable third wave, it has been observed that guidelines are not being followed properly in most places, especially in wedding functions and other ceremonies," Chahal said. "Those violating Covid-19 rules will be dealt with severely by civic ward level teams as well as the police," the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation chief said, adding that the outbreak situation in the metropolis was under control at present due to the cooperation of citizens as well as the excellent management and speed of the vaccination drive. The spread of Omicron had once again forced several nations to impose lockdown and other prohibitory measures, and the Union and state governments were continuously asking people to be vigilant to prevent a similar situation in India, he said. In a veiled reference to Bollywood parties amid reports that some actors had contracted the virus, Chahal said celebrities and eminent personalities who have an influence on society, must act accordingly and be aware of issues. The BMC chief said guidelines issued by the Maharashtra government on November 27 as well as Mumbai police notifications warning of action against violators under the IPC and Epidemic Diseases Act must be followed strictly by people. "In the near future, the risk of Covid-19 virus spread may increase if ceremonies and functions are held on the occasion of Christmas and New Year. There is a need to curb the growing crowd at weddings and other ceremonies. Moreover, hotels, restaurants and other public establishments have also been found to be flouting Covid-19 norms," he said and asked all stakeholders to adhere to guidelines strictly. Chahal asked citizens to get both doses of the Covid-19 vaccine as quickly as possible, warning that action will be taken if staff functioning at public places or establishments as well as attendees at events, ceremonies are found to be not fully vaccinated as it is mandatory Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bmc-issues-covid-19-guidelines-for-mumbaikars-for-christmas-1062250.html
