19-12-2021||First Edit||Wrong to dip into RGUHS funds||Unmindful of the serious corruption charges being levelled against it from various quarters including contractors, the Karnataka government is now brazenly trying to usurp Rs 1,500 crore lying in the kitty of the Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences (RGUHS) under the guise of providing better healthcare facilities in the state.  Relying on a provision under the RGUHS Act that empowers the state to issue directions from time to time on the management of the university’s finances which shall be final, Health Minister K Sudhakar has written to the Medical Education Department to bring in an amendment in the ongoing winter session of the legislature in case of any impediment in utilising these funds by the government. The intent of the said provision is not to permit the government to have unbridled access to the University’s finances and divert them for purposes other than what they are meant for, but only to ensure better utilisation and management. The RGUHS was incorporated “for the purpose of ensuring proper and systematic instruction, teaching, training and research in modern medicine and Indian system of medicine”.  As such, the University is concerned with providing education and not with creating healthcare facilities in the state, which is the responsibility of the government.  Attempts to replace the Vice-chancellor with the Principal Secretary (Health and Family Welfare) as the Chairman of the Finance Committee speaks volumes of the government’s sinister design. While giving politicians a free run over the huge funds, this will also hit at the very root of the University’s autonomy. The University has mobilised its funds over the years through fees from students and affiliating colleges with no contribution from the government. Though the University was set up in 1996, it does not have a campus of its own. The amount that it has saved should be invested in setting up a permanent campus with world-class infrastructure, conducting medical research and improving the quality of education in general. The government should find its own means to strengthen the healthcare system instead of dipping into the University’s funds.  Governor Taawarchand Gehlot who is also the Chancellor of universities should intervene and counsel the government against going ahead with this misadventure which will only weaken RGUHS financially and defeat the very object for which it was set up. Considering that the University has been mired in various controversies including financial mismanagement in the past, there is nothing wrong with the government exercising oversight, but appropriating funds that rightfully belong to RGUHS is simply not acceptable.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/wrong-to-dip-into-rguhs-funds-1062629.html
19-12-2021||In Perspective||Council poll results, an alarm bell for BJP||The results of the elections to 25 seats of the Karnataka Legislative Council from 20 local authorities’ constituencies were announced on December 14. The BJP and the Congress had contested from 20 constituencies each and the Janata Dal(S) in 6. Both the BJP and the Congress have won 11 seats each. The JD(S) has managed victory in only two constituencies and one seat was captured by independent candidate Lakhan Jarkiholi. An analysis of the results from the perspective of the contending parties and their prospects for 2023 is in order. First, let us take the case of the ruling BJP. The chief minister had claimed that the party would win 14-15 seats and thereby secure a comfortable majority in the Council consisting of 75 members. However, the results have shown that the party has fallen short by one seat to reach the majority mark. Though the chief minister has publicly defended the party’s performance in the polls, pointing to the six additional seats won by it, he seems to be a worried man, going by the defeat in the prestigious Belagavi constituency. The debacle has exposed the party’s weakness in the constituency despite its member Ramesh Jarkiholi having a strong base there. It is an open secret that Ramesh Jarkiholi indirectly supported his younger brother Lakhan Jarkiholi, dissatisfied with the manner in which his resignation was extracted following his alleged involvement in a sex tape scandal a few months ago. The defeat of the party candidate and chief whip of the party Mahantesh Kavatagimath has embarrassed the party to a great extent. The electoral verdict has led to some members demanding action against Ramesh Jarkiholi, holding the Jarkiholi brothers (Balachandra and Ramesh) responsible for the defeat of the party candidate. But it is unlikely that the party leadership will initiate any action against him. It hopes that Ramesh Jarkiholi would persuade his younger brother Lakhan Jarkiholi to support the government in the Council when it comes to getting bills passed. Belagavi’s defeat notwithstanding, the party candidates have won with smaller margins in many other constituencies. The margin of victory in Kalaburgi was 149, in Uttara Kannada 183, in Chitradurga 358 and in Shivamogga 344. In Bengaluru, the margin of victory for the BJP was 397 votes against the millionaire Congress candidate Yusuf Sheriff. In Kodagu, where the party has a strong base, the victory margin was 102. The lowest was in Chikkamagaluru, where the party candidate managed to win with the lowest margin of just six votes. All in all, the poll results have come as a warning bell to the ruling BJP. It looks like Basavaraj Bommai is yet to establish himself as a strong pan-Karnataka leader and astute election strategist. As regards the Congress party, its candidates too won in 11 constituencies, though the party’s tally came down from 29 to 26. Former CM Siddaramaiah has declared that the voters are yearning for a change of government in 2023. The Congress’ performance was the result of a united campaign headed by party president D K Shivakumar and the leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Siddaramaiah. The selection of candidates, too, was done without any internal bickering. Eight of its 11 successful candidates are fresh faces. The party candidates won in Mandya, Kolar and Tumakuru, besides retaining Mysuru and Bengaluru Rural. KPCC working president Saleem Ahmed won by a big margin from the Dharwad dual constituency, giving the party a shot in the arm against the BJP. As for the JD(S), the tally came down from 13 to 11, as its candidates won only in two constituencies. Party patriarch Deve Gowda’s grandson Suraj Revanna registered a comfortable victory in Hassan. With the victory of Suraj Revanna, the family has four members in the state legislature, lending credence to the perception that the JD(S) is a family party. With the loss of its seats in Mandya, Kolar and Tumakuru, the party’s dominance in the Vokkaliga belt has declined. The much-speculated electoral alliance with the ruling BJP did not materialise. The party’s allegation that there was a secret understanding between the BJP and the Congress lacks credibility. With many senior leaders deserting the party in recent times and with no influence in northern Karnataka and coastal regions of the state, the party’s existential crisis seems to have deepened. The party is perceived to be led by electoral opportunism most of the time. The 2023 Assembly elections will witness a bipolar contest between the BJP and the Congress, with the JD(S) becoming a marginal player. It may, however, come to the fore if the verdict turns out to be in favour of a hung Assembly! (The writer is former Professor of Political Science, Bangalore University, and former Senior Fellow, ICSSR, New Delhi)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/council-poll-results-an-alarm-bell-for-bjp-1062631.html
19-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Dharwad tops Karnataka with maximum area-wise crop loss||Though Dharwad district does not have major rivers that cause serious flood situations (except streams like Bennihalla) and is also not a very big district geographically the district faced the most severe crop loss, in terms of the extent of area, in Karnataka due to heavy rains this year. The number of farmers growing rain-fed crops on black cotton soil is more in the district which lacks irrigation facility in the majority of the areas. Excess rains during the harvesting time of Kharif crops, and during the initial stage of Rabi crops are the causes for continuous and huge damage of crops in October and November. Crops on a whopping 1.55 lakh hectare of land in the district have been lost this year. Out of this, crop loss in 1.32 lakh hectare of land took place in October and November alone, as per the official figures. With regard to the maximum area affected (crop loss) due to heavy rains this year, Belagavi stands second after Dharwad, with crops damaged in 1.50 lakh hectare of land, while Tumakuru is in third position with crop loss in 1.30 lakh hectare of land. Crop loss due to October and November rains was less in Belagavi district, compared to the loss during the initial phase of the monsoon. However, total crop loss in Tumakuru took place in October and November itself. Loss value highest in Belagavi In total, the estimated value of crop loss this year is highest in Belagavi district with Rs 1,245 crore. House damage is also highest in Belagavi (11,912 houses), but infrastructure damage is maximum in Uttara Kananda district (worth Rs 829 crore). Heavy rains caused huge crop loss and other damages in other districts too across the State. These are according to the details compiled by the government, tabled by Revenue Minister R Ashoka in the Legislative Council, in reply to different questions on rain damages. Rs 11,000 crore crop loss in State For crop damage (more than 33% crop loss) on total of 12.54 lakh hectare of land in the State, loss has been estimated at Rs 11,041.79 crore, and the relief claimed is Rs 1,111.84 crore. According to the minister, the total loss due to rains in the State since July is Rs 18,293 crore, while Rs 2,124 crore financial help has been sought from the Union government as per SDRF/NDRF norms. The input subsidy being provided by the government (maximum two hectares per beneficiary) is less for loss of rain-fed crops than irrigated crops and multi-year crops. Why more loss? "Kharif crops came for harvesting in October, and rains damaged them. After Rabi crops were sown, November rains totally spoiled them in the initial stage itself. Thus, heavy rains in these two months damaged both Kharif and Rabi crops in Dharwad district," observed Dharwad-based University of Agricultural Sciences (UAS) Agromet Department head R H Patil. Except for green gram, other Kharif crops like soybean, onion, maize, and cotton were lost due to heavy rains during harvesting. Rabi crops like bengal gram also failed due to heavy moisture content due to rains in November, he noted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dharwad-tops-karnataka-with-maximum-area-wise-crop-loss-1062614.html
19-12-2021||Karnataka Politics||After Chimmanakatti’s rebuke, Siddaramaiah is back ‘in the hunt’||It is no secret that Siddaramaiah is a contender for the chief minister’s chair - his shot at a second term - if the Congress wins Karnataka in 2023.  But, where will he contest from? Such is the unenviable situation that Siddaramaiah, arguably the most popular Congress leader in the state, finds himself in with elections just a little over a year away.  Siddaramaiah currently represents Badami in Bagalkot district where he faces a possible revolt. Former Badami legislator B B Chimmanakatti, who vacated his seat to make way for Siddaramaiah, has publicly said the former chief minister is not welcome to re-contest. Chimmanakatti has his reasons: He said he vacated Badami in 2018 on the condition that he would be made an MLC, an unkept promise. The ex-MLA also said that he got reduced a “mouse” from the “tiger” that he was, all thanks to Siddaramaiah.  In 2018, Siddaramaiah was the incumbent CM when he chose to contest from two seats - Chamundeshwari and Badami. He vacated his Varuna seat for his son Dr Yathindra’s political debut. Party leaders frowned upon the double-contest move. But Siddaramaiah had little choice: the writing was on the wall that Chamundeshwari would be a difficult mountain to scale, which took him to a ‘safer’ Badami where votes of the Kuruba community, to which he and Chimmanakatti belong, are sizable. He lost badly in Chamundeshwari, while 1,696 was his victory margin in Badami. The defeat in Chamundeshwari, a segment he represented five times, was so humiliating that Siddaramaiah has said he will never contest there again.  Siddaramaiah had kept the Badami option open, but few know if that has changed after Chimmanakatti’s rebuke.   So, if it’s not Chamundeshwari and if Badami is looking tricky, what are Siddaramaiah’s options? Siddaramaiah has maintained that he will take a call on the constituency in the election year only. A Congress leader tells DH that more than Chimmanakatti’s opposition, Badami would be a bad choice because of the distance. “The constituency is too far away, which is why he is likely to look for something closer to Bengaluru.” Kolar, Tumakuru and Hunsur are viable options as they have significant minority and backward class votes, the leader says. The BJP will keenly follow Siddaramaiah’s decision. Breaking him is how the BJP wants to weaken his hold on the Ahinda - the Kannada acronym for minorities, backward classes and Dalits.  Siddaramaiah loyalists B Z Zameer Ahmed Khan (Chamarajpet) and Byrathi Suresh (Hebbal) have offered to vacate their seats for their leader. Both seats are seen as safe - Chamarajpet has minority votes whereas Hebbal has enough OBCs.  Changing political dynamics in the Old Mysuru region may give Siddaramaiah, a Mysuru-native, the way out.  Chamundeshwari MLA G T Devegowda, the giant killer who beat Siddaramaiah, is mellowing down. This keeps the Chamundeshwari option alive, Mysuru-based political analyst Muzaffar Assadi says. Gowda looks set to join the Congress, but he has already spelt out his premium: he wants Chamundeshwari for himself and Hunsur for his son. The Hunsur MLA is Siddaramaiah loyalist H P Manjunath. So, going to Hunsur will be seen as ousting another loyalist. And, finding a viable alternative other than Varuna for Yathindra, who has just begun his political career, is also a challenge.  “The other option is to contest from Varuna by finding an alternative for Yathindra. A third option is Shivajinagar or Chamarajpet, where there are significant Muslim votes,” Assadi opines. Ask former minister H C Mahadevappa, Siddaramaiah’s confidant, and he says: “Siddaramaiah can win from any constituency in the state.” Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/after-chimmanakatti-s-rebuke-siddaramaiah-is-back-in-the-hunt-1062335.html
19-12-2021||Karnataka Politics||Bommai failed to assert leadership, say Karnataka BJP leaders on Legislative Council poll results||Karnataka Legislative Council results throw major challenges to Chief Minister B S Bommai to establish his leadership within the party leaders, cadre and among masses. Sections in the Karnataka BJP believe that Bommai has failed to assert his leadership in the government, party and among the people. In the recent Karnataka Legislative Council the ruling BJP won 12 out of 25 seats and the opposition Congress won 11, JD(S) one and an independent. The BJP has doubled its tally from six to 12 in these 25 Karnataka Legislative Council seats on which polls were held, but shows that all is not well in the party after senior leader Mahantesh Kavatagimath lost in Belagavi, a region from where several state heavyweights belong. A senior party functionary said that the BJP is expecting few more seats and is confident of winning Mysuru, Tumkur and Belagavi seats, but were defeated due to lack of coordination, mismanagement and disconnect between the chief minister and the local leaders. Unimpressive performance in the MLC (Karnataka Legislative Council) polls have given ammunition to the rival camps, who have now started questioning Bommai's leadership and said even after months of becoming a chief minister he failed to assert himself either in the government or party as leader. Leaders in the Karnataka BJP blame Bommai for failing to establish himself as a leader in government and party. They say that is the biggest reason for the defeat of a couple of seats in the Legislative council polls. "Trusting Bommai, central leadership has been given a huge responsibility to him to lead the BJP government in the state by replacing B.S. Yediyurappa and the results show he has failed to fit in the shoes of the former chief minister," a senior party leader said. A Karnataka BJP MLA said that there is nothing to cheer about the results except that the party won 12 seats but also lost many seats. Another BJP Karnataka leader pointed out the lack of acceptance of Bommai as the Chief minister and his failure to take everyone together. Even former Chief Minister Yediyurappa had raised concern over losing Belagavi. He had said that losing Belagavi despite having a number of MLAs, MPs and other senior leaders from the district is a matter of concern. He suggested that defeat must be discussed and the party must introspect to find out the reason behind the defeat. A senior BJP functionary said that Mahantesh Kavatagimath's defeat from Belagavi exposed existing differences in the party and it also shows that the leadership failed to manage it despite having its knowledge. "We lost Belagavi, despite having many senior party leaders, including ministers in the state government from the district. Who is responsible for the defeat? Losing Belagavi sent a wrong message among cadres and people. If we had won Belagavi, it would have sent a positive message to everyone," a senior functionary said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bommai-failed-to-assert-leadership-say-karnataka-bjp-leaders-on-legislative-council-poll-results-1062393.html
19-12-2021||Karnataka Politics||He didn't descend from heaven: Eshwarappa slams Maharashtra CM's tweet on Belagavi violence||Slamming Maharashtra chief minister's tweet that Kannadigas were responsible for the violence in Belagavi, Rural Development & Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarppa said that Uddhav Thackeray had not descended from heaven and "must know the ground reality." Speaking to media persons here on Sunday, he demanded Congress in Karnataka to make its stand clear in this regard as the party was in power in Maharashtra through an alliance with the Shiv Sena. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/he-didnt-descend-from-heaven-eshwarappa-slams-maharashtra-cms-tweet-on-belagavi-violence-1062459.html
19-12-2021||National||DH Toon | WPI inflation at three-decade high||The most recent measure of inflation as per the wholesale price index (WPI) should be a worry for the government. In November, it stood at 14.2%. This means that wholesale prices rose by 14.2% in comparison to what they were in November 2020. This is the highest monthly inflation in the current WPI series, which starts from April 2012 onwards. The spliced WPI series published by the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy has data going as far back as April 1983. As per this series, the wholesale inflation in November is the highest seen since April 1992, when it was at 13.8%. So, WPI inflation last month was at a nearly three-decade high.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-wpi-inflation-at-three-decade-high-1062360.html
19-12-2021||National||PM Modi calls Army veteran after reading his social media post||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday reached out to former Northern Army Commander Lt Gen D S Hooda promising support after the veteran soldier drew the Prime Minister’s attention to the availability of a new anti-cancer drug through social media. The medicine – not yet available in India but approved by the US Food and Drug Administration – would have benefitted Sushma Hooda, a cancer patient and Lt Gen Hooda’s sister and many other patients. “Received a call from @PMOIndia (Prime Minister’s Office) and spoke with Prime Minister Narendra Modi who expressed concern over the case. Truly humbled and honoured on receiving his call and his words that the case would be looked into. Proud to be an Indian and even prouder of the PM’s personal intervention,” tweeted Lt Gen Hooda. The message led to widespread appreciation for PM Modi and his humane gesture on social media. Earlier in the day, the former Army Commander retweeted a message from his sister. “There is hope for us now as the USFDA has tested and approved as first-line treatment a new drug called Sacituzumab Govitecan (Trodelvy) in April 2021. Also, the European Medicine Agency has approved it for medical use in November 2021,” she wrote, requesting Modi to expedite the approval and purchase of the drug in the Indian market to grant a lease of life to her and several others who have exhausted all other options of treatment. Lt Gen Hooda retweeted his sister’s tweet tagging the Prime Minister’s office and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh. “I start this tweet by admitting that I have a personal interest. Sushma Hooda is my sister, a cancer patient of several years with dwindling hope. Keeping sentiments aside, approval of the new drug may give a fighting chance of survival to many like her.” One of the brains behind the Indian Army’s “surgical strike” across the Line of Control in September 2016, the General Officer retired on November 30 in the same year after a 40-year long service. In February 2019, in the run up to General election, he headed a task force set up by then Congress president Rahul Gandhi to prepare a vision paper on national security challenges. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-calls-army-veteran-after-reading-his-social-media-post-about-new-cancer-drug-1062365.html
19-12-2021||National||India reports 7,081 new Covid-19 cases, 264 deaths||India logged 7,081 new coronavirus infections, while the active cases declined to 83,913 according to the Union health ministry data updated on Sunday. The country also reported 7,469 recoveries in the past 24 hours. The death toll climbed to 4,77,422 with 264 more fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. India's Omicron Covid count rose to 126 on Saturday after Karnataka and Kerala reported six and four cases respectively, while three more persons in Maharashtra also tested positive for the variant. According to central and state officials, omicron cases have been detected in 11 states and union territories -- Maharashtra (43), Delhi (22), Rajasthan (17) and Karnataka (14), Telangana (8), Gujarat (7), Kerala (11), Andhra Pradesh (1), Chandigarh (1), Tamil Nadu (1) and West Bengal (1). India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. (With inputs from agencies) Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-7081-new-covid-19-cases-264-deaths-1062376.html
19-12-2021||National||Khaps oppose raising girls' age of marriage, to hold Panchayat soon||Khaps in western Uttar Pradesh has strongly opposed the Centre's decision to raise the eligibility age of women for marriage to 21 years. The Khap leaders have said that the decision will lead to an increase in crime against women. They also said that the government should not interfere in the personal lives of people. Naresh Tikait, BKU leader and head of Baliyan khap that has over one lakh followers in 78 villages of west Uttar Pradesh, said, "Parents should have the sole right to decide on when to marry off their daughters." He further said that a 'mahapanchayat' of all khaps will soon be convened to discuss the matter. "When a girl turns adult at 18, what is the harm in her marriage. At this age girls are also allowed to vote," he pointed out. Chaudhary Brijpal of Thamba khap said, "The decision will increase crime in society. Girls should be married off at the age of 16." The Thamba khap has over 50,000 members in Baghpat, Muzaffarnagar, Shamli and Kairana. It may be recalled that the Central government recently took the decision to raise the legal age of marriage for women from 18 to 21 years. The legal age of marriage for men is 21 years. With this decision, the government will be bringing the age of marriage for both men and women at par. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/khaps-oppose-raising-girls-age-of-marriage-to-hold-panchayat-soon-1062384.html
19-12-2021||National||How trans people in India came together to keep each other alive during Covid-19||By Sohini Chatterjee for The Conversation, Trans people in India without caste and class privileges have been rendered vulnerable during the pandemic. Harsh and stringent public health regulations put in place by the Indian government during the first phase of the pandemic resulted in loss of livelihood for trans people. It led to food and housing insecurity for daily wage earning trans people, sex workers and those engaged in begging and performing. In the wake of job loss, lockdowns and in the absence of equitable government-funded medical supports designed to meet trans people’s healthcare needs, many could not access hormone replacement therapy. On a panel, trans rights activist Ranchana Mudraboyina said: “Those who were transitioning did not get hormone therapy due to the lockdown. The few who were on monthly testosterone hormone therapy started having their menstruation again due to the lack of regular injections. Also, there have been suicide cases in our community due to the worsening of mental health during the pandemic.” Trans people have lost access to public spaces and places which has made it difficult for them to earn their living. Pandemic heightened the precarity Even as promises were made to render social security schemes available to trans people, the cisnormative bureaucratic structure presented barriers. Advocacy started early for financial aid. Sustained negotiations took place between trans people and government authorities. But many were denied aid without explanation. Trans people who lack government-issued identity documents and bank accounts under their chosen names and self-determined gender, who are not conversant in English or Hindi and who are not digitally literate — but were nonetheless required to fill out online forms — were precluded from receiving the limited government supports. In the absence of guaranteed financial aid, many trans women had to borrow money from private moneylenders at high interest rates, rendering themselves susceptible to debt-related violence. Suicide rates rose among trans people. This has become a necropolitical feature of the pandemic. Mutual aid as a resistance strategy Even as food and socio-economic insecurities started claiming lives, trans communities and community-based organisations have effectively organised to keep each other alive. Mutual aid has become a pronounced resistance strategy. Dalit trans activist Grace Banu, director and founder of Trans Rights Now Collective, has crowdfunded to support trans artists, performers, those living with HIV and sex workers in rural Tamil Nadu. Community aid facilitated by Banu bridged social service gaps. She demonstrated through action that crises of equity cannot be solved through tokenistic gestures of inclusion. This is something the government often resorts to instead of providing robust horizontal affirmative action policies demanded by trans communities. And Banu wasn’t alone, many community organisations stepped in to provide survival supports. Throughout time, negotiations between trans activists and the government have ensured that life affirming supports are available. Trans people have subverted government-crafted assumptions of disposability associated with their lives through these efforts. For example, led by trans activist Santa Khurai, the All Manipur Nupi Maanbi Association worked to create two quarantine centres for migrant labouring trans people who were returning to the state of Manipur. Community work and advocacy leads to change. Trans community members and leaders told the government that many working class trans people did not have citizenship documents or bank accounts to access financial assistance, so the government had to create provisions for those without them. This challenged the government’s gate keeping policies, contested its unilateral developmentalist interventions during the pandemic and forced it to acknowledge the complex lived realities of trans people. Trans politics and the pandemic Even though trans people and communities have had to assume the responsibility of providing supports to community members in the name of mutual aid during the pandemic, this can also be read as resistance. Through their negotiations with the government, trans people have demonstrated their political wisdom, challenged universalised notions of welfare, protested against inaccessible relief measures, rallied for equity and built critical solidarity across marginalised communities. As they continue their fight to secure access to social safety nets as matters of equity, rights and justice, we need to pay attention. (The author is a PhD Candidate in Gender, Sexuality, and Women's Studies, Western University) Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/how-trans-people-in-india-came-together-to-keep-each-other-alive-during-covid-19-1062395.html
19-12-2021||National||65 years young: BJP leader Kailash Vijayvargiya does over 40 push-ups at a college event||A video of BJP National General Secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya doing over 40 push-ups has gone viral on social media. The leader's supporters and other Twitter users lauded the 65-year-old's strength, with some comparing him to a wrestler and lauding his calibre.  A Madhya Pradesh BJP leader shared the clip on Twitter. Vijayvargiya is seen doing push-ups on the stage as people around him cheer him on. The BJP leader was at RPL Maheshwari College in Indore, as chief guest for an event.  The crowd kept a tally of his push-ups and even encouraged him to go on.  Various people in the comments section lauded Vijayvargiya's ability, given his age. However, some took the liberty to point out that the BJP leader's push-ups were not up to the mark in areas of posture. A Twitter user wondered, "Is this a push-up... doesn't seem like it..." Reacting to the viral clip, former Jammu and Kashmir Chief Minister Omar Abdullah wrote, "Those are sorry excuses for push ups. Any self respecting trainer would have a lot to say about the form & the fact that each push up is hardly 1/4th of a real one. Trust BJP leaders to be cutting corners here also."   Besides, Vijayvargiya has also shown his interest in music. In August this year, he was seen jamming with Madhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan to some old Hindi songs in 'bhutta party.' He had also shared a video of the scene on Twitter.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/65-years-young-bjp-leader-kailash-vijayvargiya-does-over-40-push-ups-at-a-college-event-1062428.html
19-12-2021||National||Parliamentary panel seeks CBI’s view on need for new law to define its mandate, vest more powers||A parliamentary panel has sought views of the Central Bureau of Investigation on the need to amend existing laws or bring out a new legislation in order to clearly define its mandate and vest more power to it. Highlighting over 1,000 vacant posts in the federal probe agency, it asked the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to prepare a roadmap as to how and by when it plans to fill up such a large number of vacancies. In a report, the panel also hoped that the government provides adequate funds to the Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) for strengthening surveillance capabilities and for setting up a centralised surveillance database. Agreeing with CBI’s view that withdrawal of general consent by states impedes its investigation, the panel in its earlier report had recommended to the government to assess if there is a need to amend the existing laws or bring out a new law altogether in order to clearly define the mandate of CBI and vest more powers in it. It was informed that state governments have withdrawn general consent under section 6 of the Delhi Special Police Establishment (DSPE) Act to CBI for conducting investigation in the state (not being a Union Territory or railway area) and they are now giving the requisite consent case by case basis. “The committee is concerned to note that CBI has not submitted its views as to whether there is a need to amend the existing laws or bring out a new legislation altogether in order to clearly define the mandate of CBI and vest more powers in it. The committee would like CBI to state its opinion regarding the same,” said the report tabled in parliament on December 10. The assertion was made by the Department-related Parliamentary Standing Committee on Personnel, Public Grievances, Law and Justice, headed by BJP leader Sushil Kumar Modi, in its report titled 'Action taken on one-hundred sixth report of the Committee on demands for grants (2021-22) pertaining to the Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions'. The panel, had in its earlier report, said that the CBI was in grave need of cadre restructuring and recommended to the government to undertake it at the earliest. In its action taken report, the personnel ministry informed that approved cadre strength of CBI in all ranks is 7,273 and the strength of this bureau has been increased at various occasions, but overall re-structuring in a holistic manner has never taken place. “With regard to increase in manpower in CBI is concerned, it is mentioned that a proposal for cadre review/restructuring of CBI is already under consideration in consultation with CBI for creation of 734 additional posts in different ranks,” it said. It stated that departmental CBI officers play a very important role in investigations, but at the same time, officers on deputation from states/central police organisations/central armed police forces/banks, among others, at various levels bring fresh and new ideas based on their experience in different fields. The ministry pointed out that the deputation reserve has been reduced at various levels. “In case, only direct recruitment quota is prescribed for various technical posts of CBI, it will affect career progression of staff due to limited number of posts available in hierarchy,” the report said. To which, the panel observed that the CBI has apprised it that there are as many as 822 vacancies in executive ranks, 88 vacancies for law officer, 97 vacancies for technical officer, as on January 31, 2021. “The committee recommends CBI to prepare a roadmap as to how and by when it plans to fill up such a large number of vacancies. The Committee also hopes that cadre restructuring exercise is initiated soon,” the report said. Referring to its earlier report, the panel had recommended the Personnel Ministry to provide adequate funds to CVC for strengthening surveillance capabilities and for setting up a centralized surveillance database as it believed that increased surveillance would lead to better vigilance. The ministry said additional requirement of funds, if any, to cater to the needs of CVC, will be taken up with the Finance Ministry at the supplementary/ revised estimates 2021-22 stage. “The committee notes the reply of the ministry and hopes that adequate funds should be provided to CVC for strengthening surveillance capabilities and for setting up a centralised surveillance database,” the report added. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parliamentary-panel-seeks-cbi-s-view-on-need-for-new-law-to-define-its-mandate-vest-more-powers-1062433.html
19-12-2021||National||Sacrilege case: Punjab government forms SIT; to submit report within 2 days||A special investigation team (SIT) has been set up to probe an alleged desecration attempt at the Golden Temple in Amritsar even as police are trying to ascertain the identity of the man, who was beaten to death after the incident. Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa held a meeting in Amritsar with the deputy commissioner, the police commissioner, the inspector general of police (border range), the Amritsar Rural SSP and other officials after the incident. He said an SIT has been constituted under the deputy commissioner of police (law and order), which would submit its report in two days. The accused spent a few hours at the "Parikarma" of the holiest shrine of Sikhs, Randhawa said, adding that he was "here with an aim". A case was registered against the unidentified man late on Saturday night under IPC sections 295A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs) and 307 (attempt to murder), Amritsar Police Commissioner Sukchain Singh Gill said on Sunday. He said footage obtained from all the cameras at the Golden Temple is being examined to collect information about the accused. The footage shows that the man entered the Golden Temple around 11 am on Saturday and slept for a few hours in front of the Akal Takht, the supreme temporal seat of the Sikhs, the police commissioner said. The incident occurred after 6 pm and he had spent several hours in the Golden Temple before committing the crime, he added. The man jumped across the railings inside the sanctum sanctorum of the Golen Temple, picked up the ceremonial sword and reached near a place where a Sikh priest was reciting the holy Guru Granth Sahib. He was caught by Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) task force members. When he was being taken to the SGPC office, the angry "sangat" (congregation) thrashed him badly, which subsequently led to his death. Randhawa said he spoke to the SGPC president and the Akal Takht Jathedar after the incident. He said the man was yet to be identified. "No mobile phone, no purse, no identity card or Aadhaar card was found from him. It has been established that he entered (the Golden Temple complex) around 11 am and remained there for a few hours until the incident," the deputy chief minister said. CCTV footage from all the nearby as well as other areas of the city is being scanned to ascertain from where he came to Amritsar and from which location he reached the Golden Temple, Randhawa, who also holds the home portfolio, said. Gill said the "first focus" is to establish the identity of the accused and police are also trying to ascertain from the CCTV footage whether anyone was accompanying him. "We are scanning the CCTV footage to see which route he took to reach the Golden Temple," he said, adding that photographs of the man have been widely circulated so that he is identified at the earliest. The police commissioner said the post-mortem examination of the deceased is being carried out and a viscera examination will also be conducted to check if he had consumed any intoxicant. Randhawa said it is a matter of great sorrow that such an incident took place at the Harmandar Sahib, from where the message of universal communion is conveyed to the mankind. He said while speaking to SGPC officials, it has been suggested that the SGPC task force should also form its own intelligence wing. Replying to a question, the deputy chief minister said it was a very unfortunate incident and the police will get to the bottom of it. He added that help was also being taken from the SGPC for a thorough probe. Randhawa said the Punjab Police, in association with the SGPC, will ensure that all the gurdwaras in the state have CCTV cameras, which should be fully operational. Replying to a question, he said inimical forces have always tried to disturb Punjab's peaceful atmosphere, but Punjabis have defeated their nefarious designs. The deputy chief minister reiterated that Punjabis will tackle such attempts with communal harmony. He said peace and harmony in the state would be maintained at all costs. Randhawa also issued directions to the director-general of police (DGP), all the police commissioners and senior superintendents of police (SSPs) to ensure round-the-clock security around all the gurdwaras, temples, mosques, churches and other religious places in the state. To another query, Randhawa pitched for severe punishment for acts of sacrilege and said the Punjab Assembly had passed bills in 2018, proposing amendments to the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) to make desecration of religious texts punishable with life imprisonment. Earlier, several political leaders condemned the alleged sacrilege attempt at the Golden Temple. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sacrilege-case-punjab-government-forms-sit-to-submit-report-within-2-days-1062458.html
19-12-2021||National||No new engineering colleges to open in India till 2024||India will see no new engineering college till 2024, All India Council For Technical Education (AICTE) chairman Anil Dattatraya Sahasrabudhe has said. For its teacher's training programme, AICTE's name has been registered in the Guinness Book of World records, making it the first such organisation in the country which has found a place in the Guinness Book of World Records for the second time in a row. Dr Sahasrabudhe shared some vital inputs during an interview with IANS. Excerpts from Interview: Q: When will new engineering colleges open in the country? A: At present, no new engineering colleges are required. So, no new engineering colleges will be opened till 2024. The expert committee in its interim recommendation has suggested that no new engineering colleges should be opened for two years. Actually, there is no need to open colleges... And the committee has recommended this only. Q: Why are no new engineering colleges required? What is the status of existing colleges? A: To date, more than 50 per cent of seats in the colleges are lying vacant, which means that resources are not being fully utilised. That is why investing in new engineering colleges is not right. In view of the current situation, it can be said that, of the existing colleges, only half of them are required. Even if the existing engineering colleges are reduced to half, students will get admission. Q: What is the problem when more seats are available? A: Having more seats than required means that the revenue which is generated with the students' fees will be less. It will also impact the resources of the institution, which affects the appointment of faculty. With less revenue, faculty having fewer capabilities will have to be appointed so that they can work for a low salary and it will finally impact the standard of education... Taking note of all this, the expert committee has advised not to open new engineering colleges till 2024. However, there can be exceptions to this, which has to be seen. Q: As per the new education policy, there is a provision for providing technical education right from the school level, what is AICTE doing in that regard? A: We are providing vocational education to children right from Class 6. It will be implemented on a wide scale. Curriculum for it has been made and teachers are being provided training. Under this, in the school itself, students will be taught ambitious courses like Artificial Intelligence along with computers. Along with this, training will be imparted for skills in Agriculture, forest, water, handwork, among others. Q: AICTE's name has been registered in the Guinness Book of World Records for what sort of efforts? A: AICTE's name has been registered in the Guinness Book of World records for our teacher' training programme -- Atal Academy. Faculty members employed in it continuously work to enhance the skills of teachers. During Atal training, teachers have to study, prepare assignments and pass with flying colours, post which they are provided with the certificate. During the corona period also, over 1.5 lakh teachers were trained within one year and that is the reason our name was registered in the Guinness book of world records. Q: What are the steps being taken to firmly implement the New Education Policy (NEP) in the country? A: The NEP is being implemented on many levels. The implementation of the policy is being continuously and vigorously monitored like various universities have been asked to implement choice-based credit. Universities have been asked to pass the policy in their academic council meeting. Very soon, the policy will be implemented in all universities across the country, under which the children will have the freedom to study subjects of his/her choice. If a student of an engineering college has an interest in music, then the college will arrange a music teacher to impart training to them... This is the choice-based credit system. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-new-engineering-colleges-to-open-in-india-till-2024-1062460.html
19-12-2021||National||Scientific investigations will speed up delivery of justice, says Shah||Scientific investigations would speed up the justice delivery mechanism in India, Union Home Minister Amit Shah said, stressing the need to multiply forensic science laboratories to enhance the conviction rate.  “By making investigation transparent and swift on the basis of scientific evidence in serious criminal cases, the CFSL [Central Forensic Science Laboratory] is playing an important role in empowering the criminal justice system of the entire country,” Shah said after inaugurating a new building at the Pune CFSL campus. “We are working to improve the conviction rate. Through information technology, we would connect the FSLs with the courts. As soon as the forensic report is available it would be sent to the court with a copy to the police station and the state governments or parent agencies…this would make investigations and justice delivery faster,” Shah said.  "On the basis of scientific evidence, the judicial investigation has been made transparent,” he said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/scientific-investigations-will-speed-up-delivery-of-justice-says-shah-1062463.html
19-12-2021||National||Covishield may not be an effective booster: Virologist Shahid Jameel||As several countries mull closures and are ramping up drives for booster shots of the coronavirus vaccine after a massive surge in daily cases, India's top virologist Shahid Jameel has warned that there is "no doubt" India will witness an uptick in fresh cases and that the country will need to look at more options for booster doses.  Jameel, an eminent virologist and fellow, Green Templeton College, University of Oxford had quit as head of Indian SARS-COV-2 Genomics Consortia (INSACOG) in May this year. He explained to the publication that the nature of the Covishield vaccine doesn't make it an ideal candidate for a booster shot. This puts focus on Covaxin, produced by Bharath Biotech, which will need to significantly ramp up production if it is to be used as a booster. "This vaccine is made using a whole chimp virus with a few genes deleted and the spike gene of Covid virus inserted in it. So this virus, besides making the Covid virus protein, it makes several of its own proteins. The immune system looks at any foreign protein to be the same so it will raise antibodies and T-cells to both the Covid protein as well as to the chimp virus proteins. Since the chimp virus proteins are many more in number compared to just one spike protein, as you give more and more of it, preferential boosting will happen of the chimp virus proteins and that's not what you want. What you want is spike responses. That's why we'll have to look at other options," he said. "India has given 90 per cent doses of Covishield. A third dose of Covishield is not going to boost antibodies very much so Covaxin could be used as a booster to those who got Covishield," he said.  Noting that protein vaccines work well as boosters for those who receive Covishield, he suggests other vaccines that may also make , "One is from Novavax, Covovax, made by Serum Institute of India and the other from Dynavax Technologies, being made by Biologicals E, called Corbevax." Earlier in the week, Covovax was approved by WHO for emergency use and Jameel said it would be "ideal" for a booster shot. He also said that insisting on domestic data on vaccines and booster doses when there is no infrastructure for that may push the entire process of roll out by six to eight months. "This variant is not going to give us that much time," he said.  India has fully vaccinated just about 38 per cent of the population and studies have shown that vaccine effectiveness in protecting symptomatic infection goes down over time. With the spread of the new variant of Covid-19, Omicron, there are renewed concerns about a surge in cases which may result in increased pressure on the healthcare system in India.  "Even now, I think there will be many more cases of Omicron that are not on the radar right now. This number will definitely increase quite dramatically," Jameel said.  These developments make a pressing case for rolling out booster shots in the country. Jameel called for a booster policy, which will entail procedures on which vaccine, how many doses of it, among other things. However, reports from other parts of the world have observed that Omicron infections are not resulting in severe diseases, at least so far. But the top virologist believes that since India is home to a large population of immuno-compromised people, Omicron is still a worry. "But as far as disease is concerned, viruses tend to behave differently in different populations and in different subsets," he said, agreeing that they should also be first in line for a booster shot when it is available.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covishield-may-not-be-an-effective-booster-virologist-shahid-jameel-1062466.html
19-12-2021||National||Study disasters in other countries to make NDRF the best force: Amit Shah||To make the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) more effective, Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday asked the top brass of the force to study the disasters abroad and take notes from their response.  “The NDRF is doing a great job... whenever there is a disaster and people see the teams in orange dress they feel relief... such is the confidence that the people have in this force,” Shah said addressing a gathering of its officers and jawans at Pune.  “Today, I can proudly say that a total of 16 battalions of NDRF are working in the country. Whether it is floods, earthquake, cyclone, landslide, building collapse, lightning strikes….the NDRF is there,” he said.  Shah asked NDRF Director General Atul Karwal to study the incidents of disasters abroad and look at their response. “We would be able to learn a lot from it and incorporate what is necessary,” he said, adding that NDRF has won accolades at the international level.  He also said that the NDRF in times of crisis has to work with State Disaster Resource Forces. “The NDRF has to work with SDRFs... we must also train them accordingly and enhance joint manship,” he said, adding that training and practice would make us perfect. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/study-disasters-in-other-countries-to-make-ndrf-the-best-force-amit-shah-1062468.html
19-12-2021||National||Call for balancing Covid safety, academics amid fears of 3rd wave||With the threat of a third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic looming over the country and amid fears that children may be affected the most this time, doctors have called for balancing safety and academics. Since education in a classroom setting is crucial for emotional growth of children, the doctors have warned that if children continue to be kept away from in-person classes, this could lead to the next pandemic of obesity, oppositional defiant disorder, neurodevelopment issues, autism and ADHD. While the aged sections of the global population were worst affected in the early days of this pandemic, it is speculated that the young might get infected in the coming days. Few educational institutions are seeing Covid positive cases among students but they have not become hotspots for spreading the infection. The World Health Organization (WHO) has also stated all over the world no educational institution has been found to be a hotspot for Covid infection. An important thing in favour of kids is that most of them are asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic and do not have long term impact as in the case of adults. Doctors from across various healthcare institutions believe, while it is a fact that Covid-19 is likely to wash through the populations, especially those section which are not vaccinated against it, children cannot be kept away from academics and other social factors which ensure their emotional growth along with intellectual progress they would make through learning at a classroom or among the peer groups. "For more than a year, children were kept away from full-time academics, and without they returning to the regular routine of attending to physical classes and interacting with peers, children might experience a certain void in their lives. It is highly critical young children spend quality time among peers, which will ensure they develop social skills, and experience an emotional growth. While safety is topmost priority, equally important is intellectual development of a child, and that cannot be attained by restricting children to their cocoons," said Dr Parag Shankarrao Dekate, Director of Paediatrics; Head of Paediatric Intensive Care Unit, KIMS Hospitals. "Children with health conditions such as obesity, diabetes, and asthma, might be at higher risk of serious illness with Covid-19 infection. Even those children who have congenital heart disease, genetic conditions or conditions affecting the nervous system or metabolism also might be at higher risk of serious illness due to this virus. Ensuring such children are protected more until the world passes through the risk of this pandemic is very important," said Dr Srinivas Chary, Consultant Physician, Aware Gleneagles Global Hospital. Commenting on the risks of the virus among younger population, Dr Prayaga Jyothsna, Consultant Paediatrician, SLG Hospitals said that like their parents or grandparents, children too can fall ill due to Covid-19 infection, and there are a greater number of cases being reported daily now. "Advent of the Omicron variant of novel coronavirus might only worsen the situation further for our population. However, it is noticed that younger generations, especially those who still attend schools and colleges, do not become as sick as adults. Many children might not show any severe symptoms of Covid-19, and this can be attributed to high immunity the former have," said Dr Jyothsna. There are other respiratory viruses like Rhinovirus, adenovirus, influenza, parainfluenza, Respiratory syncytial virus that are endemic and spread in community as common cold and most of children also get affected by this, but they do come out of this within few days, without many complications. Parents and school managements must ensure all safety protocols are followed if at all they are holding physical classes for school and college going wards. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/call-for-balancing-covid-safety-academics-amid-fears-of-3rd-wave-1062473.html
19-12-2021||National||Kerala turning into an unlawful state under Vijayan: Nadda||Condemning the murder of Kerala state secretary of OBC Morcha, Renjith Sreenivasan, BJP chief J.P. Nadda on Sunday said that Kerala is turning into an unlawful state under Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. Nadda also said that such cowardly acts cannot be tolerated. On Sunday morning, a popular BJP leader Sreenivasan, was killed after attackers barged into his residence at Alappuzha. His wife and mother were at present at the time of the killing of the advocate. In a tweet, Nadda said, "The brutal murder of OBC Morcha State Secretary Advocate Renjith Sreenivasan by 'fundamentalist elements' is condemnable. Such cowardly acts cannot be tolerated. Kerala is turning into an unlawful state under Chief Minister Vijayan Pinarayi. They can't scare us with their cruelty." Ranjith, a practising advocate at Alappuzha bar, was the BJP candidate at Alappuzha Assembly constituency. In-charge of BJP's national information and technology department, Amit Malviya alleged that Sreenivasan was hacked to death by the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) cadre in Alappuzha. "BJP Kerala's OBC Morcha state secretary Renjith Srinivasan hacked to death by SDPI cadre in Alappuzha this morning. Along with West Bengal, Kerala has become a minefield of political murders. The Kerala CM just like Mamata Banerjee turns a blind eye to such ghastly killings," tweeted Malviya, also BJP co-incharge of West Bengal. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kerala-turning-into-an-unlawful-state-under-vijayan-nadda-1062494.html
19-12-2021||National||Power CPSEs register 45% growth in capex investment||Central public sector enterprises (CPSEs) have registered 45 per cent growth in investment on capital expenditure over the previous year, the power ministry has said. For FY2021-22, the capital expenditure (capex) target of the CPSEs, under the Ministry of Power, is Rs 50,690.52 crore, a power ministry statement said. Power sector CPSEs incurred a capex of Rs 22,127 crore till November 2020, which was 49.3 per cent of the total expenditure for the fiscal. However, it stated that during 2021-22, the CPSEs have so far invested capex of Rs 32,137 crore, which is 63.4 per cent of the annual capex target. Thus, the capex performance of the ministry in absolute as well as relative terms is better compared to the previous year. In absolute terms, it has shown a growth of 45 per cent over last year's performance, it stated. Even in the schemes for infrastructure development, the ministry has been making good progress. It has spent Rs 1,593.72 crore in IPDS, Rs 1,007.51 crore in DDUGJY and Rs 890 crore in transmission development schemes for North Eastern region. Hence besides the expenditure of Rs 32,137.37 crore by CPSEs, an additional amount of Rs 3,491.23 crore has been invested in infrastructure through development schemes of the ministry, it added. In all, till end of November, the power ministry has invested Rs 35,628.6 crore in infrastructure development, it stated. The progress of the schemes and projects is being monitored on a weekly basis by Secretary, Ministry of Power. Through regular monitoring and coordination with other ministries and state governments, the power ministry is making rapid strides in infrastructure development, it stated. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/power-cpses-register-45-growth-in-capex-investment-1062501.html
19-12-2021||National||As Omicron spreads, India may need to adopt a hybrid model of testing||A hybrid model of testing, involving a combination of available testing methods, can increase the number of people tested for coronavirus and also sharpen the accuracy by administering selective tests based on symptoms, according to a study. It compared the mixing of RAT and RT-PCR tests with three other methods – Baseline, 70 per cent RT-PCR and improved RAT+RT-PCR. While baseline looks at administering an RT-PCR test to 25 per cent of all suspects and a fifth of symptomatic RAT-negatives, the 70 per cent RT-PCR method involves administering an RT-PCR test to 7 out of 10 people, while offering the remaining three a RAT test. Improved RAT+RT-PCR involves offering an RAT test with higher sensitivity. Data showed that six times as many people can be tested using a hybrid method as compared to a baseline. Similarly, while it may have the lowest sensitivity among all four methods, over five times as many people can be tested combining RAT and RT-PCR tests. RAT tests also cost lower than RT-PCR. "In a hotspot, RATs help you eliminate those who don't have the virus and quickly detect those who do," Gautam Menon, a professor of physics and biology at Ashoka University told the publication. The publication quoted a study that found it was "cheaper, faster and effective if all Covid-19 suspects were first given the RAT test and only those who were symptomatic and still tested negative on the RAT were given the RT-PCR." Should a third wave arise, RATs, which have a lower or faster turnover time of just 30 minutes — as opposed to a range of three to six hours for an RT-PCR test — will help in quicker detection of cases. There are numerous advantages to deploying a hybrid system, the study shows. Despite its lower sensitivity (how likely it is to pick up a positive sample), the government may be able to control a possible third wave by combining RAT tests with RT-PCR. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/as-omicron-spreads-india-may-need-to-adopt-a-hybrid-model-of-testing-1062502.html
19-12-2021||National||PM Narendra Modi links Sardar Patel's early demise to delay in Goa's Liberation||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday linked the early demise of Union Home Minister Vallabhbhai Patel to the delay in the liberation of Goa from Portuguese rule, even as he underscored the strong bond between India and Goa, even as both regions were controlled by different regimes through history. "Goa had been conquered by the Portuguese at a time when the Moghul empire ruled another part of the country. Since then the country has witnessed so many political storms. How many times did power change hands? But despite the passage of time and changes in power, Goa did not forget Indian nor did India forget its Goa. It is a relationship which has become stronger with time," Modi said in his speech in Goa on Sunday on the occasion of the 60th anniversary of the state’s Liberation from Portuguese rule on December 19, 1961. The Prime Minister also said that despite the historical trials and tribulations, India never forgot Goa and Goa never forgot India. Modi also saluted freedom fighters from across the country, who fought for Goa’s freedom till 1961, although India had gained independence in 1947. "The country became independent before Goa. Most people of India had got their rights. Now was the time for them to live their own dreams. They had options to pursue governance and power. They could have accepted honours and positions. But so many freedom fighters gave up on all this and continued to struggle and sacrifice themselves for Goa's freedom," the Prime Minister said. "The people of Goa also did not stop agitating for freedom and independence. They kept the flame of freedom burning bright for the longest period in India's history. This is because India is not just about political power, India is that thought, a family which protects human rights," he added. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-links-sardar-patels-early-demise-to-delay-in-goas-liberation-1062504.html
19-12-2021||National||Farm laws repeal historic, will still tell farmers about its benefits: Narendra Singh Tomar||Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Sunday said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi's decision to repeal farm laws was "historic" but BJP workers will still tell farmers about the benefits of the scrapped legislations. Addressing media persons after attending the BJP's Kisan Morcha meeting, Tomar said, "We have always worked for the betterment of farmers and spoken about their interest." On the impact of farmers' protests on the upcoming assembly polls, the Minister claimed: "There will be no major impact on the party across the country and even in five poll-bound states -- Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Manipur and Goa. The party will mark victory in these states." The assembly polls in these states are slated to be held in February-March next year. "The party workers will still tell farmers about the benefits of the agricultural laws," Tomar said. "The Modi-led government is working continuously for doubling farmers' income. The party is working towards the agricultural sector for which the government has increased the MSP 1.5 times the cost, released Rs 1 lakh crore for agricultural infrastructure, and provided Rs 16 lakh crore crop debt to farmers," Tomar added. Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farm-laws-repeal-historic-will-still-tell-farmers-about-its-benefits-narendra-singh-tomar-1062507.html
19-12-2021||National||Rajya Sabha productivity plunges to 37.60% during 3rd week of Winter Session||The productivity of Rajya Sabha hit a low of 37.60 percent during the third week of the ongoing Winter Session owing to disruptions and forced adjournments over the issue of suspension of 12 member of the House, officials said Sunday. The continued disruptions pulled down the cumulative functionality of the House for the first three weeks to 46.70 percent, the RS secretariat said. According to the data collected by the secretariat, the productivity of Rajya Sabha was 49.70 per cent and 52.50 per cent during the first and the second week, respectively. During the third week, of the total scheduled sitting time of 27 hours 11 minutes, the House could function only for 10 hours 14 minutes, losing 62.40 per cent of available time on account of disruptions and forced adjournments on the issue of suspension of 12 member of the House, the officials said. "During the third week, Question Hour which is meant for seeking the accountability of the Government has suffered the most with only four of the 75 listed Starred Questions orally answered by the concerned ministers," the RS secretariat said. Only 11.40 per cent of the time available for Question Hour was utilised during the week, while 62.70 per cent of the functional time has been spent on the government's legislative business. Three bills were passed and returned during the week after discussing for a total of 6 hours and 25 minutes in which 33 members participated. A Short Duration Discussion on the ‘situation arising out of the cases of Omicron variant of Covid-19' taken up during the week remained inconclusive. This discussion is listed for resumption Monday, the officials said. Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu had adjourned the House on Friday after 17 minutes of Zero Hour, urging the government and the Opposition parties to resolve the stalemate on the suspension issue. During the 15 sittings of the first three weeks of ongoing Winter Session, the House functioned for less than an hour per day for six sittings, according to official data. About 42 per cent of the functional time of the House has been spent on the government's legislative business passing a total of eight bills so far, while only about 18 per cent of the time has been spent on the Question Hour with only 56 of the 217 listed questions orally answered, said the secretariat. So far, 81 Zero Hour and 47 Special Mentions were made in the House during the three weeks of Winter Session. The Mediation Bill, 2021 seeking to promote resolution of disputes including commercial is listed for introduction on Monday in Rajya Sabha. The Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (Amendment) Bill, 2021 as passed by Lok Sabha has been listed for consideration and passing on Monday. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajya-sabha-productivity-plunges-to-3760-during-3rd-week-of-winter-session-1062521.html
19-12-2021||National||Put Indira Gandhi's contribution in right perspective: Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury writes to Om Birla||Congress leader in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury wrote to Speaker Om Birla on Sunday asking him to put the contribution of former prime minister Indira Gandhi during the Bangladesh liberation war in the right historical perspective. His letter came after the opposition party took umbrage at the presiding officers and the government skipping mention of Indira Gandhi during Thursday's Vijay Diwas celebrations. Referring to Birla's statement in the House on December 16 on the occasion of the 50th anniversary of the 1971 Bangladesh War of Independence, he reminded the Speaker that the Vijay Diwas was because of the bold and decisive decision of Indira Gandhi. "She had courage and conviction and it was under her leadership that our country fought shoulder to shoulder along with Mukti Vahini, inflicted a crushing defeat on Pakistan, and helped liberate Bangladesh," he said. Chowdhury also recalled how former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, despite being in the opposition, praised Indira Gandhi and described her as an avatar of 'Mata Durga' post the Bangladesh War of Independence of 1971. "India is an old civilisation but a young nation.  A dominant section of the population is young and they deserve to know the truth regarding the Indo-Pakistan War of 1971," he said. Chowdhury said he has received a volley of queries from people regarding the true facts about the liberation war as the Speaker in his message had mentioned about the courage and supreme sacrifice of our armed forces during the Bangladesh War of Independence. "The truth is that we fought as a nation irrespective of caste, creed, religion or political affiliations. The triumph was not of any individual or group or political party.  It was the victory of the nation. "We, the People of India, emerged victorious. Therefore, the credit of the Bangladesh War of Independence must be attributed to each and every individual of the country without any omission of those who played a crucial role," the Congress leader said. "Therefore, I shall urge you that in future with reference to any mention of the Bangladesh War of Independence of 1971, the great contribution of our Prime Minister late Smt.  Indira Gandhi may always be put in the right historical perspective," Chowdhury told the Speaker. The Congress party had criticised the government for not mentioning Indira Gandhi on Vijay Diwas celebrations. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/put-indira-gandhis-contribution-in-right-perspective-congress-leader-adhir-ranjan-chowdhury-writes-to-om-birla-1062526.html
19-12-2021||National||Will always be with you to fight injustice: Rahul Gandhi to media||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Sunday pledged his support to journalists whenever there is any injustice or violence against them. He talked about media freedom in a tweet where he shared reports about attacks on journalists in the country. "Sad! Many media colleagues only show the face of only one person, suppress the voice of the opposition and do not allow it to reach to the public. Did that person ever raise a voice for you?" Gandhi said. दुखद! कई मीडिया साथी सिर्फ़ एक व्यक्ति का चेहरा दिखाते हैं, विपक्ष की आवाज़ दबाते हैं- जनता तक नहीं पहुँचने देते। क्या उस व्यक्ति ने कभी आपके लिए आवाज़ उठायी? The Congress leader has been accusing the media of siding with the prime minister and the ruling BJP and of not giving space to the voice of the opposition. "Do whatever you feel is right, but if there will be injustice or violence against you, then I will always be with you in future, as I have been in the past," he said in a tweet in Hindi, using the hashtag "#PressFreedom".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/will-always-be-with-you-to-fight-injustice-rahul-gandhi-to-media-1062527.html
19-12-2021||National||CM Yogi defends I-T raids on Akhilesh Yadav's aides||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday defended the Income Tax raids on the offices and residences of several close aides of Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav in different parts of Uttar Pradesh even as Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi decried them. Addressing a public meeting at Mathura, Adityanath said that only a man with a 'guilty conscience' would fear the raids. '"Chor ki dhadhi mein tinka' (a man with a guilty conscience needs no accuser)," Adityanath said. "How can someone's wealth double in five years... it is possible only in the SP government," the chief minister added. Priyanka, however, decried the raids and accused the BJP government of misusing the central agencies to terrorise its opponents. "The Narendra Modi government is in the habit of using the central agencies to pressurise the opposition as the polls near,'' she said on Sunday. Akhilesh had also slammed the raids and termed them as reflective of BJP's 'fear' of losing the forthcoming assembly elections in the state. Those raided included senior SP leader and party spokesman Rajiv Rai, Akhilesh's personal secretary Jainendra Yadav and another SP leader Manoj Yadav. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cm-yogi-defends-i-t-raids-on-akhilesh-yadavs-aides-1062532.html
19-12-2021||National||India seeks cooperation with Central Asia to help Afghanistan||By Archana Chaudhary India seeks to work with Central Asian nations to help provide aid to Afghanistan and ensure a more representative government is in place there, India Foreign Minister Subrahmanyam Jaishankar said Sunday. “Our concerns and objectives in that country are similar,” Jaishankar told his counterparts from Tajikistan, Kazakhstan, Turkmenistan, Kyrgyz Republic and Uzbekistan at the India-Central Asia Dialog in New Delhi. “We must find ways of helping the people of Afghanistan.” The Indian minister listed the need for an inclusive government in Afghanistan, fighting terrorism and drug trafficking, providing unhindered humanitarian assistance and preserving the rights of women, children and minorities as priorities for the Asian neighbours. New Delhi has so far held only one formal meeting with the Taliban group since its takeover of Afghanistan earlier this year. The Indian government is concerned about how Taliban rule could impact security in the region, especially in India’s restive northern state of Jammu and Kashmir. New Delhi, which invested $3 billion (around Rs 228 crore) in Afghanistan, has been expanding its ties with energy-rich Central Asian nations. New Delhi has also backed regional infrastructure projects including the North-South corridor that includes highways and railways connecting Chabahar port in Iran with Russia to reduce the time of shipments between Europe and central Asian markets.  National security advisers of all the five Central Asian countries along with Iran and Russia last month attended regional talks on Afghanistan hosted by India. Of the central Asian nations, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan share borders with Afghanistan. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-seeks-cooperation-with-central-asia-to-help-afghanistan-1062537.html
19-12-2021||National||Govt committed to strengthening good governance: PM Modi on ‘prashasan gaon ki aur’ campaign||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has said the government is committed to strengthening good governance that is “pro-people” and guided by “citizen-first” approach. In his message for the good governance week that begins on Monday, he said the country is marching ahead rapidly to create a transparent system, efficient process and smooth governance to make development all-round and all-inclusive. The Department of Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances (DARPG), Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions in collaboration with the Ministry of External Affairs, Department of Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade, Department of Personnel and Training, Department of Pensions and Pensioners’ Welfare and Ministry of Panchayati Raj and Rural Development is celebrating good governance week from December 20-25 as part of the ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’ celebration. The theme of the good governance week is “prashasan gaon ki aur” under which, a campaign for redressal of public grievances and improving service delivery will be held in all districts, states, and Union Territories. Extending his best wishes for the success of “sushasan saptah” (good governance week), Modi in his message said, “In the amrit period of independence, we are marching ahead rapidly to create a transparent system, efficient process and smooth governance to make development all-round and all-inclusive”. “In this context, the theme of the week – ‘prashasan gaon ki aur’ assumes even greater relevance. Our government is committed to strengthening good governance that is pro-people and proactive governance, guided by the ‘citizen-first approach,” Modi said. Minister of State of Personnel Jitendra Singh will be the chief guest at the inaugural ceremony of the good governance week on Monday here, an official statement issued on Sunday said. The minister will inaugurate the exhibition on good governance practices, it said. Singh will also launch the good governance week portal and release the booklet on the two-year achievements of DARPG. A film on ‘prashasan gaon ki aur’ will be screened and the ‘Good Governance Index- an assessment of state of governance in states/Union Territories’ will be launched on the occasion, the statement issued by the personnel ministry said. Over 700 district collectors will be participating in the campaign and during the weeklong event, they will visit tehsil/panchayat samiti headquarters to provide timely grievance redressal and improve service delivery. Guidelines have been issued by the DARPG and the state governments on the activities that will be taken by the district collectors at the tehsil/panchayat samiti offices, the statement said. The objective is to translate the vision of the prime minister for next generation administrative reforms during the “amrit kaal” period across all districts and tehsils. The progress of the campaign will be monitored on www.pgportal.gov.in/ggw. Every district collector will be presenting one successful good governance practice of the district and one successfully redressed public grievance case on the portal. Video clips of district-wise good governance practices will also be created and documented, the statement said. The campaign during the good governance week will create a national movement for good governance and inspire future generations, it added. On December 21, the deliberation will be on the “good governance initiatives” by the Ministry of External Affairs, the statement said. The following day, deliberations will be held on “national workshop on next phase of reforms for reducing compliance burden and integrated and effective governance practices” by the DPIIT. While on December 23, the Department of Personnel and Training will organise a workshop on the theme -- “Mission Karmayogi - The Path Ahead”. On December 24, the DARPG will organise a workshop on “initiative for increasing efficiency in decision making in central secretariat” wherein the experiences will be shared by central ministries/departments. The “Good Governance Day” would be celebrated on December 25, it said. Union Home Minister and Minister of Co-operation Amit Shah and Jitendra Singh will grace the valedictory session of “Good Governance Day” on December 25 at the Vigyan Bhawan here, the statement said. Sanjay Singh, secretary, DARPG, Pankaj Kumar, chief secretary, Gujarat, Arun Kumar Mehta, chief secretary, Jammu and Kashmir, Devesh Chaturvedi, additional chief secretary, Uttar Pradesh and V Srinivas, special secretary, DARPG will address the inaugural session. All ministries/departments of the central government, all state governments and districts would take part in the event, it said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-committed-to-strengthening-good-governance-pm-modi-on-prashasan-gaon-ki-aur-campaign-1062538.html
19-12-2021||National||Mamata should not divide Oppn directly or indirectly: DMK's TR Baalu||Emphasising the need for unity among the Opposition parties to take on the "common enemy", the BJP, DMK leader TR Baalu has said TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee should not divide the Opposition directly or indirectly. Baalu, the leader of the DMK in the Lok Sabha, was among the selected leaders invited by Congress president Sonia Gandhi to her residence last week to discuss Opposition strategy in Parliament. He said he is hopeful that the Opposition unity will strengthen further and the parties may project a single candidate for the presidential polls next year. Terming the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) the "common enemy" for the Opposition, Baalu, in an interview to PTI, said, "Opposition leaders should meet more often to discuss issues related to national politics with mainly one single agenda -- to fight and defeat the BJP." Responding to a question on a leader who can unify the Opposition, he said it can be decided at an appropriate time and for the DMK, the call will be taken by its president, MK Stalin. "Congress president Sonia Gandhi, NCP chief Sharad Pawar and our very own MK Stalin can bring various Opposition parties to the table to discuss issues related to national politics," Baalu said. He also suggested that there should be a common stand of the Opposition parties in Parliament to take on the BJP-led NDA government. Asked about Banerjee's remarks that there is no UPA, Baalu said a division in the Opposition would only serve the purpose of the BJP. "Mamataji is a mature and wise politician. She enjoys the respect of fellow Opposition leaders. I would request her not to become a party to divide the Opposition directly or indirectly. Her attempts of going solo are not going to yield the desired results for her. Rather it may be of some help for the BJP, the common enemy of the Opposition," he said. Baalu's remarks came days after the West Bengal chief minister, in the presence of NCP leader Sharad Pawar, said there is no United Progressive Alliance (UPA), which is led by the Congress. Talking about the future course of action for bringing the Opposition parties together, the DMK leader said it is a process that requires efforts and time from everybody, but he is hopeful that the Opposition will emerge as more unified by the next presidential polls. "I am hopeful that by the presidential election next year, the unity in the Opposition camp will further strengthen and we may be able to project a single candidate supported by all the Opposition parties," he said. Baalu said it is the beginning of the "Stalin era" in Tamil Nadu and under the chief minister's leadership, the southern state will touch "new heights". On the DMK's arch rival, the AIADMK, he said with the emergence of Stalin, the principal opposition party in the state "will melt like thin ice". Baalu alleged that the BJP is not functioning in Parliament in accordance with the rules and procedures of the House. The DMK was part of the UPA-1 and UPA-2 governments at the Centre from 2004 to 2014. Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mamata-should-not-divide-oppn-directly-or-indirectly-dmks-tr-baalu-1062543.html
19-12-2021||National||'No reservation, no votes': BJP gets Nishad Party ultimatum ahead of Uttar Pradesh polls||Within days after union minister and senior BJP leader Amit Shah addressed the Nishad (boatmen, fishermen) community members as 'Ram Bhakts' at a joint rally in Lucknow, the Nishad Party, a key ally of the BJP in the forthcoming Assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh, made it clear that the saffron party could expect to get its support only if the government announced reservation in jobs for the community. Sanjay Nishad, the president of the Nishad Party, shot off a letter to UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath to 'resolve' the issue of reservation before the elections. "This issue (reservation) must be resolved immediately if the BJP wants to get the votes of the community," he said in the letter. He said that his community members had agreed to attend the joint rally, which was addressed by Amit Shah, as they had been promised that Shah would say something on the issue of reservation. "Amit Shah did not speak a word on reservation... our community members were very angry," he added. Sanjay Nishad said that even during the rally several Nshad community members waved their hands indicating that they would not vote for the saffron party until they were given reservation. "Even now many in our community want us to quit the alliance with BJP," he said. Though Shah heaped praise on the Nishad community and called them 'Ram Bhakts' and had also invoked 'Nishad Raj' (king), he refrained from speaking anything on the issue of reservation. There was a ruckus at the rally and several members of the Nishad community were seen smashing the chairs and raising anti-BJP slogans.  BJP leaders here remain tightlipped on the letter. "It is for the party's central leadership to take a call on the issue," a senior leader told DH. BJP has tied up with the Nishad Party, which claims to have support of the boatmen and fishermen community to counter its main rival Samajwadi Party's alliance with several caste-based outfits in the forthcoming state assembly polls. The Nishad community forms around four per cent of the total electorate in the state and is a deciding factor in 50 assembly constituencies.  NDA ally in Bihar, Vikassheel Insan Party founder Mukesh Sahni has declared that he will also put up his candidates on all Nishad dominated seats in the state. His entry could queer the pitch for the Nishad Party in UP as it was apprehended that the votes of the community would then be divided. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-reservation-no-votes-bjp-gets-nishad-party-ultimatum-ahead-of-uttar-pradesh-polls-1062544.html
19-12-2021||National||Yogi's 'inswingers' unplayable for opposition parties: Rajnath||Hitting out at rival political parties, Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Sunday claimed nobody will be able to face the "inswingers" and "outswingers" delivered by UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. Extending the cricket analogy, Singh called Adityanath an all rounder saying that the CM has been able to control crime in the state while also working for its development. Addressing a rally at the BJP's Jan Vishvas Rally, Singh said, "Chief Minister Yogi has done wonders. It is a two-alphabet name, which puts fear in the heart of criminals. Earlier, they used to come out brandishing country-made pistols after the Sunset, but nobody dares do so today." Praising Yogi - the name literally meaning a practitioner of Yoga --, the union minister said the CM is bringing development to the state with all the grace of yogic poses. He especially targeted the Samajwadi Party saying it will be made to do a “headstand” in the upcoming assembly election. “I have seen Yogi Adityanath working. He is an all-rounder. He can bat, and when he bowls, he uproots the stumps --- be it against the SP, BSP or the Congress. Nobody is able to face his inswingers and outswingers,” Singh said. He said even developed nations like the US, Russia, China and the UK were not as successful in tackling the Covid-19 pandemic as India has been. The Defence minister blamed Pakistan for terror incidents in Jammu and Kashmir. "Pakistan … is trying break the country, weaken it, and is sending terrorists from its soil, launching terror attacks in Jammu and Kashmir. We too have decided to give it a befitting reply and we are giving it,” he said. The minister also broached the subject of incursions in the bordering areas by China, without taking its name, and urged people to have faith in the country’s leadership. "There is another neighbouring country, I will not discuss much. But, as a Defence Minister, I urge you to have faith in us. We will not allow the country's head to bow down even if that means making a sacrifice. We should have faith in our Jawans." Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/yogis-inswingers-unplayable-for-opposition-parties-rajnath-1062546.html
19-12-2021||National||Congress always insulted Ambedkar in his lifetime and even after death: Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday alleged that Congress always humiliated B R Ambedkar, the architect of the Constitution, during his lifetime and even after his death. Speaking at an event, Shah said it was Prime Minister Narendra Modi who introduced Samvidhan Day. Shah visited the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) headquarters for laying the foundation stone for Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj's statue. He unveiled a statue of B R Ambedkar on the occasion. “Samvidhan (Constitution) gives equal rights to everybody. However, the Congress party didn't spare a single moment to humiliate Ambedkarji when he was alive and even after his death," Shah said. He said Ambedkar was conferred with Bharat Ratna, the highest civilian award in India, (posthumously) by a non-Congress government. "Five places related to Ambedkarji were converted into 'smriti sthal' only after BJP came to power at Centre and in various states," he said. In a veiled swipe at Congress, Shah alleged that Samvidhan Divas or Constitution Day had not been celebrated earlier out of fear that (the legacy of) Ambedkar would reach more people. "When Narendra Modiji became prime minister, the celebration of 'Samvidhan Divas' began. But whenever Modiji celebrates the Samvidhan Divas, Congress opposes. And now the same Congress party is talking about Babasaheb Ambedkar. I just want to say that BJP wants to bring forward Ambedkarji's contribution to the Constitution and good governance for independent India despite opposition from Congress, without any fear," he said. Constitution Day, also known as "National Law Day", is celebrated November 26 every year to commemorate the adoption of the Constitution of India. Shah said the Centre wants to acknowledge Ambedkar's efforts. "The prime minister is leading India by following Constitution as his 'granth' (book)," he added. The Union home minister also listed various development works set in motion by PM Modi. "The prime minister granted permission to expand the capacity of the Pune airport. He also laid the foundation stone for the Pune Metro which will be inaugurated soon. The Centre has launched the Mumbai-Pune vista dome (coach) which has become an attraction for tourists now. "The work for Rs 110 crore Mula-Mutha river project in Pune is going on. The PM also supported startups in Pune. The city has given many startups that are helping improve India's image," he added.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-always-insulted-ambedkar-in-his-lifetime-and-even-after-death-amit-shah-1062548.html
19-12-2021||National||Pope Francis told me invitation to visit India is 'the greatest gift': Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said that Pope Francis had said that his invitation to visit India is the "greatest gift" he had offered him, while stating that India was a shining beacon of unity in diversity to the world. Addressing a gathering in Goa on the occasion of the 60th anniversary of the state's Liberation on December 19, 1961, he said: "I was in Italy and Vatican City some time back. I got the opportunity to meet Pope Francis... I have invited him to India and I want to tell you what he said after my invitation. Pope Francis said, 'This is the greatest gift you have given me'. This is was his affection towards India's diversity and our vibrant democracy." The Prime Minister also said that the identity of India globally is that of a country which is in service of humanity and that the whole world acknowledges India's spirit of unity in diversity. Goa too, Modi, said was an example of how people of all communities and religions have lived together furthering the belief of 'Ek Bharat, Shreshtha Bharat'. "Goa is that place which has preserved the holy relics of Georgia's Queen Ketevan for centuries. Some months back, St Queen Ketevan's relics were handed over to the Georgian government. St Queen Ketevan's sacred relics were tracked to the St. Augustine Church in 2005," Modi said. The Georgian queen was martyred in Shiraz (in present day Iran) in 1624, after she refused to convert from Christianity to Islam. She was later canonised as a saint by the Georgian Orthodox Church. Her stoic defiance of religious persecution is believed to have inspired the followers of the Georgian Church even as they secretly carried the relics of their slain queen to Portuguese-held Goa for safe-keeping. "Friends, during the struggle for Goa's freedom, everyone fought together, struggled together against foreign rule. The Pintos revolt was led by the native Christians. This is the identity of India. Service of humanity. The whole world acknowledges India's spirit of unity in diversity," he also said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pope-francis-told-me-invitation-to-visit-india-is-the-greatest-gift-modi-1062555.html
19-12-2021||National||Need to introduce more practical courses to law students: CJI||Noting that law graduates in this country are only accustomed to considering legal problems in a theoretical manner, Chief Justice of India N V Ramana on Sunday stressed the need to introduce courses that are more practical. Speaking at the 18th Annual Convocation of Nalsar law University near here he cautioned the graduating students that the courtrooms are nothing like ones that are portrayed in movies or a moot court hall, rather they “will be cramped, dingy and the judge may not even have a fan”. "I observe that graduating students are accustomed to only considering legal problems in a theoretical manner. There is an urgent need to introduce courses which are more practical and allow students to interact with people and their issues at the grassroots level,” Justice Ramana said. He expressed disappointment over very few students, who graduate from National Law Schools, being interested in joining litigation or taking up public causes, let alone practice at the district level. “Further, it seems that there is a fascination to only practice before the Supreme Court and High Court while completely ignoring the importance of trial courts,” he said. Urging the law graduates to consider gaining experience at trial court level before moving on to practice at higher forums such as High Court and the Supreme Court, he said owing to the highest pendency before the trial courts, there is both a demand and the need for specialised lawyers. He appealed to the students not to fall prey to intoxicants and said they should disassociate themselves from substance abuse. “Your mental and physical health is in your hands. A vibrant nation is built upon the health and energy of its youth,” Justice Ramana pointed out. Law students, being the guardians of freedom, justice, equality and ethics, cannot allow narrow and partisan views to dominate the nation’s thought and they in the forefront to question injustice, he added. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/need-to-introduce-more-practical-courses-to-law-students-cji-1062570.html
19-12-2021||National||Hindus believe every person's DNA is unique: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday took a jibe on RSS Chief Mohan Bhagwat over his DNA comments. Rahul Gandhi said, "Hindutvawadis believe that all Indians have the same DNA, but Hindus believe that every person's DNA is unique." Mohan Bhagwat had said that DNA of Indians was the same for the last forty thousand years. Rahul Gandhi has been trying to differentiate between Hindus and Hindutvawadi alleging that the BJP is using religion for political gains. Rahul Gandhi in Amethi had commented on Prime Minister Narendra Modi and says, "A Hindutvawadi bathes alone in Ganga, while a Hindu bathes with crores of people." Congress leader Rahul Gandhi started this debate at the party's Jaipur rally on December 12 and labelled the BJP "power hungry", while seeking to draw a distinction between Hinduism and Hindutva. He said he would not be deterred by attacks on him during the rally organised to protest against price rise and inflation. Gandhi fiercely attacked the Central government's policies and said that he is a Hindu but not Hindutvawadi. Elaborating the difference between the two, he had said in Jaipur: "Two words cannot mean the same thing. Every word has a different meaning. In our country's politics today, the meaning of Hindu and Hindutva are the same. These are not the same thing, they are two different words and they mean completely different things. I am a Hindu but not a Hindutvawadi. Mahatma Gandhi was a Hindu and Nathuram Godse was a Hindutvawadi." Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hindus-believe-every-persons-dna-is-unique-rahul-gandhi-1062583.html
19-12-2021||National||Objective of NEP to correct past anomalies: Union minister Jitendra Singh||Union minister Jitendra Singh on Sunday said the two-fold objective of the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 is to correct past anomalies and introduce contemporary provisions that are in keeping with the present global trends. He was addressing the Cluster University teachers here at an interactive academic programme on the NEP-2020, organised as part of the "Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav". Singh emphasised that the demography of education has changed region-wise, gender-wise and profile-wise, which can be judged from the fact that women now have a greater representation in civil services and people from other regions are topping different exams, which was earlier the prerogative of only a few regions. He stressed that the responsibility of educationists today is not to award a degree but to teach to achieve ease of living, which can happen only when youngsters are able to find a sustainable start-up source of living for themselves, instead of harping on government jobs. The Union minister of state for personnel said the greatest anomaly in the previous education policy was the nomenclature itself and the Ministry of Human Resource Development (HRD) was a misnomer, misrepresentative in itself, having other connotations. He further said as India has now become a part of the global world and is being recognised as "Jagat Guru", the education parameters should be in keeping with the global standards if it has to compete and excel globally, according to a statement issued by the personnel ministry. Singh said one of the new provisions of the NEP-2020 in the form of multiple entry-and-exit option is something to be cherished as this academic flexibility will have a positive impact on the students as regards availing of different career opportunities at different times, depending upon their intrinsic leaning and inherent aptitude. He also said the entry-and-exit option can be opted in the future for the teachers as well, giving them career flexibility and opportunities to upgrade as is done in some western countries like the United States. Stating that one of the objectives of the NEP-2020 is de-linking degrees from education, Singh said linking degrees with education has taken a heavy toll on the country's education system and the society as well. "One of the fall-outs has been an increasing number of educated unemployed," he said. The minister maintained that technological interventions in education are a boon for the students of this generation and emphasised that teachers should also be able to keep up the pace with the students, who are moving ahead too fast owing to accessibility of information, avenues, means and talent. He said when the society has become gender neutral and language neutral, it has to become teacher-pupil neutral now so as to make India's education system a bilateral phenomenon. Singh said besides the education of students, equally important is the education of the teachers, parents and elders as the challenge is not only optimum education but to prevent "dis-education", which is never discussed. During the interaction, Principal Secretary, Jammu and Kashmir Higher Education department, Rohit Kansal said education and ideas lie at the heart of achievement, and a society full of ideas, full of vision is ultimately going to progress and lead the others. Professor Bechan Lal, Vice Chancellor, Cluster University, Jammu, in his welcome address, said the NEP-2020 is widely accepted and appreciated for its creative provisions.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/objective-of-nep-to-correct-past-anomalies-union-minister-jitendra-singh-1062610.html
19-12-2021||National||Afghanistan aid: India, Central Asian nations want UN to play key role||India and the five Central Asian nations on Sunday stressed on the “central role” of the United Nations to respond to the unfolding crisis in Afghanistan, even as Pakistan hosted a meeting of the Organizing of Islamic Cooperation (OIC), which offered to coordinate international humanitarian assistance to the conflict-ravaged country. Islamabad sought to use the OIC meet to tacitly grant some degree of legitimacy to the Taliban dispensation in Kabul. New Delhi, however, got the support of the five Central Asian nations to once again stress the need for an inclusive government in Afghanistan. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar hosted the Foreign Ministers of Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan for the third dialogue between India and Central Asia. They discussed the situation in Afghanistan, where the Taliban returned to power after two decades earlier this year – taking advantage of the withdrawal of the United States and its NATO allies. “Our concerns and objectives in that country are similar: a truly inclusive and representative government, the fight against terrorism and drug trafficking, ensuring unhindered humanitarian assistance and preserving the rights of women, children and the minorities,” Jaishankar told his counterparts from the five Central Asian nations. “We must find ways of helping the people of Afghanistan.” The joint statement issued after the meeting between Jaishankar and the Central Asian Foreign Ministers too underlined the need for immediate humanitarian assistance for Afghans and preserving the rights of women, children and all ethnic groups in Afghanistan. New Delhi is keen to deepen its engagement with the Central Asian nations as the Taliban’s return to power in Afghanistan gave Pakistan a strategic edge against India in the region. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s National Security Advisor Ajit Doval last month hosted his counterparts from the five Central Asian nations as well as from Iran and Russia for a discussion on Afghanistan. The Modi Government is also contemplating to host the leaders of all the five nations in the region as Chief Guests at the Republic Day ceremony in New Delhi on January 26 next year. Pakistan’s Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi too hosted his counterparts from the OIC nations in Islamabad on Sunday. The Foreign Minister of interim government set up by the Taliban in Kabul, Amir Muttaqi, was also invited to speak at the extraordinary session of the OIC. It was apparently a move by Imran Khan’s government in Islamabad to accord some degree of legitimacy to the Taliban’s dispensation in Kabul within the 57-nation bloc. “The new government exercising control over the entire country – that has secured its geography and territorial integrity, established security, does not pose a threat to any world country and as a ruling system – reserves the right to have formal relations with the world and be a responsible member of the wider international community,” Muttaqi said, addressing the OIC meet. Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan said that the Islamic nations had a religious duty to provide assistance to people of Afghanistan. The OIC Secretary General Hissein Ibrahim Taha called upon the members of the organization to provide humanitarian assistance for people of Afghanistan through its mission in Kabul.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/afghanistan-aid-india-central-asian-nations-want-un-to-play-key-role-1062619.html
19-12-2021||National||Withdraw plan to hike GST rate on textile, apparel items: Telangana Minister to Centre||Telangana Industries Minister KT Rama Rao on Sunday urged the Centre to withdraw its proposed plan to increase GST rates from 5 per cent to 12 per cent on garments and fabrics from January 1, 2022. In a letter to Union Textiles Minister Piyush Goyal, Rama Rao said for the past two years, the handlooms sector has been going through a difficult phase due to coronavirus pandemic, an official release said here. “At this juncture, revising the GST (rates) from the current 5 per cent to 12 per cent would serve a death blow to the industry," said Rama Rao. After agriculture sector, textiles and handlooms sector provide highest employment in the country. Considering the current scenario, the need of the hour was to extend additional advantages and incentives to the sector, he said adding the decision to increase GST rates on textiles and handlooms is not wise. “The current decision to impose additional seven per cent GST on the handlooms would leave the sector crippled. Telangana produces world-class handlooms and weavers are worried due to the central government's decision to hike GST rates," the Telangana Minister said. Rao further demanded rollback in GST hike on textile products, or atleast retain handlooms at the earlier GST of 5 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/withdraw-plan-to-hike-gst-rate-on-textile-apparel-items-telangana-minister-to-centre-1062635.html
19-12-2021||National||India, Taiwan eyeing to firm up free-trade pact, looking at setting up semiconductor hub||India and Taiwan have started negotiations for a free-trade agreement and setting up a semiconductor manufacturing hub in an Indian city, signalling their resolve to further expand the two-way economic engagement. If the move to create the semiconductor manufacturing plant succeeds, it will be only the second such facility by Taiwan in a foreign country after its production hub in the United States, people familiar with the development said. The Indian government has already proposed a number of sites for the facility and one of Taiwan's leading semiconductor producers, including the Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company (TSMC) and the United Microelectronics Corporation (UMC), may implement the mega project, they said. Taiwan is a major player in the production of chips globally. According to industry estimates, the TSMC manufactures around 50 per cent of all semiconductors globally. "There is a strategic significance of attempting to firm up the FTA and to set up the semiconductor hub," said one of the people cited above. Taiwan considers itself a sovereign state. However, China claims Taiwan as part of its territory. The move to set up the facility comes amid increasing demands for chips in India by automakers and technology companies, among others, when there is a global shortage of chips. The people said the proposal to set up the semiconductor hub is largely driven by the strategic significance of the ties between India and Taiwan rather than the commercial aspect of it. "The semiconductor plant in the US was set up in the reflection of the close strategic ties between the two sides. It will be the same in India's case as well," said one of the people cited above. The US has been steadfast in its outreach to Taiwan in the face of increasing Chinese hostilities and reassuring Taipei of its continued support. The government on Wednesday unveiled a plan to provide incentives worth Rs 76,000 crore to encourage the setting up of semiconductor design, manufacturing and display fabrication (fab) units with a larger goal of making India a global electronics production hub. In sync with their keenness to expand economic engagement, India and Taiwan have already held two rounds of talks for firming up an FTA as well as a bilateral investment agreement to boost trade ties, the people said. India has been promoting its ties with Taiwan in the areas of trade, investment, tourism, culture, education and people-to-people exchanges. The cooperation in the areas of trade, investment and industry between India and Taiwan has been on an upswing in the last few years. The volume of bilateral trade has grown nearly six-fold from $1.19 billion in 2001 to almost $7.05 billion in 2018 and India ranks as Taiwan's 14th largest export destination and 18th largest source of imports, according to official data. By the end of 2018, around 106 Taiwanese companies were operating in India, with the total investment amounting to $1.5 billion in the fields of information and communication technology, medical devices, automobile components, machinery, steel, electronics, construction, engineering and financial services. The two sides have also set up teams for further expansion of ties in education as well as skill development training. At present, an estimated 2,800 Indian students are studying in Taiwan. India does not have formal diplomatic ties with Taiwan but both sides have trade and people-to-people ties. In 1995, New Delhi set up the India-Taipei Association (ITA) in Taipei to promote interactions between the two sides and facilitate business, tourism and cultural exchanges. The ITA has also been authorised to provide all consular and passport services. In the same year, Taiwan too established the Taipei Economic and Cultural Center in Delhi. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-taiwan-eyeing-to-firm-up-free-trade-pact-looking-at-setting-up-semiconductor-hub-1062638.html
19-12-2021||National Politics||Sacred games afoot in UP as Assembly polls near||On December 13, Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated the first phase of the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor project, in a mega event that nearly drowned out all other noise in the media. Modi took a dip in the Ganga, strolled in the streets with the eyes of the ancient, sacred city firmly on him.  The hype was typical Modi and the event came ahead of the crucial Assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh. Its message: Ayodhya is done and dusted, but the BJP is not done with temples, not yet. There is the unfinished business in Mathura, and, of course, there is Kashi. This renewed temple pitch of the BJP has confounded the Opposition parties; their ripostes revealing their struggles.   The Samajwadi Party, faced with the BJP’s repeated ‘Muslim appeasement’ attack, promised to show documents and claimed that the Kashi corridor plan was envisaged by it. Party chief Akhilesh Yadav chose to attack Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on the Ganga cleaning issue, saying the CM avoided taking a dip in the river knowing well that the water was not clean. The BSP let its Brahmin face, Satish Chandra Mishra, invoke Hindu deities in his speeches. A day after the Kashi corridor inauguration, party chief Mayawati slammed the BJP, saying mere announcements, laying foundation stones and inaugurating half-baked projects will not strengthen the base of the saffron party.  The AAP, which has not much of a presence in UP, took the “remove the BJP to save gods” line (some locals objected to the demolition of old structures which allegedly also housed some idols, a charge denied by the state government). The Congress was largely silent on Modi’s Kashi event. But a day before the event, Rahul Gandhi sought to challenge the BJP on its home turf of Hindutva. While addressing a rally in Jaipur, his “this is country of Hindus” remarks startled many in the secular camp. He also sought to wade in the “I am a Hindu but not a Hindutvavadi” argument, seeking to make a distinction between the two, though it doesn’t seem to gain any traction. But the fact that none of the top leaders of Congress chose to speak at the inauguration of Kashi Dham project speaks volumes of the challenge Congress faces when it comes to countering the BJP’s Hindutva pitch. Desperate not to get sucked into the religion debate, Congress has been attempting to bring back the spotlight on issues such as price rise and unemployment and farmer issues.  It has also through events like Vijay Samman Rally in Dehradun to mark the anniversary of the 1971 Bangladesh liberation war to paying respects to India’s first CDS Bipin Rawat, who died in a chopper crash last week, tried to counter the nationalist pitch of the BJP. While Modi was in Varanasi, Rahul on November 14 fired a salvo at the PM. “You do the politics of religion. Follow the religion of politics. Since you have gone to UP, go and meet the family members of farmers who died. Not suspending your minister (MoS Home Ajay Mishra) is injustice, and unrighteousness (adharma),” he tweeted. For the BJP, the temple issue (“a matter of faith and not politics”) seems to be icing on the cake, with a crust made up of development doles and well-crafted social engineering (call it caste calculations). Hence, the controlled but sustained release of religious sentiments since the last two months as the poll campaign for UP gains momentum. Political analyst Rasheed Kidwai said the BJP’s “temple pitch indicates the utter lack of confidence in the incumbent CM’s development plank”. “It aims to rob the Opposition a level-playing field, TV airtime and brings back focus on emotive religious sentiments,” said Kidwai. Nearly 700 km away, another temple town Mathura is also feeling the ripples of unrest as UP polls inch closer. Days after the Akhil Bharat Hindu Mahasabha said it will install a statue of the deity at the mosque, a move which was prevented by the administration, a petition was filed in a local court on December 16 seeking prohibition on namaz at the Shahi Idgah, located close to the temple in Shri Krishna Janmabhoomi. Seeking ‘removal’ of the Idgah and claiming that it was built on the actual birthplace of Lord Krishna, the petition alleged that Aurangzeb had built the mosque by dismantling the temple in 1669. There is also a growing clamour from the right-wing for bypassing the Places of Worship (Special Provisions) Act 1991 — enacted by the then P V Narasimha Rao government to prevent claims of ownership on places of worship after the demolition of Babri mosque — in the last few months. UP Deputy Speaker Nitin Agarwal, state ministers Laxmi Narain, Anand Swarup Shukla and BJP MP Ravindra Kushwaha all made remarks favouring the construction of a temple at Shri Krishna Janmabhoomi. As the drumbeat for temples gets louder, what result the BJP’s temple template will bear will only be clear in the next three-four months. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sacred-games-afoot-in-up-as-assembly-polls-near-1062366.html
19-12-2021||National Politics||Telangana CM KCR gearing up for showdown with Centre||Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao is gearing up for a direct fight with the Narendra Modi government at the Centre over the 'raw deal' being meted out in the state, especially in paddy procurement. After two rounds of the sit-in, including the one led by the Chief Minister himself in Hyderabad last month, demanding the Centre to lift entire paddy produced in the state, the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) chief has asked his party cadres to widen the scope of the fight by staging protests in every village against 'anti-farmer' policies of the BJP-led NDA government. Unlike the first phase of protest, which was confined to 'dharnas' in all the 119 Assembly constituencies, and the subsequent mega dharna led by KCR, as the Chief Minister is popularly known, in Hyderabad, the third phase will include demonstrations and burning of effigies. At a meeting with ministers, TRS state legislators, MPs and other leaders on December 17, KCR had declared an open war with the Centre. "The party cadres have been told to burn effigies of BJP-led Centre and Union ministers who are speaking lies and spreading misinformation over the issue of paddy procurement," a senior party leader had said after the meeting. This will be the first time in seven years that TRS will be organising protests of this nature against the BJP-led Central government. KCR, who last week completed three years as Chief Minister in his second term, minced no words in slamming the Centre for doing injustice to Telangana. He asked the party leaders to go to the people in their respective constituencies and explain to them the anti-farmer policies of the Centre. KCR told the party cadres that the time has come for a decisive fight with the Centre, which is harming the interests of Telangana farmers by running away from its constitutional duty to lift paddy from the state. The TRS decision to intensify the protest comes close on the heels of the face-off during the ongoing Winter Session of the Parliament. After taking on the Centre on the floor of the House for not lifting paddy from the state, the TRS announced a boycott of the rest of the session over paddy procurement, other issues related to Telangana and suspension of 12 members of Rajya Sabha belonging to other opposition parties. The 16 MPs of TRS, including seven from Rajya Sabha, wanted the Centre to announce a national food grain procurement policy and also take a decision on paddy procurement from the state during the Rabi season. Angered by the Centre's attitude towards their demands, the TRS MPs said the country will get justice only when Prime Minister Narendra Modi leaves his seat. "This is a fascist and anti-farmer government. We will prepare the people to revolt against the BJP in the people's arena," said TRS Parliamentary Party leader K Keshava Rao. The TRS government, which was already worried over the impact of the Centre's decision not to procure parboiled rice during the upcoming Rabi season, is also up in arms for sluggish procurement of paddy during the ongoing Kharif season. The TRS was further angered by the statement of Central minister Piyush Goyal in the Parliament as he sought to blame the state government for the tardy pace of procurement. "How can they blame the state government when the Food Corporation of India, warehouses, trains all are in their hands," asked Agriculture Minister S Niranjan Reddy. He claimed that the state has almost reached the procurement target of 60 lakh tonnes set by the Food Corporation of India (FCI) for the current season. To mount pressure on the Centre to procure more paddy, a delegation of state ministers and MPs left for Delhi on Saturday. The TRS is thus adopting a two-pronged strategy. While pressurising the Centre to lift the paddy from the state, the party is taking the issue to the grassroots level to explain to the people, especially farmers, that the problems are created by the anti-farmer policies of the Centre. Political observers say that by hitting the streets, the TRS is also trying to effectively counter the BJP, whose state leadership has stepped up an attack on the ruling party in the state for failing the farmers. By organising a series of protests, TRS plans to expose what it calls 'double game' of the BJP. KCR and other leaders have been slamming the BJP leaders for provoking the farmers on a problem created by their own government at the Centre. The TRS government has already appealed to the farmers not to grow paddy during Rabi season as the Centre has ruled out procuring parboiled rice from the state. The agriculture department said that since only parboiled rice is grown in the state due to its agro-climatic conditions, the farmers should look for alternate crops. BJP leaders, on the other hand, have been asking the farmers to continue growing paddy and blaming TRS for the present situation. BJP's state unit chief Bandi Sanjay Kumar has targeted the ruling party for not promoting the cultivation of fine quality rice. Apart from countering the BJP, the TRS faces the big challenge of convincing the farmers to stop paddy cultivation. Since paddy cultivation is considered relatively easy and is not capital intensive, persuading the farmers for a change in crop pattern will not be easy. Some political analysts say that in this situation, the TRS has limited options. "KCR needs an escape route from the potential wrath he would face at the hands of the farmers in Telangana. Irrigation projects were the biggest assets for the TRS government to cultivate a positive image among the farmers. But now the issue of paddy procurement might upset the farmers and turn them against this regime. Now KCR needs to find means to blame the Modi government for not procuring paddy. His attack on the Union government must be looked at from that prism," said political analyst Palwai Raghavendra Reddy. He also feels that time is fast approaching for KCR to transfer the baton of power to his son K T Rama Rao. "This would necessitate KCR to find a higher pedestal to step on to and pave way for his son. Talking of national politics, and indicating his potential move to New Delhi, is possibly what KCR is looking at at this stage," Reddy added. With just two years to go for Assembly elections, KCR will be keen to ensure that he doesn't lose grip on power in the state, and at the same time play a key role in national politics. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/telangana-cm-kcr-gearing-up-for-showdown-with-centre-1062410.html
19-12-2021||National Politics||Centre's PLI scheme to benefit Uttar Pradesh in big way||The Central government's recently approved Production Linked Incentive (PLI) scheme for the promotion of the semiconductor industry in the country, is all set to benefit Uttar Pradesh in a big way. The PLI scheme is expected to lead to an investment of Rs 76,000 crore in semiconductor manufacturing over the next five to six years. This scheme will help in the design, manufacturing, packing and testing of microchips in the country and develop a complete ecosystem. According to the government spokesman, Uttar Pradesh's new electronics manufacturing policy will attract huge investments in this sector. Semiconductors are colloquially called integrated circuits or ICs. In this policy, a provision has been made to promote the semiconductor (IC) industry. Under the Electronics Manufacturing Policy-2017 of the State government, the target of investment of Rs 20,000 crore has been achieved in three years by investments of about 30 investors. More than three lakh jobs were created through this investment. After this, under the new UP Electronics Manufacturing Policy-2020 brought out in August 2020, a target of investing Rs 40,000 crore and providing employment to four lakh people have been set in the next five years. Under this new policy, multi-national companies like Microsoft, MAQ, Adani Group, Hiranandani Group, Netmagic Services, STT Private Limited and Agarwal Associate Limited have taken the initiative to set up data centres in Noida. The new Electronics Manufacturing Policy-2020 has promised to give several concessions to the investors setting up the semiconductor industry in the state. Officials of the IT department say that in Uttar Pradesh, many reputed companies from China, Taiwan and Korea have invested in the IT sector and point out that these companies also will take initiative to invest in the semiconductor sector. This will be beneficial for them because semiconductors are used in all the electronic devices that are being made at present. World's renowned IT companies are now in Uttar Pradesh and other big companies of the country will soon take the initiative to invest in the hardware sector, the spokesman said. Officials of the IT department say that till a few years ago, mobile handsets were not made in Uttar Pradesh, but now big multinational companies are making mobile handsets, laptops, TVs and other electronic equipment in the state. Mobile handsets made in UP are making their mark in the world. Samsung has already set up a display manufacturing factory in Noida. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/centres-pli-scheme-to-benefit-uttar-pradesh-in-big-way-1062421.html
19-12-2021||National Politics||Vote unitedly so that you are taken seriously in politics, Priyanka tells women||Nurturing dreams to revive her party's electoral fortunes in Uttar Pradesh through 'women power', Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Sunday asked the women to 'vote unitedly' so that they were ''taken seriously'' in politics. Speaking during an interaction with the women in Rae bareli, the Lok Sabha constituency of her mother and Congress president Sonia Gandhi, Priyanka said that the women must 'recognise' their strength and seek their rights. ''If you want to bring change then you will have to unite...you must ponder as to why no one takes us seriously in politics,'' the Congress leader said. ''We have suffered enough and we should now decide that we will not suffer any longer....we are half of the population...we must recognise our strength....if we vote unitedly then we will be taken seriously,'' Priyanka added. In reply to a question, she supported her brother and former Congress president Rahul Gandhi's assertion that there was a difference between being Hindu and a 'hindutva vadi'.  On being asked about increasing the age of marriage of the girls from 18 to 21, the Congress leader said that it was the result of the sustained campaign from her party. ''One or the other announcements for the women have been made every day since we launched our campaign for the women,'' she added. Priyanka, who is also the in-charge of the state party, has been focussing on the women voters in her speeches at public meetings. She has been appealing to them to vote on the issue of development and not on the basis of caste or religion. In a bid to garner their support, her party has promised 40 per cent reservation for the women in government jobs if her party comes to power in Uttar Pradesh in the forthcoming assembly polls in the state due early next year. She has also made a slew of promises to the women. Congress has decided to reserve 40 per cent tickets for the women candidates in the forthcoming assembly polls.  Political analysts here view Priyanka's announcements for women as an attempt to make a dent into the vote banks of her rivals.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/vote-unitedly-so-that-you-are-taken-seriously-in-politics-priyanka-tells-women-1062470.html
19-12-2021||National Politics||Congress demands SIT probe into 'land grab' by Assam CM Sarma's family||Congress on Sunday demanded a time-bound SIT probe into an alleged land scam involving the Assam Chief Minister's family. It alleged that a company owned by Assam CM's wife and relatives has illegally grabbed government land. Addressing a joint press conference, Congress leaders Gaurav Vallabh, Ripun Bora, Jitendra Singh and Gaurav Gogoi said, "Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, on one hand, is showing hard-handedness in evicting poor and deprived families on the ground that no one has the right to illegally take over the government land, but on the other hand he is handing over the government land worth crores of rupees to his family members on his own whims and fancies," they alleged. The Congress alleged, "As per an investigation by leading media houses, a real estate company, RBS Realtors, Co-founded by the chief minister's wife, Riniki Bhuyan Sarma is allegedly occupying around 18 acres of government land intended for landless individuals and institutions." The party alleged that RBS Realtors Private Limited acquired most of the 18 acres in two stages, first in 2006-2007 and then in 2009. Individuals, who are landless and needy, are granted ceiling surplus land by the Assam government and are prohibited from selling that land for a 10-year period. "In 2009, a total of 11 bigha three katha and four lessa (i.e. 3,01,674 square feet or 6.92 acres) of ceiling surplus land in Bongora intended for and allotted to supposedly needy individuals by the government of Assam was bought by Himanta Biswa Sarma's wife's company, violating the 10-year lock-in period," it said. "A total of seven plots in North Guwahati were allegedly allocated to RBS realtors between 2008 and 2009 Plot 1- 4.37 acre land: Assam government allotted 4.37 acre ceiling surplus land to Lalmoti Talukdar on condition that it couldn't be sold for ten years. Barely two months later, on January 28, 2009, Talukdar sold 3.19 acres of the 4.37 acre to RBS Realtors Plot 2- 1872 square feet land: Assam government allotted 1,872 square feet (0.042 acre) ceiling surplus land to Basanta Nath with a 10-year lock-in period for sale," it said. "In 2017, 23.61 per cent of the Rs 100 face value shares of Vasistha Realtors were transferred to Meena Bhuyan, mother of Riniki Bhuyan Sarma and mother-in-law of the chief minister. On September 16, 2019 -- barely 18 days after Himanta Biswa Sarma's son Nandil Biswa Sarma became an adult -- Meena Bhuyan transferred her shares to him. As of FY-20, the chief minister's son owns 23.61 per cent shares of the company," Congress alleged. Gaurav Vallabh said that a sitting CM, whose family is directly "involved in land grabbing", has no right to remain in power. Himanta Biswa Sarma should be sacked from his Chief Minister's post immediately, Gaurav Vallabh added. All unlawful land transfers to the aforementioned realtors must be immediately cancelled and provisions must be made to provide alternate land to the landless and needy people whose land was unscrupulously taken away, the Congress demanded. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-demands-sit-probe-into-land-grab-by-assam-cm-sarmas-family-1062480.html
19-12-2021||National Politics||BJP only party without dynastic politics: Nadda in Uttar Pradesh||BJP president J P Nadda on Sunday said the Samajwadi Party (SP) stood for "corruption, injustice, atrocities and misconduct". He said the Akhilesh Yadav-led party, like several other political parties across the country, was marred by nepotism and dynastic politics and only the BJP catered to all sections of the people. "Contrary to the SP's claim that it a new, reformed party, it isn't. It is the same old SP and everyone should realise this. It is synonymous with corruption, injustice, atrocities and misconduct," Nadda said after flagging off the 'Janvishwas Yatra' in Ambedkar Nagar here. The BJP party on Sunday launched the yatra from five other places in the state and is slated to cover at least 400 constituencies in the run-up to the Assembly polls. Continuing his tirade against the political parties in general and the SP in particular, Nadda said, all political outfits from Jammu and Kashmir to those in the South, have been afflicted with nepotism, casteism and 'pariwarwad' (dynastic politics). "The National Conference, and the PDP are 'pariwarwad ki parties' in Jammu and Kashmir. There are such parties in Haryana and in South, in Bengal and Uttar Pradesh, too. No one else except my 'babua' (son) (is their ideology)," he said. "In BJP, there is Modi, who takes everyone along and schemes launched by him are for the poor, backward, Dalits, suppressed and the deprived. If there is BJP, there is security and development," Nadda stressed. He said the SP had given patronage to mining mafia and it took a Yogi Adityanath to "clean the state with his good governance". According to Nadda, the 'Janvishwas Yatra' yatra will cover all 403 Assembly constituencies and directly interact with over four crore people. Prior to the 2017 Assembly polls, the party had held six 'Parivartan Yatras', which passed through all the Assembly constituencies. In the 2017 polls, the BJP and allies secured 325 seats. Sunday's yatra was flagged off by Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath in Mathura, Defence Minister Rajnath SIngh in Jhansi, Union Minister Nitin Gadkari and Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya in Bijnore, Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chauhan in Ballia and Union Minister Smriti Irani in Ghazipur, party sources said here.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-only-party-without-dynastic-politics-nadda-in-uttar-pradesh-1062557.html
19-12-2021||National Politics||Jaishankar holds bilateral talks with foreign ministers of four Central Asian countries||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Sunday held separate talks with his counterparts from Kazakhstan, Kyrgyz Republic, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan, covering bilateral cooperation in areas of security, energy, connectivity, health and education. Jaishankar held the talks on the sidelines of the third India-Central Asia Dialogue in Delhi. The external affairs minister met his Tajik counterpart Sirojiddin Muhriddin on Saturday. "Met Uzbekistan FM Abdulaziz Kamilov for the sixth time this year. Trilateral discussions with Iran on Chabahar are noteworthy. Our development partnership can make a difference in urban infrastructure," Jaishankar tweeted. On his meeting with Kyrgyz foreign minister Ruslan Kazakbaev, the external affairs minister said the talks covered cooperation in areas of telemedicine, information technology, education and heritage. "Welcomed FM Ruslan Kazakbaev of Kyrgyz Republic on his first-ever visit to India. Our agenda covered telemedicine, IT, education and heritage conservation," he said. Jaishankar described his meeting with Turkmen foreign minister Rashid Meredov as "useful". "Useful exchange of views with Turkmen DPM and FM Rashid Meredov. Shared perspectives on security, energy and connectivity," he said. Jaishankar said expanding economic and energy cooperation was the focus of his talks with Kazakh foreign minister Mukhtar Tileuberdi. "Good discussions with DPM and FM Mukhtar Tileuberdi of Kazakhstan. Focused on expanding our economic and energy cooperation. Appreciated our joint deployment in UN peacekeeping," Jaishankar tweeted. In his opening remarks at the India-Central Asia Dialogue, Jaishankar said India will be a steadfast partner of the five countries. "Each one of us today faces the test of rebuilding our economy. Our pursuit of SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals) must also be energised. But together we can do this better and India, I assure you, will be your steadfast partner," he said. "We already have a good history of cooperation. But my message to you today is a readiness to take it to the next level. Our ties must now focus around 4 Cs: Commerce, Capacity enhancement, Connectivity and Contacts," he added. In the last few years, India has been focusing on expanding overall cooperation with the energy-rich Central Asian countries, considering them to be part of its extended neighbourhood. The upswing in India's engagement with the region followed Prime Minister Narendra Modi's whirlwind tour of the five countries in July 2015 that resulted in the expansion of two-way ties in a range of areas. The recent developments in Afghanistan reinforced the importance of the Central Asian countries with three of them -- Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan -- sharing borders with the war-torn nation. The national security advisors (NSAs) of all the five Central Asian countries attended an India-hosted regional dialogue on Afghanistan on November 10. NSAs of Russia and Iran also participated in it. The second meeting of the India-Central Asia dialogue was organised by India in October last year in digital videoconference format. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/jaishankar-holds-bilateral-talks-with-foreign-ministers-of-four-central-asian-countries-1062608.html
19-12-2021||North and Central||Pakistani militant killed in Srinagar encounter||A Pakistani militant affiliated with Lashker-e-Toiba outfit was killed in an encounter with security forces in Harwan area on the outskirts of Srinagar city on Sunday. Police identified the slain militant as Saifulla alias Abu Khalid of Karachi, Pakistan, who was active in Kashmir for the last five years. Inspector General of Police (IGP), Kashmir, Vijay Kumar said the slain militant had infiltrated into Kashmir back in 2016 and was through all these years active in the general area of Harwan. “He was involved in several terrorism-related crimes,” he said. The police said the encounter broke out after security forces launched a cordon-and-search-operation (CASO) in Harwan, following specific inputs about the presence of militants in the area. The encounter, which brought down Saifulla, took place during the night. According to the Police, three Pakistani militants were killed within Srinagar city limits within the past 33 days. “They were involved in several terror crimes including attacks on police, security forces, and also connected with civilian killings,” IGP Kumar said. Srinagar which was by-and-large militancy-free till the start of 2020 has emerged as a hotspot of militant activities in Kashmir this year. According to official figures 20 militants were killed in Srinagar from May to December 2020 in nine encounters. In 2021, J&K’s summer capital saw around 21 encounters and shoot-outs in and around the city in which 35 people, including seven policemen, 15 militants and 13 civilians were killed till date. Five militant recruits from Srinagar were killed in separate gunfights this year, official figures reveal. Of the ten wanted militants listed by the police in March this year, five were from Srinagar. IGP Kashmir says the violence in Srinagar shows that Pakistan was hell-bent on disturbing the peace in the Valley, especially in the city. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pakistani-militant-killed-in-srinagar-encounter-1062375.html
19-12-2021||North and Central||BJP in Madhya Pradesh keeping a tab on dissenters||The Bharatiya Janata Party's MP unit, on the basis of experiences in the bypolls, has started political introspection and the party is keeping a close tab on its leaders who can harm its prospects in the next elections. The BJP is laying strong emphasis on ground preparations for panchayat and urban body polls in the state as they give more strength to the party's base. BJP sources said after remaining out of power for one-and-a-half years, Damoh and Raigaon bypolls taught a big lesson to the party as other than these two by-elections, at many places it was harmed by its own leaders due to which it lost. On the one hand, the party is keeping a close watch on people who can harm it in the polls, while on the other hand it is also focusing on leaders who are often found sharing the stage with Congress leaders. At present, BJP's MLA from Maihar in Satna district, Narayan Tripathi, is speaking against the party's line. When former Chief Minister Digvijaya Singh raised the issue of illegal sand and stone mining, immediately after that Tripathi also wrote to the Chief Minister, flagging the issue. The party is keeping a tab on insiders who can harm the party in the Panchayat polls also. For the Panchayat elections, the party, in a meeting stressed on the fact that though the polls are being held on a non-party basis, two leaders should not enter the fray from the same place. It is the job of the divisional level office bearers of the organisation to take care of that. The BJP's biggest concern is about a few leaders who are hand-in-glove with the Congress and are continuously trying to harm the saffron party. Their activities are directly impacting the organisation and the government. Political strategists are advising the party to take strict action to control such people. Expressing concern over the increasing number of dissenters in the party, senior leaders said that if it fails to take action it can prove to be a big hindrance in the 2023 Assembly and 2024 Lok Sabha polls. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-in-madhya-pradesh-keeping-a-tab-on-dissenters-1062380.html
19-12-2021||North and Central||PM Modi to transfer Rs 1,000 cr to 1.6 lakh SHGs in UP||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Tuesday transfer Rs 1,000 crore into the accounts of 1.60 lakh self-help groups (SHGs) and Rs 20.20 crore to 1.01 lakh beneficiaries of the Mukhya Mantri Kanya Sumangala Yojana in Uttar Pradesh. He will also lay the foundation stone of 202 supplementary nutrition manufacturing units when he visits Prayagraj on Tuesday. According to the government spokesman, about 80,000 SHGs will receive Community Investment Fund at Rs 1.10 lakh each and 60,000 SHGs will get Rs 15,000 each as revolving fund. The Prime Minister will then transfer Rs 20.20 crore to 1.01 lakh beneficiaries of Mukhya Mantri Kanya Sumangala Scheme under which conditional cash transfer is made to a girl's account at various stages, with each being entitled to Rs 15,000 in total. "So far, 9.92 lakh girls have benefitted and after fund transfer on Tuesday, 1.01 lakh more beneficiaries will be added. The Prime Minister will also transfer monthly stipend of Rs 4,000 to 20,000 banking correspondent sakhis," a spokesman said. The state government aims to employ a banking correspondent sakhi in all 58,189-gram panchayats. So far, 56,875 women have been selected, out of which 38,341 have been trained and certified. In another programme, the Prime Minister will lay the foundation stone of 202 supplementary nutrition manufacturing units. The cost of each unit is approximately Rs 1 crore. The units are being funded by SHGs and will employ 4,000 members and benefit 60,600 SHGs by paying against their equity. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-modi-to-transfer-rs-1000-cr-to-16-lakh-shgs-in-up-1062396.html
19-12-2021||North and Central||Intense cold wave engulfs Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh||For the second consecutive day the minimum temperature was minus 6.0 degrees Celsius in Srinagar as intense cold wave engulfed Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh on Sunday. An official of the Meteorological Department (MeT) said the minimum temperature was minus 6.0 degrees Celsius in Srinagar on Sunday while it was minus 8.3 degrees Celsius in Pahalgam and minus 8.5 degrees Celsius in Gulmarg. Sonam Lotus, director of the MeT department has revised the weather advisory that said heavy snowfall would occur in Kashmir and Ladakh between December 23 and December 25. The revised advisory said today, "Mostly dry and cold weather likely to continue till 22nd forenoon in both UTs. "Snowfall Forecast: There is a modifications in early forecast of snowfall. Now, there is no forecast of any major snowfall in both UTs. "However, light to moderate snowfall is expected at many places of J&K and at scattered places of Ladakh especially along Sonmarg-Drass, Parkachik-Padum axis during 22nd (Evening) to 25th." Drass town of Ladakh recorded minus 20.17 degrees Celsius, Leh minus 19.5 and Kargil minus 14.5  degrees Celsius as the minimum temperature. Jammu city and Katra had 2.8 degrees Celsius, Batote minus 2.1 degrees Celsius, Banihal minus 1.0 degrees Celsius and Bhaderwah minus 2.2 degrees Celsius as the night's lowest temperature. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/intense-cold-wave-engulfs-jammu-and-kashmir-ladakh-1062398.html
19-12-2021||North and Central||'Gadkari', 'Amit Sha', Pushyu Goyal' vaccinated in UP district||Covid vaccination certificates have been issued to 30-year-old 'Niten Gadkari', 33-year-old 'Amit Sha', 26-year-old 'Om Birla', and 37-year-old 'Pushyu Goyal' in Etawah district. These vaccine certificates were issued by a community healthcare centre in Sarsainawar village in Takha tehsil. The names on these certificates are similar to the Union Ministers Nitin Gadkari, Amit Shah, Piyush Goyal and Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla. According to Bhagwan Das, chief medical officer of Etawah district, "Someone hacked the ID of our official and has done this to malign the vaccination drive of the district. These certificates are generated online and this is a conspiracy." The district administration has ordered a probe into the matter and a three-member team has been sent to the village for investigation. The certificates were issued to people who were reportedly vaccinated with the first dose on December 12 at Sarsainawar community health centre in Etawah district. The date for the second dose has been fixed between March 5, 2022, and April 3, 2022 – after a gap of about 12 weeks and 16 weeks, respectively. In Etawah district, 236 sites, all government run, are conducting vaccination. More than 1.6 million Covid vaccine doses have been administered in the district so far. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/gadkari-amit-sha-pushyu-goyal-vaccinated-in-up-district-1062405.html
19-12-2021||North and Central||Kebabs to cafes: The changing food traditions of Jama Masjid||In the famed bylanes of Old Delhi’s Jama Masjid, where the aroma of slow cooked nihari and spit roasted tandoori chicken blend into culinary harmony, it’s time to smell the coffee – freshly ground of course – and also straight-from-the-oven garlic bread and pizza. The streets around the 17th century Jama Masjid have long been a visitor magnet for domestic and foreign tourists as well as Delhiiites looking to bite into history. Now, adding to the many kebab houses and roadside eateries that serve the best of Mughlai food are a bunch of cafes started by young entrepreneurs and budding chefs hoping to add a more worldly flavour to the well loved streets. The search for the contemporary café with a personal touch in the heart of old Delhi ends with the Ebony Café, just a few steps from Jama Masjid’s Gate no 3. With cappuccinos, Americanos, lattes and Neapolitan pizzas on the menu, Ebony Café’s Saddam Khan is just one of those taking the road less trodden in the sheermal-kebab-nihari-korma area known the world over. Khan, who returned from England in 2011 after completing his education, said he felt the need for a “hangout place”. Youth in the area would go to Delhi University’s North Campus or Kamala Nagar a few kilometres away to just chill over a cup of coffee. Not anymore. “There was no such place here so we wanted to do something different. I wanted to give the people of this area something so they wouldn’t have to go so far,” Khan told PTI. Incongruous maybe in the bustle of the bazaar, Ebony Café, which opened in February this year, also serves the very English fish and chips and is indeed reminiscent of a café far away from Jama Masjid with its brick walls and wooden tables. The cafe can seat about 15 people inside in a warm and cozy environment and has tables and chairs outside too for those who want to enjoy a view of the grand old mosque’s magnificent dome and minarets and soak up the Delhi winter sun. Apart from adding something new to the local palate, Khan also wanted to bring in foreign tourists. That plan is on hold with limited numbers of foreigners coming to India due to the pandemic. For now, he said he finds encouragement in visitors who say “it doesn’t look like it’s in Old Delhi”. “People are complimenting us…. When I was in England I was influenced by the small coffee shops there, compared to the kind of cafes we have here. I wanted to give that feel here,” the 32-year-old restaurateur said. Ritesh Singh, a foodie and frequent visitor to the area, was pleasantly surprised to find the cafe a few months back and has returned a couple of times since then. “Whenever I am on my food walks to Jama Masjid I try to find something that I haven’t tried. This cafe was one such new place I tried, and even though I am not entirely in favour of the western feel, I can understand the sentiment behind it. And there can never be enough eateries in the world,” he said. Khan's English cafe has on its menu veg and non-veg items ranging from fish filet to chicken n chips and a wide variety of pizzas. The price ranges from Rs 540 for an extra large 'Peri Peri Time' chicken pizza to Rs 70 for a veg burger. A walk around the periphery of the mosque takes you to the busy Motor Market, an unlikely place to find a quiet little cafe amid the din and bustle of motor mechanics selling their wares. Mohammad Danish opened The Delhites Cafe with his elder brother right in the middle of the Motor Market, a year after their father passed away due to Covid-19. A student of home science and hotel management in Class 12, the 17-year-old is full of confidence, undeterred that his little eatery is right next door to the famed food lane - Bazar Matia Mahal. “You don’t find such food in this area. And people want variety, they usually go to Connaught Place to have garlic bread, burgers, pizzas and shakes,” Danish said. Even though the original thought behind the cafe was to attract tourists, the young businessman is keeping his hopes high as the response has been good so far and his customers are lapping up the offerings of shakes, smoothies, sandwiches and the like. The menu is light on the pocket with chicken peri peri the most expensive dish at Rs 200. Visitors can be caught off guard in the whirlwind of aroma, taste and the forever-marching crowd in Bazar Matia Mahal, the desi food destination of the Jama Masjid area that is home to to famous places such as Karim's and Al Jawahar. Dotted with eateries selling kebabs, nihari, tandoori chicken and an array of desserts including the hot and sweet shahi tukda, the narrow road starts from Jama Masjid and meets the Gali Choodiwalan at the other end. A small yet distinct little shop sits not so quietly at the other end. KGF, or King of Good Food, is another such eatery that is standing its ground with an almost continuous stream of customers in one of the most famous food streets in Delhi. On the menu are burgers,pizzas and hot wings. Saqeena (name changed on request), with two toddlers and some relatives tagging along, said it is refreshing to have something other than tandoori chicken or biryani. “It is definitely a relief as we have to work less at home,” she said. The small eatery has a wide range of vegetarian and non-vegetarian options on the menu that are sumptuous yet economical. While a large KGF non veg special can cost Rs 390, a KGF veg special will leave one with a full tummy and only Rs 320 less in his pocket. The shop that opened two years ago, before the pandemic started, has been attracting locals since the reopening of the markets. The owner, Mohammad Nadeem Ahmad, said that being different from others in the area has been their USP. “At times even those who come to have Mughlai food come across our shop and want to try the food. Locals find it as a change in their taste, as we are offering something they have to order from Dominos or Pizza Hut,” he said. Ahmad wants to turn KGF into a chain in the future. But for now it is but another small yet pleasant change in the bustling lanes around Jama Masjid.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kebabs-to-cafes-the-changing-food-traditions-of-jama-masjid-1062431.html
19-12-2021||North and Central||UP govt to launch ‘happiness curriculum’ in primary schools from next session||On the lines of Chhattisgarh and Delhi, preparations are under way to implement the ‘happiness curriculum’ in primary schools of Uttar Pradesh under a pilot project to make the students more sensitive towards nature, society and the country, officials said. State in-charge (happiness curriculum) Saurabh Malviya, who was here to participate in a six-day workshop at the State Institute of Educational Management and Training, told PTI the course is being developed keeping in mind the geographical and cultural conditions of Uttar Pradesh. The happiness curriculum will be introduced to the students of classes 1 to 8. It will enable them to connect with themselves, family, society, nature and the country. It will also help them understand interrelationships, Malviya said, adding the children will be taught meditation as well. As part of the pilot project, 150 schools in 15 districts have been asked to work on the curriculum. Five books will be prepared for the children in classes 1 to 5. In this sequence, the subject matter of the curriculum is being prepared by organising a workshop of 32 teachers, he said. Shravan Shukla, who participated in the workshop as a trainer, said preparations are on to implement the course from the next session starting in April 2022. Shukla informed there are 1,30,000 primary schools in Uttar Pradesh where seven lakh teachers are employed. Based on the evaluation of the pilot project, the state government may consider implementing the happiness curriculum in all schools, he said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-govt-to-launch-happiness-curriculum-in-primary-schools-from-next-session-1062445.html
19-12-2021||North and Central||'Yogi listens to the recordings': Akhilesh Yadav alleges SP leaders' phones being tapped by UP government||A day after Income Tax raids were conducted at the homes of Samajwadi Party (SP) members' homes across Uttar Pradesh, party president Akhilesh Yadav accused Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath of "tapping" his and other senior SP leaders' phones. "Phones of myself and some other party leaders are being tapped....the chief minister himself listens to the recordings in the evenings.....some senior bureaucrats are involved in the act at the behest of the state government," Akhilesh told reporters here on Sunday. The SP president said that he had the names of the bureaucrats who were doing it on the instruction of the government. ''We will deal with them after we form our government after the Assembly polls,'' he added. Akhilesh said that the chief minister had realised the BJP would be wiped out in the forthcoming assembly polls and therefore had 'unleashed' central agencies like Income Tax Department on SP leaders. "We will not be cowed down by the raids....we expect raids by ED and other central agencies as well," he said. IT sleuths had raided the offices and residential premises of several key aides of Akhilesh and senior SP leaders in the state on Saturday.   "That the BJP is going to lose the next assembly polls is becoming clear from the rising number of union ministers and leaders of other states who are visiting UP.....this number will increase in the days to tome,'' he said. The SP leader also sought to know from the prime minister as to why union minister Ajay Mishra, whose son was accused of mowing down four farmers with his vehicle at Lakhimpur Kheri in October, had not been sacked. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/yogi-listens-to-the-recordings-akhilesh-yadav-alleges-sp-leaders-phones-being-tapped-by-up-government-1062450.html
19-12-2021||North and Central||3 Pakistani terrorists killed in Kashmir within 33 days||Three Pakistani terrorists have been killed within 33 days in different encounters in Srinagar city, officials said on Sunday. "Three Pakistani terrorists killed in Srinagar City within 33 days," police said. "They were involved in several terror crimes including attacks on Police/ Security forces and civilian killings. It shows that Pakistan is hell-bent to disturb peace in Valley especially in Srinagar City," the J&K Police quoting Inspector General Police Kashmir Vijay Kumar tweeted. On Sunday, one Lashkat-e-Taiba (LeT) terrorist, a Pakistani national, was killed at Harwan on the outskirts of Srinagar. The killed terrorist has been identified as Saifulla alias Abu Khalid alias Shawaz, a resident of Karachi (Pakistan). "He was affiliated with proscribed terror outfit LeT. He infiltrated in 2016 and was active in general area of Harwan and involved in several terror crimes," J&K Police quoting Inspector General Police Kashmir Vijay Kumar further tweeted. On December 13, the police neutralised two LeT terrorists, including a Pakistani terrorist in a brief chance encounter at Rangreth area of Srinagar. On November 16, police said four persons were killed in an encounter at Hyderpora in Srinagar. Among the four was a Pakistani terrorist named as Bilal Bhai. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/3-pakistani-terrorists-killed-in-kashmir-within-33-days-1062465.html
19-12-2021||North and Central||Dam to generate power for Himachal, quench Delhiites' thirst may see light of day now||After facing numerous legal battles and roadblocks owing to financial and environmental concerns for nearly three decades, a dam project that will generate revenue from electricity for Himachal Pradesh and quench the thirst of the people of Delhi may now see the light of day in five-six years. However, there will be a whopping cost escalation of over Rs 5,500 crore. The Union government last week decided to execute it under the Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchayee Yojana (PMKSY) during 2021-26 by outlining a budget of 90 per cent out of the estimated cost over Rs 7,000 crore. The Renukaji Dam Multipurpose Project in the hill state's Sirmaur district envisages the construction of a 148-metre high rockfill dam across the Giri river in the upper Yamuna basin with live storage of 498 million cubic metres (MCM). It will ensure the supply of 23 cumecs of water to the National Capital Territory of Delhi and generate 40 MW of electricity for Himachal Pradesh. The stored water of the Renukaji dam will be used by Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Delhi from the Hathnikund barrage, by Delhi from the Wazirabad barrage and by Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Rajasthan from the Okhla barrage. The project, with storage of 0.404 million acre-feet (MAF) and the total submergence of 1,508 hectares, comprising 909 hectares of forest area, has hit several roadblocks repeatedly since an initial agreement was signed on May 12, 1994. This national status project, to be executed by Himachal Pradesh Power Corp Ltd (HPPCL), is located some 250 km from the national capital. As per the norms of the national project scheme, 90 per cent cost for the portion of the water component of the project is to be provided by the Centre. The remaining cost of the water component is to be shared by all basin states in the ratio of allocation of water. According to the agreement signed on January 11, 2019, the Delhi government has agreed to bear the 90 per cent cost of the power component of the project, while the balance of the power component is to be borne by Himachal Pradesh. Besides Himachal Pradesh and Delhi, the beneficiary basin states are Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Rajasthan. They had already signed a memorandum of understanding to construct the dam to provide water to them. As per official estimates, the share of water component cost of Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Rajasthan and Delhi is 47.82, 33.65, 3.15, 9.34 and 6.04 per cent, respectively. Elated with the Centre approving the project, Himachal Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur told IANS that the detailed project report for Rs 4,596.76 crore was accepted in 2015, but as there was no agreement among the beneficiary states the project could not be taken forward. Later, the revised cost estimate of Rs 6,946.99 crore (price level of October 2018) was accepted by the central government on December 9, 2019. Officials told IANS that Himachal would get about 200 million units of electricity at the rate of Rs 0.30 per unit. It would earn a net revenue of about Rs 60 crore per annum to the HPPCL and Rs 12 crore to the state government in its first year of operation. These revenue benefits would further increase over a period of time. The economy of the state in general and Sirmaur, the most backward district, in particular, would benefit immensely. The project was included under the National Project Scheme of the Department of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation in 2008. However, it could not move forward in the absence of agreement among the basin states. Chief Minister Thakur said with the construction of the dam the flow of the Giri river would increase about 110 per cent which will meet the drinking water needs of Delhi and other basin states up to some extent in the lean period. As per the design, the project will provide 49,800 ham (0.498 billion cubic metre) of live storage in its reservoir and a firm water supply to the tune of 23 cumecs to Delhi during the lean season. In the monsoon, 15 per cent downstream discharge will be ensured. For the investigation and land acquisition of the project, the Central government has so far released Rs 446.96 crore, while the Delhi government has released Rs 214.84 crore and the Haryana government Rs 25 crore. Initial investigation work for the dam project was started in 1976. Nine years later the project was conceived and discussed in the Northern Zonal Council Meeting. The cost of the project was estimated as Rs 1,224.64 crore at the May 1997 price level, which was revised to Rs 3,498.86 crore (price level March 2009). All technical clearances for the Renukaji dam project, which is planned to store the monsoon flow and release it during the non-monsoon lean season in the river downstream, have been obtained. Only the forest clearance (Stage II) is left, which would be obtained after the release of funds from the government of India and subsequent depositing of Rs 577.62 crore in the state Compensatory Afforestation Fund Management and Planning Authority (CAMPA) account. Officials say the project involves 49 hectares of the Renukaji wildlife sanctuary. A total of 141,944 trees are coming into the submergence area, which if not removed, will decay and generate greenhouse gases, including methane. The axing of trees is necessary, an official told IANS. The loss of trees would be compensated by compensatory afforestation, green belt development and reservoir rim treatment, besides funding the implementation of the Catchment Area Treatment (CAT) Plan. The impact of the removal of the trees will be marginal as the district is self-sufficient in fuelwood and other forest produce. The district has over 49 per cent of its area under tree cover with scrub over 56 sq km. The powerhouse (2x20 MW) is proposed to be located at the toe of the dam. The project is proposed to be completed in six years from the date of the start of the construction work. The state government has already clarified that it is ready to pay to the landowners the enhanced compensation as per the decisions given by the various appellate courts. Project-affected villagers united under the banner of the Renuka Bandh Jan Sangharsh Samiti claim that more than 700 families from 37 villages will be affected. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dam-to-generate-power-for-himachal-quench-delhiites-thirst-may-see-light-of-day-now-1062474.html
19-12-2021||North and Central||Sacrilege bid at Golden Temple: Case registered against dead accused||Punjab Police is trying to ascertain the identity of a man, who was beaten to death after he allegedly attempted to commit sacrilege inside the sanctum sanctorum of the Golden Temple in Amritsar, and it has been established that he spent a few hours inside the complex. Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa held a meeting in Amritsar (when) with the deputy commissioner, the police commissioner, the inspector general of police (border range), the Amritsar Rural SSP and other officials. A case was registered against the unidentified man late Saturday night under IPC sections 295A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs) and 307 (attempt to murder), Amritsar Police Commissioner Sukchain Singh Gill said on Sunday. He said footage obtained from all the cameras at the Golden Temple is being examined to collect information about the accused. The footage shows that the accused entered the Golden Temple around 11 am on Saturday and slept for a few hours in front of the Akal Takht, the supreme temporal seat of the Sikhs, the police commissioner said. The incident occurred after 6 pm and he had spent several hours in the Golden Temple before committing the crime, he added. The man jumped across the railings inside the sanctum sanctorum of the Golen Temple on Saturday evening, picked up the ceremonial sword and reached near the place where a Sikh priest was reciting the holy Guru Granth Sahib. He was caught by Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) task force members. When he was being taken to the SGPC office, the angry "sangat" (congregation) thrashed him badly, which subsequently led to his death. Randhawa said he had already spoken to the SGPC president and the Akal Takht Jathedar after the incident. He said the man was yet to be identified. "No mobile phone, no purse, no identity card or Aadhaar card was found from him. It has been established that he entered (the Golden Temple complex) around 11 am and remained there for a few hours until the incident," the deputy Chief Minister said. CCTV footage from all the nearby as well as other areas of the city is being scanned to ascertain from where he came to Amritsar and from which location he reached the Golden Temple, Randhawa, who also holds the home portfolio, said. Gill said the "first focus" is to establish the identity of the man. "We are scanning the CCTV footage to see which route he took to reach the Golden Temple," he said, adding that photographs of the man have been widely circulated so that he is identified at the earliest. The police commissioner said the post-mortem examination of the deceased was being carried out and a viscera examination will also be conducted to check if he had consumed any intoxicant. Randhawa said it is a matter of great sorrow that such an incident took place at the Harmandar Sahib, from where the message of universal communion is conveyed to mankind. He said while speaking to SGPC officials, it has been suggested that the SGPC task force should also form its own intelligence wing. Replying to a question, the deputy chief minister said inimical forces have always tried to disturb Punjab's peaceful atmosphere, but Punjabis have defeated their nefarious designs. To another query, Randhawa pitched for severe punishment for acts of sacrilege and said the Punjab Assembly had passed bills in 2018 proposing amendments to the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) to make desecration of religious texts punishable with life imprisonment. Earlier, several political leaders condemned the alleged sacrilege attempt at the Golden Temple. Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi has ordered a probe into the matter. "CM @CharanjitChanni strongly condemned the most unfortunate and heinous act to attempt sacrilege of Sri Guru Granth Sahib in the sanctum sanctorum of Sri Harimandir Sahib during the path of Sri Rehras Sahib," the Chief Minister's Office said in a tweet on Saturday night. Akali Dal stalwart and five-time chief minister Parkash Singh Badal said it was a "heinous attempt", which was "deeply shocking and exceedingly painful". "Strongly condemn the horrific incident of attempted sacrilege of Sri Guru Granth Sahib Ji at Darbar Sahib. Govt must get to the bottom of what led this man to act in such a despicable manner!" former chief minister Amarinder Singh said in a tweet. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sacrilege-bid-at-golden-temple-case-registered-against-dead-accused-1062476.html
19-12-2021||North and Central||Cold winds sweep Rajasthan; Fatehpur, Churu record below freezing point temperatures||Cold wind from the country's northern parts swept Rajasthan as minimum temperature in Fatehpur and Churu was recorded below freezing point for the second consecutive day, the meteorological department said on Sunday. The minimum temperature in Sikar, Karauli and Chittorgarh district was also recorded below freezing point on Sunday, it said. Fatehpur recorded -4.7 degrees Celsius, whereas Churu saw the second coldest day with -2.6 degrees Celsius, the MeT said. Regional MeT director Radheshyam Sharma said Churu recorded the lowest minimum temperature in last 12 years this month. He said in December 1973, the region had recorded all-time lowest minimum of 4.6 degree Celsius. Sikar recorded -2.5 degrees Celsius followed by -0.6 degree in Karauli and -0.2 degree in Chittorgarh on Sunday night, weather officials said. Bhilwara recorded zero degree Celsius followed by 0.1 degree in Pilani, 0.2 degree in Nagaur, 0.4 degree in Alwar, 1.5 degrees in Banasthali and 1.8 degrees Celsius in Sangaria. Almost, all 36 places where weather is observed by regional MeT department, the minimum temperature was recorded below 9 degrees Celsius Saturday night. The maximum temperature was recorded between 18 and 26 degrees Celsius at most of the places in the state. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cold-winds-sweep-rajasthan-fatehpur-churu-record-below-freezing-point-temperatures-1062482.html
19-12-2021||North and Central||Families of slain militants in Kashmir in huge crisis: Study||Despite militants and militancy in Kashmir being glamorised by vested interests, the last 32-years of conflict had a devastating effect on the lives of the widows and the children of those terrorists who were killed and left their families to fend for themselves. A recent sociological research titled: “The effects of armed conflict on the families of slain members of armed groups in Kashmir” published in International Journal of Research and Analytical Reviews (IJRAR) reveals the miserable condition of families of the slain militants. “In most cases, the death of the family head (militant) led to the problems with mental health, as well as stunted intellectual development and physical growth of his children and widow,” the research carried by Dr Asima Hassan from Kashmir University reveals. The researcher, who surveyed 100 families across Kashmir for the paper, says 94 per cent of the families had a negative impact due to the killing of the militant, who was head of the family, while in 6 per cent cases they were not impacted. “Due to the financial problems and lack of social support, the incident had a devastating impact on them (families). In 85 per cent cases the widow didn’t go for remarriage as she had the responsibility of the orphaned children. The widows, who didn’t remarry faced problems like loneliness, mental torture, lack of control and guidance at home, fearful moments, failure of control over children, social insecurity, economic hardships, social apathy, discrimination and rough treatment by relatives and neighbours,” it points out. The respondents in the research have revealed that the sympathy of the people in the initial days after the killing of the militant vanished with time and they were later left to fend for themselves. A narrative of heroism has been constructed around the militancy in Kashmir which is believed to be one of the reasons for people to take up arms against the state. In recent years, crowds used to pelt stones to distract security forces during encounters and the protests after the killing of militants. Support is also counted in the attendance at funerals, the serpentine procession of mourners trailing behind the bodies of dead militants. “The funerals of slain militants had become a matter of pride for grieving families. However, this heroic image and sympathy vanishes within a few days after the militant‘s death and his family is left alone. Though some monetary help is being provided by relatives, neighbours and charity organisations to those families, whose financial conditions are worse, it is either insufficient to make the family financially empowered or it compromises the dignity of the family as the little support is not provided secretly,” the research findings reveal. It has also revealed that the emotional/mental well being of 93 per cent of the widows and single parent orphans was impacted after the militant's death. “It was observed that the respondents were having multiple psychological problems which included being fearful and feeling insecure. The respondents were having sleep disorders because of fearful thoughts which resulted in fear of getting victimised again,” the findings point out. The physical health of 81 per cent of the respondents (widows and orphans of slain militants) had also deteriorated after his death. Similarly, 37 per cent of such families faced a problem in finding a match for the children of slain militants while 27 per cent respondents did not answer this question. “Girls of militant families, dead or alive, such as their sisters, daughters, cousin sisters and other female relatives have lost the chance of getting good, equal and choicest boys. Though marriage with girls related to the members of armed groups has not emerged as a taboo, they were considered undesirable and were often avoided. This was done because of the reasons which included harassment on the part of security forces and the feeling that these families could not pay the dowry,” the research reveals. A senior police officer said that unfortunately the media has always portrayed and projected militants as some sort of heroes and role models or “at times like an alien kind.” “And when a terrorist is killed in an encounter with security forces, the media builds a dramatic picture because they need to carry forward the story of a region with a built-in narrative of conflict and terrorism. For Pakistan and its proxies, killings in Kashmir have been turned into statistics which hardly ever give us an inkling into what people go through,” he said. “It is important to ensure de-fantasisation of conflict situation and de-heroisation of terrorists and terrorism,” he suggested. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/families-of-slain-militants-in-kashmir-in-huge-crisis-study-1062487.html
19-12-2021||North and Central||One more beaten to death for alleged sacrilege attempt in Punjab||A day after a man was beaten to death for an alleged sacrilege bid at the Golden Temple in Amritsar, another person was killed for allegedly disrespecting 'Nishan Sahib' (Sikh religious flag) at a gurdwara here on Sunday morning. Some residents of village Nizampur claimed that the man disrespected the Nishan Sahib and tried to run away but was caught after a chase. According to police, the man was beaten to death. On Saturday evening, an unidentified man was caught and beaten to death after he allegedly attempted to commit “sacrilege” inside the sanctum sanctorum of the Golden Temple in Amritsar.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/one-more-beaten-to-death-for-alleged-sacrilege-attempt-in-punjab-1062489.html
19-12-2021||North and Central||Sacrilege attempt at Golden Temple aimed to create unrest in society: RSS||The RSS on Sunday condemned the sacrilege attempt at the Golden Temple in Punjab’s Amritsar and said it is a conspiracy to create unrest in society. An unidentified man was caught and beaten to death after he jumped the golden grills inside the sanctum sanctorum, picked a sword and reached near the place where a Sikh priest was reciting the holy Guru Granth Sahib at Golden Temple on Saturday evening. On Sunday morning, another man was killed after being accused of disrespecting 'Nishan Sahib' (Sikh religious flag) at a gurdwara in Kapurthala. “Guru Granth Sahib and Sri Guru Parampara are revered by all of us and are the repository of India's wealth of knowledge,” Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) general secretary Dattatreya Hosabale said. Asserting that the Guru Granth Sahib and Sikh Gurus are a common heritage, he said there are forces that are conspiring to create disharmony in the society. Hosabale sought a severe punishment against conspirators behind sacrilege incidents. However, he said the people should not let such incidents to disturb communal harmony.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sacrilege-attempt-at-golden-temple-aimed-to-create-unrest-in-society-rss-1062513.html
19-12-2021||North and Central||Situation in Jammu and Kashmir worsened after Article 370 abrogation: Mehbooba Mufti||Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti on Sunday claimed the situation in Jammu and Kashmir has worsened after the abrogation of Article 370 and called on the people of the union territory to stand up for their "snatched" rights. Addressing a party convention in Poonch district, Mehbooba termed the Centre's decision to revoke Article 370 "wrong, unconstitutional and undemocratic" and alleged it played with the dignity and honour of the people of Jammu and Kashmir. She also cast doubts on the Centre's intention to hold assembly elections in Jammu and Kashmir. The Centre revoked the special status of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir and split it into two union territories on August 5, 2019. "In view of the prevailing situation, the biggest responsibility lies with the youth. The situation has worsened after the abrogation of Article 370 and they (Centre) are not only taking away our land and jobs but have also played with our honour and dignity. They will not stop till they finish our existence," Mehbooba said. If people want to keep Jammu and Kashmir alive, the only option before them is to stand up for their "snatched" rights with determination and unity, "otherwise they (Centre) will loot everything from us", she said. "Our struggle did not end on August 5 (2019), instead it was the day when it actually started. We need your support to take this struggle to its logical conclusion in a peaceful manner, without picking up guns and stones," she added. The PDP leader alleged the youth of Jammu and Kashmir are driven to frustration so that they can ruin their lives by taking to drugs or picking up guns to get killed. On the Centre's announcement to hold assembly elections in Jammu and Kashmir after the completion of the delimitation exercise, Mehbooba said, "I do not know whether polls will be held because they will not conduct the elections till they are 100 per cent sure of dividing the majority vote." "They have already separated the Hindus and are browbeating Dalits. Now they want to divide Muslim votes on the lines of various names, parties and sects. They have already created many parties and their only intention is to gain a majority in the assembly so that they can justify the August 5, 2019 decision," she said. "They want to weaken our case against the August 5 development in the Supreme Court," she said. Mehbooba also defended her father Mufti Mohammad Sayeed's decision to join hands with the BJP to form the government in Jammu and Kashmir, saying his only desire was to end the bloodshed and resolve the Kashmir issue. "We have not lost hope and will continue to strive for the resolution of the Kashmir issue to usher in peace and development in J&K," she said, adding "we acceded to Gandhi's India and not his assassin Godse's India". Referring to the anti-encroachment drive, Mehbooba said people are being "deprived" of land they have had for generations "on the pretext that it is state's land". This land is being used for constructing buildings for the security forces in the Valley and outsiders in the Jammu region, she claimed. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/situation-in-jammu-and-kashmir-worsened-after-article-370-abrogation-mehbooba-mufti-1062529.html
19-12-2021||North and Central||CM Channi visits Golden Temple after sacrilege attempt, lynching||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi reached the Golden Temple here on Sunday, a day after a man was beaten to death after an alleged sacrilege attempt there. The chief minister is expected to meet senior police and administration officials in the city. A special investigation team (SIT) has been set up to probe the case. Earlier in the day, Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa held a meeting in Amritsar with the deputy commissioner, the police commissioner and other officials.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cm-channi-visits-golden-temple-after-sacrilege-attempt-lynching-1062531.html
19-12-2021||North and Central||In a first, DPCC to study microplastics pollution in River Yamuna, Delhi's soil, food||In a first-of-its-kind survey by a government body in the national capital, the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) will conduct a study to ascertain the concentration, distribution and composition of microplastics in River Yamuna, besides soil, vegetables and other edible products.  The pollution control body will also examine if the soil in the floodplains of River Yamuna is fit for agriculture, according to officials. Microplastics are fragments of any type of plastic less than five millimetres, according to the US National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and the European Chemicals Agency. They enter natural ecosystems from a variety of sources, including cosmetics, clothing, and industrial processes. Studies conducted earlier have shown that microplastics carry bacteria that are pathogenic to human and natural biota, and can enrich antibiotic resistant genes from municipal activated sludge.  The polymeric compounds and additives such as copper ions used in the production of plastics are toxic. Also, microplastics absorb various toxins in water that subsequently desorb inside the host organism.  The Yamuna floodplains, stretching 48 kilometres from Palla to Okhla, will be divided into three stretches of 16 km each for the study: Delhi Segment I (Palla to Wazirabad), Delhi Segment II (Wazirabad to Nizamuddin Bridge) and Delhi Segment III (Nizamuddin Bridge to Okhla), according to the terms of reference prepared by the DPCC. A DPCC official said the idea to study the presence of microplastics in River Yamuna and the national capital originated after an MP asked a question in Parliament about microplastics in River Ganga. "It is sad that we have not conducted any such study in the national capital," the official said, citing a report by environment research and advocacy organisation, Toxics Link.  The Toxics Link study on River Ganga threw up alarming results as "microplastics were found in all the samples".  "Locations with higher population density and greater industrialisation (textile, tannery, etc.) had a higher microplastics concentration in the river," the report says. "Compared to the concentration of microplastics in rivers such as the Rhine in Europe, the Patapsco, Magothy, Rhode in North America, the Elqui, Maipo, Biobio, and Maule in South America, the pollution is much higher in the Ganga," according to a report by Dr Mahua Saha, a senior scientist at the National Institute of Oceanography, Goa, and his team.  As river water is used for drinking and irrigation purposes quite extensively, an increased concentration of microplastics increases the potential harm it can cause to organisms and humans. As part of another study, the DPCC will examine the soil of the Yamuna for various contaminants and its fitness for agriculture and remediation possibilities. "River Yamuna is one of the most important rivers of India and is highly polluted. The river water and the adjacent soil are contaminated with various pollutants, including heavy metals. In this study, the effects of seasonal variations and heavy metal contamination in Yamuna water on physicochemical  properties and enzyme activities of soil will be observed," the terms of reference read.  Sampling will be collected from 10 points along the river course in summer, monsoon and winter.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/in-a-first-dpcc-to-study-microplastics-pollution-in-river-yamuna-delhis-soil-food-1062534.html
19-12-2021||North and Central||Rawat accuses BJP of taking credit for schemes launched by Congress in Uttarakhand||Congress poll campaign head for Uttarakhand, Harish Rawat, on Sunday accused the BJP government in the state of stopping all developmental works and taking credit for all the schemes implemented by the previous Congress government. "Such government is not good for the people and needs to be voted out in the forthcoming elections of the state," Rawat said addressing a public meeting in Moonakot as part of the party's 'Bhajpai dhol ki pol khol' (expose BJP) campaign. "During our government, we had launched schemes to promote local grains like ‘madua’ and pulses like ‘gahat’ to empower local farmers but the BJP government has stopped all these schemes, " he said. In his short speech, the Congress leader sought to assure the gathering that after coming to power in the state, the Congress will begin the process of recruitment for all posts lying vacant under the BJP rule and will encourage and promote cottage and small-scale entrepreneurs in villages. “If people give their blessings to the Congress, it will accord priority to the development of border districts as it had done during its previous tenure,” Rawat said. Besides Rawat, senior party leader Yashpal Arya, Pritam Singh, Manish Khanduri, Jeet Ram and Ranjit Singh Rawat also addressed the rally.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rawat-accuses-bjp-of-taking-credit-for-schemes-launched-by-congress-in-uttarakhand-1062542.html
19-12-2021||North and Central||People suffer as electricity crisis hits J&K amid ongoing strike by employees||Angry residents of Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday staged protests over total blackout in several parts of the region, as the strike by power development department employees against privatisation and other issues entered second day despite the administration’s request to resume work, officials said. Over 20,000 power sector employees had boycotted work around midnight on Friday in support of their various demands, including shelving of a proposed joint venture between the Jammu and Kashmir Power Transmission Corporation Limited and the Power Grid Corporation of India Limited. The employees, from all unions and associations, from linemen to senior engineers, decided to go on indefinite strike after failure of talks with the government, and staged demonstrations in the twin capital cities besides in district headquarters for the second day on Sunday, a spokesperson of the coordination committee of power supply employees said. Officials said many parts of the Union Territory witnessed total blackout due to the ongoing strike, as a result of which people are facing tremendous hardships due to non-availability of electricity and water supply, leading to protests by angry residents in Jammu city and other districts who are reeling under severe cold wave conditions. The spokesperson said they had presented a four-point formula to the government, but it failed to accept their demands, including a white paper on non-fulfillment of the recommendations of the unbundling report and the failure to create positions as mandated by the committee at gazetted and non-gazetted levels, regularisation of daily wagers and all power development department engineers. They are also demanding delinking their salary from grant-in-aid and releasing a regular budget for all PDD employees on deputation to different corporations and a white paper of service condition of PDD employees on deputation to the Chenab Valley Power Projects Private Limited (CVPPL) and similarly situated employees deputed from the NHPC. An official spokesman said the government of J&K, taking a sympathetic view of the issues raised, has engaged in several rounds of talks with the coordination committee of the power employees. “During each round of talks, the government representatives have appealed to the power employees to call off their strike as people in both Jammu and Kashmir divisions are suffering. In the wake of Covid-19 contagion and nail-biting cold in both the divisions, the coordination committee of the power employees is requested to end its strike,” the spokesman said. Reacting to the situation, Union minister Jitendra Singh expressed hope of a peaceful resolution to the issue at the earliest. “The administration is on the job… the time cannot be stopped as we have to keep pace with development in the rest of the country. The employees are part of the society and if they feel insecure, it is the responsibility of the rulers to address their concerns and move forward along with them,” he told reporters here. National Conference vice president and former chief minister Omar Abdullah asked the government to leave privatisation decisions to an elected government. “The J&K administration may be able to claim the constitutional authority to privatise the assets of J&K, but it completely lacks the political authority. Decisions of this nature with far reaching consequences should be left to an elected government,” he wrote on Twitter. The striking employees have made it clear that the repairs and restoration work would not be undertaken at all unless the feeder is supplied to any hospital. Senior BJP leader and former legislator Devender Singh Rana also expressed concern over many parts of the Jammu city as also peripheries plunging into darkness and urged the administration to take earnest measures in resolving the issues with the striking employees, especially during these chilly days. He hoped that all concerned will act responsibly as the stakes are very high, not only in terms of restoring electricity in the affected areas, but also to ensure that students do not suffer as they are solely dependent on online classes and examinations. “Failure in power supply is impacting the internet services,” he added. Jammu and Kashmir Apni Party president Syed Mohammad Altaf Bukhari also expressed serious concerns over the indefinite strike in opposition to a government decision that intends to privatise grid stations. “Over 20,000 electrical employees are currently on a strike due to which numerous areas across J&K are facing prolonged power blackouts and lingering of essential repair works. All of this is happening in the harsh cold winter season which is exponentially adding to the existing woes of the general public,” he observed. Bukhari demanded that the government should review its decision at an earliest to resolve this deadlock with the concerned employee's association in order to avoid further inconvenience to the people. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/people-suffer-as-electricity-crisis-hits-jk-amid-ongoing-strike-by-employees-1062558.html
19-12-2021||North and Central||Delhi records 107 new Covid cases, highest daily rise since June 27||The national capital on Sunday reported 107 new Covid-19 cases, its highest daily rise since June 27, and one death as the positivity rate stood at 0.17 per cent, according to data shared by the city health department. On June 27, Delhi had logged 259 coronavirus cases and four deaths, according to the government data. The city logged 86 new cases on Saturday and 69 on Friday with a positivity rate of 0.13 per cent and 0.12 per cent, respectively. The rise in daily cases comes amid an Omicron scare in Delhi as the total number of patients found infected with the latest variant of the coronavirus jumped by 12 on Friday to reach 22. The number of Covid cases recorded in Delhi so far has reached 14,42,197. Over 14.16 lakh patients have recovered from the disease. The death toll due to the coronavirus infection in Delhi stands at 25,101. Three deaths due to Covid-19 have been recorded in December so far in Delhi. Seven deaths were reported in November, four in October and five in September. A total of 61,905 Covid tests, including 57,435 RT-PCR tests, were conducted in the city a day ago, the bulletin stated. The number of active cases in Delhi has also breached the 500-mark for the first time in over four months. The city currently has 540 active cases, including 225 in home isolation. The national capital had 513 active cases on August 15. The number of containment zones in the city stands at 157, up from 153 on Saturday, the bulletin said. Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain had on Thursday said many international travellers are being tested Covid positive upon arrival at the Indira Gandhi International Airport. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday said the city government is ready to tackle the Omicron variant. He said Delhi was unlikely to face another wave of infections since according to the serosurvey conducted by the Delhi government, 96 per cent of the state population was found to have antibodies and a majority of them were vaccinated. Amid the jump in cases of Omicron variant in Delhi, doctors said people should avoid all gatherings and follow Covid-appropriate behaviours, else the pandemic situation may worsen given the highly transmissible nature of this variant of coronavirus. Health experts and doctors treating Covid patients at leading government and private facilities in the city have said that a "sense of complacency" has again crept in among a large section of citizens despite witnessing the "horrors of the second wave" of Covid infections earlier this year. Jain had recently said that medical infrastructure was being ramped up and 37,000 beds dedicated for Covid-19 patients were being set up to tackle the anticipated third wave of the pandemic. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-records-107-new-covid-cases-highest-daily-rise-since-june-27-1062560.html
19-12-2021||North and Central||Rohini court blast accused attempts suicide in police custody, now stable||A senior DRDO scientist who was arrested for "planting explosives" inside the Rohini district court allegedly attempted suicide by consuming hand wash in a washroom in police custody, officials said on Sunday. The accused, Bharat Bhushan Kataria (47), is undergoing treatment at AIIMS and is completely stable, they said. Kataria was arrested for allegedly planting an improvised explosive device (IED) in a tiffin box inside the Rohini court on December 9 with an intention to kill his neighbour, who had filed several cases against him and was present on court premises that day. The accused was questioned by the Delhi Police's Special Cell on Friday and subsequently arrested on the same day. He was in police custody since then and was being interrogated, the police said. On Saturday night, Kataria allegedly consumed liquid hand wash inside a washroom and was later found lying unconscious. When asked, he complained of vomiting and stomach ache. He was rushed to Baba Saheb Ambedkar Hospital and referred to AIIMS from there, a senior police officer said. "When police personnel went to check on him at the hospital, he told them that he didn't consume anything. But we spoke to the doctors and they said he had consumed hand wash," he said. "He is being treated at AIIMS and is completely stable. All his vitals are normal. A senior doctor will be checking on him tomorrow (Monday) and he is expected to be discharged. He will be interrogated soon," the officer added. The officer said that the accused had prepared himself in advance on how to evade questioning in case he gets caught. "He is misleading and manipulating the investigation team by evading questioning. He is uncooperative and using all that he has studied about the system to avoid interrogation," he added. The IED planted by Kataria triggered a low-intensity explosion in courtroom number 102. Naib Court head constable Rajeev was injured in the blast. The IED was not properly assembled due to which only the detonator exploded, the police had said. Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rohini-court-blast-accused-attempts-suicide-in-police-custody-now-stable-1062573.html
19-12-2021||North and Central||Power employees' strike: J&K admin seeks army’s help to restore electricity||Amid major power breakdown due to the indefinite strike of thousands of Power Development Department employees in Jammu and Kashmir, the administration sought help from the Army to restore electricity in the region. Over 20,000 employees, including engineers, have gone on an indefinite strike since Friday night against the government move to merge J&K Power Development Department into the Power Grid Corporation of India and the handing over of the assets to private companies. The strike has resulted in a complete breakdown of electricity in several districts of the union territory (UT), including Jammu and Srinagar cities. The J&K administration has held several rounds of talks with the representatives of the protesting employees. However, the talks have failed to yield any results forcing the administration to seek the help of the Army to restore the power supply in J&K. A letter written by the Divisional Commissioner, Jammu reads, “It is to bring to your notice that due to strike by Electricity Department personnel in UT of J&K, essential services have been severely affected in the region.” "We would hereby require the Indian army in restoring the essential services,” it reads. As power employees, from all unions and associations, from linemen to senior engineers refused to carry out any repair works or rectify technical snags in the system, power outages in this chilling winter have created severe hardships to people. Kashmir valley is already facing long power cuts during winters because of the huge gap between supply and demand. Srinagar recorded a bone-chilling minus 6 degrees Celsius last night with the Met Office predicting a further drop in minimum temperature and also snowfall this week. Convenor, Jammu and Kashmir Power Employees and Engineers Coordination Committee, Munshi Majid Ali said they have called for an indefinite strike after the government failed to address our issues. Sachin Tickoo, General Secretary of the Power Employee Union said it is the issue of their existence. “It’s the fight of the people we are fighting. We will be left with nothing if we lose the transmission sector. It’s the backbone of the power department,” he said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/power-employees-strike-jk-admin-seeks-army-s-help-to-restore-electricity-1062577.html
19-12-2021||North and Central||Courts can't lose sight of serious nature of accusations while considering bail pleas: Supreme Court||An individual's liberty is an invaluable right but courts cannot lose sight of the serious nature of accusations while considering a bail plea, the Supreme Court has said while setting aside a Patna High Court order granting bail to an accused in a murder case. The observation was made by a bench headed by Justice L Nageswara Rao. The top court was critical of the high court judgement granting bail to Pappu Singh, the head of a panchayat in Patna district, while taking note of the submissions of lawyer Smarhar Singh that the accused had attempted to kill Rupesh Kumar in 2017 before succeeding in 2020 and then was absconding for seven months. The Supreme Court bench, also comprising Justice BR Gavai and Justice BV Nagarathna, said a balance between the right to liberty and the severity of the case has to be struck by courts while dealing with such pleas. "Ultimately, the court considering an application for bail has to exercise discretion in a judicious manner and in accordance with the settled principles of law having regard to the crime alleged to be committed by the accused on the one hand and ensuring purity of the trial of the case on the other," said the bench. While considering the bail plea, a prima facie conclusion must be supported by reasons and must be arrived at after having regard to the vital facts of the case brought on record, it said. The bench said that due consideration must be given to facts suggestive of the nature of the crime, the criminal antecedents of the accused, if any, and the nature of punishment that would follow a conviction for the offences alleged. "While we are conscious of the fact that liberty of an individual is an invaluable right, at the same time while considering an application for bail courts cannot lose sight of the serious nature of the accusations against an accused and the facts that have a bearing in the case, particularly, when the accusations may not be false, frivolous or vexatious in nature but are supported by adequate material brought on record so as to enable a court to arrive at a prima facie conclusion," Justice Rao, writing the judgement for the bench, said. Dealing with the facts of the case, the bench said the accused has been facing trial in several criminal cases and had attempted to kill the accused in 2017 before finally succeeding in 2020. It also took note of the submissions of the lawyer that the accused suppressed his criminal history before the high court. "The High court has lost sight of the... vital aspects of the case and in very cryptic orders has granted bail to the respondent­accused. For the... reasons, we find that the High Court was not right in allowing the applications for bail filed by the respondent­accused. Hence, the impugned orders passed by the High Court are set aside. The appeals are allowed," the Supreme Court ordered. According to the police, Pappu Singh along with co-accused Deepak Kumar killed Rupesh Kumar on the night of February 19, 2020, in front of his mother at his home in the Naubatpur police station area of Patna district. Pappu Singh was on the run and was arrested on September 30, 2020. He was in judicial custody for nine months before being granted bail by the High Court, the lawyer said. An appeal seeking cancellation of bail was filed by complainant Brijmani Devi, the mother of the deceased, in the apex court. A separate FIR was lodged against the accused in 2017 for his attempt to kill Rupesh Kumar due to political rivalry.  Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/courts-cant-lose-sight-of-serious-nature-of-accusations-while-considering-bail-pleas-supreme-court-1062586.html
19-12-2021||North and Central||Centre calls meeting of party leaders of 12 suspended MPs; Oppn unlikely to attend||The government has invited floor leaders of five parties for a meeting on Monday morning to resolve the impasse over the suspension of 12 Rajya Sabha MPs but the Opposition is suspicious about the intention behind the move, amid indications that they may choose not to attend the deliberations. Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi wrote to floor leaders of Congress, Trinamool Congress, Shiv Sena, CPI(M) and CPI, whose MPs are suspended, for the meeting scheduled on Monday at 10 am in Parliament House. Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge wrote a letter to Joshi late in the night describing the invitation to select parties for a meeting between Leader of the House Piyush Goyal and the Parliamentary Affairs Minister as “unfair and unfortunate”. “All the Opposition parties are united in the protest against the suspension…We have been requesting from the evening of November 29 itself that either the Chairman of the Rajya Sabha or…Goyal should call leaders of all Opposition parties for a discussion to break the stalemate,” he wrote.  “This reasonable request of ours has not been agreed to, further inviting only leaders of four (sic) Opposition parties instead of inviting all Opposition parties is unfair and unfortunate and unfortunate,” he added. Opposition sources said that the five parties may not attend the meeting called by the government, as only parties whose MPs are suspended are invited. A final call will be taken at a meeting of Opposition parties to be chaired by Leader of Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge on Monday before the one scheduled by the government, they said. Sources said that various floor leaders had telephonic consultation with Kharge during which they conveyed that it was an attempt to divide the Opposition. Trinamool Congress, which is not attending meetings called by Congress, has also consulted other parties and all are on the same page, they said. They also feel that the government has scheduled the meeting just before the proceedings of Parliament just to show that they were making attempts to resolve the crisis, as Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu on Friday adjourned the House without transacting any business to facilitate a meeting between both the government and the Opposition. However, no meeting took place during the weekend. Twelve MPs -- six from Congress, two each from Shiv Sena and Trinamool and one each from CPI(M) and CPI) -- were suspended on November 29 for the entire Winter Session for their alleged unruly behaviour on the last day of the Monsoon Session in August. The suspended MPs began a sit-in at Gandhi Statue in Parliament House from December 1 and had held a 'Jan Sansad' last Friday against their suspension. Opposition MPs from both Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha also held a joint march, as they rejected the government demand for an apology from the MPs for revoking the suspension. Congress Chief Whip Jairam Ramesh said they have already conveyed to the government to stop trying to divide the Opposition which is united. "All parties are united. Govt should call all Opposition parties who are protesting unconstitutional and illegal suspension of 12 Opposition MPs," Ramesh told DH. Trinamool Congress Rajya Sabha floor leader Derek O'Brien tweeted, "Monday morning stunt from a government who do not want Parliament to function. Government calls leaders of the 4 (sic) Opposition parties whose 12 RS MPs have been arbitrarily suspended. Govt leaves the other 10 (sic) Opposition parties out. Failed stunt. All Opposition clear: first revoke the arbitrary suspension." Govt calls leaders of the 4 Oppn parties whose 12 RS MPs have been arbitrarily suspended. Govt leaves other 10 Oppn parties out. Failed stunt. ALL OPPN clear : first revoke arbitrary suspension CPI(M) floor leader Elamaram Kareem, a suspended MP, told DH that he has received the invitation for the meeting and a "collective decision" will be taken on attending the meeting. CPI's Binoy Viswam, also a suspended MP, echoed Kareem. "Opposition united is fighting the suspension of 12 MPs. Calling five parties for discussion at the fag end of the session is to divide the opposition unity. CPI will not subscribe to it. The final decision will be taken tomorrow in the joint opposition meeting," Viswam said. Shiv Sena's Sanjay Raut also confirmed that he received an invitation. "The Opposition leaders will meet in Parliament tomorrow morning to take a decision on taking part in the meeting called by the Government," he said.    Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/centre-calls-meeting-of-party-leaders-of-12-suspended-mps-oppn-unlikely-to-attend-1062587.html
19-12-2021||North and Central||J&K LG urges people to 'complement' administration's efforts||Jammu and Kashmir Lt Governor Manoj Sinha on Sunday urged the people to complement the efforts of his administration in taking the Union Territory to new heights of development. Sinha was speaking at his monthly episode of the 'Awaam ki Awaaz' programme which he dedicated to the martyrs of the 1971 war. “I pay homage to the brave hearts of the armed forces whose tales of valour etched the saga of December 16 as a glorious chapter in the rich legacy of our nation”, he said in his radio programme. Addressing the people, the Lt Governor shared the slew of measures taken by his administration for the growth and prosperity of Jammu and Kashmir and called upon them to discharge their social and moral responsibilities and complement the efforts in taking the Union Territory to new heights of development. Sinha highlighted valuable insights received from various corners for drafting the development policies as per the needs of the people and passed directions to the concerned departments to make the governance process more inclusive, participatory and people-centric. “Following the ideals of former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, we are moving ahead to bring about meaningful and lasting change in the life of the people by connecting every citizen with the mainstream of development,” he said. In the last two years, under the guidance of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, he said, the administration has tried to create a system that serves everyone with equal opportunities. “It is our endeavour to mobilise all the resources to improve the standard of living in the areas which have been deprived of progress for decades,” he said. The Lt Governor extended his heartfelt tributes to the Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat, his wife, and all the officers and jawans who lost their lives in a chopper crash on December 8. He also paid homage to the three police personnel killed in the terrorist attack on their bus in Srinagar on December 13. “I want to assure the fellow countrymen that the sacrifice of our brave police personnel will not go in vain,” he added.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-lg-urges-people-to-complement-administrations-efforts-1062594.html
19-12-2021||North and Central||Delhi records maximum temperature of 19.2 degree Celsius, three notches below normal||Delhi on Sunday recorded a maximum temperature of 19.2 degrees Celsius, three notches below normal, while the minimum was logged at 4.6 degrees Celsius, the season's lowest so far, according to the IMD. The relative humidity oscillated between 39 per cent and 85 per cent, an India Meteorological Department (IMD) official said. The weather office has predicted mainly clear skies with shallow fog on Monday morning and cold wave conditions at isolated places across the national capital. The minimum and the maximum temperatures are likely to settle around four degrees Celsius and 19 degrees Celsius respectively on Monday, it said. On Saturday, Delhi witnessed its first 'cold day' of the season as chilly northwesterly winds swept through the city, bringing the minimum temperature down to six degrees Celsius, according to the IMD. The maximum temperature was recorded at 17.8 degrees Celsius, five notches below normal and lowest of this season so far. According to the IMD, when the minimum temperature is less than or equal to 10 degrees Celsius and the maximum is at least 4.5 degrees below normal, it is said to be a 'cold day'. On Sunday, the air quality index (AQI) in the national capital was recorded at 280 at 7 PM which falls in the 'poor' category. The AQI in Faridabad stood at 228, Ghaziabad 244, Greater Noida 170, Gurugram 214 and Noida 218. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered 'good', 51 and 100 'satisfactory', 101 and 200 'moderate', 201 and 300 'poor', 301 and 400 'very poor', and 401 and 500 'severe'. Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-records-maximum-temperature-of-192-degree-celsius-three-notches-below-normal-1062603.html
19-12-2021||North and Central||Service to people is real 'Ram Rajya', all promises fulfilled, says Yogi Adityanath||Promises made by the BJP prior to the formation of the government in 2017 have been fulfilled since we consider service to people as the real “Ram Rajya”, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said Sunday. He said the BJP's non-appeasement policy was the reason behind the "tremendous development" of every section of the society in the past four-and-a-half years. “The act of providing free housing, toilets and insurance cover up to Rs 5 lakh to the poor is the real 'Ram Rajya',” Adityanath said, prior to flagging off the 'Jan Vishwas Yatra' from Mathura. Adityanath termed Prime Minister Narendra Modi washing the feet of sanitary workers in Prayagraj, showering rose petals on workers in Kashi and paying obeisance to the deity in Kashi Vishwanath temple as "historic events". He sought to know from the gathering whether the Samajwadi Party, the Bahujan Samaj Party or the Congress would have accorded 'pilgrimage site' status to Mathura, Vrindavan, Govardhan, Nandgaon, Barsana, Gokul and Baldeo, carried out the construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya and the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor, extended free ration to the poor and roll out schemes during Covid-19 on the lines of those undertaken by his government. As the crowd shouted "no", he asked why they would cast their votes to such parties. He said Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah translated Dr Syama Prasad Mookerjee's dream of "one country, one flag and one constitution" into reality by scrapping Article 370 of the Constitution that accorded special status to Jammu and Kashmir. "A new Uttar Pradesh has been born during the last five years," Yogi claimed, adding the 'new state' will, on one side, develop religious places and on the other, eliminate mafia. The BJP on Sunday launched the yatra from six places in the state and is slated to cover all 403 constituencies in the run-up to the Assembly polls. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/service-to-people-is-real-ram-rajya-all-promises-fulfilled-says-yogi-adityanath-1062621.html
19-12-2021||North and Central||Sidhu a 'political mercenary', divided Congress, says Punjab minister Rana Gurjeet Singh||In a no-holds-barred attack, Punjab minister Rana Gurjeet Singh on Sunday called state Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu a "political mercenary" and alleged that he has divided the party. The minister also accused Sidhu of questioning the loyalty of the "true and traditional Congressmen" and said he joined the party just to become the chief minister. "But sooner you leave better it will be for the party as you have divided and damaged the party from within as if you were pursuing some hidden agenda of your real political masters who are still pulling your strings," Rana said in a statement. "You are just like a mercenary having joined the party just with the sole purpose of becoming the chief minister, while I have been in the party right from my birth," the minister said, calling himself a "born Congressman". Sidhu had joined the Congress after quitting the BJP ahead of the 2017 Assembly polls. The minister said Sidhu is just a "political mercenary bereft of any principles or ideology". "It is an irony that someone who is basically a political party hopper and has not even spent five years in the party, is preaching and pontificating to people like us who have spent an entire lifetime in the service of the party," he said. Rana said keeping in mind Sidhu's "unstable and eccentric behaviour", nobody is sure whether he would stay in the Congress or quit the party before the Assembly polls. The senior Congress leader also questioned intentions of Sidhu in opposing his own government and the CM, saying he has now been "exposed". "You have been openly criticising our chief minister as you have started feeling jealous and insecure about his popularity among the masses," Rana said. "As party president, your key responsibility is to keep the party united but you did not leave any stone unturned to create fissures in the campaign committee, manifesto committee and screening committee, which were constituted by the party high command," said Rana. The minister’s statement came a day after the Punjab Congress chief in a dig at a rally suggested that it is the "end of road for Rajas and Ranas". Sidhu had also backed the candidature of MLA Navtej Singh Cheema from Sultanpur Lodhi, a seat Rana's son Rana Inder Partap Singh is eyeing to contest from. Earlier this year, Sidhu had become the state Congress chief amid a power tussle with Amarinder Singh, who had quit the party following his unceremonious exit as the chief minister. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sidhu-a-political-mercenary-divided-congress-says-punjab-minister-rana-gurjeet-singh-1062634.html
19-12-2021||North and Central||Mahatma Gandhi would be happy to see Kashi today: CM Yogi||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday said Mahatma Gandhi would have been happy to see the "beauty" of Kashi (Varanasi) today, highlighting the city's makeover under Kashi Vishwanath Corridor project. “When in 1916 Mahatma Gandhi came to Kashi and went to have 'darshan' of Kashi Vishwanath temple, he made sharp comment on the dirt and narrow lanes around the temple. “But now PM Modi has changed the entire situation and Mahatma Gandhi would have been very happy after seeing the beauty of Kashi,” Adityanath said. Addressing a programme of RSS-affiliated ABVP in Gorakhpur, he said in 1980 when Ramjanmbhoomi movement started it was hard for people to believe that the temple will one day become a reality. He also alleged that Article 370 - now abrogated - was implemented against the wish of B R Ambedkar and the then-Jansangh leader Shyama Prasad Mookerji. “Article 370 was introduced silently. Babasaheb opposed it, but his voice was suppressed. Shyama Prasad Mookarji too protested against the article and raised his voice for one nation, one symbol. And he sacrificed himself to end permit raj in Kashmir,” he said. He accused the opposition parties of dividing society in the name of “caste, language, and place”. Adityanath lauded the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) for “bringing people of Northeast into the mainstream”, saying what could not be done by previous governments, was done by the student organisation. "Today BJP has government in Assam, Tripura, Meghalaya, and Arunachal Pradesh. I can say now that ABVP is doing a good job,” he said. Talking about his meeting with 22 BTech students, the CM said 16 of them wanted to launch startups but were not aware of government schemes about it. He asked the ABVP to create awareness about welfare schemes of the government so that people could be benefited. The CM claimed that with start of ODOP (One District, One Product) scheme, UP has become an export hub. He said terracotta artists earned Rs 8 lakh in Lucknow and people bought locally-made idols of Lakshmi-Ganesh during Diwali instead of those made in China. Adityanath lauded PM Modi also for his “management” of Covid pandemic. He said more people died in the US of coronavirus than India despite the latter’s weaker health infrastructure and higher population. Earlier at another event in the city, the CM laid foundation of or inaugurated 334 development schemes worth Rs 955 crore. During the programme, he also distributed “equipment” among 1261 children with disability.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mahatma-gandhi-would-be-happy-to-see-kashi-today-cm-yogi-1062636.html
19-12-2021||North and Central||Campaigning for Chandigarh civic polls, Kejriwal promises free water, doorstep delivery of services||Campaigning for the December 24 municipal corporation election in Chandigarh, AAP national convener Arvind Kejriwal promised free water and doorstep delivery of services if his party wins the polls. He accused the ruling BJP and the Congress of having "ruined" Chandigarh which is also known as 'the City Beautiful'. "These days, a rumour is doing the rounds that soon the Centre is going to hand over Chandigarh to Punjab. "If that turns out to be true and since after a few months the Aam Aadmi Party is going to come to power in Punjab, then it is pointless to vote for the BJP and Congress (in the municipal polls)," Kejriwal said. Chandigarh is a Union Territory and joint capital of Punjab and Haryana.      He pledged that corruption would be rooted out if the AAP wins the Chandigarh civic polls. "Like Delhi, the people of Chandigarh will not need to go to the municipal corporation office to get their work done. The employees will visit the homes of people to get their works such as getting rations card or electricity and water connection will be done," Kejriwal said. He said garbage from the Daddu Majra dumping ground will be cleared, and CCTV cameras and street lights will be installed at various places for the safety of women, he said. "After the formation of Chandigarh Municipal Corporation in 1996, you gave Congress a chance to rule for 13 years and BJP for 12 years. Together they ruined the city. Give one chance to Aam Aadmi Party, we will undertake development," Kejriwal said. "BJP says it is necessary to have a double engine government for development. The MP of Chandigarh belongs to BJP, the mayor belongs to BJP, the Governor is of their choice and the government at the Centre is also of BJP. Yet why is that they have failed to do anything worthwhile for the city," he asked. Addressing the gathering, AAP's Punjab president and MP Bhagwant Mann claimed that the BJP has become 'Jumla Party' which makes hollow slogans. Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/campaigning-for-chandigarh-civic-polls-kejriwal-promises-free-water-doorstep-delivery-of-services-1062637.html
19-12-2021||Oasis||Developing an adaptable will||Where there is a will there is a way. We’ve heard the line hurled at us when we lacked the will to make a new beginning or reach a difficult destination. We’ve often been accused of being fickle-minded and in need of a strong will to accomplish our goals. It is believed that a will as sturdy as iron is all that it takes to begin and complete any formidable task. There is however a flip side to this sort of a dogged determination to go after something in our dynamic and ever-changing life situations. Reality changes; new conditions kick in; fresh facts emerge and unforeseen circumstances arise. In such situations, the intelligent choice is to adjust our will to the changed situations. Not being able to adapt and blindly cling to the iron will could bring negative returns rather than desirable ones. To simply go after what we want or want we are accustomed to without taking cognisance of the changes emerging around us is tantamount to being like robots programmed to execute various tasks. This is precisely what happened to us when Covid-19 struck the world. We were so set in our ways. We had to live in a certain way and had to perform certain activities no matter what. As a result scores and scores of us could not adapt ourselves to the new demands of a pandemic affected the world. We just could not stay indoors. We refused to postpone travel. We brushed aside the idea of worship from our homes. Many irresponsibly exposed themselves and contributed to the spread of the contagion. The point, therefore, is not to have an iron will, but an adaptable will. Contrary to common belief, it is not weak to change and adapt. Flexibility and the willingness to alter perceptions, ideas, impulses, judgements and decisions for the right causes are traits of strength. As Marcus Aurelius, the Roman philosopher wrote, “Remember that to change your mind and to follow someone’s correction are consistent with a free will. For the action is yours alone — to fulfil its purpose, in keeping with your impulse and judgement and yes, with your intelligence.” Fela Bank-Olemoh asserts this truth as he wrote, “Life is in seasons. Whatever season you find yourself, learn to adapt.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/developing-an-adaptable-will-1062627.html
19-12-2021||Opinion||Wholesale inflation is at a 30-year high. Why is govt not worried?||Hindi films have rarely had songs on inflation. But of the few that have, the 1974 flick Roti, Kapda aur Makaan and the 2010 release Peepli Live stand out. Roti, Kapda aur Makaan had the superhit song …bhaaki kuch bachcha to mehangai maar gayi (…whatever was left, inflation took it away). The Peepli Live song went like this, …sakhi saiyan to khub hi kamaat hain, mehangayi daiyan khaaye jaat hai (O, my friend, my husband does earn well, but the inflation witch eats it all). Inflation, or the rate of price rise, is thus a silent tax, and it takes away the purchasing power that people have. This makes it politically the most sensitive of all economic indicators. Indeed, the most recent measure of inflation as per the wholesale price index (WPI) should be a worry for the government. In November, it stood at 14.2%. This means that wholesale prices rose by 14.2% in comparison to what they were in November 2020. This is the highest monthly inflation in the current WPI series, which starts from April 2012 onwards. The spliced WPI series published by the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy has data going as far back as April 1983. As per this series, the wholesale inflation in November is the highest seen since April 1992, when it was at 13.8%. So, WPI inflation last month was at a nearly three-decade high. The high prices of different kinds of fuels and minerals have been driving wholesale inflation up. Take the case of iron ore, a basic ingredient in the making of steel. Its price in November went up 56.4%. Overall, mineral prices went up 20.9%. As for fuel, petrol price rose 85.4%, diesel price 86.1% and LPG price 65.2%. This increase in prices of fuel and minerals has seeped some extent into the increase in the prices of manufactured products, which saw an inflation of 11.9%. Nonetheless, politically, such a high wholesale inflation rate hasn’t set the alarm bells ringing as it should have. Why is that? In November, inflation, as measured by consumer price inflation (CPI) or retail inflation, stood at 4.9%. This huge gap between wholesale inflation and retail inflation has persisted through most of this financial year. Since April, WPI has been higher than 10% and CPI has been considerably lower. Between April and November, the wholesale inflation was 12.2% whereas retail inflation was 5.2%. Why are higher wholesale prices not feeding into retail prices? A simple reason for this lies in the fact that food has a much higher weightage in the CPI than in the WPI. Food prices this year have risen at a slower pace than last year. In November, food prices rose at 1.9%. Food prices rising slowly explains the gap between wholesale inflation and retail inflation. Nonetheless, this comes with a corollary. Base effect is also at work, meaning that food prices rose at a very fast pace throughout last year. Hence, food prices were very high to start with, and on top of that we have had some more price rise. Between April and November 2020, food inflation was at 9.9%. This year, it stood at 2.8%, thanks to the base effect. Starting next month, this base effect will go away because food inflation in December was 3.4%. There is another point that needs to be made, taking the case of vegetables. Vegetable prices this November fell by 13.6%, in comparison to that in November 2020. This might lead many to quip that the government data collectors are clearly not visiting the same markets as the common folks are. But it is base effect at work again. Vegetable prices in November 2020 had risen by 15.5%. Interestingly, if we compare month-on-month prices of vegetables, in October prices went up by 14.2% in comparison to September and they went up 7.5% in comparison to October. This explains the recent spurt in vegetable prices. There is another reason for higher wholesale prices not feeding into retail prices. Given the destruction in consumer demand that happened due to the pandemic lockdown, companies resisted passing on price increases to their consumers. But with demand picking up, this has started to change. Fast-moving consumer goods companies have started to raise prices or cut product pack sizes. This will start showing up in the retail inflation number soon. Further, telecom companies have also increased prices by 20-25%, largely for their prepaid plans. Also, as the economy keeps opening up, services inflation will rise further. Take the example of recreation and amusement inflation. The inflation in the last three months is the highest it has ever been in the current CPI series since 2012. This is a clear example of the fact that the well-to-do are stepping out of their homes and this is pushing up prices of everything from hotel rooms to cinema tickets. Specifically, in a city like Bengaluru, thanks to the presence of IT companies and many unicorns, high wage inflation will also feed into retail inflation, hurting those who aren’t seeing their incomes grow at the same pace as those working in such companies. Of course, on top of this is the fear of Omicron, the new variant of the Covid virus. If Covid spreads again due to the new variant, there will be demand destruction, but there will be supply chain disruptions as well, which will feed into retail inflation. All in all, we can safely bet that retail inflation will go up in 2022. It will become a political concern, if it hasn’t already become one. (Vivek Kaul lives to read crime fiction, and unlike his honest ancestors, makes a living writing on economics.) Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/wholesale-inflation-is-at-a-30-year-high-why-is-govt-not-worried-1062341.html
19-12-2021||Opinion||Sugar, ah honey, honey||I’m not a fan of the Archies’ bubble-gum pop song, Sugar, from 1969, but it is a bit catchy, and undeniably apt: ‘Sugar Ah, honey, honey You are my candy girl And you got me wanting you.’ It’s apt because I’m a sugar addict, a junkie. I need to have it, whether as simple carbohydrates, alcohol, or sweet treats themselves. And I use the seemingly hyperbolic term ‘junkie’ because, as it turns out, it’s not hyperbolic at all! Recent studies on the impact of sugar on our brains suggest that its influence and addictive properties rival that of cocaine. Speaking of cocaine (and sugar), in Sigmund Freud’s Cocaine Papers from more than a century ago, he had already warned us of the neurological threat that sugar poses. Freud actually suggested that sugar, for him more dangerous than cocaine, was likely responsible for much of the neurosis he discerned in modern social life. He thought sugar was making us all crazy. But we don’t need to give credence to a coked-up misogynist who never managed to cure any of his patients. Leave neurological issues aside. The physiological damage that sugars do to us is beyond dispute (I use the plural to take into account the fructose and glucose that all of our sugar and carbs and alcohol are broken down into). The readiest example would be their role in catalysing type-II diabetes. And as India has the second-highest number of type-II diabetes patients in the world, and the highest number of pre-diabetes cases, sugars are more than simply an indulgence, and more than an addiction even. They might actually turn out to be an existential threat. Again, that’s not hyperbolic. Look at the stats. Around 3% of all deaths in India are attributable to diabetes. That’s nearly one million people per year. If you were to compare the figures from deaths attributable to terrorism — it is too minuscule even to bother. And yet, India has spent and continues to spend countless crores, it has altered long-standing legal regimes, abridged citizens’ rights and freedoms, inaugurated a massive surveillance regime, abruptly demonetised its currency, and so much more in order to tackle the security challenge that terrorism ostensibly poses. What has it done, by contrast, to tackle the crisis that diabetes poses — both in terms of preventable deaths as well as its enormous financial burden both on the citizen and the State? Some will say this is an unfair juxtaposition. One is about the sovereignty and integrity of the nation-state, while the other is a public health issue. Fair enough. Let’s take Covid then. Since it hit India, Covid has caused half as many deaths as diabetes causes in a single year. And again, India has spent countless crores, has altered laws, abridged rights, increased surveillance, and so on. What has it done, in comparison, for the public health crisis of diabetes? Despite that it is an ‘epidemic’ hardly rivaled, the only national-level strategy or system to treat, to detect, or to prevent diabetes in India is the poorly funded, and even more poorly administered National Programme for Prevention and Control of Cancer, Diabetes, Cardiovascular Diseases and Stroke (NPCDCS), a motley set of pilot programmes, operating ad hoc and without urgency, innovation or vision, as part of the National Health Mission of the Ministry of Health. Diabetic Indians pay out of pocket five times the entire budget of the NPCDCS for their treatment each year — so something is clearly out of whack. Shifting perspective from public health to public awareness, the way we blithely gorge ourselves on simple carbohydrates, white rice, white flour, and other fibreless favourites like fruit juices, chips and biscuits, sugar-laden packaged foods, as well as fried foods, excessive sugar in our tea and sweets, alcoholic drinks, sweet cocktails, colas, and so on, is indicative of complete resignation on the part of our public authorities — when it comes to sugar, despite that it costs dearly and eventually kills, liberty seems to reign supreme. The polar opposite to the position on terrorism, Covid, and other priorities. Perhaps when the suffering population rises from 10% to 25% or more, as is soon expected, some strategic resources will finally be allocated to the epidemic. Until then, we wait, and sing along with the Archies… Oh, sugar Pour a little sugar on it, honey Pour a little sugar on it, baby Make your life so sweet, yeah, yeah, yeah. (Aakash Singh Rathore as Dr Jekyll is a Professor of Philosophy, Politics and Law, author and editor of over 20 books and counting, and as Mr Hyde, one of India’s top-ranking Ironman triathletes)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/sugar-ah-honey-honey-1062342.html
19-12-2021||Opinion||Seeking a dharma for these times||During the months that the Covid virus ensured that just about every Indian lost someone they knew, many religious institutions across the country stepped in to help: they organised hospital beds and vaccine camps, distributed food, clothes and masks, and on a rare occasion, offered to look after the educational needs of children orphaned by the deadly virus. A few weeks ago, when Hindu right-wing outfits threatened to disrupt a namaz gathering in Gurgaon, two Gurudwaras offered their premises to the Muslims to pray. Indeed, religious institutions do charitable work during ordinary times too, such as running free or low-cost schools, colleges, hostels, marriage halls and health centres, among others. While religious institutions are variously engaged in society in the present, it is unclear, however, what the contemporary world means for their religious philosophies, whose origins go way back in time to radically different, non-modern contexts. In a generic sense, the moral appeal of kindness, compassion, honesty and non-violence, to name a few values affirmed across various religious philosophies, continues undiminished through time, but these values are part of complex metaphysical systems with richly varying senses of the universe, God, nature, humans, animals and the relations between them. If religious metaphysical systems prescribe ways in which humans and communities can evolve a meaningful relationship with their social milieu, what is to happen to them when fundamentally new understandings of the social milieu emerge? Religious thought is, of course, in a dynamic relation with its social circumstances, with religious leaders making their texts speak to their time, to the changed social circumstances, allowing at times for the emergence of new sects or breakaway new religions. However, the current ecological crisis poses a different order of challenge to theology. If human civilisation will not endure forever at current levels of human misbehaviour with the earth, religious leaders are confronting a world radically different than anything their predecessors imagined. Really, they owe it to themselves and their community to explore whether their theological heritage offers meaningful responses to the new existential predicament. Are there moral ideas and symbols inside that can reorient current life practices, that can bring a less hurtful relation with the earth? Can the tradition sustain itself by allowing for moral innovations in the present? Barring a rare exception like Pope Francis, religious leaders do not seem to be theologically preoccupied with the ecological catastrophe. As they don’t seem to be with the ever-present threat, since a few decades, of the nuclear annihilation of the world. In his Theology for a Nuclear Age (Westminster Press, 1985), which argues for a fundamental recasting of Christian theology in the light of the nuclear threat, Gordon Kaufman, an American theologian, asked whether it made any sense to see God as sovereign when the whole world could perish at the touch of a button. In a comparative spirit, what does the absence of a sovereign conception of an all-knowing, infallible God in several religious traditions of India mean for reimagining the place of God in relation to the climate crisis? When it became clear that the UN Climate Change conference last month was mostly a token event, religious leaders in India didn’t have anything to say by way of a response. As a new year makes its way, let us hope that this tragic state of affairs will give way. The indifference to the new moral challenges on the part of the custodians of religious faiths in the country has been unfortunate: not only has ecological recklessness had a free run, the amoral pursuit of political power has become legitimate and the violence against religious minorities, tribals and Dalits a casual fact. An engagement with contemporary evil, with all the moral resources and experiences that the religious traditions offer, is what we will need to see. That might generate fresh ethical conversations and offer new ways of humanising ourselves. That might open up new sources of hope. (The ISEC Professor looks for new ways of looking)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/seeking-a-dharma-for-these-times-1062343.html
19-12-2021||Opinion||Here comes the government, with an updated grihyasutra!||The Union Cabinet has cleared a proposal to increase the minimum age of women for marriage from 18 to 21, bringing them on par with men. It got me thinking about age and marriage in ancient Sanskrit texts. Many texts classify women by age. For instance, Nagarasarvasva, a manual on love, says that a girl up to the age of 16 is a child (bala), a woman up to 30 years is young (taruni), between 30 and 50 is ‘mature’ (praudha), and after 50 is old (vriddha). It seems like 50 was the old 70. While the Kamasutra states that a bride’s age must be at least three years less than the groom’s, some scriptures maintain that the optimum ages of the bride and groom should be in the ratio 1:3. Yes, you read that right! It rather explains some verses in Sanskrit and Prakrit about unfortunate women who were unwillingly married off to much older men. Rudrata’s Kavyalankara, likely from the ninth century, has a verse that reads: “Somehow, with great difficulty and tightly closed eyes, young women kiss the lips of old men as if they were bitter medicine.” PV Kane’s work on the history of ancient Indian law is a veritable treasure of information, and in addition to telling us about various rites and prescriptions connected with marriage, he also mentions a strange practice prescribed in the grihyasutras for selecting a bride. Now, there are many Sanskrit texts telling men what kind of girls to marry. PSA: If you are a woman and you have the name of a tree or river, you’re either hairless or very hairy, or you have dimples, or you don’t have brothers, I must inform you sadly that men would be advised against marrying you in ancient India. Of course, we are not certain any of these rules were ever followed to the letter, given that barely anyone would be eligible to be married at all! But in addition to these, how was anyone to know if the woman would bring good fortune or not? So, the grihyasutras suggested that eight lumps of mud be placed in front of the potential bride, each taken from a different place: a field with good yield, a cow-stable, a Vedic altar, a pool, a gambling house, a road crossing, barren land, and a burial ground. Surely, you can see where this is going. The potential bride had to pick one of the lumps. Picked the lump from the cow-stable? Her children will own many cows. Gambling house? They will be addicted to gambling. Road crossing? They will wander the streets as beggars. Vedic altar? They will be enlightened souls! I suggest that this practice be revived today, with lumps of mud brought instead from Silicon Valley, Oxford, IIT-Bombay, local government office, nearby college of arts, etc. PV Kane also tells us about a story in the Mahabharata of a woman who preferred not to marry at all. We have all heard of Draupadi, Savitri, and even Maitreyi from the Upanishads, but did you know of the daughter of Sage Kunigarga? She practised the most severe of penances for many years. She had not met a man equal to her, and so she didn’t care to marry. Narada, however, visited her when she was old, and told her that she could not go to heaven unless she was married at the time of her death. So, Kunigarga’s daughter thought for a while and announced that she would marry a man one day before she was to die, and offer him half of the merit gained through her penance. She married Shringavan, who agreed to the deal, for one day, wished him luck, and gave up her body through penance. Shringavan, pining after her, soon died of sorrow. We don’t know her name, which is rather unfortunate, but with all the rules surrounding marriage, I’m surprised we don’t have more stories like this one! (The University of Toronto doctoral student in Religion oscillates between scholarly pursuits and abject laziness)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/here-comes-the-government-with-an-updated-grihyasutra-1062345.html
19-12-2021||Opinion||Golden Temple lynching: Dark days could revisit Punjab||That sacrilege inside the sanctum sanctorum of the Golden Temple could snowball into an election issue seems a foregone conclusion. Sample the narrative of the Congress in the run-up to the 2017 Assembly elections in Punjab. "We will bring the guilty to book and punish those who are shielding the accused," Amarinder Singh, then the Congress party's chief campaigner, had promised. The latter was an obvious reference to the Badals of the Shiromani Akali Dal.  The learning from the 2017 elections campaign is simple. For the sake of peace in Punjab, the issue should not turn into a political game to garner votes in the forthcoming polls. And that it should not disturb the communal harmony that exists in this state where Sikhs and Hindus live cheek by jowl and have lived through the most tumultuous period of history between 1980 and 1993 when the separatist movement was at its peak. However, it's essential to be mindful of the recent history of Punjab. In 1978, when sacrilege took place, it led to clashes between traditional Sikhs and Nirankaris. The incident gave birth to the separatist movement in Punjab and marked the emergence of Jarnail Singh Bhindranwale. The Nirankaris are a movement within Sikhism that believes in a living guru and not the scriptural guru, the Sikh holy book of Guru Granth Sahib.  In 1978, Sikhs led by Bhindranwale were agitated with Nirankari chief Gurbachan Singh for holding a convention in Amritsar. Sikhs had been at loggerheads with Nirankaris on several issues, most notably the sect's belief of considering its chief as 'satguru'. Sikhs, on the other hand, consider Guru Granth Sahib as their living guru after the tenth Sikh guru Guru Gobind Singh.  There were other issues also like the Nirankari sect had seven 'sitare', a kind of parallel to the tenet of 'panj pyaras' of the Sikh religion. Sikhs considered it blasphemous, and all of it came to a boil on April 13, 1978, when 13 Sikhs were killed in a clash between Sikhs and Nirankaris. The trial of the case was shifted to Haryana, where a court acquitted the Nirankari men on the ground that they acted in "self-defence", which had Bhindranwale announce that there would be a fight for justice. On April 24, 1980, the Nirankari sect head Gurbachan Singh was assassinated. To put it plainly, that sacrilege incident, though contested by Nirankaris, ignited a fire that led to 13 years of a separatist movement in Punjab, which witnessed unprecedented bloodshed for the first time after the 1947 partition. Making political gains of issues about blasphemy, something Indira Gandhi and her Congress were accused of in 1980, could prove to be counterproductive and push Punjab, once the most prosperous state of India, back into the dark days. Not that the Congress has faulted only once and learnt its lessons. It seems incorrigible at repeatedly wanting to play with fire. In 2017, Amarinder Singh initially blamed the Badals for shielding those accused of beadbi (religious sacrilege). In the run-up to the polls, he promised he would bring those who protected the guilty to the book, which meant the Badals. Five years later, in an interview with a news channel, he said, "How can you take action without evidence?" Subsequently, Navjot Singh Sidhu accused Amarinder Singh of being in cahoots with the Badals. We are now likely to see candidates trying to milk the issue of sacrilege for votes in their poll campaigning by promising they will bring the guilty to book even though the power to investigate lies with law enforcement agencies. The law enforcement agencies, who report to the government, find themselves in a catch-22 situation while drawing the chain backwards to the conspirators or those shielding the accused. Since those in the government have made public claims about who the guilty are at the time of campaigning. As for the latest sacrilege case, the man who committed blasphemy was killed, which could prove to be the biggest hiccup to understand further who the conspirators were. It does not look like a one-person job. There have been a series of such sacrilege incidents taking place since June 2015, and all seem deliberate well-planned acts. All political parties should commit that whoever comes to power will bring the guilty to book without hunting for credit. Consider this as service to God. (The writer is a journalist based in Chandigarh) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/golden-temple-lynching-dark-days-could-revisit-punjab-1062443.html
19-12-2021||Opinion||In Congress, Jaipur rally makes rebels fall in step||Price rise and the steep inflationary trend are issues that the reluctant and divided opposition should have focused on with full might to corner the Narendra Modi government. Notwithstanding the multiple divisions in the Opposition camp ahead of the forthcoming Assembly elections, the Congress held a massive national rally in Jaipur on December 12. The event was significant enough for the party that Congress president Sonia Gandhi travelled to Jaipur to enthuse the party rank and file despite her ill-health. However, she did not address the rally. It was a sign that the Congress is in a do-or-die situation with regional satraps, such as the Trinamool Congress chief, Mamata Banerjee, challenging the grand old party's credentials to become the fulcrum of opposition unity.  Political rallies and meetings are organised not merely as a mark of protest or eulogy for a particular development if the organisers happen to be the ruling party. Such events are also a show of strength or to send a message to the rank and file and the people about the prevailing political situation. Some interpreted the anti-price rise rally to be an attempt to re-lay the platform for anointing Rahul Gandhi as the party chief or establish his supremacy within the party. But that did not seem to be the case or the only cause. The national rally on the issue of price rise is a natural culmination of the Congress's several protests against rising prices, particularly of petrol and diesel. The change of venue from Delhi to Jaipur was necessitated after Delhi Police refused permission to allow the event in the national capital. While price rise was the central theme of the Jaipur rally, Rahul Gandhi criticised Prime Minister Modi and the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on the issue of Hindutva, distinguishing it from Hinduism. Precisely a month after he had raised this issue of the distinction between Hindutva and Hinduism for the first time while addressing a Congress training programme at Wardha, he chose Jaipur to take this debate further. The idea ostensibly was to sensitise party leaders and workers assembled from across the country about the issue. As the Wardha address was limited to a small gathering, a public rally of this magnitude certainly was a chance for him to broaden the canvas of his Hindutva versus Hinduism debate. Primarily, there were two main messages that the party wished to convey from the platform of the price-rise rally apart from highlighting inflation. Firstly, it attempts to corner the ruling party, particularly the PM, on the issues of "misgovernance" such as price rise and national security. Secondly, it will challenge the ruling party head-on on ideological matters. Both - price rise and Hinduism versus Hindutva debate - were evident in the Jaipur rally, and more on this is expected in the days to come.  Some quarters within the Congress had expressed reservations when Rahul Gandhi touched upon the Hinduism versus Hindutva debate during his address to the AICC training camp in Wardha. But there are substantial sections within the Congress and outside who feel that the party must take a clear stand on the issue, particularly on Hindutva, the BJP's political plank. Rahul Gandhi's shaping of the debate suggested that the Congress is preparing for a slugfest and challenge the ruling dispensation's purported hegemony to depict itself as guardian of a particular religious group. The old-timers in the Congress who believe that silence is golden on this and that the storm would blow over on its own are becoming outdated in the party and losing strength. In this era of optics, there is no scope for ambiguity, let alone silence. The party would be required to strategically frame its stand on critical ideological and political issues that the ruling BJP successfully exploits. That silence is golden, but it has its pitfalls when the political rival happens to be Modi backed by well-oiled organisational machinery. The silence in such a case could be misconstrued as weakness, a projection successfully done by the BJP strategists. Or else it could also reflect concurrence. Luckily for the Congress, the concurrence would not stand ground given the direct ideological fight which the party has with the outright religion-based politics of the BJP. The second and equally important motivation behind this rally was to use the occasion to show strength and portray inner-party unity, a big trouble spot lately for the Congress high-command. The latest challenge is from the rebelling Group 23, or G23, leaders. The G23 has considerably decimated, but the party's top brass seized this opportunity to publicly display a semblance of unity. Accordingly, most rebel leaders owing allegiance to this group, including G23 leader Ghulam Nabi Azad, were invited to the rally. Some of the frontline leaders of the rebelling group, such as former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda and the party's deputy leader in Rajya Sabha, Anand Sharma, shared the dais with the Gandhis against whom they had raised questions. However, Azad did not attend the rally for unknown reasons. (The writer is a senior journalist) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-congress-jaipur-rally-makes-rebels-fall-in-step-1062505.html
19-12-2021||Opinion||Spencer: Gothic horror for the modern times||The tragedy of Diana Spencer's mistreatment and alienation by the British royal family has been reproduced in popular culture many a time, but never before like in Pablo Larraín's slice-of-life psychological horror drama, Spencer (2021). Larrain, who garnered similar critical acclaim for his portrayal of former US first lady Jackie Kennedy's life in the aftermath of her husband's assassination in the 2016 film, Jackie, is known for his unconventional, immersive approach to biopics. "People's Princess" Diana Spencer was one of the first public figures sensationalised by the British media beyond all ethical boundaries and is remembered as "the most hunted person of the modern age". Of course, the moral spectrum of public voyeurism has eventually disintegrated over time, with multiple celebrities being driven to near insanity by the modern paparazzi's penchant for catering to the consumer culture. Many celebrities in present-day show business have embraced the newer order of things and have taken to selectively dishing out information for financial gains.  It is precisely this dystopian concept of letting the public image take over the personal life that has been successfully explored in Pablo Larrain's Spencer. The dynamics of Diana's relationships with Prince Charles and other royal family members have been explored minimally; rather, the psychological impacts of having to live by a set of hard-set rules created by external institutions have been presented to us through neo-Gothic elements. Reminiscent of 20th century Gothic fiction, the settings for the scenes are dark, misty and cold. Diana's younger son runs down the steps of the house complaining about being cold. "Instead of turning up the heaters, they've dressed you up like Winston Churchill," she replies, an uncontrollable disdain colouring her face. Diana continues to sporadically express her disgust and discomfort towards the family for not being allowed to turn up the heaters.  Of course, this frustration stems from a deep-seated disgust towards the entire system of things, from being constantly hounded by dutiful servants to being assigned predetermined outfits for every family gathering through the three days of Christmas "celebrations", the constant pressure to show up on time, and reprimands by chillingly impersonal family members. Add to that the relentless pursuit by the media, and we find Princess Diana spiralling into madness and paranoia. "Yes, I'm a magnet for madness. Other people's madness," she says to Major Alistair Gregory (Timothy Spall) when he tells her he has been drafted to the castle for the holidays to fend off unwarranted media attention. The most unnerving element of horror is, of course, Diana's obsession with Anne Boleyn, the second of Henry VIII's six wives. She was accused of treason and beheaded. Bringing to fore the stark reality of being a woman married into the British monarchy with its unrelenting patriarchal values, Anne Boleyn appears before Diana in her dreams and hallucinations. We understand the exact dynamics of Diana and Charles' relationship through only two conversations - one where Charles explains to Diana that there are two versions of every member of the family - the real person and the public image. The two fail to really speak to each other - it's more hurling of criticisms from one person stuck in an arrangement to the other than marital discord. In another instance, Charles tells Diana to not "regurgitate" the food carefully produced and procured to be brought to their table into a lavatory bowl, a piece of advice detached from any genuine concern and expressing abject scorn. It sounds more like a reprimand. Diana tells her children the present is the same as the past in the royal establishment and that "there is no future." We feel the loss of identity the princess experiences that drive her to break into her old house and relive the elements of her childhood that made her Diana Spencer. There are hints of Gothic horror in the misty, moonlit grounds through which a Princess Diana in her white gown and her Wellington boots escapes the Sandringham Estate and cuts wires to enter her childhood home. The boarded-up house is an eerie image, reminiscent of Victorian properties with an abandoned piano, dilapidated toys strewn across Diana's bedroom and a bed stripped of its vibrant identity. The dream-like state in which the heroine relives and mourns for her lost childhood identity recalls Daphne du Maurier. She then tries to kill herself, stopped short by the ghost of Anne Boleyn advising her to run before it's too late. Diana complains to her only confidante, her tailor, Maggie (Sally Hawkins), that the "dead skin" of everyone who lived in the Sandringham House is still contained in its dust, drawing the opposition between Diana's "middle-class", "unfashionable", fast-food-loving modern mindset, and the "no one is beyond tradition" outlook of the Windsors who consider not being able to shoot down pheasants a sign of weakness in their children. And then the drama culminates into a climax on Boxing Day - Diana Spencer takes her "place among the pheasants", stands before a hunting party and challenges them to shoot her. This ultimate act of irrationality sets Diana free from the pretence that incapacitates her throughout the film. Kristen Stewart is, throughout the film, Diana Spencer. Besides the striking resemblance in body language and appearance, her expressions are those of a princess on the verge of mental breakdown, trying to reclaim her identity. There is no instance in the movie where we can separate the actor from the character, and the portrayal is truly remarkable. Spencer successfully puts together an atmosphere of psychological horror by its graphic portrayal of mental illness - not just the constant pressure to keep up appearances in the throes of bulimia but the general discomfort towards life. The claustrophobia of inhabiting a space with which you have no connection, the morbidity of being constantly watched and spoken about, and the crippling anxiety of having to spend a holiday with people you don't share any intimacy with, have been depicted successfully in Larrain's masterwork. It's as if we have finally gotten to the bottom of the heart-wrenching human condition of Diana Spencer - the problems that set her apart from an establishment that continues to consider maintaining appearances its sole mission. Radiohead's Johnny Greenwood's scores tie the neo-Gothic elements of Spencer together, making it a powerful revival of the genre. (The writer is a postgraduate student at the Department of English, Jadavpur University) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/spencer-gothic-horror-for-the-modern-times-1062551.html
19-12-2021||Opinion||Why MSP is central to farmers’ issue||The farmers’ agitation, which went on for over a year and cost the nation more than 700 lives, has ended. But not many in New Delhi have cared to judge the pulse of the farmers. One of three controversial laws, on which the agitation continued for so long, concerns the central question of minimum support price (MSP). To understand this, one must go back more than half a century in Indian agriculture. It is important to note in this context that the principle of MSP was put in place by New Delhi in 1966-67 to ensure that dwarf wheat varieties imported from the International Centre For Maize and Wheat Research (CIMMYT), Mexico, and crossed with the native ones, was widely cultivated by Indian farmers. Hence, the crop was only wheat, to start with, and the MSP fixed was Rs 54/quintal (100kg). Later, this principle was extended to rice, where dwarf varieties imported from the International Rice Research Institute, in the Philippines were crossed with the native ones and farmers were coerced to cultivate them. This was the beginning of the green revolution campaign in India. The Price Support Policy of the government is directed at providing insurance to agricultural producers against any sharp fall in farm prices. The minimum guaranteed prices are fixed to set a floor below which market prices cannot fall. Until the mid-1970s, the government (Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices, CACP- an apex body for pricing policy under the Ministry of Agriculture, Government of India) announced two types of administered prices: Minimum Support Prices (MSP) and Procurement Prices (PP). The MSPs served as the floor prices and were fixed by the government in the nature of a long-term guarantee for investment decisions of producers, with the assurance that prices of their commodities would not be allowed to fall below the level fixed by the government, even in the case of a bumper crop. Procurement prices were the prices of kharif and rabi cereals at which the grain was to be domestically procured by public agencies (like the FCI) for release through PDS. It was announced soon after harvest began. However, these provisions were not strictly adhered to by the government as we shall see below. Situation on the ground: The farmers are worried that the new legislation may eliminate the minimum support price (MSP) on their yield. A Union government committee report states that only 6 per cent of the country’s farmers take advantage of MSP. Punjab and Haryana farmers only benefit from the MSP provision. A 2016 Niti Aayog report states that 100 per cent of farmers in Punjab sell their crops at MSP, no data are available for Haryana. Despite the promise of the PM and Minister of Agriculture about the continuance of the MSP regime, the following questions linger: How many farmers benefit from MSP every year? The government has no data on this. Under the PM Kisan Yojana, 14.5 crore farmer families get Rs 6,000 every year. This shows that there are at least 14.5 crore farmer families in the country. But, how many farmers get MSP benefit? On September 18, the Minister of State for Food and Public Distribution told Rajya Sabha that as of September 9, there were 43.33 lakh farmers taking advantage of MSP on wheat during the rabi season.  Of these, 10.49 lakh were from Punjab, and 7.80 lakh were from Haryana. That is, more than 42 per cent of the farmers were from Punjab and Haryana. The number of farmers selling paddy on MSP in the kharif season was 1.24 crore. Of these, there were 11.25 lakh farmers from Punjab and 18.91 lakh farmers from Haryana. More than 25 per cent of the farmers were from Punjab and Haryana. No data is available from Telangana, the current ‘Rice Bowl’ of India. According to the government, the number of farmers selling paddy crops at MSP in the kharif season increased by 70 per cent in 2019 compared to 2015. Similarly, the number of farmers taking advantage of MSP on wheat during the rabi season also increased by 112 per cent in 2020 compared to 2016. The procurement has not yet started for the kharif season 2021. But the government does not buy even half of the yield every year. Statistics show that the government did not buy even half of the wheat and paddy yield in the last five years. According to the Food Corporation of India (FCI), in 2015, 1.044 lakh tonnes of paddy were produced, of which 342 lakh tonnes, i.e., 33 per cent, were purchased by the government. Similarly, in 2019-20, paddy yield was 1,179 lakh tonnes, of which the government purchased 510 lakh tonnes, i.e., 43 per cent. Along with this, 923 lakh tonnes of wheat were produced in 2015, out of which the government purchased 230 lakh tonnes, i.e., 25 per cent. Whereas, 1,072 lakh tonnes of wheat was produced in 2019, of which 390 lakh tonnes, i.e. 36 per cent of the wheat was purchased by the government. The above data clearly show that there is a clear disconnect between what the government professes and what it practices. What should now be done? Indian soils, in particular in Punjab, are degraded due to the environmental hazard of the chemical-centric green revolution. The carbon levels, the most important index of soil fertility, have steeply declined. The only route by which this could be corrected is to introduce soil-enriching legumes like beans. But the stranglehold of the wheat-paddy rotation comes in the way because of the MSP lever. The key to crop diversification is the MSP, in other words, ensuring that MSP provision is extended to all crops. This has been succinctly put forth by a Punjabi farmer during this author’s field trip to the state, when he said, “Why would I spend Rs 3 lakh on a borewell and deplete groundwater further from my fields if I can be assured of MSP for other crops?” Will New Delhi listen? (The writer is ex-prof, National Science Foundation, The Royal Society, Belgium)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/why-msp-is-central-to-farmers-issue-1062628.html
19-12-2021||Panorama||Wake-up call for Karnataka as it slips in development||In the latest ‘State of the States’ Report brought out by India Today (December 6, 2021), Karnataka has bagged the 10th rank out of 20 big states in the country. For a state known to be progressive with several achievements to its credit, this presents a rather negative image. The assessment of the performance of states has been done under 12 categories: economy, infrastructure, agriculture, health, education, law & order, governance, inclusive development, entrepreneurship, tourism, environment and cleanliness. It is particularly disturbing to see Karnataka’s performance in some sectors. Except for environment (second), and health (fourth), in all other areas, it figures below five. In governance, its position is as low as 15, in tourism 16 and in agriculture 18; worse, in inclusive development, it has hit rock bottom by securing the last position, 20. These rankings have been arrived at based on certain parameters for each category (totally 123 parameters have been used). For instance, to assess the state of the economy, parameters used are net per capita income, percentage of population above the poverty line, consumer price index and so on. In respect of agriculture, the indicators include money spent on agriculture in the last budget compared to the total area of agriculture, percentage of area irrigated of the total cultivated land, productivity etc. In short, the assessments are based on rational criteria. What is disconcerting is the fact that over the last 19 years, from 2013 to 2021, Karnataka does not figure in the first five, except in 2017 when it was ranked third. The top positions are dominated by five states - Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh, with states like Maharashtra and Gujarat making their presence felt during some years. Even in the category of ‘Most Improved States’, Karnataka doesn’t fare any better. In economy, it has declined from the sixth position in 2020 to the 11th in 2021 and in infrastructure, from nine to 18th. Inclusive development has shown consistently poor performance over the last four years: from 14th place in 2018 to 17th in 2019 and 18th during the last two years. What is shocking, however, is the state plummeting from the top position in 2018 to 19th in 2021 in entrepreneurship. This comes at a time when we are boasting about Bengaluru being the hub of entrepreneurs in India. It is heartening, though, to see Bihar, usually considered a backward state, emerge as the most improved big state, rising from the ninth rank the previous year. One can be critical about the findings of a research study and raise questions about the methodology adopted or the indicators employed. Let me refer to a similar study carried out by the Public Affairs Centre. Called the Public Affairs Index, it is a data-based framework that measures the quality of governance at the sub-national level and ranks the states on three primary themes - growth, equity and sustainability which form the basis for measuring the performance of states. Each of these three is sub-divided into five sub-themes: voice and accountability, government effectiveness, regulatory quality and rule of law. Linking all the themes to Sustainable Development Goals, a Composite Index is generated using 43 indicators. Here again, although Karnataka fares a little better at seventh in the overall rankings of 18 large states, it has actually slipped from the third position in 2016 and the fourth in the subsequent four years. In 2021, while it has done relatively well in sustainability (fourth) and reasonably well in growth (fourth), it fares very poorly (16) in the category of equity. It is interesting to note that the findings of both the studies coincide with respect to the important parameter of ‘equity’ (PAC), corresponding to ‘inclusive development’ (India Today), where the state’s performance is ranked very low. A comparative analysis of the two studies reveals some interesting facts. Kerala and Tamil Nadu rank among the best performing states over the years in both - from 2004 to 2021 in India Today rankings and from 2016 to 2021 in that of PAC. Just considering the performance of the last three years, in India Today rankings, Tamil Nadu figures continuously at the top all the three years while Kerala stands at fifth in 2019, fourth in 2020 and third in 2021. In a somewhat similar, but slightly different assessment by PAC, Kerala and Tamil Nadu have been at first and second positions continuously for the last six years. The other states in the top five best performing categories include Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, Gujarat (India Today), Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. Among the states figuring at the bottom, Bihar and UP are common in both followed by states like Assam, Odisha and Jharkhand. A new feature that has been included this year is the Covid Response Index by PAC and the Happiness Index by India Today. The former looks at the two aspects of the Covid preparedness response and the containment response, where the southern states have emerged at the top under both categories. Interestingly, Assam with a strong performance in Covid preparedness has been ranked high while Maharashtra figures at the bottom in both. Whatever the rankings under this theme, it has been observed that India’s national response to the Covid-19 pandemic was “notable and nimble-footed” and states deserve substantial credit for the success of the country’s response. In the happiness index, the scoring was based on the prosperity of a state along with scores from its rankings in education, health, governance, infrastructure, law and order and cleanliness. Not surprisingly, Kerala has emerged as the happiest state, followed by Gujarat and Tamil Nadu. Of course, there is always a subjective element in happiness and different criteria can be used in its measurement. But the first attempt at such an exercise adds a new dimension to the concept of people’s welfare. In an era of competitive politics, it is essential to promote a competitive spirit among states in the field of development and governance. The two studies carried out by two independent organisations are the outcome of data-based research and provide rich material for evidence-based policymaking which is gaining importance. Policymakers and administrators of Karnataka would do well to take note of the performance of the state in different categories and address the factors responsible for its deterioration or stagnation during the recent years. Special attention must be paid to matters relating to equity or inclusive development, where we lag even behind backward states like Bihar and Jharkhand. Once a model state, Karnataka must set its goals high and devise strategies to achieve them. (The writer is former chief secretary, Government of Karnataka) Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/wake-up-call-for-karnataka-as-it-slips-in-development-1062633.html
19-12-2021||Right in the Middle||A chronicle of embarrassments||The first striking embarrassment in service for me was when we were in the National Academy. During the Bharath Darshan tour at Jabalpur, I boldly climbed the bus to upload our luggage. Maybe the idea was to impress the girl probationers waiting down. Halfway through, my tight pants split into two and most of the parts to be covered in the body got exposed. But my friends were graceful enough not to utter a word or burst into laughter. Another was when I reached Bijapur for the training. I was expecting a big reception was I was an IAS probationer. To my embarrassment, an old revenue inspector with a battered horse-drawn vehicle was waiting for me in the railway station. During my training at Bijapur, I visited a treasury where the constable on duty saluted me raising his gun and beating his breast. Not knowing how to respond I also went on beating my breast. After a few minutes, the young tahsildar who escorted me told me to stop. He was laughing so were the spectators seeing the gaffe made by the IAS probationer. A public embarrassment I experienced was when Devaraj Urs shouted at me at a public function: "What kind of a Deputy Commissioner are you?" when I could not give him a pen when he wanted one. My own pen was picked up from my pocket in the crowd. I did not mind as he loved me and I respected him. After being posted to Bidar as Deputy Commissioner, I was called for a meeting in Bangalore. Young and unmarried, I decided to visit a nightclub as music and dance were available nowhere except in Hyderabad. I took a friend of mine, the District Medical officer for this adventure, we chose Talk of the Town, a well-known nightclub at Gandhi Nagar. We paid the entrance charge and took a vantage position in the hall, holding glasses of Old Tavern whiskey. I was trying to be incognito by wearing a black sweater and covering my face with a shawl. At the peak of performance, a man came, bent on our table and asked "Mathai sar allava?" in Kannada. I just shouted "Which Matthai sar?" and ran away leaving the half-finished whiskey. My first foreign visit was to Seoul, the capital of South Korea. We were located at the mighty Seol Sheraton sprawling over 150 acres of man-made garden and forest. We were called guests by the Hotel. In my luxurious room, I was excited to see the fridge and table stacked with the best of liquor and chocolates. I consumed them to my hearts' content without looking at the price tag and thinking they were all free. The foreign exchange allotted to us as an allowance was meagre. I was in a real trap, but my friends laughed at my plight and paid up when the huge bills were slapped on me.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/a-chronicle-of-embarrassments-1062632.html
19-12-2021||Second Edit||BCCI must pay tax||The Income Tax Appellate Tribunal made too generous an interpretation of the law to grant registration to the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) as a charitable organisation entitled to tax exemption. It was not just that the Tribunal’s interpretation was too technical, it was also blind to some facts which should have been obvious. The question to be decided was whether BCCI was a charitable or commercial organisation after the Income Tax Department rejected its claim for registration as a charitable entity. The Principal Commissioner of Income Tax held that BCCI was only making use of the charitable purpose for commercially exploiting the game of cricket through franchise agreements for conducting IPL. The BCCI had a registration as a charitable institution in 1996. But its status came into dispute when it applied for fresh registration in the wake of the amendments made in its Memorandum of Association (MoA) for incorporating the recommendations made by Justice Lodha Committee, as approved by the Supreme Court.  Under the earlier registration, BCCI was exempt from paying tax on its income as it was a body registered for a charitable purpose. But the law says that the ground of charitable purpose cannot be invoked when commercial activity is involved unless the activity promotes general public utility. The Income Tax Department’s view was that the conduct of IPL was a commercial activity and so BCCI was not entitled to tax exemption. The BCCI claimed that the commercial activity of IPL promoted cricket. The Tribunal, on appeal, granted BCCI registration on the technical ground that its objectives had not changed though amendments were made in the MoA in accordance with the Supreme Court’s recommendations. The order said that the purpose for which all the funds at the disposal of the BCCI, including additional funds generated by holding the IPL tournament, are employed is for promoting cricket.   The Tribunal’s views and conclusions are not very convincing. It took a very legalistic view to maintain that the BCCI’s status did not change when amendments were made in its MoA in 2018. Even as the Tribunal’s order does not seem to have been made on the basis of the spirit and intent of the law and a correct evaluation of BCCI’s activities, BCCI’s unwillingness to pay tax on its income is most unfortunate. It is among the richest sports bodies in the world and has thousands of crores of rupees annual income which keeps increasing every year. Rather than finding legal loopholes and excuses to avoid paying taxes, it should readily pay taxes. As a public organisation, it should set an example by doing its public duty. Hold IPL and promote cricket by all means, but also give unto Caesar what is Caesar’s.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/bcci-must-pay-tax-1062630.html
19-12-2021||South||Section 144 imposed in Alappuzha, Kerala after SDPI leader, BJP functionary killed||In suspected incidents of political revenge, two political leaders were murdered in Alappuzha district of Kerala in the span of ten hours. The district administration imposed prohibitory orders in the district, considering the tense situation. On Saturday evening, a leader of the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) KS Shan was murdered and within ten hours, early Sunday, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Renjith Sreenivas was murdered, the police said. In the first incident, 36-year-old Shan is suspected to have been waylaid while riding his bike in Mannancherry and hacked to death. The police said that a gang of around seven in a car knocked his two-wheeler, and that he suffered around 40 hack injuries. He died at a hospital in Kochi, with five persons arrested in connection with the crime. In the second incident, 45-year-old Renjith Sreenivas, who was state secretary of BJP-OBC Morcha, was hacked to death, allegedly by a gang that barged into his residence in an area under Alappuzha South police station limit in the early hours of Sunday. His mother and wife reportedly witnessed the attack, the police. Ten persons were arrested in connection with the crime. The police said that the gang allegedly used an ambulance to travel and that it carried SDPI's label. SDPI and BJP-RSS leaders accused each other of the killings. Police sources said that both the incidents took place within a radius of around 10 kilometres and it was strongly suspected to be political revenge killings. A special police team is probing the cases. Heavy police deployment was also done in sensitive areas of the district to maintain law and order.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/section-144-imposed-in-alappuzha-kerala-after-sdpi-leader-bjp-functionary-killed-1062383.html
19-12-2021||South||Kerala tense after SDPI, BJP leaders killed in retaliatory attacks; prohibitory orders clamped||A Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) leader and a BJP leader were killed at Alappuzha district of Kerala in a gap of around ten hours between Saturday evening and Sunday morning. Considering the tense situation, the district administration clamped prohibitory orders in the district for two days and the police were maintaining tight vigil across the state. It was on Saturday evening that Popular Front of India's political outfit SDPI's state leader K S Shan was murdered. BJP leader Renjith Sreenivas was killed during the wee hours of Sunday. Police suspect that both were political killings and the BJP leader was killed as an act of settling scores by SDPI. It was the fifth murder of political activists in Kerala over the last two months. Two BJP-RSS activists and a CPM worker were killed during the last two months. While Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan flayed the incident and made a call to single out those trying to spread hatred and unleashing terror, the opposition parties accused the Chief Minister of backing fundamental outfits that try to create a communal divide. Opposition leader V D Satheesan of Congress said that the political killings were the outcome of the communal appeasement politics of Pinarayi Vijayan. BJP national president J P Nadda stated that Kerala was turning into an unlawful state under the Vijayan government. Meanwhile, Kerala Governor Arif Mohammad Khan said that he was feeling ashamed. Shan, 36, who was a state secretary of SDPI, was murdered at Mannancherry in the district. A gang of around seven who came in a car knocked down the two-wheeler Shan was riding and hacked him to death. He reportedly suffered around 40 hack injuries and died late by Saturday night at a hospital in Kochi.  Renjith Sreenivas, 45, who was state secretary of BJP-OBC Morcha, was hacked by a gang that barged into his house at Alappuzha South police station limits during the early hours of Sunday. His mother reportedly witnessed the attack and he suffered around 20 hack injuries. The accused, suspected to be SDPI workers, allegedly used an ambulance with SDPI's label. Inspector General of Police, South Zone Harshita Attaluri said that around 50 were taken into custody with both the murders. A special police team was probing into the incidents.  BJP-RSS and SDPI leaders accused each other of the killings. BJP state president K Surendran said that SDPI was carrying out the murders with the support of the Pinarayi Vijayan government. SDPI state president Ashraf Ali said that it was planned murder involving RSS senior leaders. Police sources said that both the incidents happened in a radius of around ten kilometres and it was strongly suspected to be political revenge killings. Heavy police deployment was made at sensitive areas of the district to avoid further tension. The district administration was planning to hold an all party meeting on Monday. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-tense-after-sdpi-bjp-leaders-killed-in-retaliatory-attacks-prohibitory-orders-clamped-1062399.html
19-12-2021||South||Andaman and Nicobar Islands achieve 100% double dose Covid vaccination||Andaman and Nicobar Islands have achieved 100 per cent double dose COVID vaccination of its target beneficiaries. The administration said it was the first among the states and Union territories to achieve the feat using only Covishield. "A&N achieved 100% Covid vaccine coverage making it 1st State/UT to achieve the feat using only Covishield. UT Admin overcame Insurmountable odds for this extraordinary feat in one of the remotest parts of world," it said in a tweet. "Vaccination in A&N was extremely challenging as the UT is spread over 836 islands Spread over 800 km from North to South separated by Rough Sea, Extremely Dense jungle, hills & exposed to Inclement weather," the administration said in another Twitter post. The vaccination drive in the islands kickstarted with the rest of the country on January 16 this year. As per a health bulletin, 2.87 lakh people have received both doses of the Covid-19 vaccine against the target of 2.86 lakh beneficiaries, leading to 100.41 per cent vaccination. A total of 74.67 per cent of the islands' total population has been inoculated, it said. Meanwhile, the islands' coronavirus caseload rose to 7,701 on Sunday as one more person tested positive for the infection, the health bulletin said. The new case was detected during contact tracing, it said. The Union territory now has two active cases, while 7,570 people have recovered from the disease so far, including one in the last 24 hours, and 129 patients have succumbed to the infection to date, the bulletin added.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andaman-and-nicobar-islands-achieve-100-double-dose-covid-vaccination-1062409.html
19-12-2021||South||Self-styled godman arrested for raping woman with wife's help||The Tamil Nadu Police have arrested a self-styled godman Sathiya Narayanan and his wife Pushpalatha after he was charged with sexually abusing a woman devotee. Police said that Pushpalatha had helped Sathiya Narayanan rape the woman when she was 16 years of age. The arrests were made on Saturday. The police said that objectionable photos of the girl were taken. She was threatened that if she raised a complaint, her photos would be circulated in the public domain. The accused and his wife own a temple, 'Shirdipuram Sarva Shakthi Peedam Sai Baba Koil', in Chennai. The victim in her complaint said, "I was staying with my grandmother while I was in Class 12 and we frequented the temple. On April 12, 2016, I was asked to get the sacred ash. When I went to the temple Pushpalatha gave me juice and after two hours, I was lying naked in the bed with Sathiya Narayanan and Pushpalatha by my side." In the complaint, she also said that Sathiya Narayanan had informed her that she was burdened with sins and that he had freed her. She moved out of the place and got married in 2018. Her husband, according to her, went abroad in search of a job and Sathiya Narayanan called her in March 2020 and threatened her to meet him. In the complaint, she said, "I went to meet him and he raped me repeatedly stating that I would send my naked photos to my husband." In July 2020, the victim came to know that she was pregnant and Sathiya Narayan and Pushpalatha wanted her to abort the fetus which she did not support, and gave birth to a baby in January 2021. She said that her husband visited the family and returned in November after which Sathiya again called her to meet him and she had no other means but to inform her husband. After this, she lodged a complaint with the police who promptly arrested both Sathiya Narayanan and his wife Pushpalatha. Both have been remanded in judicial custody. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/self-styled-godman-arrested-for-raping-woman-with-wifes-help-1062418.html
19-12-2021||South||Kerala turning into unlawful state under CM Pinarayi Vijayan: Nadda||BJP president J P Nadda alleged on Sunday that Kerala is turning into an unlawful state under Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan as he condemned the murder of the party's state OBC Morcha leader Renjith Sreenivasan.  Kerala's coastal Alappuzha district was rocked by back-to-back killings of two party leaders, the first belonging to the SDPI and the second to the BJP, leading to clamping of prohibitory orders by police on Sunday. Following the killing of an SDPI state secretary, a BJP leader was hacked to death and prohibitory orders were imposed in the entire Alappuzha district on Sunday, district officials said.  Nadda said, "The brutal murder of OBC Morcha State Secretary Adv. Renjith Sreenivasan by 'fundamentalist elements' is condemnable. Such cowardly acts cannot be tolerated. Kerala is turning into an unlawful state under CM @vijayanpinarayi. They can't scare us with their cruelty."  The brutal murder of OBC Morcha State Secretary Adv. Renjith Sreenivasan by ‘fundamentalist elements' is condemnable. The chief minister condemned the killings and said steps will be taken by the police to nab the culprits and those behind them.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-turning-into-unlawful-state-under-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-nadda-1062452.html
19-12-2021||South||Tamil Nadu seeks mandatory Covid tests for all international passengers||The Tamil Nadu health department has written a letter to the Union health ministry requesting mandatory Covid-19 tests for all the international travellers arriving at the four airports in the state -- Chennai, Coimbatore, Madurai, and Tiruchi. After the outbreak of the Omicron variant of Covid in various countries, the Union health department had said that tests for passengers arriving from 'at-risk' countries were mandatory. For those coming from the 'not- at- risk countries, only two per cent random tests were to be conducted. However, after the passengers from not-at-risk countries were also tested Omicron positive, the state health department in a high-level meeting of doctors and officials decided that tests be conducted on all international passengers arriving in the state. The Directorate of Public Health (DPH) and Preventive medicine has requested the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare to issue guidelines regarding the mandatory tests for all international passengers and a seven-day compulsory quarantine for all passengers who test Covid-19 negative and a re-test on the eighth-day of arrival. The health department has requested the Union health ministry for mandatory Covid-19 tests after a person, who had arrived at Chennai international airport from Nigeria -- a not-at-risk country, had tested positive for Omicron variant. There were also travellers reported from not-at-risk countries like Turkey, the Democratic Republic of Congo, Kenya, Nigeria, and Dubai, found to be carrying the S- gene droplets when their samples were tested and this is considered as a characteristic feature of the Omicron variant. The state health department also found that of the 28 international passengers who had S- gene droplets in their test reports, only four were from countries at-risk while the rest 24 were from countries not-at-risk. Tamil Nadu Health Minister, Ma Subramanian while speaking to IANS said, "We don't want to take any risks and hence this letter to the Union Health and Family Welfare Ministry to conduct mandatory tests for all the passengers coming into the country from international destinations. Hence, we want no passenger to go out in the society without undergoing any tests." Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-seeks-mandatory-covid-tests-for-all-international-passengers-1062469.html
19-12-2021||South||43 Tamil Nadu fishermen held by Sri Lankan Navy, associations call for protests on Monday||The Sri Lankan Navy has arrested 43 Indian fishermen and seized six fishing boats. The arrested fishermen have been lodged in the Kangesanthurai camp in Sri Lanka, according to a fisheries department official in Tamil Nadu. Upset over the reported arrests and the seizure of the boats, the fishermen associations will hold protests across the state on Monday. A Tamil Nadu fisheries department official while speaking to IANS said, "Indian fishermen from Tamil Nadu are regularly attacked by the Sri Lankan Naval personnel and recently a fisherman from Ramanathapuram, Rajkiran (30) lost his life after the Sri Lankan Navy attacked the Indian fishing vessel. "In this case around 500 fishermen from Rameswaram had sailed to the sea and they were attacked by the Sri Lankan naval personnel near Katchatheevu. 43 Indian fishermen were arrested and are now in the custody of the Sri Lankan Navy. 6 fishing boats have also been seized by the Sri Lankans." Political parties of Tamil Nadu have already contacted the Union Government and have requested to immediately speak to the Sri Lankan authorities for the release of fishermen from Tamil Nadu. The Union minister of state for fisheries, L. Murugan, who hails from Tamil Nadu has already commenced discussions with the higher officials of the Government of India. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/43-tamil-nadu-fishermen-held-by-sri-lankan-navy-associations-call-for-protests-on-monday-1062484.html
19-12-2021||South||So far, no response from Centre on Judicial Infrastructure Corp, aid to lawyers, says Chief Justice of India NV Ramana||The Centre is yet to respond to some of the issues, such as setting up a Judicial Infrastructure Corporation and financial help to lawyers who lost livelihood due to Covid-19, Chief Justice of India NV Ramana said on Sunday. Inaugurating a court complex, Ramana said although the proposals for setting up a Judicial Infrastructure Corporation and mobile internet facilities in rural areas were sent in July and June, respectively, the proposals have not been translated into action. He, however, said he was hopeful that the Centre would bring in legislation in the ongoing Winter Session of Parliament for creating the Judicial Infrastructure Corporation. "I asked the Centre to financially help families of lawyers who lost their livelihood due to Covid. There is no proper response from the government so far. With regards to the creation of infrastructure, there is no response either. I raise these issues whenever I get a chance at various forums when the Prime Minister and President are present," Ramana said. In a written reply to a question in the Lok Sabha, Law Minister Kiren Rijiju recently said a proposal has been received from the Chief Justice of India (CJI) for setting up a National Judicial Infrastructure Authority of India for the arrangement of adequate infrastructure for courts. "The three main issues in the country are lack of basic infrastructure, to increase the number of judges and financial help to deserving lawyers. Only when we overcome these problems can we reach out to people. There would be a meaning to 'access to justice'," Ramana said. Over the issue of case pile-up, the CJI said that besides a shortage of judges, lack of necessary infrastructure is also an issue. He said that without providing the necessary infrastructure, expecting judges and lawyers sitting in dilapidated court buildings to deliver justice is not fair. Justice Ramana said he wrote to the Centre and the law minister seeking setting up of mobile network on vans to facilitate lawyers in rural areas to attend court duties virtually. According to him, although lawyers who can afford it and those in cities and towns will be able to attend courts through videoconferencing, advocates in rural areas and who cannot afford the network would eventually lose their profession. "If necessary, the government can rope in a big corporate to set up network stations under corporate social responsibility funds so that they can attend court duties virtually. The suggestion so far has not translated into action. I am waiting for the government to do something about it," the CJI said. He said many states in the country are shying away from allocating funds to build court complexes. He, however, appreciated the Telangana government for sanctioning funds to build a complex without waiting for the Central government to release funds. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/so-far-no-response-from-centre-on-judicial-infrastructure-corp-aid-to-lawyers-says-chief-justice-of-india-nv-ramana-1062488.html
19-12-2021||South||Alappuzha killings: State BJP chief calls for arrest of killers||BJP's Kerala State President K Surendran on Sunday demanded the immediate arrest of the killers of the party's backward class leader and state secretary of OBC Morcha, advocate Renjith Sreenivas. Speaking to IANS, Surendran said, "The SDPI killers are on a rampage in Kerala. This is the latest instance of a practising advocate being killed by an eight-member killer gang of SDPI and Popular Front. They barged into his house in the early morning on Sunday and hacked him to death in front of his mother and wife. He lives at the centre of Alappuzha town and this shows how callous the Kerala Police and the State Home Department led by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan is." Calling for the immediate arrest of the killers, he said that the police are yet to arrest those behind RSS leader Sanjith's murder in Palakkad district in November, despite his wife being a witness. He said, "This (delay in arrest) led to the SDPI, PFI killers getting emboldened to murder advocate Renjith Sreenivas at his residence." Surendran also said that the Home department and Kerala Police must not make the investigation a farce, and instead, bring the culprits to book. The Director General of Kerala Police, Anil Kant, speaking to mediapersons at Thiruvananthapuram said that police would take strong action and even senior leaders would be arrested, if necessary, during the course of the investigation. He said that police were on high alert and that this was an unfortunate incident. The Inspector General of Police, South Zone, Harshitha Attaluri, who is in charge of the investigation, said, "Police have already taken into custody 50 people from various organisations, including the SDPI, PFI combine and RSS, BJP combine. We have also taken into custody a few history-sheeters as well as RSS and SDPI local level leaders and cadres." The Kerala Police are, however, groping in the dark due to their intelligence failure, to prevent the murder of advocate Renjith Sreenivas. It is to be noted that an SDPI leader, KS Shan, who was the state secretary of the party, was hacked to death on Saturday night. The SDPI alleged that the RSS-BJP combine was behind this murder. The SDPI and PFI took to social media baying for the blood of a BJP-RSS leader over Shan's death. SDPI state President Muvattupuzha Ashraf Moulavi said, "Senior RSS leader Valsan Thillankery was yesterday at Alappuzha and he had called for the Hindus to strengthen and empower themselves. The killing of Shan was planned and executed with the blessings of Valsan Thillankeri." RSS leader and Hindu Aikya Vedi State President Valsan Thillankeri said, "The SDPI and PFI are targeting the RSS and BJP leaders. They are even announcing these leaders beforehand as killers and then are targeting and killing such leaders. Police have to act stringently and bring the culprits of Renjith Sreenivas to book." The last rites of both the leaders are set to be performed on Sunday evening. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/alappuzha-killings-state-bjp-chief-calls-for-arrest-of-killers-1062499.html
19-12-2021||South||Kudumbasree ineligible to undertake animal birth control measures, rules Kerala High Court||The Kerala High Court directed the LDF government to immediately restrain Kudumbasree units from performing animal birth control (ABC) procedures in the state as none of their personnel is qualified for carrying out such activities. Another reason cited by the high court was the non-recognition of the organisation by the Animal Welfare Board of India (AWBI) for carrying out ABC procedures. A bench of justices AK Jayasankaran Nambiar and P Gopinath issued the direction to the Secretary of the Agricultural Animal Husbandry (F) Department who was asked to issue the necessary instructions within a week. The order came while hearing a PIL initiated by the court in the wake of the gruesome killing of a dog named Bruno. It was tied up and beaten to death by some people at the Adimalathura beach on the outskirts of Thiruvananthapuram. The direction was issued after the court was informed that in many districts of the state, ABC procedures were being carried out by members of the Kudumbasree. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kudumbasree-ineligible-to-undertake-animal-birth-control-measures-rules-kerala-high-court-1062540.html
19-12-2021||South||TN police intensifies search to arrest ex-minister Rajenthra Bhalaji in jobs scam||Efforts have been stepped up to arrest former Minister from the previous AIADMK regime, K T Rajenthra Bhalaji, in a case related to a job scam, police sources said on Sunday while the main opposition said he would face the matter legally. With the Madras High Court rejecting Bhalaji's anticipatory bail application on December 17, police have intensified searches, apart from forming as many as six special teams to arrest him in the case, Virudhunagar district police sources said. Bhalaji is reportedly considering legal options like the possibility of approaching the Supreme Court. Some of his relatives and car driver have already been questioned and police are pursuing all available leads, sources added. Bhalaji held the milk and dairy development portfolio in the AIADMK government (2016-21). The police case on the job scam is against Bhalaji, two of his personal assistants and an associate. At least 23 victims have been identified so far and a total of Rs 1.40 crore was collected from them. They were promised various jobs in the state government departments/undertakings including in the state-run dairy cooperative 'Aavin.' Conspiracy, cheating, criminal intimidation are among the IPC sections invoked against them. Two FIRs were filed by police in connection with alleged cheating. Dismissing the anticipatory bail petition of Bhalaji and others, the High Court had said: "This court consistently in the cases of job racketing, finding innocents are being cheated, lured and their future becomes questionable and considering job aspirants not only lose their money, they also lose their future." "In view of the some dealt with firmness in job racketing cases. This case is one of job racketing. Hence, this Court is not inclined to show any leniency on the petitioners." Rejecting 'claims' that the former Minister was 'absconding,' AIADMK leader D Jayakumar said Bhalaji would face the matter legally in consultation with legal experts. While the DMK government showed 'vigour' to apprehend him as he belonged to the AIADMK, and formed as many as 6 special police teams, he asked, "why the government did not show same interest in maintaining law and order arresting those involved in crimes against women." Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tn-police-intensifies-search-to-arrest-ex-minister-rajenthra-bhalaji-in-jobs-scam-1062547.html
19-12-2021||South||Shashi Tharoor is now CPM's poster boy in Kerala||As Congress MP Shashi Tharoor backed Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan's development initiatives, CPM leaders in Kerala seem to have made Tharoor the poster boy to take forward the much-hyped semi-high-speed railway project that is being opposed by the Congress. CPM leaders were referring to Tharoor's stand and some were even sharing his comments on social media. Even as the Congress state leadership expressed its resentment over Tharoor's pro-Vijayan statements, the former international diplomat continued to stick to his stand. Even on Sunday, he made a social media post in this connection, "Why statements of principle do have a place in our politics, which need not, in our democracy, be simply black and white, for or against." Tharoor had also kept off from signing on a memorandum submitted by Congress MPs from Kerala to the centre objecting to the rail project. He stated that he need to study about it. Afterwards he praised Vijayan's development outlook during the inauguration of a mall in Thiruvananthapuram. While Congress staged state-wide protests on Saturday against the semi high-speed rail project, the CPM state secretary countered it by referring to Tharoor's statement. CPM's Rajya Sabha MP John Brittas also shared the picture of Tharoor with Vijayan on social media commented that Congress should follow Tharoor's line on development. Kerala PCC president K Sudhakaran had earlier stated that he would ask Tharoor about his statement backing Vijayan. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/shashi-tharoor-is-now-cpms-poster-boy-in-kerala-1062574.html
19-12-2021||South||Kerala's push for ecologically sensitive area relaxations raises eyebrows||Resentment is brewing among environmentalists and disaster management experts in Kerala as the ruling and Opposition parties are pushing for further relaxation in Ecologically Sensitive Areas (ESAs) despite the back-to-back calamities that the state has witnessed. Enough relaxations have been made in ESAs, and hence, further relaxations could be termed only as disastrous, and it could be seen only as a move to help the quarry lobbies and not due to genuine concerns for the high-range farmers, say environmentalists and experts, including Madhav Gadgil. The state is now pressing for exempting 1,337.24 square kilometres more in the ESAs. Even the Centre's suggestion to classify such regions as non-core was not welcomed by the Kerala government. The final notification of the Centre on ESA is expected by the end of December, 2021. The K Kasturirangan panel's recommendation that 13,108.7 square kilometres of land in the state needed to be demarcated as ESA itself was considered as dilution of the Madhav Gadgil led panel's recommendations. The state government again appointed a committee headed by former chairman of Kerala State Biodiversity Board, Oommen V Oommen committee, and another committee headed by IAS officer P H Kurian with the objective of exempting inhabited areas from ESA. Based on these panels' recommendations, the state government sought further reduction of 3,114.30 square kilometres, which was already approved. Hence ESA in Kerala as per the draft notification of 2018 is 9,993.7 square kilometres. However, the state is now pressing for further reduction in ESA by 1,337.24 square kilometres and limit ESA demarcation to 8,656.46 square kilometres. Both the ruling CPM-led Left Democratic Front and Opposition Congress-led United Democratic Front are quite unanimous in the matter and the justification being given is the livelihood of high-range farmers. Gadgil told DH that if the political leadership was really concerned about the high-range people they should have accepted the recommendation of his report that suggested imposing region-wise restrictions by collection the suggestion of local Gram Sabhas. The local people of high-ranges very well knew that the extensive quarrying activities in the sensitive regions were aggravating the impact of the natural calamities. The recent disasters at Koottickal in Kottayam district is a clear instance as the locals had been opposing the extensive quarrying activities in the region. K G Thara, former head of Kerala Disaster Management Centre, said that there was no surprise the ruling and Opposition parties were seeking further relaxations in ESA as the successive governments in Kerala hardly took a pro-ecology stand, but only initiated measures that favoured quarrying and allowed wetland conversion. N Badush, president of the 'Wayanad Prakrithi Samrakshana Samiti', a forum of environmentalists, said that further relaxations would mean that no more restrictions would be required as the 8,656.46 square kilometres of ESA being suggested by the Kerala government would comprise of only reserve forests, protected areas and World Heritage sites, where restrictions under other laws were already prevailing. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/keralas-push-for-ecologically-sensitive-area-relaxations-raises-eyebrows-1062575.html
19-12-2021||State||Karnataka wasted 1.29 lakh Covid doses, all Covaxin||Karnataka is one of the 11 states that has wasted more than 1 lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccine, a dubious distinction that was pointed out by Union Minister of State Dr Bharati Pravin Pawar in the Lok Sabha on Friday.  As per Co-WIN portal data till Dec 18, the state has wasted 1,29,261 doses so far, with Ballari topping the wastage chart (61,203), followed by Koppal (45,080), Mysuru (40,043), Hassan (34,985), and Davangere (27,609).  The new data comes amid news that a huge number of beneficiaries are yet to take their second dose, even as the Omicron variant and fears of a third wave is keeping health officials on edge. When contacted, Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar’s office said “all the 1,29,261 wasted doses were that of Covaxin”. “The reason why Covaxin is being wasted is because we are mostly getting 20 dose vials. In most places, we are not getting 20 people to come at once. The preference has shifted to Covishield and only second dose recipients of Covaxin are coming,” Sudhakar’s office said. Covaxin manufacturer Bharat Biotech, previously commenting on their open vial policy, had told DH: “Covaxin has a 28 days open vial policy and there is no hurry to finish an open vial or go panicking in search of 10 people to finish the vial by the day or by six hours.” Health officials in Hassan, Koppal and Gadag gave contrasting reasons for the wastage, from vaccine administrators unable to properly draw contents into the syringe to “pending data entry”. Hassan District Health Officer Dr K M Satish Kumar told DH that the wastage happened because “when our vaccine administrators try to draw the contents of the vial into the syringe, they can’t eyeball 0.5 ml exactly”. This, he said, was the reason for the wastage of “30,000-odd doses” in the district. Koppal DC Vikas Kishor Suralkar disputed the numbers and blamed it on pending data entry. "Our actual wastage must be somewhere around 20,000 doses and not over 45,000. The rest of the doses have been used up but have not been updated on the CoWIN portal, causing it to be recorded as wastage," he said. In terms of percentage, the top six districts with more than 2 per cent wastage of doses are: Koppal (3.8 per cent), Gadag (3.4 per cent), Mysuru (2.4 per cent), Haveri (2.3 per cent), Chitradurga (2.2 per cent), and Dharwad (2.1 per cent). Gadag District Immunisation Officer Dr BM Gojanur said, “As per Co-WIN, our wastage is 24,812 doses. But we haven’t had a vaccine cold chain manager for four months now, hence the data lag.” He, too, questioned the numbers. “While according to CoWIN, we have wasted 5,193 Covaxin doses, in actuality it is not more than 1,400. Even Covishield wastage is shown as 19,619 but we have not wasted more than 10,000 doses,” he said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-wasted-129-lakh-covid-doses-all-covaxin-1062315.html
19-12-2021||State||ACB, Lokayukta fumble in graft battle||Karnataka's anti-corruption watchdogs have managed to secure conviction in less than one-fifth of all the cases booked against public servants, according to an analysis of government data. This dismal statistic was furnished by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai in the legislature and comes at a time when his government is fighting graft charges while ‘retail corruption’ continues unabated, going by the number of raids and searches on public servants.  Since its inception in 2016, the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) has booked 1,814 cases, of which conviction took place in just 10 cases. That’s a conviction rate of 0.55%. The Lokayukta registered 4,680 cases between 2000 and 2021 and had conviction in 878 cases, which is a strike rate of 18%.  The ACB, which was the brainchild of the previous Siddaramaiah-led Congress government, has overshadowed the Lokayukta to become Karnataka’s premier anti-corruption watchdog. In the last three years, the ACB raided the homes and offices of 237 public servants and unearthed at least Rs 80 crore in cash and assets, according to hundreds of pages of information furnished by Bommai.  The ACB works under the Department of Personnel & Administrative Reforms (DPAR) headed by the CM. “The ACB is aimed at curbing impropriety in the government machinery and improving the quality of administration,” Bommai said.  Ironically, the BJP in its 2018 election manifesto had promised to scrap the ACB and bring the Lokayukta's glory back.  Former Supreme Court Justice N Santosh Hegde, who served as Lokayukta (2006-11), is not surprised with the low conviction rates. “During my time, hardly 10-15% of charge-sheeted cases came to the court,” he said, blaming delays in the hearings of cases.  “The all-India conviction rate in all criminal cases is just about 27%.”   Former additional advocate-general A S Ponnanna said probes done by the ACB or Lokayukta lack the fundamentals of investigation. “Investigation is carried out on perception. A person starting off with Rs 25,000 salary and having a bungalow is perceived to be corrupt. Courts don’t work on perception,” he said.  Public servants trapped while accepting a bribe also manage to get away. “In trap cases, there must be a demand for bribe in exchange for a service and acceptance," Ponnanna said. "In many cases, investigators can’t prove this. In disproportionate assets cases, investigators fail to understand the gap between what the courts require and the investigation material produced," he said, arguing for better training and faith in the system. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/acb-lokayukta-fumble-in-graft-battle-1062316.html
19-12-2021||State||Mysuru-Bengaluru trains get conventional coaches; timings revised||Starting Monday, the railways has revised the timings of some trains between Bengaluru and Mysuru and has decided to bring back the conventional rake to replace the MEMU rake in two trains. The Mysuru-KSR Bengaluru-Mysuru Express (16215/6) and KSR Bengaluru-Mysuru-KSR Bengaluru (16558/7) will run with the 21-coach rake comprising a AC chair car, 18 second class chair cars, two second class luggage cum brake vans. However, the 06559/60 will continue to run with the MEMU rake. Krishna Prasad of the Karnataka Railway Vedike said the reintroduction of conventional coaches was a welcome measure. “Senior citizens and women were not happy with MEMU coaches as the number of seats were limited,” he said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru-bengaluru-trains-get-conventional-coaches-timings-revised-1062321.html
19-12-2021||State||Karnataka mulls strict home quarantine vigilance||As Karnataka’s official count of Omicron cases reached 14 on Saturday evening, authorities are considering bringing back the strict home isolation inspections and reintroduce the Quarantine Watch and Contact Tracing apps to tackle a potential third wave. Munish Moudgil, director of the State Covid War Room, said rigorous home isolation visits are set to resume “almost immediately” and the “logistics are being worked out.” The issue has risen to prominence over the lack of guidelines to ensure that people restricted to home isolation are complying with all protocols. “At the moment, there are no follow-ups being done to determine how many people are adhering to regulations in some districts,” Moudgil said. In Bengaluru, for example, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) noted that 2,703 cases had been recorded in the last 14 days, out of which about 2,400 were in home isolation. Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta said each ward has one home isolation inspection team to conduct inspections. “Due to strict vigilance, numbers have been kept low in the BBMP,” he said. However, sources said the inspection teams, made up of Asha workers, contract workers, data entry operators and even swab collectors, are used for multiple roles and are likely to become swamped in the event of a case spike. “It is better to bifurcate roles and have dedicated teams for each role, such as contact tracing and home isolation visits,” an official said. At the moment, about 300 personnel are needed in the state for the sole purpose of conducting home isolation visitations. In light of Omicron’s higher rate of spread, more could be required. If cases spike, the state would need a substantial number of inspection teams and contact tracing personnel. Sources said in the first wave, the state had 60,000 people for various such tasks. This included 8,000 to 15,000 citizen volunteers plus Home Guards. The official added that Home Guards will likely be brought back for the job. According to Moudgil, one inspection person is ideally required per positive case isolating at home, plus another person for contact tracing. “In the second wave, most of contract tracing and home visitations were done by teachers in booth level committees,” he added. However, with schools having reopened, getting teachers to resume this Covid work could be difficult. Dr R Vishal, commissioner for Public Instruction, stated that deputing teachers back to Covid-19 work may not be possible. “Not only is there a shortage of teachers but schools have started and there are ongoing preparations for exams,” he said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-mulls-strict-home-quarantine-vigilance-1062322.html
19-12-2021||State||Friday violence not cops' failure, says Bommai||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has said that the police had been directed to take “long-term” measures to prevent vandalism incidents.  “Strict action will be taken against all those involved in vandalism. I have spoken to the Home minister and he has given instructions to police officials to take stern action. Arrests are already made,” the chief minister told media persons here on Saturday. “The statues of patriots have been installed as a mark of respect for their sacrifice. It is not right to damage such statues,” Bommai said. The chief minister said that Home Secretary and Director General of Police will hold talks with their Maharashtra counterparts to provide security to Kannadigas residing in Maharashtra  “Police have taken timely action against those responsible for the violence and stoning of government vehicles. Law and order in our state is our responsibility and in Maharashtra their responsibility,” he added. He denied that the violence on Friday night was due to police failure. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/friday-violence-not-cops-failure-says-bommai-1062329.html
19-12-2021||State||Kumaraswamy defends his absence from Assembly||JD(S) legislature party leader H D Kumaraswamy on Saturday justified his week-long absence from the Assembly session and asked why he should have attended it in the first place. "Why should I have been there? What was the achievement in the first week of the session? The way the session was run for the first five days...were any development issues discussed," Kumaraswamy asked, speaking to reporters. The former chief minister said he had intimated Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri of his absence. The Belagavi session of the legislature started December 13 and Kumaraswamy was in New Delhi for the launch of a biography of his father, former prime minister H D Deve Gowda. Also, he stayed back in New Delhi for his birthday on December 16. Kumaraswamy said he tracked the Assembly proceedings while he was in the national capital. "The only thing that came out was the former speaker's (K R Ramesh Kumar) remarks on women. He's a seasoned politician who always speaks as though no one can match him. That itself is a big achievement (of the session)," he said. "If I was in the House, things would have taken a different turn," he said, referring to Kumar's controversial remarks and added that the Speaker’s behavior was also condemnable. "What was the level of our Parliamentary system and how is it being destroyed by these great leaders in Karnataka? Should I have been there to partake in that," he asked. The JD(S) leader said he would attend the session from December 20 onwards. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kumaraswamy-defends-his-absence-from-assembly-1062333.html
19-12-2021||State||'Communal clashes happen only due to political reasons'||Prominent Muslim body Jamaat-e-Islami Hind (JIH) has repeatedly raised conerns over polarization and ‘misuse’ of laws to target the government’s critics. Its national president Syed Sadatullah Husaini, who was in the city recently, spoke to DH’s Akram Mohammed on a cross-section of issues: Excerpts:  On democracy, what do you think are the challenges right now? We feel there’s a serious downfall in democratic and Constitutional values. Elections are being fought with hate speeches, dividing people and encouraging communal and caste polarisation. That’s making the whole electoral process meaningless. Then, there are these draconian laws to silence the voices of critics.  Is this recent or has this happened over the years?  The problem was there earlier, too. But, it has accelerated in the last seven years and has reached an alarming point. What are the laws being used to silence dissent? Mainly the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) and sedition. Muslims aren’t the only victims. Any opponent or dissenting voice is silenced - even adivasis and Dalits.  What’s your view on AIMIM and SDPI that largely depend on Muslims. Will a separate political identity help Muslims?  I’d not like to comment on any political party per se. But, overall, politics based on caste or community identity isn’t in anybody’s interest. People should bind together based on principles and ideologies. This should be the main basis of political mobilisation. What do you make of the controversy surrounding Friday prayers in Gurugram? There’s opposition to offering prayers in public places.  The main problem in the city was that there was no place for worship. Many mosques are under illegal possession and aren’t being freed up. Construction of new mosques is not allowed and people sought permission to pray in the open. Local administration has allowed them to pray in parks. Whatever we do should be as per law and nobody should be allowed to take law into their own hands.  In Karnataka, attacks against minorities are rising.  It’s evident. Communal clashes or tension happen only due to political reasons. Some political parties believe that polarisation is the easiest way to win elections. Unfortunately, voters are falling prey to this emotional blackmail.  How do you foresee developments ahead of the 2024 Lok Sabha polls?  Before that, there’s the UP polls that people are describing as a ‘semi-final’. It’ll set the overall direction of 2024 elections. The main priority of all peace-loving, democracy-loving people should be to ensure elections are fought on real issues such as governance, people’s problems, economy, etc. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/communal-clashes-happen-only-due-to-political-reasons-1062334.html
19-12-2021||State||Demand for action against Ramesh Kumar gets louder||The outcry to expel Congress MLA K R Ramesh Kumar has gathered force across the country following his recent remarks on rape on the floor of the house. A petition started on Change.org demanding to expel Ramesh Kumar from Legislative Assembly and order him to set up a fund for rape survivors received around 7,000 signatures within a few hours on Saturday. The petition, addressed to the Legislature Assembly Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri, reads: "The session dated Dec 17th in Karnataka Assembly had shameful speech, 'If rape is inevitable, then lie down and enjoy.'  This is shameful and pathetic for an MLA to say and that too in the assembly. No other person raised their voice against it, everyone rather laughed at it. This, in a way, has legalised rapes. So many women's lives and statuses are at risk. How can someone even say such lines?" The petitioners have demanded strict action against the MLA, his expulsion from the House and also issue an order for him to set up a fund for the rehabilitation of rape survivors. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/demand-for-action-against-ramesh-kumar-gets-louder-1062336.html
19-12-2021||State||Shivaji statue deseceration: Maharashtra govt seeks PM's intervention||The Maharashtra government has reacted sharply to the desecration of the statue of Chhatrapati Shivaji on Sankey Tank Road in Bengaluru with Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray urging the Centre to take cognisance of the issue. Maharashtra’s Maha Vikas Aghadi government has also reiterated its support to members of the Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti.  After the incident, there were protests in the bordering districts of Kolhapur and Sangli of the state.   Thackeray sought the intervention of  Prime Minister Narendra Modi in stopping what he described as “Kannada atrocities “and “pervert mindset”. Thackeray said Modi should direct the Karnataka government to take action. He said the incident cannot be taken lightly.  “For several years, the Marathi people in Karnataka have been facing atrocities and now the statue of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj is desecrated,” he said in a statement. Thackeray pointed out that recently Prime Minister Modi said in Varanasi that whenever the country’s culture was crushed, warrior kings like Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj have emerged. “Just a few days after the statement, this incident occurred,” he said.  “People of the country will not forgive such an incident. Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj is revered across the country,” Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar of NCP said. Pawar urged the Centre and the Karnataka government to look into the issue seriously. “The accused must be brought to book immediately and it must be ensured that such an incident is not repeated,” he said.  Two ministers - Food and  Civil Supplies Minister Chhagan Bhujbal of NCP and Urban Development Minister Eknath Shinde of Shiv Sena - who look after the issues involving Maharashtra-Karnataka boundary dispute, Revenue Minister Balasaheb Thorat of Congress and Home Minister Dilip Walse-Patil among others have condemned the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/shivaji-statue-deseceration-maharashtra-govt-seeks-pms-intervention-1062339.html
19-12-2021||State||Karnataka 'discussing' ban on Maharashtra committee for 'creating unrest'||Animal Husbandry Minister Prabhu Chauhan said discussions are on to ban the Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti (MES), which is creating unrest in Karnataka. Speaking to media persons in Hubballi on Sunday he said: “Let us wait for a decision taken by the top brass of the government. We can not tolerate the hooliganism of the MES. Burning of Kannada flag and desecration of freedom fighters from Karnataka is unacceptable.” He said the top priority of the BJP government in Karnataka is to protect the pride of Kannada and Karnataka. And for this, our government is prepared to take any step required. He claimed that discussion in this regard was also held during the Winter Session of the Assembly in Belagavi. No choice but to ban Actor Prem also urged the state government to consider banning MES if it continues to create unrest in Karnataka. Speaking to media persons after taking ‘blessings’ at Sri Siddharoodha Mutt in Hubballi on Sunday, he said both Kannadigas and Marathi speaking people are living peacefully and happily in Karnataka. However, the MES is stirring a storm in the teacup through its act of burning the Kannada flag and damaging idols. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-discussing-ban-on-maharashtra-committee-for-creating-unrest-1062561.html
19-12-2021||State||Karnataka to set up separate force to check illegal sand mining||The Karnataka government is proposing to create a separate protection force to prevent illegal sand mining in Karnataka, the Department of Mines and Geology has informed the National Green Tribunal. "The state is taking stringent action to control and prevent illegal sand mining. The geologists employed in the particular districts are entrusted to keep vigilance on the matter. The government has given power to police, revenue, PWD and Forest Department to take action against illegal sand mining", the state informed in its affidavit before the Southern Bench of the NGT. The NGT was hearing a petition regarding illegal sand mining in Vijayapura and Raichur districts. The state government also said that to prevent illegal sand mining, unauthorised village roads leading to ponds, lakes, rivers have been blocked. Sand blocks were identified by the Department of Mines and Geology and auctioned for scientific and sustainable sand mining. The state also said that de-silting of ponds, lakes, tanks and streams are necessary for their existence. If the desilting of water bodies have not done, silt would accumulate and collection of water would also reduce, the state informed the NGT.    Vehicles of the lessees are fitting with GPS to keep watch over the transportation. Weigh bridges and CCTVs are fitting at important places to prevent any illegality in transportation, the state said.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-to-set-up-separate-force-to-check-illegal-sand-mining-1062578.html
19-12-2021||State||Karnataka records 300 Covid-19 cases, one death||Karnataka reported 300 new Covid-19 cases and one death on Sunday, taking the respective tallies to 3,002,427 and 38,288. According to the health department's bulletin, 279 people were discharged, which took the total discharges to 2,956,970, while 7,140 cases remained active. Bengaluru Urban accounted for most of the new infections, with 168 reported. Among other districts, there were 37 cases in Dakshina Kannada, 13 in Mysuru, 11 in Hassan and 10 in Kodagu. Udupi was the only district that reported a death. The positivity rate for the day was at 0.26 per cent and the case fatality rate was 0.33 per cent. A total of 112,524 samples were tested in the state, including 93,726 RT-PCR tests on Sunday, taking the cumulative number of specimens examined so far to 55.3 million. As many as 61,982 people were inoculated in the state, taking the total number of vaccinations to 82.7 million, comprising the first and second doses. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-records-300-covid-19-cases-one-death-1062590.html
19-12-2021||State||Doubling of Yeshwantpur-Hubballi railway line works going on, says Ashwini Vaishnaw||Union Railway Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw informed Parliament that doubling works on the Yeshwantpur and Hubballi sections of railway lines will be taken up in patches. Chikkajajur-Arsikere and Tumakuru-Yeshwantpur sections are already commissioned. Balancing of the doubling of Hubballi-Chikkajajur and Arsikere-Tumakuru sections have been taken up in patches, the minister said, replying to a query raised by Narayana K. The total cost of the Hubballi-Chikkajajur is Rs 1,804 crore, of which Rs 1,165 crore has been spent. An outlay of Rs 336 crore has been provided for the project for 2021-22 and a 95-kilometre section has been commissioned. Work on the balancing section has been taken up, he said. For Arasikere-Tumakuru doubling works, a Rs 648-crore work on 74 kilometres has been commissioned. Works have been taken up for balancing 22 kilometres from Nittur to Banasandra, the minister said. The minister said that electrification of the Yeshwantpur-Chikkabanavara-Tumkur section has also been commissioned. On the balance section, works were at different stages, he said. To another question, the minister said there was no proposal to introduce MEMU trains on the Tumakuru-Yeshwantpur section. The minister also said that the railways has taken up doubling work on the Yalahanka-Dharmavaram-Gooty section in three patches. Of the 123 kilometres of Yalahanka-Penukonda doubling proposal, a total of 72 kilometres from Yelahanka-Devarapalle has been commissioned. In the Penukonda-Dharmavaram section, doubling work on the 42-kilometre line is under way, while in the Dharmavaram-Gooty section, doubling work has been commissioned for 57 kilometres and works are ongoing in the balance section. The completion of railway projects depends on various factors like speedy land acquisition, forest clearance, shifting of utilities, statutory clearances from various authorities, and geological and topographical conditions of that area, the minister said.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/doubling-of-yeshwantpur-hubballi-railway-line-works-going-on-says-ashwini-vaishnaw-1062595.html
19-12-2021||State||Karnataka has cleared 89% of workplace harassment complaints against government officials since 2017: Centre data||Karnataka ranked among the top states for the highest disposal rates of workplace sexual harassment cases filed against government officials, according to government data. The disposal rate in Karnataka was 89 per cent, with as many as 50 of the 56 cases filed since 2017 against state officials disposed of, the Women and Child Development (WCD) ministry told the Parliament last week. In contrast, neighbouring Maharashtra had a disposal rate of only 21 per cent, even as it had the highest number of cases (102), with only 22 cases disposed of. In the national capital, of the 62 cases of workplace harassment filed, only 21 were disposed of, at a disposal rate of 34 per cent. The WCD ministry furnished the data in response to questions posed by several MPs, including former WCD minister Maneka Gandhi, in the Lok Sabha. Others who posed the question include BJP MPs Raja Amareshwara Naik, Sukanta Majumdar, Janardhan Singh Sigriwal, Vinod Kumar Sonkar, and Bhola Singh.  To be sure, these complaints were registered at the Sexual Harassment Electronic Box (SHe-Box), the online complaint system mandated under the ‘The Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013. All the complaints listed are those recorded since the portal was set up in 2017.  “Once a complaint is registered in the SHe-Box, it directly reaches the concerned authorities having jurisdiction to take action in the matter. The responsibility to take action on such complaints as well as to ensure updating of status in that regard on SHe Box, is with the concerned authorities,” the government said in its reply.  Last month, the WCD ministry said that while currently, the portal deals with complaints pertaining to state governments and Central government ministries, there is an intent to extend it to private companies as well.   Across the country, the disposal rate was 46 per cent; with 327 cases of the total of 708 cases disposed of. In India’s biggest state, Uttar Pradesh, the disposal rate was 80 per cent; with 74 of the 92 complaints filed since 2017 having been dealt with.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-cleared-89-of-workplace-harassment-complaints-against-government-officials-since-2017-centre-data-1062618.html
19-12-2021||State||Karnataka Cabinet likely to take up anti-conversion bill today||All eyes will be on the Cabinet meeting scheduled on Monday noon, during which the state government is expected to clear the controversial anti-conversion Bill. Though the Belagavi legislature session began last Monday, the government is yet to table the much-discussed Bill in the Assembly. The Opposition has accused the ruling BJP of dragging its feet over the Bill. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-cabinet-likely-to-take-up-anti-conversion-bill-today-1062672.html
19-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||How Omicron patient's family flew unhindered from Delhi to Bengaluru||A 70-year-old woman travelled from Delhi to Bengaluru with her 36-year-old son despite an elder son testing positive for Covid-19 in the national capital and the entire family being his primary contacts.  The elder son was later revealed to be infected with the Omicron variant of the novel coronavirus. The woman and the 36-year-old also tested positive upon reaching Bengaluru on December 6. The genomic sequencing results of their swab samples — announced on December 16 — revealed that they, too, are infected with Omicron.  The woman's husband (a Parkinson's patient), 32-year-old daughter-in-law and a four-year-old grandson also tested positive, and their samples were sent for genomic sequencing on December 17. The results are awaited. All have been admitted to Sakra Hospital in Bengaluru. The family's independent villa in Bellandur and an apartment in Yemalur have been sealed.  The woman and the second son told the authorities that they travelled to Bengaluru because they had tested negative at the Delhi airport.  The Karnataka health department says it cannot put extra curbs on interstate domestic flyers or travellers from non-at-risk countries because all states have to follow the Centre's guidelines.  Dr Surendra R, Deputy Health Officer, Mahadevapura Zone, BBMP, said that the entire family had attended a wedding in Udaipur, Rajasthan, before travelling to Delhi.  The 36-year-old man's brother and another family member tested positive at Delhi airport on December 3, the rest of the family tested negative. So while those two stayed back in Delhi, the rest of the family flew to Bengaluru. When the brother's genomic sequencing result came positive for Omicron, it was already December 11, he added.   State Health Commissioner D Randeep told DH, "Presently, there are no curbs or pre-mandated tests for domestic air passengers. We would need to take a call subsequently."  As far as the 52-year-old Belagavi Omicron patient is concerned, he could not be stopped from taking a connecting flight from Bengaluru (even as his RT-PCR results were awaited) because he had travelled from Nigeria, which is not on the list of at-risk countries.  Randeep said, "He was tested under the 2% random sampling category for travellers from non-at-risk countries. That explains why we could not ask him not to leave the airport for catching a connecting flight to Belagavi. We have to abide by the union government's guidelines for non-at-risk countries' travellers. We can't have extra curbs. We are anyway not testing all from non-at-risk countries and they are not asked to wait at the airport."  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/how-omicron-patients-family-flew-unhindered-from-delhi-to-bengaluru-1062355.html
19-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Omicron cluster in school: Karnataka TAC directive was thrown to the wind||Ten days before Karnataka announced the first paediatric cluster in an educational institution, the state's Covid-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) had given separate recommendations for boarding and residential schools in the backdrop of the Omicron threat and the mushrooming of Covid clusters in schools.  On Saturday, Karnataka declared its first paediatric Omicron cluster in a government residential school in Dakshina Kannada. The four teenage schoolgirls detected with Omicron variant living in the hostel have recovered and begun attending classes, said Dakshina Kannada district health officials.  To avert such clusters, the TAC had recommended that at entry, all shall be screened for Covid symptoms, hand sanitiser applied, thermal scanning done, and physical distance of at least one metre/three feet ensured throughout.  There shall be strict compliance to the Covid-appropriate behaviour throughout like compulsory face masking while in common areas, the physical distancing of at least one metre, hand and respiratory hygiene and indoor natural ventilation, etc.  There shall be restrictions on visitors to ensure the CAB during visiting hours. All staff, teachers and students over 18 years of age should have received two doses of Covid-19 vaccination, the TAC had recommended.  All the symptomatic shall be immediately isolated in a separate designated room and referred for testing by RAT initially and if negative, followed by RT-PCR compulsorily, as per the ICMR protocol.  If there are three or more than 2% of students attending classes test positive, then the respective classes should be suspended for a week, the students isolated and treated in an institutional facility under supervision. All primary and secondary contacts shall compulsorily be tested by RT-PCR.  If there are more than 15 cases in a school, then the school shall be closed for a day and thoroughly sanitised. After the testing of all primary and secondary contacts, isolation and management of the cases, the school may be reopened after a week. The classroom(s) shall be disinfected using 1% sodium hypochlorite solution, and the objects & surfaces with 0.5% Lysol.  The classroom(s) shall be ready to use after 24 hours. If the CT value of the RT-PCR is less than 25, then such samples on such suspicion for omicron shall be subjected to genomic sequencing.  In the boarding school, the warden, kitchen staff and other staff shall be asymptomatic and undergo RT-PCR tests weekly. There shall be staggered boarding timings to ensure CAB in the dining hall. The bath and toilets shall be disinfected twice daily viz. morning and evening, using 1% sodium hypochlorite solution.  Two per cent of students shall be randomly tested in a week by the RT-PCR test as a part of special surveillance.  If the weekly TPR of the taluka/district exceeds 2%, then the school shall be closed and online classes conducted till the TPR is less than 1%. In all boarding schools, there shall be one designated isolation room for keeping symptomatic till the RT-PCR results are received.  There shall be one monitoring team at the taluka level consisting of one officer each from the departments of education and health that shall regularly visit the schools and ensure compliance of SoP.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/omicron-cluster-in-school-karnataka-tac-directive-was-thrown-to-the-wind-1062356.html
19-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Miscreants will be dealt with iron hand, says Bommai after statues targeted||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Sunday appealed to people to respect iconic personalities and avoid lending ears to rumours, after miscreants targeted statues of freedom fighter Sangolli Rayanna and Shivaji in Belagavi and Bengaluru. Tension prevailed in Belagavi bordering Maharashtra on Saturday after alleged activists of Maharashtra Ekikarana Samiti (MES) vandalised the statue of Rayanna, a 19th century icon who fought against the British, at Angol on South Belagavi, following news that a statue of Shivaji has been desecrated in Bengaluru. "I appeal to people to respect patriots. They had laid down their lives for the nation. As a mark of respect, the statues of Kittur Rani Chennamma, Sangolli Rayanna and Shivaji Maharaj were built. We have to respect them and retain their dignity," Bommai said here. "Be it Chatrapati Shivaji, Kittur Rani Chenamma or Veera Sangoli Rayanna, all of them fought against colonial forces for the freedom of our country," he tweeted earlier. "Insulting any of our great national leaders in the name of language politics is disservice to their nationalistic spirit and will not be tolerated. Under no circumstances will we let miscreants disrupt law and order in Karnataka," Bommai said. He asked people not to mix other issues to demean the contribution of historical figures. "Our government will not tolerate anyone insulting the patriots and disturbing law and order in the state. Convey your sentiments peacefully. Whoever they are, we will deal with them with iron hand," Bommai told reporters. Karnataka Home Minister Araga Jnanendra said strict action has been taken against the miscreants who damaged the statue of Sangolli Rayanna. The Minister said Marathi and Kannada speaking people are living in harmony in areas bordering Belagavi but some miscreants, who are "not even the dust" of great personalities, damaged their statues. He also said that he is in touch with the police officials in Bengaluru and Belagavi to ensure that law and order is maintained. Meanwhile, the district administration has clamped prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the CrPC in Belagavi till December 20 morning. So far, 27 people have been arrested for vandalising Sangolli Rayanna's statue, and they have been remanded to judicial custody for 14 days. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/miscreants-will-be-dealt-with-iron-hand-says-bommai-after-statues-targeted-1062441.html
19-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||CM Bommai urges people to 'respect patriots, not heed to rumours'||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Sunday appealed to the people not to pay heed to rumours and said that Shivaji Maharaj, Kitturu Rani Chennamma and Sangolli Rayanna were great patriots. "Shivaji Maharaj, Kitturu Rani Chennamma and Sangolli Rayanna fought for freedom of the country, they fought for unification of the country. Dividing the society in their name should be condemned," Bommai said. Sending a strong message against any acts of vandalism, the Chief Minister said, "Our government will not tolerate any acts of violence. It will be taken seriously and the vandals will be dealt with sternly." Already 27 persons in Belagavi and three in Bengaluru have been arrested in connection with cases of vandalising the statues of Shivaji and Sangolli Rayanna, he said. The Chief Minister appealed to the people not to pay heed to rumours. "Nobody should indulge in spreading false news and incite the people... incidents are being propagated in different shades to mislead the people. This is far from the truth. I have immense respect and pride for the patriots. People should not get swayed by rumours," he said. The Chief Minister made the appeal amid the ongoing tension in the border town of Belagavi. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cm-bommai-urges-people-to-respect-patriots-not-heed-to-rumours-1062449.html
19-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||BJP government in Karnataka saved 10,000 cows from being slaughtered: Minister||Animal Husbandry Minister Prabhu Chauhan claimed that since it took charge in Karnataka, the BJP government has prevented more than 10,000 cows from being butchered at the abattoir. Speaking to media persons here after visiting the gaushala maintained by Sri Siddharoodha Mutt in Hubballi on Sunday, he said these cattle were rescued and rehabilitated in nearby government-controlled/supported gaushalas. He said since the State government passed the Anti-Cow Slaughter Act, the animal husbandry department has received more than 40,000 calls in the last three months, and the officials have been able to resolve and book the culprits in 75 per cent of the cases. So far, they have booked cases against more than 500 people for illegally transporting cattle. Prabhu claimed that the government’s hands have been tied by a public interested litigation that is pending before the court. “We want to impose the strict provisions of Anti-Cow Slaughter Act in full force. However, a PIL has tied our hands. Else, the government intends to increase the fine amount to Rs 10 lakh and seven years imprisonment for those involved in illegal cow slaughtering,” he said and added that the government also wishes to make arrest non-bailable for those killing cows and illegally transporting them. The government will make all-out efforts to close all the illegal slaughterhouses in Karnataka, he added. Prabhu said the government has identified 275 locations across Karnataka to set up gaushalas that will take care of the stray cattle and discarded cows and in the next two to three months, these cowsheds will start functioning. The minister also claimed that ‘Pashu-sanjeevini’ (a cattle helpline: 1962) is receiving a good response and soon, every district will have cattle ambulances where these emergency vehicles will reach the doorsteps of the farmers to address the cases. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bjp-government-in-karnataka-saved-10000-cows-from-being-slaughtered-minister-1062565.html
19-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||'No post is permanent': Karnataka CM Basavaraj Bommai triggers rumours of his exit||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai in an emotional address to the people of his constituency Shiggaon in this district said nothing is permanent in this world including posts and positions, fuelling speculation in some quarters about his possible exit. "Nothing is eternal in this world. This life itself is not forever. We don't know how long we will be here in such a situation, these posts and positions are also not forever. I am aware of this fact every moment," he said. In an expression of gratitude to the people of his constituency, Bommai said he is only 'Basavaraj' for them and not the Chief Minister. The CM was addressing people after inaugurating the statue of Kittur Rani Chennamma, the 19th Century queen of Kittur in Belagavi district, who fought against the British. "I have always been saying that outside this place (Shiggaon) I was Home Minister and Irrigation Minister in the past, but once I was in, I remained just 'Basavaraj' for you all. Today as a Chief Minister I am saying that once I come to Shiggaon, I may be Chief Minister outside but amongst you, I will remain as the same Basavaraj Bommai because the name Basavaraj is permanent and not the posts", he said. There have been rumours in some quarters that Bommai is likely to be replaced. The CM is reportedly suffering from a knee-related problem, and may undergo treatment abroad but there was no official word on this. The Chief Minister who turned emotional twice recalled how affectionately he was fed 'Rotti' (Jowar Roti) and 'Navane' (foxtail millet) rice every time he came to his constituency as Basavaraj. "I don't have great things to say. If I could live up to your expectations, that's enough for me. I believe that no power is bigger than your love and trust. I try my best not to talk to you in an emotional way but sentiments overwhelm me after seeing you all," Bommai said in a choking manner. Noting that there was a huge responsibility on his shoulders to plan a comprehensive development of the state and to respond to the demands and requests of every community, the Chief Minister said, "he always kept his conscience awake every moment and in his every deed". Bommai took over as Chief Minister on July 28 after B S Yediyurappa resigned on the day he completed two years in office.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/no-post-is-permanent-karnataka-cm-basavaraj-bommai-triggers-rumours-of-his-exit-1062566.html
19-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka: Omicron-infected girls experienced loss of taste and smell||Four teenage girls, a 13-year-old and three 14-year-olds, infected with Omicron virus in the state on Saturday experienced loss of taste and smell apart from fever, something that was not observed so far among the adult Omicron patients in the state. Adult patients mostly had scratchy throat, runny nose, fatigue and muscle pain. Their unvaccinated status is of concern, said experts. State authorities have announced that the girls have completely recovered and the Dakshina Kannada district health officials say they’re currently in the hostel of their government residential school in Mangaluru Rural. Weighing in on paediatric manifestations of Omicron symptoms, Dr Rajath Athreya, senior consultant and HoD, Paediatrics and Neonatology, Sakra World Hospital, and a member of the state Covid-19 Technical Advisory Committee said, “They might have slightly different symptoms. But it may not be a discriminator between adult Omicron and paediatric Omicron patients. “The Omicron spectrum is still evolving. In the previous second ‘Delta’ wave, out of 100 Covid patients treated, 60 would report loss of taste and smell. So, we shouldn’t be surprised if Omicron patient symptoms are mimicking those of Delta.” Athreya said what paediatric experiences from South Africa (the epicentre of the Omicron outbreak) showed were that older children were not terribly unwell but young children less than four years of age required hospitalisation. “Paediatric cluster containment is more important than individual patient management. From TAC, we already gave recommendations keeping in mind the Omicron threat like limited visitation, staggered meal time and close testing and monitoring. District administration should regularly go in to check that CAB (Covid appropriate behaviour) measures are in place. We had suggested tracing 20 contacts for every case, if possible. In a setting like a residential school, everyone in the hostel and those who came in should be tested,” he said. The state tested 79 primary contacts of these girls and 203 secondary contacts out of whom 13 tested positive. On possible risks unvaccinated status of children poses to them, he said, “In South Africa, the vaccination coverage in adults also was in single digit in percentage terms. All age groups saw hospitalisation but under-four kids needed more. This was the initial trend, we need to wait and watch. Clinically, we are not very worried about children but if the number of kids needing hospitalisation increases, our capacities will be tested,” he added. Dr G V Basavaraj, Professor of Paediatrics, Indira Gandhi Institute of Child Health, who is the only paediatrician on the 17-member Omicron clinical expert committee had earlier told DH, “After two to six weeks of recovery from Covid, there are chances of Multisystem Inflammatory Syndrome in Children (MIS-C). We will need methylprednisolone injections, IV Immunoglobulins, ICU beds, and oxygen delivery devices.”  "We had 187 high dependency beds, 176 PICU beds, and 78 ventilators, for children in October. Since then not much ramping up has been done but preparations are underway," he said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-omicron-infected-girls-experienced-loss-of-taste-and-smell-1062684.html
19-12-2021||West||Eminent Pune hotelier, owner of Vaishali, Roopali eateries Jagannath Shetty no more||Veteran Pune-based hotelier Jagannath Shetty, the owner of a very popular trio of South Indian restaurants in Maharashtra’s cultural capital, passed away on Sunday. Jagannath Anna, as he was popularly known, made South Indian cuisine and thalis immensely popular among Punekars and established the trinity of Vaishali, Roopali and Amrapali restaurants. Members of top business families, such as the Poonawalas, Bajajs, Kirloskars and Kalyanis, were regulars at Vaishali. Shetty was 89. He is survived by daughter Nikita and son-in-law Abhijeet. “Jagannath Anna can rightfully claim to introduce South Indian cuisine to Punekars across many generations. He was at the forefront in donating a large part of his wealth to enumerable social causes. In fact, a few weeks ago, he turned 89 and till then was very active,” Ganesh Shetty, President, Pune Restaurants & Hoteliers Association, told DH over the phone from Pune. “He was a very good golfer and a philanthropist,” Shetty said, adding that he was an example for the hoteliers and the hospitality industry. The veteran was also instrumental in launching an anti-dowry campaign. Young Jagannath left home at the age of 13 to work in Kalyan near Mumbai with his uncle for Rs 3 a month. Jagannath Anna was born on 8 October, 1932 in Onimajalu mane in Bailur, a small village near Karkala in South Kanara. The ambitious young boy then came to Pune in 1949 at the age of 17. As a teen Jagannath, worked hard, often into the wee hours of the night.  His hard work bore fruit when he started the Café Madras (present day Roopali) in 1951 and later Madras Health home, now the very ‘in’ place, Vaishali. But everything was not a bed of roses and Jagannath Shetty had to work hard to achieve that success. Vaishali in those days was a tiny restaurant. However, Jagannath Shetty’s toil paid rich dividends.  Today his restaurants have become household name in Pune and are popular spots for people across all ages. Punekars took to social media platforms to condole the death of Jagannath Anna. “A big loss for Pune…a big loss for the entire hospitality industry..Our beloved Jagannath Shetty, owner of icons like Vaishali and Roopali passed away today morning. Om Shaanti,” tweeted BJP Shivajinagar MLA Siddharth Shirole. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/eminent-pune-hotelier-owner-of-vaishali-roopali-eateries-jagannath-shetty-no-more-1062411.html
19-12-2021||West||Shivaji Maharaj's descendants express anguish over desecration of statue in Bengaluru||Amid sharp reactions from Maharashtra over the desecration of a Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj statue in Bengaluru, the two descendants of the legendary Maratha warrior have expressed anguish over the act and sought the intervention of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The two 13th descendants of Shivaji Maharaj — Chhatrapati Udayanraje Bhosale of Satara and Sambhaji Chhatrapati of Kolhapur — have expressed deep concern over the incident and called for severe action against the culprits. Both are Rajya Sabha members and have urged PM Modi, Amit Shah and Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai to look into the issue. “The entire country is saddened with the incident and the reactions are visible. There should be strong action against the culprits,” said Chhatrapati Udayanraje Bhosale. “The desecration of Chatrapati Shivaji Maharaj's statue at Bengaluru is highly condemnable. Let’s not forget that the initial development of Bengaluru happened during Shahajiraje’s rule. The Government at the Centre and Karnataka state should take serious action against the culprits,” said Sambhaji Chhatrapati. The Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress Maha Vikas Aghadi government and opposition BJP have also condemned the incident saying that Shivaji Maharaj is a deity of not only Maharashtra but of the entire country, and any disrespect and insult to the founder of the Maratha empire will not be tolerated by the people of the state. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/shivaji-maharajs-descendants-express-anguish-over-desecration-of-statue-in-bengaluru-1062415.html
19-12-2021||West||Mumbai region flamingos to be satellite-tagged for global tracking||For the first time, the Mumbai-based leading nature research body Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS) has decided to satellite-tag the winter avian guests of India's commercial capital, the majestic flamingos, to track their global movements. BNHS director Dr Bivash Pandav said, to begin with, the process will be done for about ten birds at the Thane Creek Flamingo Sanctuary. BNHS has already applied to the Telecom Department for using GSM (Global System for Mobile Communications) bandwidth to be used for monitoring the tagged birds. The organisation will also need customs clearances. The radio tags, attached to a harness, will be looped to the birds’ wings like "school bags for kids," a researcher said. Traditionally, flamingos fly into Mumbai from various parts of the world such as Iran, Afghanistan and Israel, apart from Kutch, and spend their winter here at various wetlands – from Mahul-Sewree, Thane Creek Flamingo Sanctuary, Navi Mumbai. The BNHS study will help understand the pattern of their flights. The current system of tagging has its limitations for tracking as the researchers have to wait for alerts from those who notice them and those who have an eye for the tags. But in the case of the satellite tagging, study teams can download the signals from anywhere, depending on the network.“This is a very exciting development,” said B N Kumar, director of NatConnect Foundation. Describing the migratory birds as "ambassadors of environment," he said the advanced tech-based tracking will help better understand biodiversity. NatConnect Foundation has suggested to BNHS to extend the process to Navi Mumbai wetlands where BNHS itself has identified five water bodies for conservation. “Right now, there are hardly any birds at NRI or TS Chanakya wetlands, but once we get to see them, we can definitely go there,” Dr Pandav said. BNHS has planned to conserve the wetlands at Belpada, Bhendkhal, Panje, NRI and TS Chanakya and Bhandup as part of the TCFS Satellite Sanctuaries. Researchers were excited when some birds tagged by BNHS three-to-four years ago were found again at Panje and Alibaug. Birds have the typical habit of site fidelity, returning to the same area, which is tracked with the help of tagging. This has its limitations as BNHS has to wait for someone to observe the tags and report. But with radio-tagging, BNHS will be able to continuously monitor movements of birds.  BNHS is currently working on bird flight patterns in connection with two major projects – the Mumbai Trans Harbour Link (MTHL) and the Navi Mumbai International Airport. The Union Environment Ministry has made it mandatory to work on wildlife mitigation for the two projects under construction now. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-region-flamingos-to-be-satellite-tagged-for-global-tracking-1062420.html
19-12-2021||West||Residents panic as suspected chemical powder from refinery falls on their food in Mumbai||A suspected chemical powder from a refinery fell on the food and vehicles of residents of Mahul village in Mumbai, triggering panic in the area, officials said on Sunday. The incident took place around 11 pm on Saturday, when residents of Gawan Pada at Mahul village in suburban Chembur were celebrating a festival outside their homes, a fire official said. They noticed some powder from the Hindustan Petroleum's refinery located nearby falling on their food and vehicles, the official said. The worried residents immediately alerted local police and the fire department. Personnel of the fire department, police and the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation reached the spot and immediately contacted officials of the refinery, the official said. The plant officials were asked to close the work there, he said. The personnel from the fire department, police and the civic body were present in the area till 1.30 am on Sunday and did not find anything suspicious, the fire official said, adding that suspected chemical substance stopped falling automatically after some time. “It was not a poisonous substance. After the incident, the plant officials were asked to shut the work temporarily and to rectify the problem," RCF police station's senior inspector Shrihari Ghavate said. "We will wait for a report from the factory inspector and chemical pollution controller and on that basis, action will be taken if required,” the police official said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/residents-panic-as-suspected-chemical-powder-from-refinery-falls-on-their-food-in-mumbai-1062424.html
19-12-2021||West||Mormugao sails for trial on Goa Liberation Day||Mormugao, the Indian Navy's second indigenous stealth destroyer of the P15B class, proceeded on her maiden sea sortie on Sunday. The ship, named after a Goan seaport city and planned to be commissioned in mid-2022, took to the sea on the date -- December 19 -- when the nation celebrates 60 years of the state's liberation from Portuguese rule. The seaport city of Mormugao is situated in the eponymous Morumugão Sub-District of the district of South Goa, along the Arabian Sea, on the western coast of India. It has a deep natural harbour and is Goa's chief port. The Indian Navy played a pivotal role in the liberation of the state and naming the ship after the port city is expected to not only enhance the bond between the Indian Navy and the people of Goa, but also link the ship's identity permanently to the crucial role the Navy played in nation-building. Mormugao is being built at Mazagon Dock Shipbuilders Ltd (MDSL) as part of the 15B destroyers project. The ship incorporates several niche indigenous technologies, an example of the 'atmanirbar' (Make in India) initiative. Mormugao will add significantly to the Indian Navy’s combat capabilities.  With the recent commissioning in November 2021 of INS Visakhapatnam and the fourth P75 submarine INS Vela, the commencement of sea trials of Mormugao is testimony to the cutting-edge capabilities of MDSL and the strong indigenous shipbuilding tradition of a modern and vibrant India. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mormugao-sails-for-trial-on-goa-liberation-day-1062432.html
19-12-2021||West||Maharashtra winter session set to be stormy||The brief winter session of the Maharashtra legislature from 22-28 December is all set to be stormy with the opposition BJP ready to target the Maha Vikas Aghadi dispensation with a host of issues like Maratha reservation, political reservation vis-a-vis OBCs, Covid-19 pandemic situation and the Anil Deshmukh-Param Bir Singh row.  The MVA, however, is planning to make the BJP uncomfortable on the issue of the October 2 Cordelia cruise ship raid in which 20 persons including Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan was arrested.  NCP chief spokesperson Nawab Malik, who is the Minority Affairs Minister, has been targeting NCB’s Mumbai Zonal Director Sameer Wankhede and has accused the BJP of protecting him. Malik’s son-in-law Sameer Khan was arrested in a drugs case, however,  he has been granted bail.  The alleged desecration of a statue of legendary Maratha warrior Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj in Bengaluru and the long-pending Maharashtra-Karnataka boundary dispute involving Belgaum is also expected to figure during the Vidhan Sabha proceedings.  For Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, who is back after surgery, it would not be easy sailing - as the BJP will target him on multiple fronts, particularly after the Supreme Court turning down political reservations for OBCs in local bodies.  The Speaker of the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly is expected to be elected during the session through a voice vote. The post of the Speaker has been vacant since the resignation of Nana Patole, who took over as the Maharashtra Congress President. “The election process for the post of Speaker takes at least three days, so the election could not take place so far. In the winter session, however, the Speaker of the Legislative Assembly will be elected by voice vote,” Patole said.  Three-time MLA from Bhor, Sangram Thopte, is the frontrunner for the coveted post.  The nearly two-month-old strike by the employees of the  Maharashtra State Transport Corporation (MSRTC) will also figure as it has affected the common people badly including during the festive season of Diwali. State Transport Minister Anil Parab, who is a close aide of Thackeray, is facing severe criticism over the handling of the issue.  The Shakti Bill, which has been drafted on the lines of the Disha Act, is also expected to come up for discussion.  The winter session of the Maharashtra Legislature is generally held in Nagpur, however, because of the pandemic situation, it is being held in Mumbai.  Addressing a rally in Gondia on Saturday, Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis has set the tone ahead of the sitting of the two Houses. “This MVA government is more interested in reducing liquor price than petrol, more interested in giving concessions to builders and bar owners than our farmers. Now, citizens of Maharashtra are trying to search for a Government who governs but people are unable to find any,” he said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-winter-session-set-to-be-stormy-1062448.html
19-12-2021||West||The temple economy of a state famous for its churches||When Pune's DS Pai visited Goa four years ago for an official conference, he took out time early one morning to visit his Kuldev, family deity, Ramnathi temple at Bandivade. "My colleagues were interested and came along with me. They said they did not even know of the existence of such a beautiful temple," Pai, who is India Meteorological Department's (IMD) head, Long-Range Forecast, told IANS on phone. Pai's family migrated to Kerala in the 17th century when the Portuguese took over Goa. Like him, several others chose to make Kerala their home, but almost all of them have retained ties with the family deity even now. The trips have increased since he was posted to Pune, he said. Pai is not the only example. Not all visitors to this sunshine state go to the beach first but a bulk of them are actually temple goers. In fact, even when for the majority of tourists visiting Goa, the equation is simple: 'Goa Sun, Sand & Sea', over a dozen major temples and several smaller ones attract regular and annual crowds that have a sizable contribution to Goa's economy. According to India Tourism Statistics 2019, a government of India publication, in 2017, Goa had 68,95,234 domestic and 8,42,220 foreign tourists while in 2018, the respective number of 70,81,559 and 9,33,841 showing a growth rate of 2.70 per cent and 10.88 per cent, respectively. Of course, the pandemic changed the situation, and the tourism sector was the hardest hit. In 2021, even when the domestic sector has picked up slowly, foreign tourists' numbers are no match. But even before the pandemic and lockdown, tourists in general were unaware of Goa's rich tradition of multiple temples for centuries, and it would only be the niche tourists who would opt for it or those like Pai, who came for their deities. Amongst the 50-odd main temples across Goa, about a dozen stand out for various reasons, their distinct architecture being one of them. Brick and mortar structures, most of these big temples are 400-year-old, have unique tiled, sloping roofs and almost all of them have 'deep maal', a vertical decorative pillar with niches to keep earthen oil lamps. Each temple compulsorily has a tank / water body next to it. Mangeshi temple is amongst the most famous, but there are scores of others. Shantadurga at Kawale, Mhalsa Narayani at Mhardol, Lakshmi Nrusinha at Veling, Ramnathi and Mahalakshmi at Bandivade, Kamakashi at Shiroda, Santeri at Kelshi are amongst the bigger temples. Many of them are listed on the official website of Goa Tourism Development Corporation (GTDC). And then there are temples with even older vintage. The 1000-year-old Mahadev temple at Tambdi Surla near the border with Maharashtra and about 700-year-old Rudreshwar temple at Harale are the stone temples. When the Portuguese conquered Goa, devotees of several temples lining the coastal areas took the deities away to either deep inside the forests and undulating landscape of Goan territory, which now comprises the area between Panaji and Fonda, or further away to coastal Karnataka. With it, a lot of community members -- all Konkani speakers -- too migrated away to almost the entire coastal belt from south Gujarat to Kerala. Konkani speaking Gaud Saraswat Brahmins (GSBs), scores of Marathi speaking families from across Maharashtra and of course, many from Goa itself, all have their family deities in Goa. Shanta Durga at Amone is the family deity, the Kuldevi, of senior journalist Rajdeep Sardesai's family that hails from Madgaon. Not much into religious rituals -- "God resides in my heart" -- Sardesai said, "but I visit Goa for family functions regularly". Sardesai agreed that outsiders are unaware of the rich temple traditions. "Goa lives by the river and not by the sea. Once you start discovering the river, you discover the real Goa. There is nothing wrong in promoting beaches but there is more to Goa than the beaches," he said. Over the decades, especially after Independence, the diaspora spread to other states and even abroad. Many families make it a point to annually visit their family deities, many visit when there is a special occasion such as a marriage in the family and likewise. "The Goan temples are unique by the fact that the deities are identified not just as Brahminical, but those belonging to all types of communities. The temples had a land of their own, they supported the economy of the area around them," said Padmashree Vinayak Khedikar, author who has documented the folk arts and literary traditions of Goa. Families and villages from 'thal', a local term meaning the catchment for that temple, were dependent on the temple as a central institution and in turn they donated to the temple. "Each of the temples is an independent Sansthan institution. Till a few decades ago, anyone from the thal getting married would get a saree and dhoti from the temple. Also, some minor repairs or such chores to be carried out at people's homes were supported by the temple," said Khedikar, who has authored a book Goa Dev Mandal: Unnayan aani Sthalantar (Goa temple boards: upgradation and migration).   "Except for the law & order, the temples reigned over their respective thal even in the Portuguese era. There was a Mahajan system -- which led to a Mahajani Act in the late 18th century -- who were responsible for the maintenance of the temples and all its real estate. There were separate families identified for daily puja. Much of it has changed later," he said. But he was non-committal about the popularity of these temples. Sardesai said, "Temples would have to be promoted by the local community." "Last 6-8 years, lots of people who read my blogs budget a day or two for temples and inform me or ping me or ask for information. Sometimes, they also put out a thread on social media and tag me to say, it was because of my blog," said Anuradha Goyal, author, columnist and blogger based in Goa and who has extensively written about Goa temples. There has been no active promotion of temples by the state either. The BJP government for the last 10 years has had no promotional schemes for popularising temples to domestic tourists. However, given the political mileage that 'pilgrimage' is yielding -- Delhi Chief Minister has announced trains to pilgrim places from Goa; West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said Trinamool Congress stood for the temple, mosque and church; the Congress seems to have slowly woken up to the opportunity. Former Deputy Chief Minister Ramakant Khalap agreed that temple tourism has been neglected and also acknowledged the contribution of temples in Goa's economy. "Ahead of the Assembly elections, we are preparing the Congress manifesto. It will prominently feature dev ghar (temple) promotion and planning to celebrate Goa as 'God's Own Abode'," Khalap said. However, his idea of places of worship is not restricted to Hindu temples. "We plan to promote all places of worship. Puranas tell us this is a place reclaimed by Parshuram. Parvati did her penance here, we have Shanta Durga. Then much later came the Buddhists and Jain, there are a lot of remnants. Jews were here, Muslims were here and last were the Portuguese. Goa is a good example of how all religions have a syncretic existence. The temples, churches, and mosques, we have all of them," he said. "Our manifesto will demand to have designated state festivals from each religion," Khalap added. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/the-temple-economy-of-a-state-famous-for-its-churches-1062493.html
19-12-2021||West||NCP workers protest against Karnataka CM, perform milk 'abhishek' on Chhatrapati Shivaji's statues in Thane||NCP activists on Sunday performed milk 'abhishek' on statues of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj in Thane city and Ambernath township in Maharashtra. They also staged a protest against Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai to condemn the alleged desecration of Chhatrapati Shivaji's statue in Bengaluru. Activists of NCP gathered near the bust of the 17th Century king and performed milk abhishek in Ambernath. They raised slogans hailing the Maratha king. Similar 'Abhishek' was performed on the statue of Chhatrapati Shivaji at Masunda lake in Thane city neighbouring Mumbai. On the occasion, they slapped the picture of the Karnataka chief minister. Speaking to reporters, Thane Guardian Minister and Shiv Sena leader Eknath Shinde said it was not the first time that the national icon Shivaji Maharaj was insulted by some means or the other. He reiterated that the Karnataka government take stringent action against the culprits of the Bengaluru incident. "Otherwise, we know how to deal with them. The local government (Karnataka) will be responsible," he said. Tension prevailed in Belagavi bordering Maharashtra on Saturday after alleged activists of the Maharashtra Ekikarana Samiti vandalised a statue of freedom fighter Sangolli Rayanna, following news that a statue of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj was desecrated in Bengaluru.  Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ncp-workers-protest-against-karnataka-cm-perform-milk-abhishek-on-chhatrapati-shivajis-statues-in-thane-1062524.html
19-12-2021||West||Maha Vikas Aghadi government is 'dealer-broker-transfer', says Amit Shah||Launching a scathing attack on the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government, Union Home and Cooperation Minister and senior BJP leader Amit Shah described the Maharashtra dispensation as “DBT”, which he said stands for “dealer-broker-transfer”. Shah accused Thackeray, the Shiv Sena President, of betraying BJP and joining hands with the Congress-NCP to form the MVA in 2019 to realise his dream of becoming the Chief Minister.  “For us, DBT stands for ‘direct benefit transfer’ but for them (MVA) it is ‘dealer-broker-transfer’…that's how they run the government…he (Thackeray) wanted to become the chief minister and betrayed us,” Shah said in an address to party workers in Pune, concluding his two-day visit to Maharashtra.  “He (Thackeray) is not keeping well for last few months…I wish him good health…but when the Covid-19 pandemic situation was worst…where was he?,” he said, pointing out that during the pandemic, Prime Minister Narendra Modi held 20 meetings with chief ministers and three with governors.  Referring to a meeting held before the 2019 Lok Sabha polls in Mumbai with Thackeray, Shah said: “I want to reiterate…I want to make it clear, never ever it was committed that they (Shiv Sena) would be offered the post (of CM)…it was clear that Devendra Fadnavis would be the chief minister (again)”.  He also pointed out that in rallies addressed by Modi, it was clearly stated that Fadnavis would be the chief minister.  “In every poster, there were photos of Modi ji and you…your photos were one-fourth the size of Modi ji,” he said, lashing out at Thackeray.  “You may recall…I had said that this (MVA) government is a three-wheeler auto (Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress) with wheels running in three directions…but today I want to amend, all these three wheels are punctured…it is only polluting the environment with smoke,” he said.  “A minister of this government (former Home Minister) Anil Deshmukh has been arrested,” he said. Shah also pointed out that when the Centre slashed the excise duty on petrol and diesel, all BJP-ruled states followed suit. “Had Maharashtra cut duties on petrol and diesel, it would have been cheaper by Rs 15…However, instead, the state reduced prices of liquor…they have misunderstood, I suppose,” he said.  Shah dared the tri-party MVA to contest elections against the BJP and check out its political strength. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maha-vikas-aghadi-government-is-dealer-broker-transfer-says-amit-shah-1062571.html
19-12-2021||West||Shivaji statue row: Maharashtra sees waves of protests ahead of Amit Shah's visit||Maharashtra witnessed waves of protests on Sunday in the wake of the alleged desecration of the statue of legendary Maratha warrior Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj in Bengaluru and the statement of Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai. A group of Shiv Sainiks gathered at the historic Shivaji Park at Dadar here and engaged in sloganeering against the BJP and the Chief Minister of the neighbouring state.  There were protests in several other places in Mumbai and other districts of the state including Pune, Sangli, Kolhapur and Satara.  The protests happened on a day when Union Home and Cooperation Minister Amit Shah visited Pune. A group of local Shiv Sena leaders are expected to hand over a memorandum to Shah on the issue.  Meanwhile, at the Pune Municipal Corporation, Shah laid the foundation of a grand statue of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj, dedicated a statue of Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar, the chief architect of the Constitution, and paid tributes at the statue of a social reformer Mahatma Jyotiba Phule.  “Shivaji Maharaj gave a ray of hope during dark times…he laid the foundation of ‘Hindavi-swaraj’,” Shah said, adding that it was Shivaji Maharaj who gave the clarion call of “Swadesh, swaraj and swadharma” - which became the mission during the freedom movement. In Shivaji Park, the protest was led by Sena Sena legislators Sada Sarvankar and Manisha Kayande near the statue of the Maratha warrior king at the Shivaji Park in Mumbai. Talking to reporters, Sarvankar claimed that the BJP seeks votes in the name of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj in Maharashtra and insults the warrior king in Karnataka. A day earlier, Shiv Sainiks protested outside the BJP office in Mumbai.  “Prime Minister Modi should direct the Karnataka government to take action in the matter. This incident cannot be taken lightly. For several years, Marathi-speaking people in Karnataka are facing atrocities. Now, the statue of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj is desecrated," Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray had said on Saturday.  The ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi allies - Shiv Sena, BJP and Congress - as well as opposition BJP, have condemned the incident. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/shivaji-statue-row-maharashtra-sees-waves-of-protests-ahead-of-amit-shahs-visit-1062580.html
19-12-2021||West||Maharashtra minister compares roads to 'Hema Malini's cheeks', faces backlash from women's commission||Senior Shiv Sena leader and Maharashtra minister Gulabrao Patil stirred up a political controversy comparing the roads in his constituency of Jalgaon district to actor-lawmaker Hema Malini's cheeks. The remark invited a strong reaction from the state women's commission, warning him of legal action. Patil is the Water Supply & Sanitation Minister in the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government.  There was no immediate reaction from the Shiv Sena over the comments on Hema Malini, an actor, danseuse and BJP MP from Mathura.  Addressing a rally in Jalgaon, Patil said: “Those who have been MLAs for 30 years should come to my constituency and see the roads. If they are not like Hema Malini's cheeks, then I will resign”. The statement was an apparent criticism of NCP leader Eknath Khadse, a veteran from Jalgaon district.  As the video of his speech went viral and he invited criticism on social media platforms, Patil tendered an apology.  The Maharashtra State Commission for Women took cognisance of the remarks and warned the minister of legal action if he did not tender a public apology. "The commission has taken note of the comment. If the minister doesn't tender an apology, he will have to face legal action," MSCW Chairperson Rupali Chakankar said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-minister-compares-roads-to-hema-malinis-cheeks-faces-backlash-from-womens-commission-1062584.html
19-12-2021||West||Maharashtra reports six more Omicron cases; state tally reaches 54||The cases of new Covid-19 variant Omicron crossed the 50-mark in Maharashtra with six more patients being reported on Sunday. The state has now a total of 54 cases which include 22 in Mumbai followed by Pimpri-Chinchwad (11), Pune Rural (7), Pune City (3), Satara (3), Kalyan-Dombivli (2), Osmanabad (2), Buldhana (1), Nagpur (1), Latur (1), Vasai-Virar (1).  Two of the patients in Mumbai are from Karnataka and one each from Chhattisgarh and Kerala and two from Maharashtra districts of Jalgaon and Aurangabad.  “Looking at the experience in other countries, the third wave would be of Omicron,” state Public Health and Family Welfare Minister Rajesh Tope indicated a couple of days ago. “We have to increase the level of preparedness and precautions. I reiterate that vaccination and masks are the best solution,” said Dr Suhas Pingle, President, IMA-Maharashtra State.  Meanwhile, Dr Trupti Gilada, Infectious Disease Specialist, Masina Hospital, Mumbai, said, "reports around the world are showing that although Omicron is a very infectious strain, the disease caused is mild. While it is not yet certain what the efficacy of the current vaccines is like for Omicron, there seems to be protection from severe infections, hospitalisations and death from all the prevalent strains.” “Over 55% of the eligible Indians are double vaccinated and over 85% have received at least a dose. Even if we do see a surge in the number of cases, the high level of immunity in the population will minimise the numbers really requiring hospitalisation,” she added. Integrated Diseases Surveillance Programme (IDSP) officials said that of the 54 patients, 28 have been discharged after RT-PCR negative reports.  Meanwhile, Mumbai’s Municipal Commissioner Dr. Iqbal Singh Chahal has once again appealed to citizens to avoid Christmas and New Year parties, and follow all Covid-19 guidelines strictly. “In the near future, risk of Covid virus spread may increase if ceremonies and functions are held on the occasions of Christmas and New Year. There is also a need to curb the growing crowd at weddings and other ceremonies. Moreover, hotels, restaurants and other public establishments have also been found to be flouting Covid-19 norms,” he said. The Maharashtra government has threatened action against violators under the Indian Penal Code as well as the Epidemic Diseases Act and National Disaster Management Act. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-reports-six-more-omicron-cases-state-tally-reaches-54-1062585.html
19-12-2021||West||Indian Navy finds wreckage of missing fishing boat Naved-2||The Indian Navy has found the wreckage of fishing vessel Naved-2 that went missing off the Ratnagiri coast of Maharashtra.  Based on a request from the Maharashtra government, the Indian Navy deployed INS Makar, a hydrographic survey ship, on Saturday to search for the missing fishing boat Naved-2 in the Arabian Sea off the Ratnagiri coast.  The boat went missing on 26 October and could have become a hazard to navigation.  The Maharashtra government had also informed the Navy of a missing member of the boat's crew.  “On deployment, the ship, through her specialised sonar equipment, located the wreckage of the boat on the seabed with one half-submerged in mud. After ascertaining the safe depth above the boat wreck, coordinated diving was conducted with marine police, Jaigad and the mortal remains of the missing crew member was also recovered by the ship,” Western Naval Command officials said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/indian-navy-finds-wreckage-of-missing-fishing-boat-naved-2-1062623.html
19-12-2021||West||BJP set to attack Maharashtra government in Winter Session of Assembly||The Winter Session of the Maharashtra legislature to be held between December 22 and 28, is likely to generate much heat as the opposition BJP may corner the Shiv Sena-led state government over a host of issues, including the OBC reservation stalemate, the ongoing strike of MSRTC workers and the arrest of former minister Anil Deshmukh, among others. The Maratha quota issue, the Covid-19 management in view of the emergence of the Omicron variant, issues surrounding the arrest of Aryan Khan, son of Shah Rukh Khan, in a drugs case, and the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) zonal officer Sameer Wankhede's caste credentials, are also likely to rock both the Houses of the legislature. The Winter Session in Maharashtra is generally held in Nagpur, the second capital of the state, but it is being held in Mumbai for the second time in a row due to the pandemic. Former home minister and NCP leader Anil Deshmukh, who had resigned from the cabinet in April following charges of corruption, was arrested by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in November in a money-laundering case. The case against Deshmukh and others was made out after the CBI booked him in a corruption case related to allegations of at least Rs 100 crore bribery made by former Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh, who was suspended by the state government earlier this month. The arrest of Deshmukh and suspension of Param Bir Singh are two of the issues that the BJP is likely to use to attack the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, in which Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress share power. NCP minister Nawab Malik has been targeting NCB officer Wankhede, who had led the raid on a cruise ship off Mumbai coast in October this year, where it allegedly recovered drugs during a raid on a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast, following which Aryan was arrested along with others. Malik targeted Wankhede, alleging that he was born a Muslim but got his job in the Scheduled Castes quota by obtaining a bogus caste certificate. Wankhede denied the allegation and his father filed a defamation suit against Malik. This ongoing issue is also likely to figure during the session. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, who has resumed official work after cervical spine surgery, is likely to attend the proceedings and the BJP is set to target him for not being on the field. The post of the Speaker of the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly has been lying vacant since February this year after Nana Patole resigned in order to take charge as the state Congress chief. However, there is no official mention of the election of the speaker in the agenda of the session finalised so far. The state government has maintained that the election couldn't be held earlier due to the pandemic. As per the tradition, the election of the assembly speaker has always been done unanimously, but this time, the government is concerned that the BJP may ask for an election through the ballot. Therefore, the government plans to amend the existing rules to enable that the speaker is elected through a voice vote on the floor of the house. Three-time Congress MLA from Bhor in Pune district, Sangram Thopte, is the frontrunner for the coveted post. The employees of the Maharashtra State Transport Corporation (MSRTC) have been on a strike for nearly two months over their demand for the transport body's merger with the state government. Their protest has posed hardships for the common people. Transport minister Anil Parab, who is a close aide of CM Thackeray, is facing severe criticism over the handling of the issue. The Supreme Court earlier this year quashed quota for the Other Backward Classes (OBCs) in local bodies after observing that the total number of seats earmarked for various communities, including the SCs sand STs, should not exceed 50 per cent of its total strength. This BJP, which has been targeting the MVA over its "failure" to handle the quota issue, is likely to step up its attack during the winter session. The Shakti Bill, which has been drafted on the lines of the Disha Act, is also expected to come up for discussion this time. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bjp-set-to-attack-maharashtra-government-in-winter-session-of-assembly-1062642.html
