20-12-2021||Comment||Economic priorities for 2022||The New Year will soon be upon us. Within a month of its dawning, the Finance Minister will present a budget outlining her spending priorities for the next financial year, which begins in April 2022. We will also get a report card on the country’s economic performance via the Economic Survey. Thanks to many frequently measured indicators, which come every month or even every fortnight, we don’t really have to wait for the year-end report card to know how we are doing. This year-end column is not really about a pre-budget wish list, but about identifying the priorities for next year. As we welcome 2022, what is the economic backdrop? On the positive side, the world economy is practically booming, with the world’s two largest economies, America and China, both growing at over 5%. In America, the high growth is causing some overheating. The inflation rate has peaked to nearly 7%, the highest in four decades. It is exacerbated by excess money supply and now a labour and skills shortage. The high global growth should be an exporting opportunity for developing countries like India. Indeed, India’s goods exports may touch $400 billion this year, a jump of nearly 40% over last year. The other positive indicators are healthy tax collection (much ahead of the target set in last year’s budget), roaring stock market and high company valuations, good profitability in the corporate sector (at least large corporates), and a low ratio of the net non-performing assets (bad loans) on bank balance sheets.  On the negative side, firstly, is the anxiety about Omicron. How big will the third wave be? Will it be potent? Will it force lockdowns? This fear is partly mitigated because there is better preparedness in the healthcare sector (including oxygen and beds), a higher and increasing share of vaccinated people, there is a hybrid and higher level of herd immunity, there is better enforcement of protocols like masking, a better understanding of micro-managing lockdown restrictions and, finally, a weary and perhaps reluctant acceptance that life must go on. Additionally, perhaps this variant, while highly infectious, is not as potent in causing fatalities. Of course, this is not to advocate letting the guard down.  The other negatives are: distress in the informal economy, especially in contact intensive sectors (like roadside vendors, kirana shops, mall workers); the rural economy is also under great stress, as is manifest in the increased demand for work under the NREGS; and despite an expected bumper crop, the prices of cereals are low and hence the demand for a higher Minimum Support Price. Meanwhile, food inflation is rising, thanks mainly to edible oils (largely imported), and protein items like milk and poultry.  Rural unemployment rates are high (hence high demand for NREGS) and rural wages are stagnating. The CMIE and ILO data show India’s labour participation rate (LPR) is only about 40%, the lowest in Asia. This is the ratio of people between 18 and 60 who have a job or are seeking one. Even Bangladesh is at 53, Pakistan at 48 and Nepal at 74. Is India’s low ratio revealing discouraged workers, who have given up hope of even finding a job? India’s female labour participation rate at 20% is already the lowest among peer countries and has been a cause for concern for quite some time.  Added to inflation and unemployment (and low LPR) is increased inequality. The World Inequality Report 2022 shows that the top 10% holds 57% of the total national income. Of this, the top 1% alone holds 22% of national income, while the bottom half holds just 13%. This makes India one of the most unequal large economies. It also corroborates the recent report of Niti Aayog (based on the National Family Health Survey data) of high multi-dimensional poverty rates in states like Bihar, Jharkhand and Uttar Pradesh. The Niti Aayog measure actually excludes income, and depends on measures like infant mortality, ownership of assets and education. Beyond Omicron, inflation, unemployment, poverty and inequality are other worries -- such as the slow offtake in credit from banks, little evidence of large investment projects forthcoming from the private sector, and the continued absence of students from schools. This two-year hiatus in schooling can have a long-term detrimental effect on India’s human capital development.  So, the priorities for next year seem self-evident. First, get ready for Omicron, without resorting to harsh lockdowns, or spooking or panicking the public. The vaccination progress must be sustained and accelerated.  Second, ensure that schools are started everywhere, at least with 50% rotation of students. Skilling and training, including a nationwide portable apprentice scheme with government-backed accreditation, must be rolled out urgently. Corporations will readily employ apprentices if they are free from the burden of hiring them permanently.  Third, start executing the national infrastructure pipeline projects in earnest. These promise expenditures of close to Rs 20 lakh crore annually, which can have a multiplier effect on jobs as well as ancillary and vendor industries.  Fourth, ensure support to sustained export growth. Zero-rating of GST is desirable. Don’t shackle agriculture exports. The Production-Linked Incentive scheme which is currently applicable to 13 sectors must succeed, and should also dovetail with export support. India has to learn from Bangladesh which, with sheer focus on the export of textile and clothing for more than a decade, has overtaken India in terms of per-capita income.  Fifth, rationalise the tax burden. Indirect taxes like GST hurt the poor much more than the rich. We have regressed since the share of direct taxes of the total has fallen. This needs to be reversed. Doing that will also make a dent in rising inequality.  Next year will hopefully see the economy on an up-cycle. Private investment is bound to pick up once business and consumer confidence picks up. For that to happen, some of the above policy imperatives have to be implemented and require action both from the central and state governments. (The writer is an economist and Senior Fellow, Takshashila Institution) (Syndicate: The Billion Press)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/economic-priorities-for-2022-1063013.html
20-12-2021||First Edit||‘Summons’ to EC: Breach of propriety||There was a serious breach of propriety when a central ministry told the Election Commission last month to attend a meeting at the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) and when members of the Commission attended the meeting, though it was called an “informal interaction”. An official of the Law Ministry wrote to the EC that the Principal Secretary to the Prime Minister PK Mishra “expects’’ the Chief Election Commissioner (CEC) to be present during a discussion. The letter sounded like a summons from the government to the EC, and CEC Sushil Chandra expressed his displeasure over its tone and stayed away from the main meeting but chose to join, along with his two fellow Election Commissioners, the subsequent interaction with Mishra. The letter and the EC’s response to it raise uncomfortable questions that have a bearing on the status of the Commission and its relationship with the government. The Law Ministry’s subsequent explanation has not answered the questions satisfactorily.  The Election Commission is a constitutional body that has the highest degree of autonomy in a democratic system and should function independently of the government, political parties and other centres of power. Since its mandate is to hold free and fair elections, it should function in a free and fair manner, and should be seen to be functioning so. No official of the government can call the EC for a meeting and the Election Commissioners do not go to the government to explain anything. It is the officials of the Commission who interact with the government on various matters. The letter read like a summons, not even a request or an invitation. The standing of the CEC in the warrant of precedence is ninth while the position of the official he was to meet is 23rd. But this is not just a matter of breach of protocol.  The letter seemed to treat the EC as a subordinate body, undermining its independence and authority. It must be seen as part of the attempts by the government to weaken institutions that are essential for the functioning of democracy. The Election Commission has a special role and status on account of its mandate, and it is important that its status is upheld and it is accorded the respect that it deserves. In recent years, the Commission has faced criticism for its acts of commission and omission that seemed to favour the government or the ruling party. There have been controversies about the fixing of election schedules, the announcement of dates, decisions on model code of conduct and other matters. The government’s demand for a meeting and the interaction the EC had with the PMO was inappropriate in itself, and more so in the run-up to Assembly elections in some important states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/summons-to-ec-breach-of-propriety-1063009.html
20-12-2021||In Perspective||Raising age of marriage: A better deal for women||“To save daughters from malnutrition, it is necessary that they get married at the right time,” said Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his Independence Day speech in August 2020. After more than a year since then, the Union cabinet has approved the proposal to raise the age of marriage for women from 18 to 21 years, to bring it on par with that of men. The proposal was recommended by the Centre’s task force in Niti Aayog in December 2020, comprising of the secretaries of the Department of Health and Family Welfare, Women and Child Development, Higher Education, School Education, and Literacy Mission and the Ministry of Justice and Law. Subsequent amendments in existing marriage regulations like the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955, and Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006, are also contained in the bill. Postponement in the age of marriage is expected to have a decisive impact on the health of women, children, and their families as well as their educational level and economic independence. The increment in the age of marriage among women has a direct impact on the reproductive and sexual health of women which can be measured through several maternal health indicators like Maternal Mortality Ratio (MMR), adolescent fertility rate, nutritional status of women, and child health indicators, low birth weight, miscarriages and stillbirths. India is far from achieving these health and nutritional indicators related to women and children, issues on which the age of women at marriage matters. The MoHFW recently released the data of the latest round of the National Family Health Survey (NFHS), which reveals that at the national level, the percentage of women in the 20-24 years age group who got married before age 18 years had decreased from 26.8% in NFHS-4 (2015-16) to 23.3% in NFHS-5 (2020-21). Most states have followed the same pattern but there are a few states with a high percentage of child marriages, such as Tripura (40.1%), Assam (31.8%), Manipur (16.3%), and Punjab (8.7%), where it found an increase during this period. According to NFHS-5 data, India has achieved the replacement level fertility of 2.1 at the national level but some states still lag with a comparatively high fertility rate. The move to raise the age of marriage for women may become an important driver in reducing the high fertility rate in those states which are lagging behind so that they too achieve replacement level fertility rate. There is a strong correlation between the marital age of women and their socioeconomic and health status post-marriage. The NFHS-5 data reveals an alarming situation of anaemia among adolescent girls aged 15-19 years. At the national level, the percentage of adolescent girls suffering from anaemia is 59.1%, up from 54.1% in NFHS-4. The situation is worst in the rural areas of the country. Further, it also varies across north-south states. The current proposal is based on the idea that a woman must be at least 21 years at her first pregnancy, giving women an opportunity to attain motherhood at a suitable age and improved health conditions. That, over time, leads to the socio-economic development of individuals, families, communities, and the country as a whole. Furthermore, raising the age of marriage could also help reduce the drop-out rate of girl students at the school and college levels and thereby enhance enrolment of girl students in higher education. Although there are many reasons for dropping out of girl children at the school level, early marriage is the most prevalent reason. Thus, raising the legal age of marriage will provide them with the opportunity to prepare themselves for a better life and to be self-reliant economically. All of these will boost the notion of gender equity and empowerment of women for holistic development. This has clearly been brought out by the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), where goal 5 (Gender Equality) deals with the above concern. However, despite all the positive implications of the move, the likelihood of social resistance to it cannot be ignored as certain groups in society may face difficulty in accepting such a regulation. Activists also argue that improving access to education is the key to delaying child marriages since it is more of a social issue. The Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao scheme focuses on the existing challenges and mindsets and deep-rooted patriarchy in society. The move to raise the age of marriage holds out the change of educational advancement for women and thus women’s empowerment. (Abhipsa Tripathy is a PhD Scholar at Indian Institute of Technology (ISM), Dhanbad and Prem Shankar Mishra is a PhD Scholar at the Institute for Social and Economic Change (ISEC), Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/raising-age-of-marriage-a-better-deal-for-women-1063011.html
20-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Dakshina Kannada logs another case of Omicron||One more Omicron variant case has been confirmed in Dakshina Kannada district. District Surveillance Officer Dr Jagadeesha said that the confirmed case is from the same cluster where on December 18 one Omicron case was detected. 19 students of a nursing college in Mangaluru were tested for Covid-19 on December 8. The samples for genome sequencing were sent on December 10. The Omicron patient is a 19-year-old student. She is healthy and her 10th day swab was collected on Sunday for testing. She too has no travel history. Dakshina Kannada district had so far reported six Omicron cases. Four cases have been reported from a government residential school on the outskirts of Mangaluru. The four teenage students detected with Omicron variant living in the hostel have now recovered and are attending classes, said the officials. Meanwhile, Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V  has said that the health department has been directed to find out how students without any travel history were infected with the Omicron variant of Covid-19 and the source of infection. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dakshina-kannada-logs-another-case-of-omicron-1062796.html
20-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Tainted advocate surrenders in Mangaluru court||Special Public Prosecutor (SPP) of Lokayukta and ACB (Anti Corruption Bureau) K S N Rajesh, who is facing charges of sexually harassing law intern and also issuing threat to her, has finally surrendered before the court in Mangaluru. The court has remanded him in judicial custody and will hear his main bail application on December 21. Two cases against Rajesh were registered in Women’s Police Station in Mangaluru on October 18 and he has been absconding since then. The City police had issued a look out circular on November 9, for tracing the tainted advocate. Along with sexually harassing the law intern, Rajesh was also accused of threatening victim’s friend to not to reveal the information. The LOC was issued to ensure that he doesn't flee from the country. The police had even freezed the bank accounts of Rajesh. In fact, soon after FIR was registered against Rajesh, Karnataka State Bar Council (KSBC) took suo motu cognisance of two complaints registered against special public prosecutor Rajesh K S N in Women's police station in Pandeshwar, and had suspended his enrolment to council on October 22. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/tainted-advocate-surrenders-in-mangaluru-court-1063021.html
20-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Woman, twin children die in road mishap in Hassan||A woman and her twin children died in a mishap between a lorry and a two-wheeler near Bhuvanahalli, on the outskirts of Hassan city on Sunday late night. The deceased are Jyothi, wife of Shivanand of Gavenahalli of the city, and three-year-old twin children Pranathi and Pranav. The seriously injured Shivanand is being treated at a private hospital. The locals had chased the lorry and stopped the vehicle near Hosakoppalu. The lorry driver tried to escape and hit two more motorbikes. The public caught him, thrashed him, and handed him to the police. A few irate locals resorted to torch the lorry. But, police intervened and brought the situation under control. SP R Srinivas Gowda and Traffic police visited the spot. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/woman-twin-children-die-in-road-mishap-in-hassan-1063022.html
20-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||7th Pay Commission to be formed in July: Govt employees' association prez||State Government Employees Association President C S Shadakshari stated that the seventh pay commission is expected to be formed in July 2022. The salary of the employees is likely to be increased from minimum Rs 10,000 to Rs 45,000. Speaking to media persons, here on Monday, he said, the state government would announce the formation of seventh pay commission during the budget in February next year. All employees of the government will benefit from it. He also made it clear that he would submit a memorandum to all legislators and MPs of the state seeking fulfillment of teachers' demands and urging the government to fill the vacant posts in various departments. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/7th-pay-commission-to-be-formed-in-july-govt-employees-association-prez-1063024.html
20-12-2021||Karnataka Politics||Kannadigas in Maharashtra will get protection: Bommai in Assembly||The Assembly passed a resolution on Monday condemning incidents that have kept Belagavi tense, with Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai firing a salvo at Maharashtra that his government will support any demand by Kannada-speaking areas of the neighbouring state to join Karnataka.  The resolution, which Bommai moved and was passed unanimously, also says sedition cases will be booked against those involved in the defacing of Shivaji and Sangolli Rayanna statues. The resolution will be sent to the Centre.  “There's no question of compromise or negotiation,” Bommai told the Assembly. “Not an inch of our land will we cede. Our government is ready to provide protection to Kannadigas in Maharashtra and support them if they want their areas to join Karnataka,” he said.  Bommai cited the example of the Jath taluk in Maharashtra’s Sangli district. “This is a drought-prone area where Kannadigas live. Some 40-gram panchayats there have passed a resolution that they want to join Karnataka as Maharashtra has done little for them in terms of development,” he said.  At least 26 people have been arrested in connection with the vandalism of Rayanna’s statue. “We have also arrested people who defaced the Shivaji statue,” he said, adding that both acts were pre-planned. “This time, we won’t simply arrest and release them on bail. We'll do a comprehensive investigation to identify the real conspirators,” he said. Apart from sedition cases, the accused will also be booked under the Goonda Act, the CM said.  Bommai said he will talk to his Maharashtra counterpart Uddhav Thackeray. “Already, home secretaries and DGPs of both states are talking, especially on the burning of the Kannada flag in Maharashtra,” he said.  Addressing citizens in Maharashtra, Bommai said there is no problem between the people of both states. “There are some goons and political forces [in Maharashtra] who want to keep the issue alive as the border dispute is pending in the Supreme Court,” he said.  MLAs across the board demanded a ban on the Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti (MES). “We will examine this legally. Even if we can’t ban MES, we will take steps to regulate them,” Bommai said.  The Suvarna Vidhana Soudha in Belagavi will get statues of Rani Chennamma and Rayanna to immortalize their achievements, Bommai announced.  Earlier, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah said disrespecting Shivaji and Rayanna statues was an “insult”. JD(S) MLAs wore Kannada shawls and demanded action against "MES goons".||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/kannadigas-in-maharashtra-will-get-protection-bommai-in-assembly-1062921.html
20-12-2021||Karnataka Politics||Statue row: Opposition walks out of Karnataka Council||Congress MLCs walked out of the Karnataka Legislative Council on Monday unhappy with Home Minister Araga Jnanendra's response on the defacing of statues that has caused tension in Belagavi.  Jnanendra said 38 persons have been arrested so far in connection with recent incidents of defacing statues or burning Kannada flag. He said a "befitting lesson" would be taught to miscreants. "There is no question of protecting anybody, and stringent action would be taken to ensure that miscreants do not raise their heads again," Jnanendra said.  "The Marathi-speaking people have also kept the MES at bay. Some people attached with the MES do such things during the Belagavi session or before elections, just to show their existence, as the MES has no strength," the minister added.  Earlier, Opposition members charged that the government with police and intelligence departments failed to prevent such incidents. The Opposition MLCs charged that while an attempt-to-murder case was booked against pro-Kannada leaders in connection with smearing ink on an MES leader's face, less serious sections were applied in the case of defaced Sangolli Rayanna's statue. Congress MLC S Ravi termed Jnanendra as "a weak home minister" that led to a verbal clash between the ruling and the opposition benches. Congress still baying for minister's scalp The Congress attempted to raise Urban Development Minister Byrathi Basavaraj's alleged involvement in a land-grabbing case in both houses of the legislature on Monday. In the Assembly, the Congress was in the well demanding a discussion and the minister's resignation. However, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said the matter is sub-judice and cannot be discussed.  In the Council, Congress MLCs demonstrated in the well as soon as the session started. They staged a walkout post-lunch break, after Council Chairman Basavaraj Horatti said he would consider their notice under Rule 68 on the issue and would take a suitable decision. The Congress' demand was to be given a date for a discussion on the issue. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/statue-row-opposition-walks-out-of-karnataka-council-1062967.html
20-12-2021||National||Yogi government's 5 years only a 'trailer': Gadkari||Union Road Transport Minister Nitin Gadkari on Sunday praised the Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh saying it was just a “trailer” and the “real film” was yet to come. Gadkari made the remark addressing a public meeting after flagging off BJP's Jan Vishwas Yatra in Chandpur in Bijnor district. "We are not just ending hooliganism in Uttar Pradesh, we are also going to end poverty, hunger and unemployment. The five years that you saw was a trailer. The real film is yet to start. "Give chance to the double engine of the BJP government in the state once again and sit in peace and see how miracles will happen," the minister said, according to a statement issued by the BJP. He claimed ‘Ram Rajya’ was started in the country in 2014 under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. "The country is changing and so is UP. What Uttar Pradesh was before 2014 and what it is today," he said, asking people to compare. Gadkari claimed more kilometers of roads were built in UP in the last five years than in last 50 years. "Roads have been repaired under the BJP rule. National Highways are connecting one state to another. The journey which took three hours before takes one hour today," he said.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/yogi-governments-5-years-only-a-trailer-gadkari-1062693.html
20-12-2021||National||India's Omicron count crosses 150||India's Omicron Covid count rose to 151 on Sunday after Maharashtra reported six more cases while a 45-year-old NRI and a teenage boy, who recently arrived in Gujarat from the United Kingdom, also tested positive for the variant. According to central and state officials, omicron cases have been detected in 11 states and union territories -- Maharashtra (54), Delhi (22), Rajasthan (17) and Karnataka (14), Telangana (20), Gujarat (9), Kerala (11), Andhra Pradesh (1), Chandigarh (1), Tamil Nadu (1) and West Bengal (1). Six persons tested positive for the Omicron variant of coronavirus in Maharashtra on Sunday, raising the state's tally of such cases to 54, the health department said. While two of these patients had a history of travel to Tanzania, two others had returned from England and one from the Middle East. All five of them are fully vaccinated. Another patient is a five-year-old boy from Junnar in Pune who is a close contact of Dubai travellers from Junnar, it said in a statement. "Total six cases were diagnosed today - four of them found during the airport screening in Mumbai. One of these four patients is from Mumbai, two from Karnataka and one from Aurangabad," it said. Out of 54 cases in the state, 22 have been found in Mumbai. In Gujarat, a non-resident Indian tested positive for the coronavirus infection in the RT-PCR test carried out at the Ahmedabad international airport soon after he arrived from the UK on December 15, a health department official said on Sunday. "The man's sample was later found infected with the Omicron variant," Anand district health officer Dr M T Chhari said. He was scheduled to reach the state's Anand city from Ahmedabad. "But, after he tested positive for the coronavirus, he was taken to the Ahmedabad civil hospital from the airport. The patient is currently recovering at the Ahmedabad civil hospital," Dr Chhari said. His co-passengers and other contacts have tested negative for the viral infection, the official said. A 15-year-old boy from Gandhinagar was also detected with the Omicron variant after returning from the UK, Gandhinagar Municipal Commissioner Dhaval Patel said. On Saturday, Maharashtra had reported eight more cases, Telangana's tally jumped from eight to 20, while Karnataka and Kerala reported six and four cases respectively. Of the six cases reported in Karnataka on Saturday, one was a passenger from the UK, while five others were from Covid-19 clusters in two educational institutions in Dakshina Kannada district, officials had said. While Omicron was first reported in South Africa on November 24, India's first two cases of this heavily mutated version of the coronavirus were detected in Karnataka on December 2.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-omicron-count-crosses-150-1062696.html
20-12-2021||National||Amit Shah targets Uddhav Thackeray, slams Shiv Sena for being 'power hungry'||Launching a fresh attack on Uddhav Thackeray, Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday said that he and Prime Minister Narendra Modi had made it clear that Devendra Fadnavis of BJP will become chief minister of Maharashtra after the 2019 polls. Targetting Thackeray and Shiv Sena, Shah said, "since you wanted to become a chief minister you betrayed BJP and became CM by compromising on Hindutva for power". Addressing BJP volunteers at Pune, Shah attacked the tripartite Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) dispensation and dubbed Congress a "dealer", Shiv Sena a "broker" and said NCP is associated with "transfers". Earlier, the BJP had alleged that a senior state intelligence official had exposed a racket of transfers of senior police officers in August 2020. "In the presence of PM Modi and myself, you were told that the polls were contested under the leadership of Devendra Fadnavis and that Fadnavis will become a CM again. But you wanted to become a CM so you betrayed us (BJP) and went on to become the chief minister (of Maharashtra)," Shah said while apparently referring to Thackeray. Shah said he had come to Maharashtra before the 2019 elections. "I had held a dialogue with Shiv Sena then. I would like to reiterate today that (the Sena leadership was told that) the elections would be contested under the leadership of Devendra Fadanvis and that the CM would be from BJP, but they (Sena) reneged and compromised on Hindutva for power," he said. “Shiv Sena compromised on Hindutva for power. Two generations (of Sena) fought against a party (Congress) and now they are sharing power with the same party. Sena betrayed BJP just for power," Shah said. The Uddhav Thackeray-led party fell out with BJP after the 2019 Assembly polls in Maharashtra and joined hands with Sharad Pawar-led NCP and Congress to form a government. Shah said Shiv Sena accuses him of lying. "Okay, for a moment, I accept (that I was lying) but remember the banners that used to be put up during the poll campaign. Check the size of your photograph and that of Modiji's. The size of your photo was one-fourth of Modiji's photo. In every speech, you had to take the name of Modiji," Shah said, apparently referring to Thackeray. Playing on the DBT acronym of the Direct Benefit Transfer scheme of the Modi government, Shah said in the MVA government Congress takes the 'D' for a dealer, Shiv Sena the 'B' for a broker, and NCP the 'T' for transfers. Shah said Pune is the land of Bal Gangadhar Tilak who had given a slogan that 'Swaraj is my birthright and I shall have it,' but Shiv Sena says "satta (power) is my birthright and I shall have it anyhow". Apparently referring to Anil Deshmukh case, Shah said big cases have been registered in connection with the commission being taken for effecting transfers (in Maharashtra) and big people have gone to jail. "This government has only two principles- to criminalise politics and do 'vasooli' (extortion)," he added. Without naming Uddhav Thackeray, Shah said he wished him good health. "But when he was in good health, the people of Maharashtra used to search for him. Where is the government? But Modiji had held a dialogue with CMs of all states 20 times, He (Modi) also interacted with several hospitals during the pandemic and involved the people in the fight against Covid-19," he said. He said the Central government ensured that health infrastructure was expanded expeditiously during the pandemic. "During the Congress regime, several vaccines, including for polio, were invented but they never reached people, forget about their administration. On the contrary, we are now on the verge of completing the vaccination of all people under PM Modiji," said Shah.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amit-shah-targets-uddhav-thackeray-slams-shiv-sena-for-being-power-hungry-1062697.html
20-12-2021||National||Reconvert and pray in temples: Hindu outfit to Muslims||A right-wing group disrupting Friday namaz being held in the open on Sunday asked Muslims to "reconvert" and pray in Hindu temples. Ancestors of a majority of Haryana Muslims belonged to Hindu community, said Mahaveer Bhardwaj, chairman of the Sanyukt Sangharsh Samiti, a body of 32 right-wing Hindu outfits. "We can organise a mass 'ghar wapsi' in Leisure Valley here and they will be taken back in their castes and accepted with open arms," Bharadwaj said. "They will have their temples to pray and this namaz issue will end," he added. In the past some months, members of some Hindu outfits have objected to the offering of "namaz" by Muslims in open spaces. They have been raising "Bharat Mata Ki Jai" and "Jai Shri Ram" slogans to disrupt the Friday prayers by Muslims. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/reconvert-and-pray-in-temples-hindu-outfit-to-muslims-1062698.html
20-12-2021||National||Oppn rejects govt's invitation to leaders of 4 parties to resolve issue of suspension of RS MPs||There is no resolution in sight for the stalemate in the Rajya Sabha over the suspension of 12 MPs as a united opposition on Sunday rejected the government's outreach to resolve the logjam. Top sources in the opposition said they will not attend the Monday morning meeting convened by Leader of the House Piyush Goyal as invitations were sent to leaders of the four parties whose MPs have been suspended and not to the entire opposition. Responding to a letter from Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi inviting the four parties, Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge said "select invitations were unfortunate". The government's invitations have gone to the Congress, Trinamool Congress, Shiv Sena and the CPI(M), sources said. The meeting was convened at 10 am on Monday as the Winter Session of Parliament enters its final week. "We will not attend tomorrow's meeting with the government as the opposition stands united in its fight," a senior opposition leader told PTI. Kharge said he received a letter on Sunday evening asking leaders of the four parties, whose members in the Rajya Sabha have been suspended, to the meeting. "All Opposition parties are united in the protest against the suspension of the 12 MPs. We have been requesting from the evening of November 29 itself that either the chairman of the Rajya Sabha or the Leader of the House Piyush Goyal should call leaders of all Opposition parties for a discussion to break the stalemate," he said.   "This reasonable request of ours has not been agreed to. Further, inviting only leaders of four Opposition parties instead of inviting leaders of all Opposition parties is unfair and unfortunate," Kharge said in his letter to Parliamentary Affairs Minister Joshi. TMC leader Derek O'Brien tweeted, "Monday morning STUNT from a government who do not want Parliament to function. Government calls leaders of the four Opposition parties whose 12 RS MPs have been arbitrarily suspended." "Government leaves other 10 Opposition parties out. Failed stunt. All opposition clear: First revoke arbitrary suspension," he said on Twitter. A similar letter has also been sent to Joshi by CPI(M) MP Elamaram Kareem. "It is quite unfortunate that the government has delayed such talks with the opposition even after three weeks of the suspension. Even now the action of the government is not sincere as the meeting is meant for only the floor leaders of the suspended MPs' parties," he said in the letter. "You are well aware that the entire opposition has been taking a unified stand on this suspension issue and all the opposition parties together requested the Chairman and government to hold such a meeting to resolve the stalemate from day one."   He alleged that it is the government who delayed it and the decision of inviting only a section of the opposition party leaders for the meeting is "completely unfair and unacceptable". "If the government is sincere in resolving this issue, I would request you to convene the meeting of all opposition parties," Kareem said in his letter to Joshi. The Opposition parties have decided to meet on Monday morning to develop their joint strategy in Parliament during the last week of the Winter Session. The Rajya Sabha has failed to transact any significant business as the opposition is unitedly protesting in the House leading to repeated disruptions over the issue of suspensions. While the government wants the suspended MPs should apologise first, the opposition is saying that the suspensions be revoked without any apology. Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu had urged the government and the opposition to resolve the deadlock over suspensions and find an amicable solution.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/oppn-rejects-govts-invitation-to-leaders-of-4-parties-to-resolve-issue-of-suspension-of-rs-mps-1062700.html
20-12-2021||National||'Unfair, unacceptable': CPM's Kareem, CPI's Viswam criticise government's selective invitation for meeting over suspension of MPs||After Leader of Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge, CPI(M) Rajya Sabha floor leader Elamaram Kareem and CPI's Binoy Viswam have shot off a letter to Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi urging him to call a meeting of all Opposition parties instead of selective invitation, saying if the government is "sincere" in resolving the impasse over suspension of 12 MPs, it should do so. Kareem's letter on Sunday came hours after Joshi wrote to him inviting him and four other floor leaders, whose MPs were suspended for the entire Winter Session, for a meeting. Kareem, who is among the 12 suspended MPs, said it was "quite unfortunate" that the government has delayed initiation of talks with the Opposition even after three weeks of suspension. "Even now the action of the government is not sincere as the meeting is meant for only the floor leaders of the suspended MPs' parties. As you are well aware that the entire Opposition has been taking a unified stand on this suspension issue," he wrote. All the Opposition parties together had requested Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu and the government to hold such a meeting to resolve the stalemate from day one, he said. "It is the government which delayed it and the current decision of inviting only a section of the Opposition party leaders for the meeting is completely unfair and unacceptable. If the government is sincere in resolving this issue, I would request you to convene the meeting of all Opposition parties instead of calling only five parties from it," Kareem wrote. CPI Parliamentary Party leader Binoy Viswam alleged that the government was now attempting to divide the Opposition by "only calling leaders of some parties" for the meeting.  "This is extremely incorrect and shows the government insincerity in finding an actual resolution to the current stalemate," Viswam wrote. Joshi has invited floor leaders of Congress, Trinamool Congress, Shiv Sena, CPI(M) and CPI, whose MPs were suspended, for a meeting with Leader of the House in Rajya Sabha Piyush Goyal and himself. Earlier, Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge also wrote a similar letter to Joshi, describing the government's selective invitation as "unfair and unfortunate". Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/unfair-unacceptable-cpms-kareem-cpis-viswam-criticise-governments-selective-invitation-for-meeting-over-suspension-of-mps-1062710.html
20-12-2021||National||No bigger admission of failure: Omar on J&K admin seeking Army's help to overcome power crisis||There is no bigger admission of "failure" for a civilian administration than to call upon the Army to operate its power supply infrastructure as it means the authorities have accepted a "total breakdown of governance", NC vice-president Omar Abdullah said on Sunday. His remarks came after the Jammu administration sought the services of the police and the Army to operate grid stations in the city. Electricity supply was affected in several parts of the region as a strike by power development department employees against privatisation and other issues entered its second day. "The army has been called to operate the power infrastructure in Jammu division of J&K. There is no bigger admission of failure for a civilian administration than to call upon the army, it means a total breakdown of governance has been accepted by the J&K government," the NC leader wrote on Twitter. Earlier, the former Jammu & Kashmir chief minister had asked the administration to leave privatisation decisions to an elected government. "The J&K administration may be able to claim constitutional authority to privatise the assets of J&K, but it completely lacks the political authority. Decisions of this nature with far reaching consequences should be left to an elected government," he said.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-bigger-admission-of-failure-omar-on-jk-admin-seeking-armys-help-to-overcome-power-crisis-1062712.html
20-12-2021||National||India reports 6,563 new coronavirus cases, 132 deaths||With 6,563 people testing positive for coronavirus infection in a day, India's total tally of Covid-19 cases rose to 3,47,46,838, while the active cases declined to 82,267, the lowest in 572 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The death toll climbed to 4,77,554 with 132 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been recorded below 15,000 for the last 53 days now. The active cases comprise 0.24 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.39 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said.  A decline of 1,646 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 0.75 per cent. It has been less than two per cent for the last 77 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 0.60  per cent. It has been below one per cent for the last 36 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,41,87,017, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.37 per cent.  The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive has exceeded  137.67 crores.  India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.  India crossed the grim milestone of two crores on May 4 and three crores on June 23. The 132 new fatalities include 96 from Kerala and nine each from Maharashtra. and West Bengal. Kerala has been reconciling Covid deaths for the past few days so the death tally of the state is high. A total of 4,77,554 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,41,349 from Maharashtra, 44,503 from Kerala, 38,288 from Karnataka, 36,680 from Tamil Nadu, 25,101 from Delhi, 22,915 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,669 from  West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-6563-new-coronavirus-cases-132-deaths-1062727.html
20-12-2021||National||ED summons Aishwarya Rai Bachchan in case linked to Panama Papers leak||Bollywood actress Aishwarya Rai Bachchan on Monday reached Delhi office of the Enforcement Directorate (ED) to join the probe in connection with Panama papers leak case for alleged FEMA violation. A top ED official confirmed about her joining the probe to record her statement. He said that the actress was summoned thrice to join the probe. It was the third summon which she received. "We had summoned her for December 20. The summon was sent to her Mumbai's residence. Abiding by the summon she joined the probe," said an ED official. Now SIT of elite officials of the ED are recording her statements. This is not the first time when she has been summoned. She was earlier summoned on two occasions. However, she didn't join the probe. Earlier on November 9, she was summoned to record her testimony in the case, but she did not come. The ED had lodged case under FEMA after Panama Papers showed how companies were set up in offshore islands to avoid taxes. Aishwarya Rai and others have been named in the case. In 2016, the Panama Papers leak case came into the light in which Aishwarya Rai and Bachchan family members were also named. Names of Amitabh Bachchan and Abhishek Bachchan also cropped up in the case. According to the information, in May 2005 a company was reportedly incorporated at British Virgin Islands in which Aishwarya and other Bachchan family members were directors. In June, her director's post was changed and she became a shareholder in the company. After three years the company became inactive. Later, after her name came into Panama Papers leak, an SIT was formed to look into the matter. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ed-summons-aishwarya-rai-bachchan-in-case-linked-to-panama-papers-leak-1062742.html
20-12-2021||National||Bill linking electoral rolls with Aadhaar numbers introduced in Lok Sabha||The Election Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021, which seeks to link electoral rolls with the Aadhaar ecosystem to weed out duplication, was introduced in Lok Sabha on Monday. Introducing the bill, Union Law Minister Kiren Rijiju said the legislation will end bogus voting in the country and make the electoral process more credible. However, opposition parties led by Congress opposed the bill, saying it will infringe on the fundamental rights of citizens. They also alleged that the bill will violate the Supreme Court judgement on Aadhaar. The bill seeks to allow electoral registration officers to seek the Aadhaar number of people who want to register as voters "for the purpose of establishing the identity". Rajendra Agarwal, who was in the chair, accepted the introduction of the bill after taking voice votes. As opposition protests over various issues, including the Lakhimpur Kheri incident, continued, Agarwal adjourned the House till 2 pm. Earlier, when the House met after the weekend break at 11 am, opposition members stormed the Well and began protesting. Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla urged members to maintain decorum and return to their seats.   As the members refused to relent, the Speaker adjourned the House till noon after taking up a few questions.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bill-linking-electoral-rolls-with-aadhaar-numbers-introduced-in-lok-sabha-1062777.html
20-12-2021||National||Biting cold sweeps Punjab, Haryana||Punjab and Haryana were in the grip of a severe cold wave on Monday, with Hisar recording a minimum temperature of 0.2 degrees Celsius. According to the Meteorological Department, the night temperature continued to hover well below the season's normal at most places in the two states. In Haryana, Hisar was the coldest place recording eight notches below normal minimum temperature. Ambala (5.1 deg C), Narnaul (1.3 deg C), Rohtak (2.6 deg C), Karnal (3.4 deg C), Sirsa (3.2 deg C), Fatehabad (3.1 deg C), Bhiwani (2.5 deg C) also reeled under biting cold while Gurugram recorded a low of 7 degrees Celsius. In Punjab, Moga recorded a low of 0.4 degrees Celsius. Amritsar also experienced the cold weather recording a low of 0.8 degrees Celsius. Among other places in Punjab which reeled under piercing cold weather conditions included Faridkot (1.1 deg C) Ludhiana (4.4 deg C), Patiala (3.9 deg C), Barnala (0.9 deg C), Jalandhar (2.6 deg C) and Mohali (4.4 deg C). Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, recorded a low of 3.3 degrees Celsius.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/biting-cold-sweeps-punjab-haryana-1062780.html
20-12-2021||National||Kashmir braces up for 40-day long 'Chillai Kalan'||As the 40-day long period of harsh winter known locally as the 'Chillai Kalan' starts on December 21, frozen water pipes, hanging icicles and bone chilling cold on Monday cautioned Kashmiris to brace for colder weather ahead. The 40-day long Chillai Kalan period ends on January 31 each year as it brings in a lot of hardships for the people. With the erratic electric power, the earthen firepot lit with charcoal and woven in willow wicker still remains the best bet for Kashmiris to brave the cold of the Chillai Kalan. Srinagar had minus 5.8, Pahalgam minus 7.4 and Gulmarg minus 5.5 as the minimum temperature on Monday. Drass town of Ladakh had minus 19.0, Leh minus 18.0 and Kargil minus 11.5 as the night's lowest temperature. Jammu city had 3.2, Katra 4.2, Batote 1.7, Banihal 3.0 and Bhaderwah minus 1.8 as the minimum temperature. The MeT office said minimum temperatures could improve marginally during the next 2-3 days as a weak Western Disturbance (WD) is approaching J&K under whose influence the night sky would remain overcast. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kashmir-braces-up-for-40-day-long-chillai-kalan-1062793.html
20-12-2021||National||Lok Sabha passes electoral reforms bill amid din||The Government on Monday got the Election Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021 passed by the Lok Sabha amid din, notwithstanding protest by the members of the opposition parties. The Bill is intended to amend the Representation of the People Act, 1950 and the Representation of the People Act, 1951. It seeks to create a legal framework for linking electoral roll data with Aadhaar to curb multiple enrolment of the same person as voters in different places. Besides, it seeks to designate April 1, July 1 and October 1 in a calendar year as qualifying dates for enrolment of 18-year-old youngsters as voters, in addition to the existing qualifying date of January 1. The proposed legislation also seeks to amend Section 20 of the RP Act, 1950 and the Section 60 of the RP Act, 1951 for replacing the word "wife" with the word "spouse" and thus, making the statutes gender neutral. Law Minister Kiren Rijiju introduced the Bill even as the members of the opposition parties were in the Well of the Lok Sabha, protesting against the government and waving placards on multiple issues. “You cannot bulldoze this kind of a legislative document, which is replete with legal infirmities,” said Adhir Chowdhury, the leader of the Congress in the Lok Sabha, opposing introduction of the Bill. He demanded that the Bill should be sent to the parliamentary standing Committee for scrutiny first.  Manish Tiwari of his party said that the Aadhaar Act did not allow for linking of the Aadhaar number to the electoral roll. “The Aadhaar Act is very explicit. It is an Act which is for the targeted delivery of financial and other subsidy benefits and services. Voting is a legal right,” said Tiwari. N K Premachandran of the Revolutionary Socialist Party (RSP) said that the move to link the electoral roll with Aadhaar would infringe upon the right to privacy and violate Article 21 of the Constitution. Saugata Ray of the Trinamool Congress and Asaduddin Owaisi of the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen pointed out that the Bill was not in sync with the September 26, 2018 order of the Supreme Court. Rijiju, however, dismissed the argument of the opposition parties against the introduction of the Bill as “baseless”. He said that the Supreme Court’s order was being misinterpreted by the MPs of the opposition parties. He said that the move to link the Aadhaar with the Voter ID cards was aimed at making the electoral rolls credible. He also pointed out that proposed legislation would not make it mandatory for a citizen to link Aadhaar with the voter ID card and it would remain voluntary. The Lok Sabha was adjourned for an hour after the Law Minister introduced the Bill amid din. When the House reassembled, the Bill was taken up for consideration at 2:45 pm and was passed by 3:10 pm, despite protest by the opposition MPs, who questioned why the government was in hurry to get the Bill passed without adequate discussion in the Lok Sabha. The EC had in 2015 launched the National Electoral Law Purification and Authentication Programme to link Aadhaar numbers with the Electoral Photo Identity Cards. But the programme had to be suspended after the Supreme Court on August 11, 2015 ordered that the use of Aadhaar would be optional for availing various welfare schemes of the government and no personal information of the holders of such cards should be shared by any authority. After the Supreme Court in September 2018 upheld the constitutional validity of the Aadhaar Act, the EC in August 2019 proposed that the government should amend the election laws to empower Electoral Registration Officers to seek Aadhaar numbers of the existing and the new voters. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lok-sabha-passes-electoral-reforms-bill-amid-din-1062815.html
20-12-2021||National||Hema Malini wants a grand Krishna temple in Mathura||BJP Lok Sabha MP Hema Malini wants a grand temple of Lord Krishna to be built in Mathura on the lines of Ayodhya and Kashi Vishwanath. She said a grand temple should be constructed at the janmabhoomi (birth place) of Lord Krishna. Talking to media persons in the Parliament House Complex, BJP MP and film actress Hema Malini said that it is good that a grand Ram temple is being constructed in Ayodhya, a grand corridor has been constructed in Varanasi and now it is time for a grand Krishna temple in Mathura too. But she did not say how it will be built. She said that Prime Minister Modi and Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath will see how it will happen. "But all I have to say is that it should be built with love," the Mathura MP said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hema-malini-wants-a-grand-krishna-temple-in-mathura-1062825.html
20-12-2021||National||Mohit Jain elected president of Indian Newspaper Society||The Indian Newspaper Society has elected Mohit Jain of the Economic Times as its president for 2021-22. Jain, who was elected on Friday, succeeds L Adimoolam of the Health & The Antiseptic. K Raja Prasad Reddy of the publication 'Sakshi' was elected the deputy president, Rakesh Sharma of 'Aaj Samaj' was chosen as the vice-president and Tanmay Maheshwari of 'Amar Ujala' was elected the honorary treasurer of the society for 2021-22, the INS said in a statement. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mohit-jain-elected-president-of-indian-newspaper-society-1062836.html
20-12-2021||National||Pradeep Rawat appointed as India's new ambassador to China||India on Monday appointed its new envoy to China amid continuing military stand-off along the disputed boundary between the two nations in eastern Ladakh. Pradeep Rawat, who joined the Indian Foreign Service of 1990, will succeed Vikram Misri as India’s ambassador to China, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) stated. Misri recently completed his tenure as New Delhi’s envoy to Beijing and returned to the MEA headquarters. Rawat, who is fluent in Mandarin Chinese, already has extensive experience in managing India’s relations with China. He had several stints at the East Asia division of the MEA during his career. The division is responsible for coordinating and overseeing India’s relations with China, Japan and other East Asian nations. He served in Hong Kong and Beijing between 1992 and 1997. He returned to Delhi in 1997 and served in East Asia division of the MEA for over three years. He started his second tenure in Beijing in 2003 as Counsellor and ended in 2007 as Deputy Chief of Mission. Rawat returned to the MEA headquarters in New Delhi in 2007 and worked as Director (East Asia) in East Asia division till 2009. He then again served as Joint Secretary and head of the division from 2014 to 2017. He served as New Delhi’s envoy to Indonesia and Timor-Leste from September 2017-December 2020, before being appointed as India’s ambassador to the Kingdom of Netherlands. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pradeep-rawat-appointed-as-indias-new-ambassador-to-china-1062846.html
20-12-2021||National||Parliamentary panel asks government to consider increasing the quantum of pension from 65 years||With the joint family system "breaking down giving way to nuclear families" and increasing the share of the ageing population, a Parliamentary panel has asked the government to consider increasing the quantum of pension from 65 years instead of the existing 80 years. At present, Central government pensioners are entitled to receive an additional quantum of pension equivalent to 20 per cent of basic pension on attaining the age of 80 years, 30 per cent at 85 years, 40 per cent at 90 years, 50 per cent at 95 years and 100 per cent on crossing 100 years.   The Parliamentary Standing Committee on Personnel, Public Grievances, Law and Justice has now recommended to the government to "sympathetically" consider Pensioners' Association's demand for 5 per cent additional quantum of pension on attaining the age of 65 years, 10 per cent at 70 years, 15 per cent at 75 years and 20 per cent at 80 years. In its report on 'Pensioner's Grievances - Impact of Pension Adalats and Centralised Pensioners' Grievance Redress and Monitoring System', the panel headed by senior BJP MP Sushil Kumar Modi has asked the Department of Pensions and Pensioners' Welfare (DoPPW) to pursue the issue "vigorously" with the Ministry of Finance and apprise the committee of the outcome. Arguing in favour of Pensioners' Association demand, the panel said that it was "very much cognizant of the social churning" taking place in the society over the years. "The joint family system is breaking down, giving way to nuclear families. The growth of nuclear families due to geographical and social mobility have further led to rise in individualism and individualistic thinking and the generation who want to live away from shackles of joint families and patronage of elderly parents or grandparents," the report said. According to an estimate, the share of the population over the age of 60 is likely to increase significantly in the country by 2050. "In view of such changes at societal level, we need to have a robust pension system for elderly which can help them survive in this world without being a burden on anyone," it said. The DoPPW had told the panel that the provision regarding additional pension or family pension on attaining the age of 80 years and above was introduced with effect from January 1, 2006, on implementation of the recommendations of the Sixth Central Pay Commission. It said the Pay Commission was of the view that older pensioners/family pensioners require a better deal because their needs, especially those relating to health, increase with age. The existing provision was examined by the 7th Central Pay Commission also and it said the existing rates of additional pension and additional family pension are appropriate. "The Department has, however, assured that this suggestion of the Associations shall be conveyed to the Department of Expenditure," the report said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parliamentary-panel-asks-government-to-consider-increasing-the-quantum-of-pension-from-65-years-1062855.html
20-12-2021||National||States can make provisions for teaching Bhagavad Gita, Bhojpuri in schools: Government||State governments can allow teaching the Bhagavad Gita to school students, the government told Lok Sabha on Monday. Replying to members' questions in the Lower House, Union Minister for Education Annapurna Devi said that state governments can also make provisions for the teaching of Bhojpuri language in schools if they wish to do so. She added that under the New Education Policy, the education of children in regional languages has been made compulsory. "Education comes in the concurrent list of (the Constitution). If the states want, they can add Bhagavad Gita to the curriculum. Under the CBSE [Central Board of Secondary Education] pattern, Bhagavad Gita is already taught in various classes. If states want, they can add Bhagavad Gita," the minister told the House during the Question Hour. She was replying to the question asked by BJP's North Mumbai MP Gopal Shetty. The BJP member wanted to know from the government if it is considering bringing provisions for the teaching of Bhagavad Gita to school students across the country. While asking his question, Shetty also suggested that the Congress members read Bhagavad Gita "so that they get the wisdom to do good work". Congress members were at that time protesting in the House over Lakhimpur Kheri violence and demanding the sacking of Union Minister for Home Affairs Ajay Mishra as his son Ashish Mishra is one of the accused arrested in the case. "Some contents from the Bhagavad Gita are already there for the students of classes Class 6, 7 and 8. Bhagavad Gita is taught," the minister said in her reply. In his question, BJP member Nishikant Dubey sought to know from the government if it was considering giving recognition to Bhojpuri or making the language part of the school curriculum for students of classes 1-12 and the higher education institutions as well. He said people from Jharkhand, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh have been demanding it for a long time. "Under the New Education Policy, education of children in Indian language and regional languages has been made compulsory. States can teach (school) children in Bhojpuri. States can implement the new education policy and teach (Bhojpuri) in classes 1 to 12," the minister of state for education replied. The minister said the Union government issues advisories to the state governments from time to time. "If the state governments want, they can comply with them and make provisions for teaching (Bhojpuri) to students of Classes 1 to 12," she said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/states-can-make-provisions-for-teaching-bhagavad-gita-bhojpuri-in-schools-government-1062858.html
20-12-2021||National||Bharat Biotech seeks trial for intranasal Covid-19 vaccine booster||Indian vaccine maker Bharat Biotech said on Monday it has submitted an application to the country's drug regulator to conduct a late-stage trial for a booster dose of its intranasal Covid-19 vaccine. Indian Covid-19 vaccine makers are lobbying the government to authorise boosters as supplies have far outstripped demand, but the health ministry said there is no immediate plan to approve boosters and the priority remains complete vaccination of eligible adults. "We have submitted phase 3 clinical trial application to DCGI (Drugs Controller General of India)," a Bharat Biotech spokesperson said in a statement, adding that an intranasal vaccine as a booster dose will be easier to administer in mass vaccination campaigns. India is yet to approve the use of Bharat Biotech's intranasal vaccine, BBV154. In August, BBV154 had received regulatory approval for mid-to-late-stage trials. Local media had reported that the mid-stage trial has been completed. Covaxin, the company's Covid-19 vaccine already approved for emergency-use in the county, is administered through an injection. Coronavirus cases in India have fallen sharply since a devastating second wave earlier this year. The South Asian nation has detected over 100 cases of the Omicron variant so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bharat-biotech-seeks-trial-for-intranasal-covid-19-vaccine-booster-1062869.html
20-12-2021||National||122 students of IITs, IIMs and central institutes committed suicide from 2014-21: Government||A total of 122 students of IITs, IIMs, central universities and other centrally funded higher educational institutions committed suicide between 2014 and 2021, the Lok Sabha was informed on Monday. In a written response to a question in Lok Sabha, Union Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan said that of the 122 students who committed suicide, 24 belonged to Scheduled Caste (SC), 41 to Other Backward Classes (OBC), three to Scheduled Tribe (ST) and three were from the 'minority' category. The number of student suicides in various IITs during the period was 34, while four students from different IIMs had also committed suicide. The Indian Institutes of Science Education & Research (IISERs) and IISc Bangalore accounted for nine suicides, while four were from the Indian Institutes of Information Technology (IIITs). The highest number of student suicides were from central universities (37), followed by National Institutes of Technology (NITs), which reported 30 student suicides. “The government and University Grants Commission (UGC) have taken several initiatives to check the incidents of harassment and discrimination of students. UGC (Redressal of Grievances of Students) Regulations, 2019 have been formulated to safeguard the interests of the students. Further, the ministry has undertaken various steps such as peer-assisted learning, introduction of technical education in regional languages for students in order to ease the academic stress,” Pradhan said. "The government initiative, named MANODARPAN, covers a wide range of activities to provide psychological support to students, teachers and families for mental and emotional wellbeing during the Covid outbreak and beyond. In addition, institutions conduct workshops/seminars on happiness and wellness, regular sessions on yoga, induction programmes, extracurricular activities including sports and cultural activities and appointment of student counsellors for overall personality development and de-stressing students. Further, students, wardens and caretakers are sensitised to bring to notice the signs of depression in fellow students to the authorities so that timely clinical consultation may be provided,” he said.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/122-students-of-iits-iims-and-central-institutes-committed-suicide-from-2014-21-government-1062871.html
20-12-2021||National||India prepared to fight Omicron variant: Mansukh Mandaviya||India is prepared to fight the Omicron variant of coronavirus and the country's vaccine manufacturing capacity will be increased to 45 crore doses per month in the next two months, Health and Family Welfare Minister Mansukh Mandaviya informed Rajya Sabha on Monday. Buffer stocks of medicine and oxygen have been prepared to mitigate any crisis and 48,000 ventilators have been distributed to states, the minister said. Giving an update on the status of Covid-19 vaccinations in India, Mandaviya said 88 per cent of the eligible population has been given the first dose and 58 per cent second dose. Speaking at a discussion in the Upper House on the situation arising out of cases of Omicron variant of Covid-19 virus in the country, the minister said it has been declared a variant of concern by the World Health Organisation, and the government is keeping a close watch on the situation. Noting that the variant is spreading globally, Mandaviya said so far 161 cases of Omicron variant infections have been reported in the country and the government has already taken steps to tackle it. He said the government has identified 'at risk' countries where the variant has been reported. People coming from those countries are required to take mandatory tests on arrival to India with seven days isolation at home with another testing again after seven days. The Centre is in constant and regular touch with states and experts on the matter to understand the effect of the variant on the population, he added. He said India's vaccine manufacturing capacity has also increased and will further rise. At present, the capacity is 31 crore doses per month and it will be increased to 45 crore dose per month in the next two months, he said adding two more companies have submitted their vaccine data seeking emergency use authorisation. Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-prepared-to-fight-omicron-variant-mansukh-mandaviya-1062877.html
20-12-2021||National||HC upholds life term to man, friend for sexually assaulting minor daughter||The Delhi High Court on Monday upheld the life imprisonment awarded to a man and his friend for sexually assaulting his own 10-year-old daughter, saying the acts, which were commited within the closest confines of the family, descending to a different depth of depravity, must be dealt with requisite severity. A bench of Justices Siddharth Mridul and Anup Jairam Bhambhani confirmed the trial court's order of October 18, 2019 which had convicted them for unnatural sex with the victim, a class III student between May 13 and July 22, 2012. The bench said considering the depravity of the acts committed against the prosecutrix by a so-called uncle, with the connivance of her own father, we are also of the view that the offending acts go way beyond the physical element of sexual assault but would have severely damaged the mind and psyche of the victim, which trauma may linger for very long.  Finding the girl's testimony as clear, cogent and unwavering, the court noted she stated that her father, committed upon her all acts that Kamal, her father's friend did, save and except digital penetration. However, she unequivocally said that it is her father who had picked her up from her aunt’s place and took her to the place where his friend would subject her to the offences. The court upheld conviction of the two under Section 377 (unnatural sex) of the IPC but found the order holding them guilty of gang rape as flawed. "We do not hesitate to repeat, to sexually violate an innocent child is in any case an abhorrent act; but, when that happens within the filial father-daughter relationship, of which purity of affection is a sine-qua-non, the act descends to a different depth of depravity. Without at all appearing to be Biblical, crime in society is one thing; but crime within the closest confines of the family, adds to it the element of sin. Such acts must be dealt, with the requisite level of severity," the bench said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hc-upholds-life-term-to-man-friend-for-sexually-assaulting-minor-daughter-1062891.html
20-12-2021||National||Green court directs CPCB to issue guidelines for all poultry farms having over 5,000 birds||Insisting that those running poultry farms with more than 5,000 birds cannot be considered small farmers, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) asked the Central Pollution Control Board to issue guidelines for them on following environmental norms. The Principal Bench of the NGT, headed by Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel, observed that a person running a poultry farm of more than 5,000 birds cannot be called a small farmer nor their pollution potential left unregulated. The tribunal was hearing a plea against the alleged inadequacy of the regulatory regime by way of the consent mechanism under the Water and Air Acts to prevent the degradation of the environment, on account of unregulated operations of poultry farms. The bench asked the CPCB to issue revised guidelines to all state pollution control boards in terms of the above order within a month, directing states to implement the same. The tribunal also said the argument that considering those running poultry farms with fewer than 25,000 birds as small farmers in the unorganised sector is untenable and against the precautionary principle of environmental law. Insisting that regulation of all poultry farms having more than 5,000 birds is necessary, the bench said that guidelines should apply to all consents or renewals hereafter for the poultry farms.   Earlier, the NGT had directed the CPCB to revisit the guidelines for classifying poultry farms as a 'green' category industry, exempting their regulation under various laws. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/green-court-directs-cpcb-to-issue-guidelines-for-all-poultry-farms-having-over-5000-birds-1062898.html
20-12-2021||National||Panama Papers case: ED quizzes Aishwarya Rai Bachchan for over 5 hours||Enforcement Directorate on Monday questioned Bollywood actress Aishwarya Rai Bachchan for around six hours in connection with a case linked to the 2016 'Panama Papers' global tax leaks case. The ED recorded Aishwarya's statement under the Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA). The questioning came weeks after her husband Abhishek Bachchan was quizzed by the ED in another case arising out of the 'Panama Papers'. Aishwarya, the 48-year-old daughter-in-law of superstar Amitabh Bachchan and actress-turned-Samajwadi Party MP Jaya Bachchan, left the ED office in Jam Nagar House around 7 PM after around six hours of questioning, officials said. During her questioning, they said, the former Miss World was learnt to have submitted documents to the investigators with regard to the case. Dubbed 'Panama Papers', an investigation of a stockpile of records from Panamanian legal firm Mossack Fonseca by the Washington-based International Consortium of Investigative Journalists (ICIJ) in 2016 had named several world leaders and celebrities who allegedly stashed away money abroad in offshore companies. Some of them are stated to be holding valid overseas accounts. The leaked tranche had a total of 426 India-linked cases. The ED has been probing the case linked to the Bachchans since 2016-17 and had issued notices to the Bachchan family asking them to explain their foreign remittances since 2004 under the Reserve Bank of India's (RBI) Liberalised Remittance Scheme (LRS) and regulated under the Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA). Some documents were submitted by the Bachchans to the agency then. Some other instances of alleged irregularities linked to the family are also under the scanner of the federal probe agency, the sources said. Aishwarya Rai Bachchan was stated by the ICIJ to have links with an offshore entity in the British Virgin Islands (BVI) that was created in 2005. Her family was also stated to be part of this offshore entity that had an "initial authorised capital of $50,000." The company was reportedly dissolved in 2008. Abhishek Bachchan has also been examined by the ED in the past in another instance linked to the offshore leaks case, sources said. The government had created a multi-agency group (MAG) of central investigative agencies under the chairman of the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) that also comprised officials from the ED, Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and the Financial Intelligence Unit (FIU) to monitor probe into the Panama Papers and similar global tax leaks cases. It had recently said that "total undisclosed credits of Rs 20,353 crore" have been detected with respect to 930 India linked entities in the Panama and Paradise Paper Leaks, as of October 1, 2021. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/panama-papers-case-ed-quizzes-aishwarya-rai-bachchan-for-over-5-hours-1062911.html
20-12-2021||National||Parliament passes NDPS (Amendment) Bill||Parliament passed a bill to rectify errors that had crept into the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, with Rajya Sabha giving its nod to it on Monday. The Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (Amendment) Bill-2021 was passed by Lok Sabha on December 13. Moving the bill in the Upper House for its consideration and passage, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said it replaces the ordinance which was promulgated in September this year as Parliament was not in session then. Rajya Sabha passed the bill by a voice vote. Before the bill was passed, the Congress staged a walkout as Leader of the Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge took strong objection to him not being given an opportunity to speak and expressed his anguish, saying "LoP is given priority to speak...(I am) begging, asking (to speak)." After rasing the issue of suspension of 12 members of Rajya Sabha and mentioning about the Lakhimpur Kheri violence, he along with other Congress members staged a walkout. Moving the bill, Sitharaman said, "There was an order of the High Court of Tripura, which very quickly wanted us to take it up and therefore we had to bring the Ordinance." The Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (Amendment) Ordinance was promulgated on September 30, 2021. "I wish the opposition participated in this debate and then passes this legislation...," she said. The anomaly crept in when the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act was amended in 2014 to allow better medical access to narcotic drugs, and removing state barriers in transporting and licensing of essential narcotic drugs. Before she moved the bill in Rajya Sabha, Congress MP Shaktisinh Gohil moved a resolution for the House to disapprove the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (Amendment) Ordinance, 2021. He was, however, disallowed by Bhubaneswar Kalita, who was in the Chair, to raise the matter of suspension 12 opposition MPs and the Lakhimpur Kheri violence. Taking part in the discussion in Rajya Sabha, Congress MP Digvijaya Singh said that to correct what has been told as "clerical error" it has taken six years since 2014 for the Narcotics Bureau and the government to identify the mistake. He was also not allowed to raise the matter of 12 suspended opposition MPs and the Lakhimpur Kheri violence. BJP MP GVL Narashima Rao objected to "defamatory words against the government" used by Singh and asked the Chair to delete it from the records. Another BJP MP Suresh Gopi, while supporting the bill, called for a balance in the law for controlling narcotics addiction and availability of opioid medicines, which are required as pain killers to many patients, especially those suffering from cancer. The Chair did not allow Md Nadimul Haque (AITC) to speak when he tried to raise the Lakhimpur Kheri violence matter and Tiruchi Siva (DMK) who tried to raise the matter of the suspension of 12 MPs. Replying on the discussion on the bill, Sitharaman said the error in the bill was committed during the previous UPA regime. "Some members Digvijaya Singh from Congress and others...also in a way Mrs Jaya Bachchan saying 'what have you done? Why did you take so much time to correct the error?' Sir Let me humbly submit that this error was committed during UPA time. We are correcting that error," he said. "This error was committed in a bill which was introduced in 2011 and they took up to 2014 to pass the bill and when it was passed in February 2014 and then when it got notified on May 1, 2014 before the elections," the minister said. On the need for Ordinance route, she said, "This was necessitated because of the Tripura High Court's observation and we wanted to get immediately acting on it...because the confusion brought in very delicate implementation problem. Later, the House referred the Biological Diversity Bill to a Joint Committee of both Houses of Parliament. Environment Minister Bhupendra Yadav moved the motion to refer the bill to the Joint Committee with 21 members of the Lok Sabha and 10 members from the Rajya Sabha. The motion was also passed by voice vote in Lok Sabha earlier in the day. The committee is expected to submit its report to the House by the last day of the first week of the next session. The committee will have Lok Sabha members Sanjay Jaiswal, Diya Kumari, Heena Gavit, Aparajita Sarangi, Raju Bista, Pallab Lochan Das, Santosh Pandey, Prathap Simha, Jugal Kishore Sharma, Brijendra Singh, Ajay Tamta, Jagdambika Pal (all BJP), Gaurav Gogoi, S Jothimani (both Congress), A Raja (DMK), Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar (Trinamool), Sridhar Kotagiri (YSRCP), Prataprao Jadhav (Shiv Sena), Sunil Kumar Pintu (JD-U), Achyutananda Samanta (BJD) and Ritesh Pandey (BSP). The Rajya Sabha members who are part of the joint committee are Shiv Pratap Shukla (BJP) , Dr Anil Aggarwal (BJP), Neeraj Shekhar (BJP), Ramilaben Bara (BJP), Jairam Ramesh (Congress), Jawhar Sircar (TMC), Tiruchi Siva (DMK), Amar Patnaik (BJD), Ram Gopal Yadav (SP) and Ram Nath Thakur (JDU). The bill seeks to relax certain rules in the Biodiversity Act 2002 in order to fast-track research and patenting as well as empower local communities to be able to utilise resources, particularly of medicinal value, such as seeds. Congress leader Jairam Ramesh had demanded that the bill be referred to a standing committee of Parliament.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parliament-passes-ndps-amendment-bill-1062920.html
20-12-2021||National||Opened Covaxin vial can be stored for 28 days, says Bharat Biotech||An opened vial of Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin can be stored at 2 to 8 degrees Celsius for up to 28 days and is not required to be discarded immediately in a day or at the end of the immunisation session, Bharat Biotech said on Monday. Each vial of Covaxin contains 20 doses. The vaccine is approved for use under the 28-day multi-dose vial policy from the Drugs Controller General of India and the WHO Emergency Use Listing (WHO EUL). "We believe in doing our bit to care for our environment, the multi-dose vial policy saves money for procurement agencies by reducing the cold chain logistics and management. Thereby reducing the carbon footprint, costs related to open vial wastage, cold chain distribution, cold chain storage, biomedical waste disposal etc," the Hyderabad-based company said in a statement. "We believe in being environmentally friendly by reducing the quantum of packing materials and single-use plastics that are utilised in vaccines manufacturing, storage, distribution and disposal," it added. The Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) last month approved the extension of Covaxin's shelf life up to 12 months from the date of manufacture. This approval of shelf-life extension is based on the availability of additional stability data, which was submitted to the CDSCO. With the shelf-life extension, hospitals can now utilise the stock which was nearing the expiry and avoid vaccine wastage, the vaccine-maker said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/opened-covaxin-vial-can-be-stored-for-28-days-says-bharat-biotech-1062941.html
20-12-2021||National||India may be heading towards stagflation: Amit Mitra||Amit Mitra, West Bengal's former finance minister and current chief advisor to Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday said he fears India may be heading towards “stagflation”. Mitra, an economist by training said, India is already suffering from rising inflation and unemployment simultaneously. “Wholesale inflation is 14.2 per cent and ‘unemployment’ has expanded by 10.48 per cent. Now, without private investment (increasing), we may be heading toward stagflation,” Mitra said, speaking virtually at the CFO Leadership Summit, organised by the Institute of Cost Accountants of India. Stagflation is defined as situation with persistent high inflation combined with high unemployment and stagnant demand in a country's economy. Mitra said, India is facing such a precarious situation due to "faulty economic policies" of the Union government which began with demonitisation in 2016, followed by launching a complex Goods and Services Tax, "and now wrong policies to manage the economy in the Covid times that does not boost private investment or empower people to spend more." “Infrastructure capital expenditure (resorted to by the Government) will have a time lag and we need immediate spending and for that the government has to give money directly into the hands of the people. Union finance minister accepts private investment is not happening and is asking different departments to spur (public) capex but that will not yield immediate results,” he said. Speaking of West Bengal, Mitra claimed the state had "adopted the right policies" including lowering stamp duty and circle rates to boost private sector investment, which he said led to a "positive state GDP growth of 1.2 per cent when the country had a de-growth of 7.7 per cent in FY21.” Many countries put money into the hands of their population to revive the economy, he said. However, this has not been replicated in India. As a result, "India has ranked among the most unequal country in the World Inequality Report 2022, where top one per cent of the population now controls 22 per cent of the national income and bottom 50 per cent has a share of just 13 per cent,” of the country's income, the former state finance minister said. Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-may-be-heading-towards-stagflation-amit-mitra-1062970.html
20-12-2021||National||BJP to chalk out strategy for Winter Session end game||The Bharatiya Janata Party has called for a meeting of its Parliamentarians on Tuesday, to chalk out the party’s strategies ahead of the final week of the ongoing Winter Session of the Parliament.  The meeting, a weekly affair for the ruling party’s MPs, will be held at the Ambedkar International Centre, as its usual venue, the Parliament House complex auditorium, is undergoing repairs.  Leaders that DH spoke to said that apart from Parliamentary affairs and issues, the party’s strategy for the upcoming assembly elections in the five states will come up for discussion.  “The assembly elections are on the top of the agenda. As soon as we wrap up the Parliament session, election campaigning will begin in full swing. The PM and other senior leaders have already started campaigning,” said a party MP, requesting anonymity.  The Prohibition of Child Marriage Amendment Act, 2021, and the Election Laws (Amendment) Bill 2021 are likely to come up for discussion. The legislation to increase the minimum age of marriage for women to 21 has garnered mixed reviews from various stakeholders.  In the party’s last weekly meeting, the prime minister had pointed at dipping attendance numbers of the party’s members of the Parliament, and he might touch upon the topic again.  The Winter Session of the Parliament has been a stormy one, marred by the shooting of civilians in Nagaland and a growing opposition demand for the removal of the minister of state home affairs, Ajay Mishra Teni, which has led to repeated adjournments.  Four farmers were mowed down by an SUV in Lakhimpur Kheri during a farmer’s protest rally on October 3. Mishra's son Ashish is one of the main accused in the case. While cries for his removal grow louder, BJP leaders said that the likelihood of his dismissal was not significant, as the BJP heads into a high-octane electoral contest in Uttar Pradesh.  Repeated adjournments were also caused due to disruption of proceedings by opposition parties over the suspension of 12 MPs.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-to-chalk-out-strategy-for-winter-session-end-game-1062977.html
20-12-2021||National||India, China 'effectively managed, controlled' eastern Ladakh frictions: Chinese FM Wang Yi||China and India "effectively managed and controlled" border frictions in eastern Ladakh, Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi said in his year-end speech, highlighting the performance of his ministry this year. Wang's remark comes in the midst of the lingering border row between the two countries in eastern Ladakh. "China and India have maintained dialogue through diplomatic and military channels, and effectively managed and controlled frictions in certain border areas, under a shared commitment to improving and developing the bilateral relations,” Wang said in a brief reference to the efforts to the resolution of the tense standoff at several points of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh. The military standoff at Eastern Ladakh has brought the relations between the two countries to a standstill. The border standoff between the armies of India and China erupted on May 5 last year following a violent clash in the Pangong lake areas and both sides gradually enhanced their deployment by rushing in tens of thousands of soldiers as well as heavy weaponry. As a result of a series of military and diplomatic talks, the two sides completed the disengagement process in the Gogra area in August and in the north and south banks of the Pangong lake in February. The two sides held the 12th round of talks on July 31. Days later, the two armies completed the disengagement process in Gogra, which was seen as a significant forward movement towards the restoration of peace and tranquillity in the region. Each side currently has around 50,000 to 60,000 troops along the LAC in the mountainous sector. What was stated to be a silver lining in this conflict, both sides remained engaged at the Foreign Ministers level to the top military Commanders besides through the WMCC (Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination) to keep the tensions under control. In his speech, Wang said that "for China’s diplomacy, the past year has seen us acting under the strong leadership of the CPC (ruling Communist Party of China) Central Committee with Comrade Xi Jinping at its core, embracing a global vision and serving the nation and our people”. "We have opened up new vistas amidst global changes, turned crisis into opportunities in a complex world, and steadfastly forged ahead through struggle as well as cooperation," he said. He highlighted the growing strategic relations between China and Russia being reinforced as a push back against the US and the EU countries' strong criticism of the alleged human rights violations and a host of other issues. "Guided by the two presidents, the China-Russia relationship has stood all kinds of tests and grown ever more vibrant…The China-Russia partnership has stayed rock-solid. No matter how the international situation may evolve, China and Russia will remain unchanged in their commitment to an ever-lasting friendship, to the joint pursuit of win-win cooperation, and to shared resolve to upholding peace," he said. On China-US ties, he said both sides have explored a new mode of interactions based on mutual respect and equality. Since the beginning of this year, President Xi has had two requested telephone conversations with President Joe Biden, and the two presidents also held their first virtual meeting recently, Wang said. "It is hoped that the US side will follow through on the common understandings of the two presidents, honour its commitment, earn trust from others, and work with China to explore a way of peaceful coexistence between the two major countries," he said. On priorities for 2022, Wang said, "we will resolutely fight off any threats and challenges that may undermine China’s sovereignty, security and development interests, and we will firmly fight back against any despicable attempts to interfere in China’s internal affairs or discredit the country," he said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-china-effectively-managed-controlled-eastern-ladakh-frictions-chinese-fm-wang-yi-1062993.html
20-12-2021||National||Seven aircrafts of IAF crashed in last two years: Govt||Seven aircraft of the Indian Air Force have crashed in the last two years, the government said in Rajya Sabha on Monday. Minister of State for Defence Ajay Bhatt said this while replying to a question in the House. "A total of seven aircraft of the Air Force have crashed in the last two years, including the Mirage 2000 which crashed recently in Madhya Pradesh," he said. The minister said every aircraft accident in the IAF is investigated by a Court of Inquiry (CoI) to ascertain the cause of the accident. "The recommendations of the completed Court of Inquiry are implemented. Only after completion of the Court of Inquiry, the quantum of loss is finalised," he said. Replying to a separate question, Bhatt said indigenously-developed Tejas aircraft is not being inducted as a replacement for MIG-21 fighter jets but as a part of the modernisation of the IAF. He said an amount of Rs 6,653 crore was spent on the manufacturing of 24 Tejas jets till September 30. Bhatt said 123 Tejas fighter aircraft are to be manufactured and that further production depends on the requirement of the services as well as possible exports. Replying to another question on whether the government is planning to propose compulsory military training for youths, he said there is no such plan. "Our armed forces have a large number of volunteers to draw upon and there is no problem in getting adequate numbers of volunteer recruits. All the able-bodied persons of the country, therefore, do not compulsorily need to be given military training," he said. Asked about the AK-203 rifle contract with Russia, Bhatt said the first lot of 35,000 guns is required to be delivered within 10 months of making the advance payment to the Indo-Russian joint venture. "The contract for procurement of quantity 6,01,427 Assault Rifles (AK-203) from Indo-Russian Rifles Private Limited (IRRPL) has been signed on December 6," the minister said. "As per the contract, the first lot of quantity 35,000 rifles is required to be delivered by 10 months of the release of advance payment to IRRPL," he said. Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/seven-aircrafts-of-iaf-crashed-in-last-two-years-govt-1062995.html
20-12-2021||National||Gujarat police arrest top AAP leader after clash with BJP||The Gandhinagar police on Monday arrested top leaders of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) including its state president Gopal Italia, Isudan Gadhvi and over 60 others for trespassing BJP headquarters, rioting, among other charges. The arrests came after a protest by the AAP leaders at BJP office "Kamalam" in the state capital against question paper leak in the head clerk recruitment examination. A group of AAP leaders had barged into BJP headquarters, where they sat singing "Ramdhun '' (chants of Lord Ram's name) while demanding action in the paper leak case. AAP has alleged that while they were singing "Ramdhun '' in a symbolic protest, BJP leaders 'attacked' them. The local police also arrived immediately and resorted to lathicharge to disperse the gathering. The BJP has alleged that AAP leaders created a ruckus at the party's "private office" and misbehaved with women members. Gandhinagar Superintendent of Police, Mayur Chavda, while stating that 60 to 70 AAP leaders were arrested, said that many persons were injured in the incident including members from the "complainant's side" as police officials. When asked if several AAP leaders also suffered injuries, he told reporters that he hadn't received any complaints. The AAP leaders have been booked for trespassing (IPC-452), assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty (IPC-353), rioting (IPC-144), to be read with conspiracy (IPC 120B) among other charges against a mob of 400 to 500 people. "Isudan Gadhvi, Gopal Italia, Nikhil Savani, Shiv Kumar, Pravin Ram and 60 to 70 other leaders have been arrested. They will be produced before the court on Tuesday. We have registered the FIR following a complaint lodged by BJP," Chavda said during a press conference. He also said that a blood sample of one person has been sent for forensic examination to ascertain if the person was drunk or not. The FIR, based on a written complaint filed by a member of BJP women's cell, mentions her alleging "Isudan Gadhvi seemed like a drunk". In a video clip, tweeted from Gujarat AAP's Twitter handle, Isudan Gadhvi is heard saying that the party was planning to take up the issue of the paper leak as "BJP has been leaking the papers repeatedly. Eight to ten persons would be arrested but BJP leaders would get away. We had organised a meeting in Gandhinagar to decide what to do with the case since AAP is in opposition. Our 200 members were stopped from reaching Gandhinagar. Then, we decided to make a representation to C R Paatil who is running the government. Therefore, we went to Kamalam to stage a symbolic protest and while we were singing Ramdhun, BJP leaders attacked us..." A BJP spokesperson said that "AAP entered its headquarters like anti-social elements and without any authority." It also said that nine of its members were injured after they were allegedly attacked by AAP leaders. The FIR mentions the names of AAP leaders Italia, Gadhvi, Shiv Kumar, Nikhil Savani, Hasmukh Patel, Pravin Rami. Sources said that AAP had planned to stage a protest outside the state Assembly. It took everyone including the local police by surprise when they reached Kamalam. "Had we announced our plan in advance, they couldn't have reached the BJP office. We succeeded in our planning but many of our workers sustained injuries in their head, legs, arms and other body parts due to police lathi-charge," an AAP leader said. Meanwhile, Delhi chief minister and party's national convener Arvind Kejriwal said in a tweet, "The barbarous attack on AAP leaders in Gujarat is highly condemnable. The voice of rights of the people can't be suppressed by sticks or dictatorship." Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gujarat-police-arrest-top-aap-leader-after-clash-with-bjp-1062997.html
20-12-2021||National||Modi, Putin speak over phone amid speculation of their summit with Xi Jinping||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Russian President Vladimir Putin spoke over the phone on Monday, amid speculation over Moscow mediating between New Delhi and Beijing to help end a 20-month-long military stand-off along the disputed boundary between India and China in eastern Ladakh. Modi and Putin “followed up on some of the issues” discussed during the annual summit the two leaders had held in New Delhi about a fortnight ago, according to a press release issued by the Prime Minister’s Office in New Delhi. Putin’s office in Moscow, however, stated that he and Modi exchanged views on the international stability and security problems, including the situation in the Asia-Pacific. The phone call between the two leaders took place just days after Moscow made it public that it had proposed a trilateral RIC (Russia-India-China) summit among Putin, Modi and the Chinese President Xi Jinping. Putin held the annual India-Russia summit with Modi in New Delhi on December 6. He also had a videoconference with Xi on December 15. Putin's aide, Yury Ushakov, said in Moscow that the leaders of Russia and China had agreed to endeavour to hold the next RIC summit with the Prime Minister of India “in the near future”. New Delhi, however, remained non-committal on Moscow’s proposal for the RIC summit. Modi, Putin and Xi had held the second RIC summit on the sideline of the G-20 conclave in Buenos Aires in December 2018 – almost 12 years after the then leaders of the three nations had held the first trilateral meeting. They had held the third RIC summit on the sideline of the G-20 meet in Osaka in June 2019. The RIC summit, however, could not be held in 2020 and 2021, as the Covid-19 pandemic swept the world and India’s relations with China hit a new low over the military stand-off along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). The phone call between Modi and Putin on Monday helped firm up the future course of action on the issues discussed by the two leaders earlier this month, including opportunities for furthering defence cooperation, cooperation in the supply of fertilizers, enhancement of India's engagement with the Russian Far East, according to the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) in New Delhi. The proposal for a trilateral Putin-Modi-Xi summit came amid the continuing stand-off between the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) along the LAC, the de facto boundary between the two nations in the western sector. The stand-off started in April to May of 2020, when the Indian Army had to deploy additional troops in response to the Chinese PLA’s move to amass a large number of troops near the LAC in an attempt to unilaterally change the status quo along the disputed boundary and to push the line westward. It reached a flashpoint on June 15, 2020, when 20 Indian Army soldiers and at least four Chinese PLA personnel were killed in a violent clash at Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh. The protracted negotiations between diplomats and senior military commanders of India and China resulted in the mutual withdrawal of front-line troops by the Chinese PLA and the Indian Army from the northern and southern banks of Pangong Tso (lake) in February and from the Gogra Post in August this year. The two sides, however, could not agree on disengagement in other remaining face-off points along the LAC. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-putin-speak-over-phone-amid-speculation-of-their-summit-with-xi-jinping-1062999.html
20-12-2021||National||Vaccination drive needs to be strengthened globally: WHO chief scientist Soumya Swaminathan||WHO chief scientist Dr Soumya Swaminathan on Monday called for the expansion and strengthening of the Covid-19 vaccination programme across the world in view of the rising cases of Omicron variant. Speaking virtually at one of the plenary sessions at the PANEX-21, organised at the Armed Forces Medical College here in Maharashtra, Dr Swaminathan said that the scope of vaccination needs to be expanded to ensure that vulnerable people are protected after administering two doses and that chances of deaths and hospitalisation are reduced. She also said that discussions are taking place at the global level about having a "pandemic treaty". "With Delta, to some extent, we saw a drop in neutralising activity with regular vaccines. But with Omicron, we saw a further reduction. It means that Omicron can evade our immune responses and infect us but vaccination will still hope to protect against getting severely ill," she said. "We want to expand and strengthen the vaccination programme as much as possible around the world," the World Health Organization chief scientist said. She said that discussions are taking place at the global level about having a "pandemic treaty" which binds all the countries on the lines of pacts related to arms and ammunition, automatic treaties, or use of biological weapons, which are not permitted due to global conventions and agreements. Dr Swaminathan further said that in the early course of the pandemic, people at WHO started learning about treatments. "Clinical trials were conducted and several countries, including China and Italy, where the first wave resulted in high mortality, and New York, the UK, and other countries also started producing data, and clinical trials took off. The WHO then decided to set up a solidarity trial platform. Within a few weeks, we could start trials in 30 countries and India was very much part of it," she added. Dr Swaminathan further said that India became a large contributor to the solidarity trials. "Now the solidarity trials are in the second phase. The first phase was about drugs like Hydroxychloroquine, Remdesivir and other drugs. In the second phase, we are looking at the anti-inflammatory drugs," she said. The WHO has also set up a solidarity vaccine trial platform considering the need for proper testing of more vaccines that are being developed, the chief scientist added. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vaccination-drive-needs-to-be-strengthened-globally-who-chief-scientist-soumya-swaminathan-1063003.html
20-12-2021||National||Over 65% mid-day meal cooks get less than Rs 2,000: Report||Around 65 per cent of India’s 24.95 lakh mid-day meal workers are paid less than Rs 2,000 per month. On the other hand, the reports state that the southern states and UTs are miles ahead in terms of the monthly payment. States like Puducherry, Tamil Nadu and Kerala have been paying over Rs 21,000, Rs 12,000 and 9,000 respectively on a monthly basis to cooks and helpers. “The cooks and helpers are classified as honorary workers who have come forward to render social services. They are not considered workers and consequently, the legislation on minimum wages are not applied to them,” a government official told Indian Express. The report further stated that the Ministry of Education in 2018, and last year had pitched for a hike in wages to Rs 2,000 but the proposals were shot down by Finance Ministry. The ministry gave the onus on states to increase the salary based on their demands. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-65-mid-day-meal-cooks-get-less-than-rs-2000-report-1063006.html
20-12-2021||National||Centre silent on Covid-19 booster doses despite studies showing benefits||Eighty percent of India’s 161 Omicron cases are asymptomatic whereas 14 per cent have mild symptoms, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya informed the Parliament on Monday, but maintained silence on the government’s plan on a booster dose of the Covid-19 vaccine even as new scientific evidence emerged on the usefulness of such a boost to prevent mortality. Scientists at the Imperial College, London have shown that in a country like India with a large number of infections and low vaccination rate, a booster dose to the elderly and the vulnerables have greater public health benefits than fully vaccinating the younger lot. “We find that prioritising limited vaccine supply for boosters in the elderly, higher-risk population has a greater public health impact, reducing deaths by an additional 5 per cent compared to using these same doses to immunise younger age-groups in an effort to reduce transmission,” the Imperial College researchers reported last week. The study that looked into the role of a booster shot to tackle the threat of an Omicron surge showed booster doses would be critical to mitigate the impact of future Omicron waves in countries with high levels of circulating virus. “Where dose supply is limited, targeting boosters to the highest risk groups to ensure continued high protection in the face of waning immunity is of greater benefit than giving these doses as primary vaccination to younger age-groups,” adds the study. "The Imperial College study shows that upto 5 per cent mortality can be prevented by giving a booster shot to those who are at risk such as the elderly and those having comorbidities. The least the government can do is to have a clear policy on boosters,” said virologist Shahid Jameel, senior research fellow at Green Templeton College, Oxford. Prioritizing boosters and beds for those at risk of hospitalization was an important determinant of how well we fight Omicron in early 2022, said Giridhara Babu, an epidemiologist at the Public Health Foundation of India, Bengaluru. Earlier Mandaviya stated in the Parliament that he would wait for recommendations from the NTAGI (National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation) and NEGVAC (National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19) before taking a decision on the booster shot. Health ministry officials, on the other hand, said their priority would be to complete the two primary doses for 94.47 crore adults rather than the booster shot, on which scientific evidence was still evolving. Responding to a debate on the Covid-19 situation, the Health Minister on Monday said 58 per cent of the adults were fully vaccinated with two doses whereas 88 per cent received at least one dose. Two more companies submitted their vaccine trial data to the regulator and are expected to receive the Emergency Use Authorisation soon, he added. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-silent-on-covid-19-booster-doses-despite-studies-showing-benefits-1063008.html
20-12-2021||National||Biological diversity bill referred to joint committee of Parliament||A joint committee comprising members of both Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha will study the Biological Diversity (Amendment) Bill 2021, which the government had introduced in the lower house of Parliament on December 16. The Congress, the main opposition party, had opposed the move by the government led by the BJP to constitute a select committee with members of both Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha to study the Bill, instead of referring it to the parliamentary Standing Committee on Science and Technology, Environment, Forests and Climate Change. Environment Minister Bhupendra Yadav moved the motion in the Lok Sabha on Monday to refer the Bill to the Joint Committee. The committee will have 21 members of the Lok Sabha and 10 members from the Rajya Sabha. He said that the panel was expected to submit its report by the last day of the first week of the next session of Parliament. The Bill seeks to amend the Biological Diversity Act 2002. Yadav named the Lok Sabha members, who will be the members of the committee. The Lok Sabha recommended to Rajya Sabha to appoint its representatives to the committee. Jairam Ramesh, a member of the Congress in the Rajya Sabha, had written to the Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, urging him not to allow the government to refer the Bill to the select committee, instead of sending it to the standing committee related to the Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change. Ramesh, himself, chairs the parliamentary standing committee on Science and Technology, Environment, Forests and Climate Change. The Biological Diversity (Amendment) Bill, 2021 seeks to reduce the pressure on wild medicinal plants by encouraging cultivation of medicinal plants, encourage Indian system of medicine, facilitate fast-tracking of research, patent application process, transfer of research results while utilising the biological resources available in India without compromising the objectives of United Nations Convention on Biological Diversity and its Nagoya Protocol, decriminalise certain provisions of the 2002 Act and bring more foreign investments in the chain of biological resources, including research, patent and commercial utilization, without compromising the national interest. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/biological-diversity-bill-referred-to-joint-committee-of-parliament-1063017.html
20-12-2021||National||Vaccine delivery under Quad framework to commence in early 2022: Shringla||Vaccine delivery under the Quad framework will commence in early 2022 to countries in the Indo-Pacific region, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said on Monday. In March, leaders of the Quad, comprising India, the US, Japan and Australia, launched the Quad Vaccine Partnership to help enhance equitable access to safe and effective vaccines in the Indo-Pacific and the world. Quad countries have pledged to donate more than 1.2 billion vaccine doses globally, in addition to the doses they have financed through COVAX. During an interaction with US-India Strategic Partnership Forum (USISPF) on 'Looking Ahead: The US-India Strategic and Commercial Partnership in 2022', Shringla said as the two countries close the chapter on 2021 and usher in 2022, they are also looking at continuing their engagement under the Quad framework. "With two-leader level summits this year and several working groups set up to address contemporary priorities, we have our task cut out to implement the vision of our leaders for a peaceful, prosperous and stable Indo-Pacific," he said. "Vaccine delivery under the Quad framework will commence in early 2022 to countries in the Indo-Pacific region. Other initiatives are also in the pipeline,' Shringla said. The foreign secretary also said India's Commerce and Industry Minister and the US Trade Representative have agreed to work together to resolve outstanding trade issues to reach convergence in the near future.  Both sides would be in regular contact to identify specific trade outcomes which could be finalised by mid-2022, he said. "We understand that the proposed restoration of the Generalised Scheme of Preferences (GSP) Scheme is pending approval of the US Congress. The meetings of the CEO Forum and Commercial Dialogue early next year would also be useful opportunities to take forward our bilateral trade agenda," the foreign secretary said. The India-US dialogue and engagement across sectors have remained regular, vibrant and productive, he noted. Prime Minister Narendra Modi's regular dialogue with US President Joe Biden and his visit to the US in September was the highlight of the bilateral agenda this year, Shringla said. "Prime Minister Modi also participated in important summits hosted by President Biden, including the Leaders' Summit on Climate, Global Covid Summit, Global Summit on Supply Chain Resilience, Build Back Better for the World event and the Summit for Democracy," he said. Two-way investments are also growing with the US now placed as the second-largest investor in India in 2020-21, he pointed out. India's economic reform process, such as the liberalisation of FDI in insurance, elimination of retrospective provision in income tax, are aimed at creating a conducive environment, Shringla said. Policy measures such as the production-linked incentives schemes in different sectors are providing a big push to manufacturing in India, he stressed. "We welcome US private sector capital to support India's infrastructure needs, including through the National Infrastructure and Investment Fund. Our Finance Minister discussed and highlighted these opportunities during her visit to the US in October this year," he said. Shringla said as both India and the US are taking steps to counter the economic impact of the Covid-19 pandemic and the consequent geoeconomic changes, there are opportunities for building resilient supply chains in several sectors. "For instance, our strong history of collaboration in the field of public health can be leveraged for a global partnership. Given India's credentials in the pharmaceutical sector and the presence of India's pharma companies in the USA, our respective industries and governments can join hands, with the objective of delivering affordable healthcare on a global basis," he said. "With new Covid variants, we have to be agile and ensure the development of cost-effective and safe vaccines, therapeutics and diagnostics. To ramp up production of these healthcare goods we need open and reliable supply chains so that we are well prepared to combat such pandemics in the future," he said. As there is already extensive collaboration between our respective industries, if the government and private stakeholders build on the existing innovation ecosystem in defence industries for co-development and co-production, it would be of mutual benefit in the long term, he said. At the 2+2 Ministerial Dialogue early next year, we hope to discuss some of these themes, Shringla said. Recent developments have shown that critical technologies such as 5G, AI, Cyber Security, Blockchain are instrumental both for businesses and national security and efficient governance in our countries, he noted. There are growing concerns about issues of reliability and trust aspects of these technologies that need to be addressed, Shringla added. Asserting that India and the US are two knowledge economies that are renowned for large IT and tech companies with global footprints, he said both countries are therefore natural partners for initiating and consolidating strategic corporate collaborations, which build on these strengths and complementarities. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vaccine-delivery-under-quad-framework-to-commence-in-early-2022-shringla-1063018.html
20-12-2021||National||Jayalalithaa death: SC asks AIIMS to nominate panel of specialists to assist Commission of Inquiry||The Supreme Court has asked the AIIMS Director, New Delhi, to nominate a panel of specialist doctors in the fields of treatment of the ailments suffered by the former Tamil Nadu Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa, to render assistance to the Commission of Inquiry formed to probe her death. The Tamil Nadu government had appointed the Commission headed by Justice A Arumughaswamy, a retired Madras High Court judge, on September 25, 2017. It was asked examine the circumstances which led to the hospitalisation of Jayalalithaa on September 22, 2016, and also the nature of treatment, to determine the cause of hospitalisation and the circumstances, leading to her death. In a recent order, a bench of Justices S Abdul Nazeer and Krishna Murari said it is just and proper to constitute a medical board to assist the Commission in disposal of the case. "We request the Director, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), New Delhi, to nominate a panel of doctors, specialist in the fields of treatment of the ailments as suffered by the late Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu,” the bench said. It further added, “Needless to say that the Commission has to furnish the said medical board, so constituted, with complete records of the proceedings. The medical board, so appointed, is permitted to participate in all further proceedings of the Commission and furnish a copy of the report to the Commission”. On November 30, the top court had said it will pass orders to allow the setting up of a medical board of AIIMS doctors to help the Justice  Arumughaswamy Commission of Inquiry. Apollo Hospitals had moved the top court alleging that the panel was bias, violated the principles of natural justice, and also conducted the fact-finding exercise outside its jurisdiction. On the hospital's plea, the top court had on April 26, 2019 stayed the proceedings by the Commission. The bench said, having regard to the facts and circumstances of the case, “we are of the view that it is just and proper for the Commission to furnish the documents, the depositions and the records as available in the records of the Commission on an application to be made by the appellant-Hospital and respondent no.3 ( V K Sasikala)”. The bench also permitted Apollo to make an appropriate application seeking permission to cross-examine/recall of any witness or individual including those witnesses whose evidence has since been closed and also lead its own evidence. “If such an application is filed, we request the Commission to consider the same and pass appropriate orders thereon," the court said. The court also asked the Commission to permit to lead her evidence at an appropriate stage of the inquiry. Jayalalithaa was treated for 75 days at the Apollo Hospitals of Chennai till her death on December 5, 2016. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jayalalithaa-death-sc-asks-aiims-to-nominate-panel-of-specialists-to-assist-commission-of-inquiry-1063019.html
20-12-2021||National Politics||Jan Vishwas Yatra: BJP sets off to win UP’s trust for Yogi||A galaxy of six senior BJP leaders on Sunday simultaneously flagged off the party’s "Jan Vishwas Yatra" from six places in Uttar Pradesh to reach out to people in all 403 assembly constituencies of the state and win their trust ahead of the upcoming polls. Setting off six streams of the poll campaign tour in a replication of the party’s Parivartan Yatra ahead of the 2017 assembly polls in which the BJP had won 325 seats, all the six leaders, including Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, largely targeted the party’s key contender Samajwadi Party. How can a person increase his property by 200 per cent in five years, asked Adityanath while flagging off the party’s poll campaign tour from Mathura as Rajnath Singh, launching it from Jhansi, asserted that Yogi, which means the practitioner of Yoga, will make the SP do a “sirsasan” (headstand) in the upcoming polls. Setting off the party’s ‘yatra’ from Bijnor along with UP Deputy Chief Minister Keshab Prasad Maurya, Union Transport Minister Nitin Gadkari dubbed the state’s growth in the last five years as "only a trailer" of Adityanath’s developmental work and urged people to be prepared to see the whole film of state’s growth by voting him to power yet again. Launching the ‘yatra’ from Ambedkar Nagar, BJP president J P Nadda dubbed the SP as “synonymous with corruption, injustice, atrocities and misconduct” as Union Minister Smriti Irani, launching flagging it off from Ghazipur, cautioned people to keep the “cycle and elephant parties” at bay to insulate them from “goonda raj”. Cautioning people that SP supremo Akhilesh Yadav who “betrayed” his father and “duped” his uncle was now out to “cheat” the people, Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, while flagging off the yatra from Ballia, exuded confidence that the BJP would win more than 300 assembly seats. It may even reach the 400-mark, he asserted. How can one increase his property by 200 per cent in five years, asked Adityanath in Mathura, referring to Income Tax sleuths raids on various SP leaders houses and offices? Asserting that the people and parties with “narrow visions” are not able to see his government’s “developmental model”, Adityanath said, “They did not like meat and liquor shops being shut in Mathura and the twin temple town of Mathura and Vrindavan becoming a municipal corporation”. “What they like is the cow slaughtering and freeing terrorists from jails,” said the UP chief minister, referring to the SP government’s move to withdraw cases against some jailed terrorists during fag end of its tenure. Resorting to cricket terminology, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh asserted in Jhansi that no opposition party in UP would be able to withstand the “developmental all-rounder” Adityanath’s “inswingers and outswingers” in the upcoming assembly polls. Counting the abrogation of Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir and the ongoing construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya among the BJP recent achievements, Singh said, “I admit that the Supreme Court judgement has paved the way for its construction.” “But it seems even gods wanted it to be built at a time when both the Centre and the state were to have BJP governments,” he remarked. Taking pride in the expeditious construction of UP’s 16-lane showpiece Delhi-Meerut Expressway of international standard, Union Transport Minister Gadkari said in Bijnor, “I wonder if there were potholes on roads or roads through potholes in UP five years ago.” “UP has been able to build more highways and expressways in last five years than all the roads built here in last 50 years,” said Gadkari, counting among others, the construction of Poorvanchal Expressway, Bundelkhand Expressway, Delhi-Dehradun Expressway and upcoming Ganga expressway in UP. He said UP is blessed with a double-engine growth ensured by those of the Modi government in the Centre and the Adityanath government in the state and urged people to ensure that this arrangement is not disturbed. In Ballia, MP CM Chouhan accused the Congress of foisting a wrong history of the country on the people limiting it to Gandhi, Nehru and Indira Gandhi and blacking out those of Subhash Chandra Bose, Sardar Bhagat Singh, Chandra Shekhar Azad, Mangal Pandey, Ashfaq Ullah Khan and other freedom fighters. Reiterating the BJP’s often-repeated charge of the SP being a ‘pariwarwadi’ (dynastic) party, BJP president Nadda in Ambedkar Nagar asserted that the Samajwadi Party’s claim of being a new and reformed party was entirely wrong and it is the same party "synonymous with “corruption, injustice, atrocities and misconduct”. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/jan-vishwas-yatra-bjp-sets-off-to-win-up-s-trust-for-yogi-1062692.html
20-12-2021||National Politics||Govt to introduce Election Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021 in Lok Sabha today||The Centre on Monday is likely to introduce 'The Election Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021' that seeks to link Aadhaar with electoral roll in the Lok Sabha. Union Law Minister Kiren Rijiju will introduce the Bill further to amend the Representation of the People Act, 1950 and the Representation of the People Act, 1951. The Election Laws (Amendment) Bill 2021, allows linking of electoral roll data with the Aadhaar and it also proposes for substitution of the word 'wife' with the word 'spouse' making the statutes gender neutral in the Representation of the People Act 1951. It allows electoral registration officers to seek the Aadhaar number of people who want to register as voters for the purpose of establishing the identity. The Lok Sabha is also likely to hold further discussion and voting on the Supplementary Demands for Grants, Second Batch for 2021-22. Last week, the Lok Sabha started discussion on the Supplementary Demands for Grants, Second Batch for 2021-22. After Lower House approval of the Supplementary Demands for Grants for 2021-22, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman will introduce The Appropriation (No.5) Bill,2021 to authorise payment and appropriation of certain further sums from and out of the Consolidated Fund of India for the services of the financial year 2021-2022. Anubhav Mohanty will call the attention of the Minister of Youth Affairs and Sports on the subject 'Khelo India Scheme and sports infrastructure'. Under rule 193, Congress member Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury and Trinamool Saugata Roy will raise the discussion on price rise. Further discussion in the Lok Sabha will take place on climate change which was raised by Kanimozhi Karunanidhi last week under rule 193. Minister of state Ajay Bhatt will make a statement regarding the status of implementation of further recommendations and observations contained in the report of the department-related Parliamentary Standing Committee on Transport, Tourism and Culture on action taken by the government on the recommendations contained in the report of the committee on Demands for Grants (2020-21) pertaining to the Ministry of Tourism. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/govt-to-introduce-election-laws-amendment-bill-2021-in-lok-sabha-today-1062737.html
20-12-2021||National Politics||Rs 13,109 cr recovered from defaulters such as Nirav Modi, Vijay Mallya: FM Sitharaman tells LS||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday said that banks have recovered Rs 13,109.17 crore from asset sale of fugitives like Vijay Mallya, Nirav Modi and Mehul Choksi. She said this while replying to a discussion on the second batch of Supplementary Demands for Grants which was approved by the Lok Sabha amid uproar by the opposition over various issues. The Supplementary Demands for Grants authorised the government to spend an additional Rs 3.73 lakh crore during the current fiscal. The extra spending includes an infusion of over Rs 62,000 crore into the company that holds residual assets and liabilities of Air India, Rs 58,430 crore by way of additional fertiliser subsidy, Rs 53,123 crore towards payment of pending export incentives and Rs 22,039 crore to rural development ministry for transfer to the National Rural Employment Guarantee Fund. Speaking on the banks' recovery from wilful defaulters, she said that a total of Rs 13,109.17 crore has been recovered from the asset sales of Vijay Mallya, Nirav Modi and Mehul Choksi as of July 2021, as per the information provided by the Enforcement Directorate (ED). The latest recovery was Rs 792 crore from the sale of assets belonging to Mallya and others on July 16, 2021, she said. Responding to various issues, including price rise, raised by the opposition during the debate, she said the government is taking measures to cool down prices of edible oil and other essential commodities. "We are taking measures through the EGOM (Empowered Group of Ministers) for taking care of essential goods. We will attend to the problem of edible oil price and also some of the essential edible items," she said. "Public sector banks together have effected a recovery of about Rs 5.49 lakh crore over the last seven financial years. So, these people who are defaulters, who have fled the country, we have got their money back and put it to the public sector banks and therefore, the banks are safer today," she said. She further said that the depositors' money is safer in public sector banks. On the states' financial position, the minister said that the Centre, in the first eight months of the fiscal, has already transferred 86.4 per cent of what was provided in the entirety of 2019-20. From the National Disaster Response Fund (NDRF), "funds are being provided and providing an extra Rs 15,000 crore for emergency Covid-19 response. The financial position of the states is also reflected in the fact that the overall cash balance of states as on November 30, 2021 was Rs 3.08 lakh crore approximately, fairly comfortable positions," she said. She further said that the states are having a substantial cash balance with them and there are only a few exceptions. Of 28 states, she said that only two states are having negative cash balances. Talking about Supplementary Demands for Grants, Sitharaman said that additional expenditure is of Rs Rs 3.73 lakh crore, of which Rs 2.99 lakh crore is the additional cash outgo because of big-ticket expenditure going for Air India and rise in fertiliser subsidy due to firming up of global prices. "We have to ensure that the farmers don't suffer because of it (rise in global prices). And therefore, an increase in the subsidy for fertiliser has been provided, which itself is accounting for Rs 58,431 crore," she said. Sitharaman also said that the government has so far paid around Rs 93,685 crore since 2014 for oil bonds. The government will have to pay till 2026 when oil bonds mature, she said. Quoting former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, she said, "I would like the nation to remember that issuing bonds and loading deficits on oil companies is not a permanent solution to this problem. We are only passing our burden to our children who will have to repay this debt." As per the Supplementary Demands for Grants, there would be net cash outgo of over Rs 2.99 lakh crore, and Rs 74,517 crore extra expenditure would be matched by savings by different ministries. As per the document, Rs 62,057 crore would be given to the Civil Aviation Ministry for equity infusion in Air India Assets Holding Company (AIAHL) for repayment of past government guaranteed borrowing and past dues/liabilities of Air India. As per the supplementary demands for grants, an additional Rs 2,628 crore would be given towards loans and advances to Air India for recoupment of advance from Contingency Fund of India. Besides, the Department of Food and Public Distribution would be given an additional Rs 49,805 crore for meeting expenditure towards various schemes of food storage and warehousing. About Rs 2,400 crore would be given to the Department of Commerce for meeting expenditure towards subsidies under the 'Interest Equalisation Scheme’, and Investment under the Export Credit Guarantee Corporation (ECGC) scheme, among others. Another over Rs 5,000 crore and over Rs 4,000 crore has been earmarked for additional spending by the ministries of Defence and Home, respectively. The 2021-22 Budget had projected the government's total expenditure at Rs 34.83 lakh crore. But this is expected to overshoot considering the two batches of supplementary demands for grants presented by the government so far. The government had in August received the Parliament nod for net additional spending of Rs 23,675 crore in the first batch of supplementary demands for grants.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rs-13109-cr-recovered-from-defaulters-such-as-nirav-modi-vijay-mallya-fm-sitharaman-tells-ls-1062785.html
20-12-2021||National Politics||Govt doesn't allow us to raise issues in Parliament, says Rahul Gandhi||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Monday threw his weight behind the demand for statehood for Ladakh and sought to raise it in Lok Sabha but his notice for his adjournment motion for a discussion on the issue was not allowed. Rahul had submitted the notice, "statehood and inclusion of Ladakh in Schedule VI of the Constitution of India. To constitute a committee with stakeholders, including members from the Leh Apex Body and the Kargil Democratic Alliance (KDA) to consider their demands and to take urgent actions to ensure unhindered access to pasture lands in the border areas that were traditionally accessible". Rahul told reporters that he wanted to raise the issue of Ladakh and the struggle "my brothers and sisters" are going through asking for their rights. "I wanted to support them and raise their issue in Parliament. Unfortunately, the government does not allow us to raise issues. So I want to send a message to everybody in Ladakh, we are with you and we are going to raise your issue," he said. "I want to tell all the people of Ladakh. ‘Daro mat’ (Don't be afraid). Whatever is yours, you will get," he added The Congress leader's intervention comes as Ladakh observed a shutdown following a call from the Apex Body and KDA on December 13 demanding statehood for Ladakh, protection under the Sixth Schedule of the Constitution, filling of 12,000 vacancies, and allocation of two Lok Sabha seats and one Rajya Sabha seat. Earlier, Ladakh MP Jamyang Tsering Namgyal, who is from the BJP, sought constitutional safeguards by amending the Ladakh Autonomous Hill District Council (LAHDC) Act so that it that would clarify the role of the Ministry of Home Affairs, Lieutenant Governor, and urban and rural panchayats vis-a-vis the two councils of Leh and Kargil. There is also a vociferous demand for the inclusion of Ladakh in the Sixth Schedule of the Constitution, which protects tribal communities by providing autonomy to them by setting up Autonomous Development Councils to decide on laws on land, health and agriculture among others. At present, there are 10 autonomous councils in Assam, Meghalaya, Tripura and Mizoram. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/govt-doesnt-allow-us-to-raise-issues-in-parliament-says-rahul-gandhi-1062833.html
20-12-2021||National Politics||Congress vital to any 2024 Opposition front govt, Mamata should see the merit: Tharoor||Senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor feels that the grand old party is indispensable to any opposition front's government in 2024, and asserted that TMC chairperson Mamata Banerjee should see the merit in working together with the Congress and other opposition parties to defeat the saffron camp. The former union minister said that there are still two-and-a-half years for the Lok Sabha elections, and the opposition parties should start working together by 2024 to defeat the BJP. Dismissing allegations that Rahul Gandhi lacks leadership qualities, Tharoor said that he has made effective contributions to the party at different times, and asserted that an overwhelming majority of Congress workers would like to see him resume as party president, a post which he quit after the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. "Congress is indispensable to any opposition front's government at the Centre in 2024," Tharoor told PTI in an interview during his recent visit to Kolkata for the launch of his book Pride, Prejudice & Punditry. Asked about Banerjee and her party's recent attacks on the Congress for "failing to put up a fight against BJP", Tharoor called the West Bengal chief minister a "remarkable figure" and urged her to see merit in working together with the grand old party. "I have a lot of respect for Mamata Di. I have known her as a minister in the UPA government. I have seen her as a chief minister. She is a remarkable figure, and of course, she has won an impressive victory against the BJP. So, I hope she sees merit in working together with Congress and other opposition parties," he said. Tharoor's comment comes in the backdrop of an escalation in the war of words between the Congress and the TMC, with Banerjee's party recently claiming that it is now the "real Congress", given the fact that the "war-weary" grand old party has failed to perform its role as the main opposition to the BJP. "But there are still two-and-a-half years to go; I don't expect everything to be resolved with great clarity right now. Things will take time. I think the important thing is that by 2024, we should all be working together," he said. Ties between the Congress and the TMC further strained after the ruling party in West Bengal, in an article in its mouthpiece Jago Bangla asserted that Banerjee, and not Rahul Gandhi, has emerged as the face of the opposition against Prime Minister Narendra Modi. While speaking on the lack of clarity in the opposition front over the issue of leadership, Tharoor said things will be sorted as there is still time for the next general elections. "I think these are still early days. What the opposition parties have in common in terms of their conviction is far greater than what divides them. Right now, there might be some tussle here and there, but at the end of the day, I believe everyone has to work together," he said. Pointing out the figures of vote share in the last Lok Sabha polls, the 65-year-old politician said that more the opposition parties find common ground, the better the chances of defeating the BJP. "The mathematical evidence for this is already there in the last election, where despite an increase in its vote share, BJP got 37 per cent. So, the remaining 63 per cent went to the opposition, but to 45 different parties, including 20 per cent to Congress. "So, it is important to realise that the more we find common ground, and less we divide our votes, the better the chances of defeating the BJP," he said. Tharoor rejected allegations of a leadership crisis within the Congress but acknowledged that the "sense of drift is much less" than it was two years back when Rahul Gandhi resigned from his post as Congress president. "Whatever the way forward, I don't think it is effective to be done through the media. The Congress will have to resolve its issues, and we will talk within the party and resolve whatever issues may remain," he said. When asked whether there is a sense of a drift in the party, Tharoor said, "Less so now, than there was two years ago when the president resigned and there was sense of confusion and drift at that time." "But since then, as you know, Sonia Gandhi has returned to the leadership and is working actively as a full-time president. And therefore, it is not fair enough to talk about a sense of drift. But I don't think it is useful for me as a Congressman to be engaging in this conversation outside the party forums. I am not ready to go into a debate in the media about it," he said. Responding to allegations that Rahul Gandhi is always abroad whenever there is a political crisis, he said that these charges are "not fair and reasonable". "All I will say is that Rahul Gandhi has made effective contributions to the party at different times. And certainly, many of the party workers would like to see him back. I would say an overwhelming number of party workers would like to see him resume the responsibility he surrendered," he said. Rahul Gandhi had in July 2019 resigned as the Congress president following the party's debacle in the Lok Sabha polls. While speaking on a recent controversy about his party colleagues in Kerala lashing out at him for praising the Pinarayi Vijayan government for its "investment-friendly" initiatives, Tharoor said those criticising him should go through his speech. "I had congratulated the chief minister for sending a clear message that Kerala was open for business, investment. I had said that without investment, we would not be able to generate jobs for our people. Currently, we are exporting our unemployment to the Gulf countries and elsewhere in India, but that may not last forever. And if people start coming back to Kerala, how do you absorb these people? This doesn't mean I am supporting the Left Front government in Kerala," he said. "Those who are hastily jumping to conclusions based on headlines should listen to the speech, which is actually not that long," he added.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-vital-to-any-2024-opposition-front-govt-mamata-should-see-the-merit-tharoor-1062856.html
20-12-2021||National Politics||Opposition MPs to march to Vijay Chowk seeking Ajay Mishra's sacking||Opposition MPs from Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha will hold a joint march to Vijay Chowk on Tuesday, seeking the sack for Union Minister Ajay Mishra in connection with the Lakhimpur Kheri incident, even as leaders of five parties whose MPs were suspended refused to attend a meeting called by the government in protest against “selective invites”. The floor leaders of Congress, Trinamool Congress, Shiv Sena, CPI(M) and CPI skipping the meeting to resolve the suspension issue was not the lone boycott of Monday, as opposition MPs also skipped a meeting of the Rajya Sabha Business Advisory (BAC) in protest against the way in which the Election Laws (Amendment) Bill was passed in Lok Sabha as well as over the suspension issue and delayed information on the meeting. The decision to hold the joint march on Tuesday to intensify the protest against the minister for his alleged involvement in the killing of farmers and a journalist in Lakhimpur Kheri and boycott the meeting called by the government was taken at a meeting of opposition parties chaired by Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha, Mallikarjun Kharge.  On Sunday night, the opposition leaders had informed Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi that his invite to just five parties was "unfair and unfortunate" and demanded that all Opposition parties should be called for the meeting. As there was no forward movement, sources said, the opposition decided not to attend the meeting. It also decided that the protest demanding the removal of Mishra, the Minister of State for Home, be intensified and MPs in both Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha vociferously raised the issue, leading to adjournments.  Soon after the morning session of Rajya Sabha was adjourned, sources said that Leader of House Piyush Goyal and Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi as well as Kharge and Congress Chief Whip Jairam Ramesh met Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu separately and gave their version about the "meeting that could not be held". The government appeared to retaliate to the opposition for its decision not to attend the meeting by passing the Election Laws (Amendment) Bill in Lok Sabha amid din although informally, there has been an agreement that this would go to a Parliamentary Standing Committee.  Initially, the government had listed the Bill only for introduction and not for passing but in the afternoon, it circulated a supplementary list indicating that it will be taken up for debate and passing. The opposition was caught unawares and could not even move amendments, leading to speculation that the government may not be inclined to send the contentious bill, increasing the age of marriage of girls from 18 to 21 years.  The government had also rejected the demand for sending the Bio-Diversity Bill to a Standing Committee instead of a Joint Committee. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/opposition-mps-to-march-to-vijay-chowk-seeking-ajay-mishras-sacking-1062883.html
20-12-2021||National Politics||Jaya Bachchan curses BJP with 'bad days' after objecting to 'personal' remarks in Rajya Sabha||Upset over alleged "personal" remarks made against her, Samajwadi Party MP Jaya Bachchan on Monday lashed out at the ruling BJP in Rajya Sabha with a "curse" that it will face bad days. An agitated Bachchan also told the chair that he should be fair and alleged that an attempt was being made to stifle the voice of opposition. Participating in the debate on NDPS (Amendment) Bill, Bachchan chose to raise the issue of the 12 suspended opposition members and said Bhubaneswar Kalita, who was in the chair, himself used to protest in the Well of the House. This evoked a sharp reaction from BJP members. "I don't want to thank you because I don't know whether I should remember when you used to walk into the Well shouting...or today when you are sitting in the chair," she said when called to speak on the bill. Objecting to her remarks, Rakesh Sinha (BJP) said she was casting aspersions on the chair. But Bachchan continued her speech and lamented that at a time when the country is facing several important issues, the House has allocated 3-4 hours for a debate on rectifying a "clerical error" in the Bill. Amid the din, she alleged that personal remarks were made against her and sought protection from the chair. "I expect you to take action on the comment he made on me and my career. You want to be fair. You are sitting on the chair, you don't belong to any party, sir," she said. "How can they make personal remarks in the House...Aap logon kay buraey din aayengay (Your bad days will come), I curse you," she said. The remarks claimed by Bachchan as "personal" could not be heard in the noise. Leaders of the BJP and the SP have been attacking each other as the crucial elections in Uttar Pradesh are due early next year. Bachchan's outburst came on a day her daughter-in-law and actor Aishwarya Rai Bachchan appeared before the Enforcement Directorate for questioning in a case linked to the 2016 'Panama Papers' global tax leaks case. Her statement was being recorded under the provisions of the Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA), official sources said. The SP has accused the Centre of targeting its leaders due to political vendetta, a charge denied by the BJP. Kalita repeatedly urged Bachchan to confine herself to the Bill being debated. She responded by saying that efforts were being made to stifle the voice of opposition members. Kalita said that the chair would go through the records and remove unparliamentary remarks if any. The chair meanwhile called the next member to speak on the Bill, but soon after adjourned the House for 30 minutes because of the continuous din.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/jaya-bachchan-curses-bjp-with-bad-days-after-objecting-to-personal-remarks-in-rajya-sabha-1062914.html
20-12-2021||National Politics||Opposition gears up for fight on electoral reforms bill in Rajya Sabha||The Opposition is gearing up for a fight on the Election Laws (Amendment) Bill in the Rajya Sabha on Tuesday and force the government to send it to a Parliamentary panel, even as the ruling side decided to rush through the proposed law in Lok Sabha by ignoring an earlier agreement to send it to the Standing Committee for further scrutiny. Congress issued a three-line whip to its MPs asking them to be present throughout Tuesday and support the party-line inside the House while CPI(M) issued a statement asking the Opposition parties to “resolutely resist” the Bill from being “bulldozed” in the Upper House and ensure that it undergoes Parliamentary scrutiny. Sources said that the government had earlier intimated to the Opposition that it was sending the Election Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021 to the Standing Committee and listed only its introduction in the House. However, the government changed its mind later in the day and issued a supplementary list of businesses and got the Bill passed amid Opposition protests. Congress Lok Sabha Whip Manickam Tagore tweeted, “12.15 pm introduction of #ElectionLaws and at 2.45 PM passed without discussion. No time was given to move amendments by the opposition MPs. Another democratic right is taken away by the government. Sad day for Parliamentary democracy. Whatever new building you build, don't demolish rights.”  With the government listing the Bill in Rajya Sabha on Tuesday, Congress has issued the whip. Party’s Chief Whip Jairam Ramesh wrote as a postscript to the three-line whip, “quite a few MPs do not follow this whip...Party matters must get precedence.” In a statement, the CPI(M) Polit Bureau strongly condemned the manner in which “important changes in the electoral laws, which have far-reaching consequences, have been rushed through the Lok Sabha and passed in a din”.   MPs were “not given time for discussion. Most importantly, MPs were not allowed to move any amendments, which is a gross violation of parliamentary norms and procedures.  In the morning, the discussion was for sending it to a Parliamentary…Committee for a thorough examination. Abandoning this decision, the government issued a supplementary agenda post-lunch and rushed through the Bill”, it said. The CPI(M) warned that the Bill has the danger of violating both secrecy of the vote undermining the principle of the secret ballot and the fundamental right to privacy of the voter. “The opposition parties must resolutely resist this Bill from being bulldozed in the Rajya Sabha now and demand its thorough examination by a Select Committee,” it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/opposition-gears-up-for-fight-on-electoral-reforms-bill-in-rajya-sabha-1062938.html
20-12-2021||National Politics||PM Modi's doles to women voters in UP amid spotlight on gender representation||Amid the spotlight on women voters in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will attend an event being attended by over two lakh women in Prayagraj on Tuesday, where he will transfer Rs 1,000 crore to Self Help Groups (SHGs) with a target of benefitting around 16 lakh women members. This transfer is being done under the Deendayal Antyodaya Yojana - National Rural Livelihood Mission (DAY-NRLM), with 80,000 SHGs receiving Community Investment Fund (CIF) of Rs 1.10 lakh per SHG and 60,000 SHGs receiving Revolving Fund of Rs 15,000 per SHG. Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi, who had on October 19, announced to give 40% of Congress tickets to women, had on Sunday taken potshots at the prime minister over the Tuesday event saying "it seems Modiji has realised, for the first time, in his political life that he has do something for women else he will not get their votes." On Monday, UP Congress chief Ajay Kumar Lallu took out a "Shakti Samvad Padyatra" of women in his home constituency, which he projected as the "Mahaabhiyan" of women empowerment and something that lays the foundation of the participation of women. The spotlight on women voters in the Hindi heartland state is significant given the past of almost negligible significance having been given to women representation and miniscule focus to women's issues in elections in the state, which has a 403-member Assembly. The state has nearly 7 crore women voters, a little less than male voters. In the last Assembly polls, nearly 63% of women voters had used their franchise in UP. The official statement by the Central government on Monday highlighted the upcoming event as "a one of its kind", which is being held as per "PM’s vision of empowerment of women, esp at the grassroot level"  by providing them with necessary skills, incentives and resources. In the event, the prime minister will transfer first month's stipend to Business Correspondent - Sakhis. 20,000 Sakhis will get Rs 4,000 as first month's stipend in their account when they commence their work as providers of doorstep financial services at grassroot level. They will be paid the stipend for six months. The idea is that they get stabilised in their work and then start earning through the commission on transactions. Modi will lay the foundation stone of over 200 Supplementary Nutrition Manufacturing Units which are being funded by the Self Help Groups and will be constructed at the cost of approx Rs 1 crore for one unit. These units will supply the Supplementary Nutrition under the Integrated Child Development Scheme (ICDS) in 600 blocks of the state. He will also transfer money to the tune of Rs 20 crore covering 1 lakh beneficiaries of Mukhya Mantri Kanya Sumangala Scheme that provides conditional cash transfer to a girl child at different stages of her life. The total transfer is Rs 15,000 per beneficiary. Addressing 'Ladki Hoon Lad Sakti Hoon — Shakti Samvaad' in Rae Bareli, the Parliamentary constituency of her mother Sonia Gandhi, Priyanka had said the rival parties in UP have talking about women only after her party gave the slogan of "Ladki Hoon, Lad Sakti Hoon" (I am a girl and I can fight). Priyanka Gandhi, who as AICC general secretary in-charge for UP is the face of the party in this Assembly polls, has taken a gamble of sorts by pitching for 40% tickets for women in a state where the ratio of women winning elections is very poor. In the outgoing Assembly, there were only 40 women MLAs, that is just 10% of total Assembly strength. But given the low base of Congress and its near decimation, the party perhaps thought to give a shock therapy of sorts and explore something new. Whether the idea of gender representation clicks, will be known only after the poll results. The constituency of women voters has been nursed assiduously by Modi-led BJP since 2014 and it has paid off the BJP well. Whether Priyanka Gandhi's prescription to power for women alters this, also remains to be seen. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-modis-doles-to-women-voters-in-up-amid-spotlight-on-gender-representation-1063037.html
20-12-2021||North and Central||DH Toon | UPYogi? 'We never knew!'||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday again invoked Lord Shiva, Ram Temple and Ganga and accused his rivals of being opposed to the country's 'heritage,' as he heaped praise on Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath saying that the people of the state found him 'UPYogi' (useful).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dh-toon-upyogi-we-never-knew-1062711.html
20-12-2021||North and Central||Akhilesh Yadav ‘re-castes’ SP for UP polls with Mandal 2.0||As Akhilesh Yadav’s Vijay Rath winds through the narrow streets of Jaunpur, the only speck of contrast in the sea of red caps is a yellow muffler worn by Suheldev Bhartiya Samaj Party (SBSP) chief Om Prakash Rajbhar. Rajbhar, an estranged ally of BJP, is a key cog that drives SP’s tactical shift to recast itself for the 2022 UP Assembly polls. Like SBSP, Akhilesh has sought to shun national parties like Congress and BSP to align with about half a sub-dozen sub-regional outfits, which have pockets of influence among backward and most-backwards communities. “Our experience with national parties in the past has not been good. It did not serve the purpose for which we aligned with them,” he tells DH atop his rath. Standing beside him is Krishna Patel — the Apna Dal leader whose party has influence among the backward Kurmi community in central and eastern UP. Krishna has decided to back Akhilesh this election, while her daughter and Union minister Anupriya Patel has cast her lot with the BJP. This leg of SP’s state-wide yatra has coincided with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s 48-hour visit to Varanasi.   At Malhani bazaar amidst a collage of red, orange, yellow and blue flags, Akhilesh hops, skips and jumps past issues which may polarise polity on communal lines. He instead lures BJP to the caste pitch. “A large section of the backward communities not only want caste enumeration but also want their participation to be proportional to their population. Within three months of coming to power, we will hold a caste census in the state,” Akhilesh tells DH. The political line is straight out of the new thought process among the Mandal parties triggered by the central government’s decision to extend quota benefits to the EWS, a policy decision that breaches the 50% threshold on reservations imposed by the Supreme Court in the Indra Sawhney case. By promising to hold a caste census, the SP not only aims to mobilise all backward castes, especially those smaller groups which had shifted allegiance to the BJP post-2012 elections as a reaction to Yadav dominance in the backward block and the rise of Modi at the Centre. Akhilesh is also trying to make it a little tough for the BJP, which has thus far adroitly managed to strike a fine balance between disparate social groups like upper castes and backwards. The urge to seek an alliance with smaller parties is also driven by the lessons learnt from neighbouring Bihar, where Lalu Yadav’s Rashtriya Janata Dal shunned alliance offer from smaller parties to its own detriment. In contrast, SP as a party and Yadavs as a community are demonstrably underscoring their intent to share power and accommodate the have-nots in the subaltern communities. A new and more inclusive identity politics is in the works in battleground UP. (The writer is a journalist) Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/akhilesh-yadav-re-castes-sp-for-up-polls-with-mandal-20-1062731.html
20-12-2021||North and Central||PM Modi to visit Prayagraj on December 21 to attend women empowerment program||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will visit Prayagraj on Tuesday and participate in a one of its kind programme to be attended by over two lakh women, his office said.  The programme is being held as per Modi's vision to empower women, especially at the grassroots level, by providing them with necessary skills, incentives and resources, the PMO said, adding that he will transfer an amount of Rs 1000 crore in the bank account of Self Help Groups (SHGs), benefitting around 16 lakh women members.  This transfer is being done under the Deendayal Antyodaya Yojana - National Rural Livelihood Mission (DAY-NRLM), with 80,000 SHGs receiving Community Investment Fund (CIF) of Rs 1.10 lakh per SHG and 60,000 SHGs receiving a revolving fund of Rs 15,000 per SHG, it said.  To encourage business correspondent-Sakhis (BC-Sakhis), the prime minister will also transfer a sum of Rs 4000 as the first month's stipend in the account of 20,000 of them. When BC-Sakhis commence their work as providers of doorstep financial services at the grassroot level, they are paid a stipend of Rs 4,000 for six months, so that they get stabilised in their work and then start earning through the commission on transactions, the PMO said. During the programme, Modi will also be transferring a total amount of over 20 crores to more than 1 lakh beneficiaries under the 'Mukhya Mantri Kanya Sumangala Scheme'. The scheme provides conditional cash transfer to a girl child at different stages of her life. The total transfer is Rs 15,000 per beneficiary.  He will also lay the foundation stone of 202 supplementary nutrition manufacturing units. These units are being funded by the self-help groups and will be constructed at the cost of approx Rs 1 crore for one unit. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-modi-to-visit-prayagraj-on-december-21-to-attend-women-empowerment-program-1062734.html
20-12-2021||North and Central||Delhi sees 2 more Omicron Covid-19 cases, tally at 24||The national capital Delhi on Monday reported two new cases of Omicron, taking the tally to 24 in the city. According to Delhi Health Department, of the 24 cases, 12 have been discharged from the hospital and the remaining 12 are under treatment. Following the rise in the new Covid variant Omicron infection in the city, the Delhi government has prepared 65 oxygen beds operational at Commonwealth Games Villages Covid centre. Meanwhile, the capital city has also reported a substantial rise in the daily Covid caseload. Delhi on Sunday reported 107 fresh Covid cases which is the highest single-day case in the last six months. According to the health department, the city had reported the highest of 115 cases on June 25. The Covid infection rate in the city has also climbed to 0.17 per cent. In the wake of a steady rise in the Omicron cases, the Delhi government has designated four new private hospitals for its treatment. Earlier, only Delhi government-run Lok Nayak Jai Prakash hospital was designated for Omicron treatment. The government has notified Sir Ganga Ram City Hospital, Max Saket, Fortis Vasant Kunj and Batra Hospital Tughlakabad for the treatment of Omicron on a payment basis with immediate effect. With the addition of these four private hospitals, now the new Covid variant Omicron will be treated in a total of five hospitals in Delhi. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-sees-2-more-omicron-covid-19-cases-tally-at-24-1062744.html
20-12-2021||North and Central||Centre should call all-party meeting: Kharge||Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge on Monday accused the government of trying to divide the Opposition by calling only a few parties to resolve the ongoing impasse over the suspension of 12 MPs. Kharge said, "The Government is conspiring to divide the Opposition but the parties are united on the issue. It should call an all-party meeting." He was reacting to Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi calling a meeting on Monday of Opposition parties whose MPs were suspended last month for the Winter Session. Joshi has called the Congress, Trinamool Congress, Shiv Sena, Communist Party of India-Marxist and the Communist Party of India to end the stalemate in the House which has been continuing since day one of the session. Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu had suggested that both the parties should resolve this issue as the House could not function properly this week. Seeking an apology from the suspended MPS, Leader of the House Piyush Goyal had alleged that even after attacking marshals and misbehaving with the female marshals, senior Opposition members were unrepentant. "The government is ready to consider their request provided they apologise," he had added. However, Mallikarjun Kharge said, "We have been repeatedly telling you that the crime which we have not committed is being put on us," and charged the government with misleading the House on the incident. Congress has also convened a virtual meeting to devise a common strategy in both the Houses. The Winter session is slated to end on December 23. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/centre-should-call-all-party-meeting-kharge-1062750.html
20-12-2021||North and Central||Rajya Sabha proceedings adjourned till 2 pm over Opposition protests||Rajya Sabha proceedings on Monday were adjourned till 2 pm without transacting any business as opposition parties continued their protests on various issues including suspension of 12 MPs. As soon as the official papers were laid on the table, MPs from opposition parties such as the Congress and TMC were up on their feet, pressing for revocation of suspension of the 12 MPs. Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu asked members to allow the House to function and adjourned the proceedings when some opposition MPs carrying placards started to move towards the well of the House. Leader of the Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge rose to press for the notice given under Rule 267 that seeks to set aside the business of the day to take up the issue being raised. There were five notices under Rule 267. However, the Chairman disallowed it. "First of all the House should be allowed to function then only we can think of that. That's why I am not admitting them," Naidu said while asking members to resume their places and called for Zero Hour mentions. "My priority is functioning of the House... discipline, decorum, decency. Debate, discussion and decisions are my priority," he said. Naidu said he had on Friday requested the government and opposition to sit and thrash out issues so that the House can function normally and decency and decorum are maintained. Terming the protests in the House as disappointing, he said, "My concern is discipline, decorum and decency. Debate, discuss and decide. This is my wish. If you are not interested, I am adjourning the House." While opposition parties have called the suspension of the MPs against the rules and demanded that it be revoked, the government insists that the suspended MPs must first apologise for their "unruly" behaviour. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajya-sabha-proceedings-adjourned-till-2-pm-over-opposition-protests-1062760.html
20-12-2021||North and Central||Rare migratory birds spotted in Lucknow||With winter now peaking, several rare migratory birds have been spotted in Lucknow this season. While the sunbird is found all over Lucknow, bird watchers say that Indian pitta (also called 'Navrang' for nine colours in its plumage), migratory duck coming from trans-Himalayan region ruddy shelduck (surkhaab), black hooded oriole (beautiful endemic bird) and the migratory bird from northern Siberia -- northern pintail (seekpar) are some of the other rare birds that have been spotted. According to the former director of Bombay Natural History Society and an avid bird watcher Asad R Rehmani, "Lucknow has many hamlets preferred by birds which are the most important indicators of the health of an ecosystem. They play an important role in stabilising nature's health. They are known as the bioindicator of the environmental system." IAS officer Sanjay Kumar, who has written seven books on birds of different cities, said that the diversity and density of birds, especially in the urban landscape, decide how much a place is environmentally intact. Kumar, along with Neeraj Srivastava, has authored a book called 'Birds of Lucknow', which is a visual document of over 250 kinds of birds found in the city. "Birds are an integral part of life. They give us a chance to respect nature which reciprocates the love several times," said Srivastava. A group of about 200 bird watchers in Lucknow find the Kukrail forest to be among the most preferred destinations for bird watching while IIM-Lucknow campus, Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS) campus, National Botanical Research Institute, Remote Sensing Applications Centre, Residency complex, Cantonment and wetland around Lucknow are other destinations for winged visitors. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rare-migratory-birds-spotted-in-lucknow-1062762.html
20-12-2021||North and Central||Omicron: Delhi to send all Covid samples for genome sequencing||All Covid-19 cases in Delhi will now undergo genome sequencing to detect the Omicron variant of Covid-19. "Given the rise in cases for some days, now all positive cases in Delhi will be sent for genome sequencing for Omicron," Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal announced on Monday. Kejriwal also appealed to the Centre to allow Covid vaccine booster doses in Delhi.  The Chief Minister was confident that the national capital had "adequate arrangements at hospitals if there is any spread of new Covid variant." More to follow...   Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/omicron-delhi-to-send-all-covid-samples-for-genome-sequencing-1062766.html
20-12-2021||North and Central||RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat calls on Tibetan spiritual leader Dalai Lama during McLeodganj visit||Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat on Monday called on Tibetan spiritual leader the Dalai Lama during his visit to McLeodganj near here, officials said. Confirming Bhagwat's visit, an official in the Dalai Lama's office told IANS the RSS chief had an audience with His Holiness the Dalai Lama in his official palace. Regarding the purpose of the visit, he said it was simply a courtesy call. In pictures released by the Tibetan government, Bhagwat was seen gifting a Ganesha idol to His Holiness, who was seen donning a Himachali cap. The Central Tibetan Administration (CTA) is based in Dharamsala in Kangra district. This was the first high-profile meeting with the spiritual leader since the onset of the pandemic outbreak. The RSS chief arrived on a five-day visit to Kangra on December 16. The Tibetan government-in-exile is not recognised by any country. Some 1,40,000 Tibetans now live in exile, with over 1,00,000 of them in different parts of India. Over six million Tibetans live in Tibet. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rss-chief-mohan-bhagwat-calls-on-tibetan-spiritual-leader-dalai-lama-during-mcleodganj-visit-1062771.html
20-12-2021||North and Central||ICMR designs kit for Omicron detection; invites EOI from manufacturers for its commercialisation||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has designed a diagnostic kit for detecting the Omicron variant of the coronavirus and has invited Expression of Interest from in vitro diagnostics (IVD) kit manufacturers for undertaking transfer of technology for its development and commercialisation. The ICMR-Regional Medical Research Centre, NE, Dibrugarh, one of the institutes of the ICMR, New Delhi, has developed a novel technology -- real-time RT-PCR assay for detection of Omicron (B.1.1.529) variant of SARS-CoV2 and a kit for the same.  "ICMR is the owner of the said technology, including any underlying intellectual property(ies) and commercialisation rights. ICMR is lawfully entitled to enter into any form of non-exclusive license agreements with selected manufacturer/manufacturers, including transfer of technology through suitable agreement to any other interested manufacturers," the invitation of Expression of Interest document said. "ICMR, New Delhi, invites Expression of Interest (EOI) through email from experienced IVD kit manufacturers for undertaking transfer of technology for development and commercialisation of SARS-CoV-2 Omicron (B.1.1.529) Real-time RT-PCR assay (RT-PCR) through a novel diagnostic kit, developed by ICMR," the invitation of EoI said. Subject to the terms and conditions of an agreement, more particularly a license agreement, ICMR shall grant a non-exclusive license to the manufacturer, a royalty-bearing right and license to use and practice the technology and process ("licensed technology") to manufacture, sell and commercialise the product, including a non-exclusive right to manufacture, sell and market products worldwide and the right to use licensed technology for manufacturing products worldwide. The agreement, following EoI, is proposed to be executed on a "non-exclusive" basis with multiple manufacturers due to the extensive demand of SARS-CoV2 Omicron (B.1.1.529) real-time RT-PCR assay that is being envisaged, the document said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/icmr-designs-kit-for-omicron-detection-invites-eoi-from-manufacturers-for-its-commercialisation-1062772.html
20-12-2021||North and Central||NEET-PG counselling: Resident doctors of Delhi protest outside Nirman Bhawan, raise slogans||Resident doctors of various hospitals in Delhi on Monday protested in front of the Nirman Bhawan here over the delay in NEET-PG 2021 counselling, as they intensified the ongoing stir to push forth their demands. Patient care was affected for the fourth consecutive day on Monday as resident doctors of the three Centre-run and some of the Delhi government-run hospitals here boycotted all services, including emergency, as part of the nationwide agitation called by the Federation of Resident Doctors' Association (FORDA). FORDA president Dr Manish said, "We are going to intensify and escalate our protest today". The Twitter handle of FORDA shared a video clip of in which a large number of doctors are seen protesting outside the premises of Nirman Bhawan, which also houses the office of Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya. The protesting doctors, carrying banners and posters, held a demonstration and raised slogans, seeking redressal of the issue. Dr Anuj Aggarwal, General Secretary of Safdarjung RDA said, "The minister along with some officials verbally assured us that within one week the EWS report will be submitted in Court and the matter will be taken up on an urgent basis. However, they have not got the case mentioned. Dr Sunil Duchania, the president of RDA at Lady Hardinge Medical College said, "A group of four doctors met the Health Minister who asked us to withdraw the strike saying all efforts are being made to expedite the matter. However, such verbal assurances have been made before and we will continue our protest outside Nirman Bhawan." Resident doctors at Ram Manohar Lohia, Safdarjung and Lady Hardinge hospitals, and of three hospitals under the Maulana Azad Medical College (MAMC), including LNJP Hospital, had resumed the stir on Friday, accusing the government of making a false promise. They also pointed out to the "acute shortage" of resident doctors across the country as the counselling of the NEET-PG 2021 batch has already been delayed by eight months. On December 9, the resident doctors had said they were suspending the agitation, called by the FORDA for a week following the Health Ministry's assurance to expedite court hearing and subsequently fast-tracking of the counselling process. However, on Wednesday, FORDA had written to the Union Health Minister informing him that it was resuming the stir from December 17. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/neet-pg-counselling-resident-doctors-of-delhi-protest-outside-nirman-bhawan-raise-slogans-1062782.html
20-12-2021||North and Central||Vaccines can be tweaked to offer protection against newer variants: AIIMS chief||All India Institute of Medical Sciences director Randeep Guleria believes that existing Covid-19 vaccines can be tweaked to offer protection against newer variants of the SARS-CoV2 virus. Dr Guleria's remark comes at a time when a number of immunologists and other experts have expressed that the mutations on Omicron have rendered most vaccines useless. The Pfizer and Moderna shots use the new mRNA technology, which has consistently offered the best protection against infection from all variants so far. All of the other vaccines are based on older methods of triggering an immune response. Antibodies are the first line of defence induced by vaccines. But the shots also stimulate the growth of T cells, and preliminary studies suggest that these T cells still recognise the Omicron variant, which is important in preventing severe disease. But this protection will not be enough to prevent Omicron from causing global disruption, said J Stephen Morrison, Director of the Global Health Policy Center at the Center for International and Strategic Studies. “The sheer scale of infection will overwhelm health systems, simply because the denominator will be potentially so big,” he said. “If you have a burst of infection worldwide, a shock, what does the world look like on other side of it? Is it, ‘The war is over,’ or, ‘The war has just entered another phase’? We haven’t begun thinking about any of that.” Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/vaccines-can-be-tweaked-to-offer-protection-against-newer-variants-aiims-chief-1062788.html
20-12-2021||North and Central||Delhi Cabinet approves setting up of Delhi Teachers’ University||Delhi Cabinet on Monday approved setting up of Delhi Teachers’ University, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal announced. The university will offer a four-year integrated teacher education programme after Class 12, in which BA and BEd, BSc and Bed, and BCom and BEd courses will be incorporated. “The cabinet approved the proposal today and bill in this regard will be brought in the next session of Delhi Assembly,” Kejriwal said at a press conference. While pursuing the course, those enrolled in the university will be attached to Delhi government schools for training purposes.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-cabinet-approves-setting-up-of-delhi-teachers-university-1062806.html
20-12-2021||North and Central||3 kids die after taking 'cough syrup' at Delhi's mohalla clinic, 13 hospitalised||Three children are reported to have died after allegedly consuming a 'cough syrup' which was administered by a mohalla clinic run by the state government in the national capital, the Directorate of Health Services (DGHS) has mentioned in its enquiry report. A total of 16 children were admitted to the Kalawati Saran Children hospital of which three died. "16 cases of Dextromethorphan poisoning were reported in Kalawati Saran Children Hospital, New Delhi, out of which three children have expired in the hospital. These children have been prescribed the Dextromethorphan drug by Mohalla Clinics of the Delhi government and the drug is strictly not recommended for paediatric age children. The drug was manufactured by Omega Pharmaceuticals ...," said the enquiry report. In the letter, the DGHS has asked the Delhi government to issue a notice to all dispensaries and mohalla clinics "to not prescribe Dextromethorphan for children less than four years of age". The DGHS has also suggested "withdrawing the Dextromethorphan in the larger public interest". Talking to IANS, Dr Chandra Mohan Kumar, Additional Professor, Paediatrics, AIIMS Patna, said, "Even though the drug is not recommended to be used in children younger than five years, this is still being used and is known to have CNS side-effects like blurring of vision, drowsiness, restlessness and irritability, but has never been reported to have such catastrophic side-effects. There may be further investigation into the reports. However, it seems that there may be cases of overdosing of drugs in the kids."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/3-kids-die-after-taking-cough-syrup-at-delhis-mohalla-clinic-13-hospitalised-1062811.html
20-12-2021||North and Central||Delimitation Commission proposes six seats for Jammu, one for Kashmir||The Delimitation Commission, set up to redraw the assembly seats of the union territory of Jammu and Kashmir, is learnt to have proposed six additional seats for Jammu region and one for Kashmir Valley in its 'Paper 1' discussed with its five associate members on Monday. Nine seats have been proposed for STs and seven for SCs in Jammu and Kashmir, sources said. This is the first time that seats have been proposed for STs in Jammu and Kashmir, they said. The associate members -- five Lok Sabha members from Jammu and Kashmir -- attended the meeting. They have been asked to respond to the proposal by the end of this month. Union minister Jitendra Singh and National Conference leader Farooq Abdullah were among those who attended the meeting. The Delimitation Commission is headed by former Supreme Court judge Ranjana Prakash Desai. Chief Election Commissioner Sushil Chandra is an ex-officio member of the panel. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delimitation-commission-proposes-six-seats-for-jammu-one-for-kashmir-1062820.html
20-12-2021||North and Central||Trouble for BJP in UP as Nishads fume over reservation delay||BJP may have managed to rope in the Nishad Party to counter Samajwadi Party (SP) Akhilesh Yadav's alliance with caste-based smaller outfits in the forthcoming assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh but the demand for reservation by the members of the Nishad (boatmen, fishermen) community as a pre-condition for their support has put the saffron party in a fix and also threatens to divide the votes of the Nishads. As the Nishad Party (NP) president Sanjay Nishad as well as other leaders of the community upped the ante and asked BJP to get the centre to include the community in the SC category and announce reservation for them, the state leaders of the saffron party had urged the central party leadership to at least give some assurances to the Nishad community in this regard. ''It is not possible to accept the demand for reservation....it is a complicated and lengthy process...it can not be done in a hurry,'' said a state BJP leader while speaking to DH here. Nishad community leaders, however, rubbished the assertion saying that the demand for reservation had been there for quite a long. ''The demand is not new...we have been demanding inclusion in the SC category for several years....BJP is trying to fool us,'' said Gyanendra Nishad, who has formed his own outfit Jalvanshi Nishad Party. Gyanendra had recently set up his party's office in Gorakhpur, the home town of UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath. He said that the NDA government in Bihar had rejected the demand of the Nishad community for reservation. ''We know that BJP will never give us a reservation,'' he said, criticising NP president Sanjay Nishad for 'surrendering' before the saffron party. Sanjay Nishad, however, rejected the allegations and said that he would reconsider his party's alliance with the BJP if their demand for reservation was not accepted. ''We have already made it clear to the BJP...it has to agree to give us reservation if it wants votes of our community,'' he added. Several claimants of the Nishad votes have sprung in the state in the past few months. NDA ally in Bihar Vikassheel Insan Party led by Mukesh Sahni, who calls himself 'son of mallah' has also declared that his party will put up its nominees in the forthcoming assembly polls in UP. ''Nishads have never voted for a single party.....of the many Nishad outfits none can claim to have the support of the entire community....it is doubtful if the community will rally behind any particular party in the forthcoming polls,'' said Chaudhary Lautam Ram Nishad, another community leader.   The BJP, according to sources, is wary of making any such commitment before the election since it would open the proverbial Pandora's box for them. "If we announce reservation for Nishads, other communities will also come up with similar demands. The Kayasthas are already seeking reservation in the OBC category. Besides, Dalits will also rise in protest because they will find that their quota is being encroached upon by Nishads. We cannot afford this kind of situation when polls are just a few weeks away," said a senior BJP functionary. Samajwadi Party Akhilesh Yadav has further queered the pitch for the BJP by saying that if voted to power he would order a caste census and ensure reservation accordingly. It is noteworthy that the Nishad community has been demanding inclusion and reservation in the scheduled caste category but due to constitutional and political reasons, the issue has been left pending. Previous government in the state have taken the decision to include 17 OBC castes, including Nishad, in the SC category, but the same was stayed by courts since the issue can be decided only by the Centre. The courts said that such a decision by the state government was in violation of Article 341 of the Constitution. In 2005, even during Mulayam Singh Yadav's regime, the order to include 11 OBC castes in the SC category got stuck in the legal grooves. Mayawati was also ready to include these OBC castes in SC but also wanted the reservation quote for scheduled castes to be increased. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/trouble-for-bjp-in-up-as-nishads-fume-over-reservation-delay-1062829.html
20-12-2021||North and Central||BJP's 'Matri Shakti' vs Priyanka's 'Nari Shakti'||Though the English translation of 'Matri Shakti' (Mother Power) and 'Nari Shakti' (Women Power) may make one think that the two terms are different but in Hindi parlance they are the same as both denote the women. What, however, differentiates them is that while one is BJP sponsored while the other is 'powered' by the Congress but even here there is a similarity between the two. Both are intended to garner the support of the 'aadhi abadi' (half of the population) in the forthcoming assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh. The otherwise caste and religion driven polls in UP is witnessing entry of a hitherto unheard and unknown factor in the form of women. Courtesy Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra's assiduous campaign to target the women voters in the state through announcement of reservation of 40 per cent nominations for the women in forthcoming assembly polls and a slew of other measures in case her party forms the next government in the state. Congress, on the call of Priyanka, held a series of programs and undertook footmarch in different parts of UP as part of its 'Nari Shakti' program, on Monday. Congress' women leaders held interaction with the women during the 'yatras' and also apprised them about Priyanka's slogan 'ladki hoon, lad sakti hoon' ( I am a girl and I can fight). Priyanka has also been interacting with women in different parts of the state. On Sunday she interacted with women at Raebareli and asked them to vote unitedly. Apparently to counter Priyanka's 'women card', BJP has launched its own 'Matri Shakti Samman' program. Prime minister Narendra Modi will be taking part in the program in Prayagraj on Tuesday. A UP BJP leader told DH here that more than one lakh women from different districts adjoining Prayagraj would be taking part in the program. ''Women have benefited most under the BJP regime....other parties remember them only during the elections,'' said former BJP MLA Dipak Patel. Officials in Prayagraj said that Modi would be transferring Rs one thousand crore to a self help group (SHG) that claims to have 16 lakh women members. He would also be interacting with some representatives of the SHGs during the program and was also expected to make some announcement for the welfare of the women. Several senior women BJP leaders, including union minister Smriti Irani, BJP MP Rita Bahuguna Joshi, Sadhvi Niranjana Jyoti and others, will be attending the program. Political analysts as well as the women feel that it's a healthy development. ''At least women have now acquired centrestage in the polls,'' said Mamata Tewari, a housewife and a resident of Lucknow's Triveni Nagar locality.  Veteran political analyst JP Shukla also said that the issues of the women were different from others in many respects. ''Though it is yet to be seen if women will vote according to their own preferences or follow then male members of their families but it is good to see the parties vying for their support,'' Shukla said. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjps-matri-shakti-vs-priyankas-nari-shakti-1062832.html
20-12-2021||North and Central||Yogi Adityanath to distribute 1 lakh smartphones, tablets to students||Ahead of the 2022 Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath will distribute free smartphones and tablets to about one crore final-year students in the state. The first phase of the scheme will be rolled out on December 25, the birth anniversary of former Prime Minister and Bharat Ratna awardee Atal Bihari Vajpayee. As many as one lakh smartphones and tablets will be given to final-year students at Atal Bihari Vajpayee Ekana Stadium in Lucknow, an official statement issued on Monday stated. The announcement comes days after Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav, in a veiled dig at Adityanath, accused the chief minister of not knowing how to use a laptop. According to the statement, a large number of students from every district of the state will participate in the programme on December 25. Adityanath will distribute 60,000 smartphones and 40,000 tablets to students at the event, it said. According to the statement, free smartphones and tablets will be given to about one crore students to make them technically sound. Final-year students of MA, BA, BSc, ITI, MBBS, MD, BTech, and MTech, among others, will be given preference, it added. Special Secretary, IT and Electronics Department, Kumar Vineet said, "More than 38 lakh youths have registered themselves on the Digi Shakti Portal. Further registration is going on." Orders have been issued by the government to companies like Lava, Samsung and Acer for the supply of smartphones and tablets. The companies will provide them before December 24, the statement said. In the first phase, an order of about Rs 2,035 crore has been issued for the purchase of smartphones and tablets. Orders have been placed for 10.50 lakh smartphones, at the rate of Rs 10,740 per smartphone, and for 7.20 lakh tablets, at the rate of Rs 12,606 per tablet, it said. Addressing a public meeting in Rae Bareli on Friday, Akhilesh Yadav had said, "Even people in the villages have started using mobile phones and they know how to use them. But our 'baba' chief minister does not know how to operate them. Since he does not know how to use a laptop, he is not distributing laptops to youths. The laptops that were distributed during the SP regime are still working today.”  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/yogi-adityanath-to-distribute-1-lakh-smartphones-tablets-to-students-1062834.html
20-12-2021||North and Central||Akhilesh Yadav shares cartoon showing 'I-T officials on election duty'||Akhilesh wrote on his Twitter handle, "Tulsidas ji has said, "Hit unhit pashu, pakshi, hu jana (animals and birds too know what is good and what is bad for them)". He also posted a cartoon of a government car carrying Income Tax officials which has a sticker saying, "On election duty" and "raids at premises of close aides of Akhilesh" written in Hindi. The reference is to the income tax raids that were carried out on his four associates in Uttar Pradesh. Akhilesh said that this showed the anger of the BJP because "they know that they are going to lose these elections". "I want to tell them that they may do anything, but SP's victory chariot is not going to stop," he said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/akhilesh-yadav-shares-cartoon-showing-i-t-officials-on-election-duty-1062837.html
20-12-2021||North and Central||Lok Sabha clears second batch of Supplementary Demands for Grants amid din||Lok Sabha on Monday cleared the second batch of Supplementary Demands for Grants authorising the government to spend an additional Rs 3.73 lakh crore during the current fiscal amid protest by the opposition over various issues. The extra spending includes infusing over Rs 62,000 crore into the company that holds residual assets and liabilities of Air India, Rs 58,430 crore by way of additional fertiliser subsidy, Rs 53,123 crore towards payment of pending export incentives and Rs 22,039 crore to the rural development ministry for transfer to National Rural Employment Guarantee Fund. Replying to a discussion on the demands, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaan assured the House that the government would take action to moderate prices of edible oil and other essential items. She said banks have recovered about Rs 13,109 crore from the asset sale of fugitives, including Vijay Mallya, Nirav Modi and Mehul Choksi. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lok-sabha-clears-second-batch-of-supplementary-demands-for-grants-amid-din-1062839.html
20-12-2021||North and Central||Delhi Cabinet decides to extend distribution of free ration till May next year||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday said the Delhi government has decided to extend the distribution of free ration in the city for six months till May 31, 2022. The decision was taken in a Cabinet meeting on Monday. "We have started distributing free ration ever since the outbreak of coronavirus. The time period of this scheme has ended, so this is being extended by six months. The Cabinet today decided that free ration distribution will continue till May 31 next year,” Kejriwal said in a virtual press conference. The scheme ended on November 30. The Delhi government distributes free ration to beneficiaries under the National Food Security Act (NFSA), 2013, and the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY). The city has over 2,000 fair price shops, 17.77 lakh ration card holders and around 72.78 lakh beneficiaries. Free ration is given over and above subsidised grains distributed to them through ration shops.  The PMGKAY was launched in March last year to ameliorate distress caused by Covid-19. Initially, the scheme was launched for April-June last year, but was later extended to November 30. In November this year, Union Food Secretary Sudhanshu Pandey had said that the Centre had no proposal to extend distribution of free ration through the PMGKAY beyond November 30. Then too, Kejriwal had said that the free ration distribution would be continued in Delhi by the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government till May 31, 2022.  The Delhi chief minister had also written a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi requesting him to extend the free ration distribution scheme to benefit the poor.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-cabinet-decides-to-extend-distribution-of-free-ration-till-may-next-year-1062844.html
20-12-2021||North and Central||Even death of innocent children will not shake Kejriwal's conscience: Gautam Gambhir||Criticising the Delhi government, BJP Lok Sabha member Gautam Gambhir on Monday said "even death of innocent children will not shake the conscience" of Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal. Three children died after allegedly consuming 'cough syrup' administered by a mohalla clinic' run by the Delhi government in the national capital. A total of 16 children had been admitted to the Kalawati Saran Children's hospital of whom three died. The cricketer turned politician, said that for years now the Chief Minister has been boasting about the health model of Delhi but not even a single hospital has been built during his regime and the cornerstone of his so-called model were these mohalla clinics. "Today the reality of these clinics has been exposed completely. Most of them have untrained doctors and many don't have any. They gave faulty medicines which led to 16 children falling ill and three dying," Gambhir said. "Kejriwal must answer why he should not be held responsible for the deaths of these children because he is the one who insisted everyone go to these mohalla clinics and avail free medicines," he added. The east Delhi MP asked if the lives of poor people matter to the Chief Minister. "Knowing the Chief Minister, I am sure that even death of innocent children will not shake his conscience and that of his minions," he said. Lambasting the Kejriwal-led government, national in-charge of BJP's information and technology department Amit Malviya tweeted: "16 cases of Dextromethorphan poisoning reported in Delhi's Kalawati Saran Children's Hospital, three dead, because the unqualified doctors at Arvind Kejriwal's hyped mohalla clinic prescribed this drug, which is not to be administered to children below four. Kejriwal has blood on hands." 16 cases of Dextromethorphan poisoning reported in Delhi’s Kalawati Saran Children Hospital, 3 dead, because the unqualified doctors at Arvind Kejriwal’s hyped Mohalla Clinic prescribed this drug, which is NOT to be administered to children below 4.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/even-death-of-innocent-children-will-not-shake-kejriwals-conscience-gautam-gambhir-1062847.html
20-12-2021||North and Central||IMD issues yellow alert in Delhi: What does this mean?||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued a yellow alert in Delhi for Sunday and Monday, following a cold wave that has engulfed the city.  According to an IMD report, Safdarjung, Delhi’s base station witnessed a temperature of 4.6 degree Celsius on Sunday morning, while the temperature at regions of Jafarpur and Lodhi Road was at 3.3 degree Celsius and 3.6 degree Celsius respectively.  What is a yellow alert?  On the basis of the weather conditions at a particular place, the IMD issues warnings, which are colour-coded, following a weather forecast analysis at a region over a few days. The yellow alert indicates severely bad weather, which can also get worse, causing problems in the daily activities for the people of that region. It also calls for the people to remain vigilant of the situation.  This universal alert is issued in times of floods and heavy rainfalls as well. The weather department announces a cold day if the maximum temperature for the day falls below 4.5 degree Celsius when compared to the normal temperature of the region. It announces a cold wave if the day’s low is either 4.5 degrees below normal, or is below 4 degrees. Why Delhi is experiencing a cold wave? Thanks to the strong, dry, northwesterly cold winds, the national capital has been experiencing cold wave conditions for the past couple of days, the IMD said. However, the spell will be abetted from December 21 following improvement in the weather, the weather department added. According to the recent forecast, the day temperature in the city will be around 19 degree Celsius while the temperature at night will be around 4 degree Celsius. Similar to Delhi, many parts of northwest India have recorded sub-zero temperatures, especially in regions of Rajasthan, Punjab, Haryana and Jammu & Kashmir. A yellow alert has been issued for Uttarakhand as well, from December 18-21, as many regions in the state,  like Ranichauri, Mukteshwar, Mussoorie, Pithoragarh and New Tehri, recorded near-freezing temperatures. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/imd-issues-yellow-alert-in-delhi-what-does-this-mean-1062853.html
20-12-2021||North and Central||Cold wave in northwest India to continue till Wednesday: IMD||Cold wave to severe cold wave conditions are very likely to continue in northwest India over the next two days and abate thereafter, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Monday. Cold wave conditions will continue over central and east India for the next three days and relief is likely thereafter, it said. In the plains, the IMD declares a cold wave if the minimum temperature dips to 4 degrees Celsius. A cold wave is also declared when the minimum temperature is 10 degrees Celsius or below and is 4.5 notches less than normal. A severe cold wave is when the minimum temperature dips to two degrees Celsius or the departure from normal is more than 6.4 degrees Celsius. "Cold wave to severe cold wave conditions are very likely to continue in some parts of Punjab, Haryana, Delhi, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh during the next 24 hours and cold wave conditions are very likely at isolated pockets for the subsequent 24 hours," the IMD said in a bulletin released at 1:45 pm. Cold wave conditions are very likely over parts of Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Bihar and Jharkhand till Wednesday afternoon and over Jammu, Kashmir-Ladakh-Gilgit-Baltistan-Muzaffarabad, Himachal Pradesh, Gangetic West Bengal till Tuesday afternoon and are very likely to abate thereafter. A cold wave is also predicted in parts of Chhattisgarh and Odisha till Thursday afternoon, the weather office said. "Cold day to severe cold day conditions (are) very likely at some places over Madhya Pradesh and cold day conditions in isolated pockets over West Uttar Pradesh during the next 24 hours," the bulletin stated. When the minimum temperature is less than or equal to 10 degrees Celsius and the maximum temperature is at least 4.5 degrees Celsius below normal, it is said to be a cold day. "Under the influence of two Western Disturbances in quick succession, the first from December 22 and second from December 24, light to moderate rainfall and snowfall is likely over western Himalayan region from December 22 to 25. Light isolated rainfall is also likely over Punjab on December 24," the bulletin read. Dense fog is predicted in the morning hours in parts of Punjab and Haryana from December 23 to December 25 and over western Rajasthan on December 24 and 25. According to the IMD, when visibility is between 0 to 50 metres it is very dense fog, 51 and 200 metres is dense, 201 and 500 metres is moderate, and 501 and 1,000 metres is shallow.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cold-wave-in-northwest-india-to-continue-till-wednesday-imd-1062857.html
20-12-2021||North and Central||J&K parties deem Delimitation Commission’s draft proposal 'unacceptable'||Political parties in Jammu and Kashmir on Monday in one voice rejected the Delimitation Commission’s proposal to increase the number of Assembly seats in Jammu region by six against one in the Valley. In a draft proposal discussed during its meeting in New Delhi with five associate members, the Commission, headed by Justice (Retired) Ranjana Prakash Desai, has increased the number of Assembly seats in Jammu region from 37 to 43 while in Kashmir the tally has been increased from 46 to 47. The Delimitation Commission has categorised all 20 districts in the Union Territory in three broad categories A, B and C giving a margin of +/- 10% of average population per assembly constituency, while proposing allocation of the constituencies to the districts. The commission has also, for some districts, proposed carving out an additional constituency to balance the representation for geographical areas having inadequate communication and lack of public conveniences due to their excessive remoteness or inhospitable conditions on the international border, according to a press release issued in New Delhi. Nine seats are proposed to be allocated for the Scheduled Tribes out of 90 seats on the basis of population, for the first time in Jammu and Kashmir. Seven seats are proposed for Scheduled Castes. The commission requested the associate members to furnish views, comments and suggestions by December 31.  The Commission on Monday called five J&K Member Parliaments, including National Conference’s (NC) Farooq Abdullah, Akbar Lone and Hasnain Masoodi, BJP’s Jitendra Singh and Jugal Kishore Sharma. The panel has asked the associate members to submit their suggestions by the end of December. In its first paper drafted by the Commission, nine seats have been proposed for Schedule Tribes and seven for Scheduled Castes in Jammu and Kashmir, while 24 seats are expected to remain in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir. However, Kashmir based political parties in one voice termed the proposal of the Commission as unacceptable. Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president and former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti tweeted: “My apprehensions about the Delimitation Commission weren’t misplaced. They want to pitch people against each other by ignoring the population census & proposing 6 seats for one region & only one for Kashmir.” “This commision has been created simply to serve BJPs political interests by dividing people along religious & regional lines. The real game plan is to install a government in J&K which will legitimise the illegal & unconstitutional decisions of August 2019 (sic),” she added. NC vice president and former CM Omar Abdullah in a tweet said: “The draft recommendation of the J&K delimitation commission is unacceptable. The distribution of newly created assembly constituencies with 6 going to Jammu & only 1 to Kashmir is not justified by the data of the 2011 census.” “It is deeply disappointing that the commission appears to have allowed the political agenda of the BJP to dictate its recommendations rather than the data which should have been it’s only consideration. Contrary to the promised “scientific approach” it’s a political approach,” he said in another tweet. It is deeply disappointing that the commission appears to have allowed the political agenda of the BJP to dictate its recommendations rather than the data which should have been it’s only consideration. Contrary to the promised “scientific approach” it’s a political approach. J&K People’s conference chief Sajad Lone, who was a cabinet minister on BJP quota in the erstwhile J&K government from 2015-2018 said it was a shock to those who believe in democracy. “The recommendations of the delimitation commission are totally unacceptable. They reek of bias. What a shock for those who believe in democracy,” he tweeted. J&K Apni Party, which is believed to be a proxy of the BJP, too rejected the proposal. “J&K Apni Party rejects the proposal of the delimitation commission. This is out-rightly unacceptable to us. We demand a fair delimitation exercise without any bias, taking population and districts as the base. We strongly demand the GoI to intervene,” the party said in a statement. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-parties-deem-delimitation-commission-s-draft-proposal-unacceptable-1062894.html
20-12-2021||North and Central||Delhi HC rejects woman's claim to Red Fort||The Delhi High Court on Monday declined to consider a plea by a woman seeking possession of the Red Fort on the ground that she was the legal heir of the last Mughal Emperor, Bahadur Shah Zafar II. Justice Rekha Palli questioned the petitioner Sultana Begum as to why there was a delay of more than 150 years in the family approaching the court. “You claim injustice was done to you by the British East India Company in 1857. What were you doing for all these years,” the bench asked. Her counsel submitted that the delay was due to various factors including that the woman was illiterate. The court also pointed out there was no document support the petitioner's claim that she was related to the last Mughal emperor. “Everyone knows Bahadur Shah Zafar was exiled by the British, but if his heirs did not file any plea can she do it,” the bench further questioned the woman's counsel. In her plea, the woman submitted that she was the widow of the great-grandson of Bahadur Shah Zafar II. She contended her family had been deprived of their property by the British East India Company. After the first war of Independence in 1857, Bahadur Shah Zafar was exiled and possession of the Red Fort was taken away from the Mughals. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-hc-rejects-womans-claim-to-red-fort-1062899.html
20-12-2021||North and Central||After pollution hiatus, Delhi schools resume classes||Several private schools in the national capital reopened on Monday after being closed due to heavy pollution levels, even as a few schools decided to reopen from January 3. Last Friday, the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) allowed the authorities in the Delhi-NCR to resume physical classes for students of class 6 and above, colleges and other educational institutions with immediate effect. "Greeted with blessings and enthusiasm, our students from grade 6 to 12 exhibited joy and renewed vigour on being back with their friends and teachers as they returned to school in a phased manner today. With all Covid-19 protocols and SOPs in place, classes have resumed," said Ritu Mehta, principal of Apeejay School, Panchsheel Park. "Our top priority remains to keep our students safe. The overall buzz in the campus is an indication of the new normal," Mehta added. The principal of another top school, who did not wish to be named, said, "We have decided to reopen school from January 3 since not many parents were willing to send their wards considering Christmas and New Year. If the Omicron situation permits and schools are not ordered to close again, we will reopen in January." Anshu Mittal, the principal of MRG School in Rohini, said, "Students were deprived of interpersonal interactions. With physical classes in place, other activities like sports events and co-curricular activities which were being remotely planned will now happen in their original format." Earlier this month, the CAQM had directed schools, colleges, and educational institutions in the National Capital Region (NCR) to remain closed, allowing only online classes, except for the purpose of examinations and laboratory practicals. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/after-pollution-hiatus-delhi-schools-resume-classes-1062901.html
20-12-2021||North and Central||Two FIRs registered against Jitan Ram Manjhi for comments on Brahmins||After his allegedly abusive words for the Brahmin community, two FIRs were registered in Patna and Purnea against former Bihar chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi on Monday. In Patna, members of the Brahmin community headed by Vishal Kumar Singh registered an FIR in the Rajiv Nagar police station. They alleged that the statement of Jitan Ram Manjhi against Satyanarayan Puja was meant to hurt the sentiments of the Hindu community. Moreover he also used abusive words for the Brahmin community. "The statement of Manjhi creates differences in the society. It has a potential to promote casteism and also spread provocation in the society. His abusive statement has a potential to create riots among two castes," Singh said. "We have also written letters to the human rights commission of India, chief minister and DGP Bihar to take cognisance of his abusive statement and take action against him accordingly," Singh said. Singh pointed out that Satyanarayan Puja (Worshipping Lord Vishnu) is an ancient tradition and ritual among the Hindu community to bring peace, harmony and prosperity in the house. In Purnea, a group from the Mithila students union registered an FIR against the former chief minister in K Haat police station. They said that Manjhi has hurt the sentiments of Brahmins across the country. The government should take strong action against him. Jitan Ram Manjhi, on December 19, during a public gathering in Patna, used abusive language against the Brahmin community. "When I was young, the prevalence of Satyanarayan Puja was not very popular in our community (Mushar). These days, the prevalence of Satyanarayan Puja is taking place in almost every house. More alarmingly, the Brahmin (Pundits) come to our house, conduct Puja but they do not eat food in our houses. They shamelessly demand money (Dakshina) from us instead of eating food in our houses." Manjhi also used abusive language both for his community people and Brahmins. "Baba Saheb Bhim Rao Ambedkar was a Hindu but he changed his religion to Buddhist before his death. He said that Hindu community is the worst community and hence he had changed the religion. When he died, he was Buddhist," Manjhi said. On December 20, Manjhi gave a clarification for his statement. He said that he had used abusive language for his own community and not against Brahmins. "Still, if anyone is hurt with my statement I would take back my words," Manjhi said. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-firs-registered-against-jitan-ram-manjhi-for-comments-on-brahmins-1062906.html
20-12-2021||North and Central||Bill to increase girl's marriage age must be 'scrutinised', says CPM leader||CPI(M) Rajya Sabha floor leader Elamaram Kareem on Monday shot off a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi urging him to send the bill for increasing the age of marriage of girls from 18 to 21 years, saying it should not be rushed through as it needed "deeper scrutiny" and further consultation with stakeholders. Kareem said that the bill has a very huge social impact and it should undergo thorough Parliamentary scrutiny and consultation with all sections of society before enacting it as law. He said that the intention behind this legislation has drawn widespread criticism in different levels and If this bill is passed, various personal and faith-based laws which govern marriages in India now, including The Hindu Marriage Act, 1955, the Special Marriage Act, 1954, and the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006, will have to be amended. "Not only that, the results will be catastrophic if the government is planning to merely raise the age of marriage without creating any social awareness. If the bill is drafted considering health reasons, as the government claims, what is required then is to ensure nourishment and food security to prevent maternal and infant mortality," Kareem said in the letter. "The argument that the age of marriage of women is being raised to bring about gender equality is also fallacious. For this, the government could have considered the 18th Law Commission recommendation which says that the age of marriage of boys should be lowered to 18 to bring about parity," he said. He also said that women organisations or even the state-run women bodies were not consulted before drafting this bill and considering the importance of this legislation and its social impact, the government should step back from pushing the bill for consideration and passing it in a "hasty manner". "I request you that the Prohibition of Child Marriage (Amendment) Bill, 2021 should be sent to the Parliamentary Standing Committee for deeper scrutiny and consultation with stakeholders. Expecting an appropriate action at the earliest," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bill-to-increase-girls-marriage-age-must-be-scrutinised-says-cpm-leader-1062930.html
20-12-2021||North and Central||Rishabh Pant appointed as Uttarakhand's brand ambassador||Swashbuckling India wicketkeeper-batter Rishabh Pant has been appointed the brand ambassador of Uttarakhand with an aim to promote sports and create mental health awareness among the state's youth. Uttarakhand Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami made the announcement about the same on Sunday. Pant, 24, was born in the state's Roorkee town in Haridwar district. "Thank you @pushkardhami sir for giving me the opportunity to be the Brand Ambassador of promoting Sports and General Health among the people of Uttarakhand. I'll do my best to spread this message and feeling happy that you are taking these steps towards a fitter India," Pant tweeted. Pant was last seen in India's T2I0 series against New Zealand, which the team won 3-0. Currently, the player is in South Africa, preparing for the upcoming three-match Test series against the Proteas. Taking to Twitter, Dhami wrote in Hindi, "One of the best cricket players of India, idol of youth, son of the soil Shri Rishabh Pant has been appointed by our government as the state's brand ambassador with the aim of encouraging the youth towards sports and public health." In a video, Dhami is seen interacting with Pant and asking about his well-being while inviting him to visit the state. The cricketer thanked the CM for the honour, saying that he will try his best to motivate people towards sports and fitness. Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rishabh-pant-appointed-as-uttarakhands-brand-ambassador-1062996.html
20-12-2021||Oasis||Advent of Christmas||The Advent season is the preparation time of a month, during which Catholics get ready for the celebration of Christmas. This is a period to reflect upon the past year by taking stock of our attitudes and actions along with renewing our efforts to improve; make a fresh foray into matters comprising universal love, peace, joy and hope, the crux of our beliefs! The third Sunday of Advent called Gaudete Sunday is deemed a day to review and rejoice at the preparation thus far completed. Invariably it would coincide with creating the family crib! Within a limited space in the garden, spots were demarcated for the central stable; a construction comprising a cave with fist-size stones placed firmly yet haphazardly atop one another, then plastered over with wet mud so it would mould. The roads would be marked between fields in which ragi seeds would be sprinkled which sprouted within a week. On the 24th, the finishing touches would be added. Lights would be fixed within the cave and within a star hanging above it, and hay would be placed on the floor beneath the statues of Mary, Joseph and baby Jesus. Fields would be dotted with shepherds and sheep. A well would be embedded using an old jam tin filled with water, with crossed bamboo sticks to support a vessel dangling from some twine. Roads to the cave would be paved with fine gravel, fenced by matchsticks wired together. On Christmas eve when the family returned from midnight mass we’d assemble before the crib. Dad would place the baby Jesus statue within, while we sang carols followed by the offering of the embellished Christmas tree drawn on cardboard and decorated with outlines of stars, presents, santas, baubles etc. to be coloured each time we made a sacrifice of performed a worthy deed during Advent. Thereafter, onto sharing a glass of wine, a piece of cake plus homemade festival specialties like kulkuls, macaroons, chaklis, til laddoos, meringues and marshmallows etc. before calling it a night which would soon herald Christmas Day Fiesta lunch comprising roast chicken and stuffing, sarpathel, sannas and plenty more! Sharing greetings, goodies with visitors and between households, inviting friends to partake in our Christmas meal was the order of the fest. Early evening, we’d gather with friends at an old age home to bring bonhomie to the residents by singing, entertaining and then treating them to a gift bag each from Santa Claus…||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/advent-of-christmas-1063012.html
20-12-2021||Opinion||Politics of puja: PM's Kashi speech betrayed bitter resentment, not piety||What feelings play in the mind of one who visits a temple? Are shame and humiliation topmost among them? The adventurous devotees who prepare for weeks to visit Kailash Mansarover; the Warkaris who walk 21 days to Pandharpur; those who observe rituals for 41 days for Sabarimala - does shame drive these efforts? What of ordinary Hindus whose day is incomplete without a morning visit to the temple? A small old Hanuman temple in South Mumbai known for the clanging of its bells for the 8 pm aarti invariably sees passers-by stopping outside with hands folded. Do they feel ashamed hearing the bells and seeing the circling flame of the diya? Or do they get a feeling of solace? As a child, I remember seeing women of my community going barefoot to the temple, all decked up and happy, carrying plates covered with offerings. Shame was the last word you would associate with them. Last week, a Muslim from Mumbai was arrested at Ujjain's ancient Mahakal temple. The young man, accompanying his Hindu girlfriend, had presented a Hindu's Aadhar card so that they could watch the spectacular early morning aarti together. This news brought to mind the joy with which a "Tam-Bram" had told me how, straight after her nikah, she'd taken her Muslim husband to Tirupati to get Lord Venkateshwara's blessings for the marriage. This was 40 years ago when inter-faith couples didn't have to risk arrest under laws designed to thwart such marriages. But even MP's stringent "love-jihad" law didn't deter the Mumbai couple from trying their luck at Ujjain. What could have driven them except love, faith and the confidence of youth? So what did Union Home Minister Amit Shah mean when he recently said that before Narendra Modi became PM, "people going to temples felt a sense of shame?" The moment he was appointed PM, said Shah, Modi smeared his forehead with ash and performed a Ganga aarti at Varanasi, thereby "starting a new era". He was right. In the Modi era, the prime minister of a secular country thinks nothing of spending public money performing lavish pujas and Hindu rituals and ensuring they are telecast to every home. Never mind if the puja is to consecrate a temple at the very site that a mosque was demolished by members of his parent organisation, leading to the communal violence that cost thousands of lives. In case the message was lost in the spectacle of last year's Ayodhya puja, the PM spelt it out last week when he inaugurated the Kashi Vishwanath corridor: "If an Aurangzeb comes, a Shivaji also rises." Was this assertion necessary at what was supposed to be essentially a religious function? It appears that for the PM and the home minister, religion is a battlefield, and worship no different from victory. Amit Shah recalled how the Maa Vindhyavasini temple in Mirzapur, Uttar Pradesh, for which Shah had just launched an approach corridor, had to be "hidden inside homes owing to fear of attack from Muslims." The last time this ancient temple made news was in June, when it re-opened to huge crowds after a long lockdown. Were the devotees, who threw fears of Covid to the winds, driven by "shame and humiliation" over what happened to the temple centuries ago? One wonders what feelings torment Amit Shah and Narendra Modi when they visit temples. Not piety for sure. For, what they say on these ostensibly religious occasions reveals a deep, bitter resentment at events long buried in history, events that the majority of Hindus don't even know, let alone recollect. What also comes across from their words is a sense of triumph, the assertion that they have, at long last, enabled their faith to prevail over the enemy's. These very emotions drive Hindutvawadis in Gurugram and Belagavi to repeatedly hound and attack Muslims and Christians gathered to pray in desolate parking lots, churches and even homes - a classic case of leaders and followers mirroring each other. But it is the very opposite of these emotions that define Benares, and indeed the Kashi Vishwanath temple, where Modi proudly invoked "virasat" (legacy). It was in this temple that Ustad Bismillah Khan learnt to play the shehnai; his family members were the temple's musicians. His daily riaz was in the Balaji temple nearby. In 2006 and 2010, bomb blasts during the evening Ganga aarti in Benares killed 23 persons, mostly Hindus, but no riots broke out. Now that's the "virasat" the MP from Varanasi should have recalled. But then he wouldn't have sent the message he wanted. (The writer is a journalist) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.   Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/politics-of-puja-pms-kashi-speech-betrayed-bitter-resentment-not-piety-1062757.html
20-12-2021||Opinion||Why we should critique Kashi event on the basis of Hindu philosophy||Every community — religious, linguistic or caste-based — has the right to assert itself, particularly in a democracy, as it restricts the assertion within the framework of the law. No one can deny the Hindu community this inherent right. Instead, it is incumbent upon us to understand that the more we object to such efforts, the more momentum it will gather. The inauguration of the Kashi Vishwanath corridor is another milestone in the assertion of the 'Hindu'. While expressing concerns about it, and there are some genuine reasons for it, we must remember such developments are not unprecedented in independent India. The Ayodhya temple's shilanyas (foundation laying) ceremony was allowed in 1989 in full connivance of the late Rajiv Gandhi, the then prime minister of India. About the presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi at Kashi Vishwanath, we should recall that Mamata Banerjee, the chief minister of West Bengal and now an icon of the secular brigade, inaugurates several Durga Pujas every year. We also have the tweet of the Delhi Chief Minister, Arvind Kejriwal, of December 3. It read, "A few days ago when I had visited Shri Ramlala in Ayodhya, a thought came to my mind that I should bring all my elders of Delhi for a darshan of Lord Shri Ram. The first train of pilgrimage was flagged off from Delhi to Ayodhya today. These were very emotional moments for me. May everyone's journey be blessed. Long live Rama." Kejriwal himself inaugurated the train. These examples and innumerable others underscore that religion and religious symbolism are used in this country by leaders on both ends of the spectrum - hardcore seculars and hardcore Hindutwavadis. Again, in the long run, it is futile to object to such symbolism on the ground that the Preamble of our Constitution says India is 'secular'. In 1948, when Prof KT Shah, who represented Bihar, brought a proposal in the Constituent Assembly that "India shall be a Secular, Federal, Socialist Union of States", BR Ambedkar, the Dalit icon often referred to as the maker of the Indian Constitution, strongly opposed it. While arguing the Constitution was secular, Ambedkar said, "What should be the policy of the State, how the society should be organised in its social and economic side are matters which must be decided by the people themselves according to time and circumstances. It cannot be laid down in the Constitution itself because that is destroying democracy altogether." Ignoring Ambedkar, the word 'secular' was inserted in the Preamble in 1976, and it can be deleted too if Parliament so wishes. So, then, on what ground we may raise questions on the inauguration of the Kashi Vishwanath corridor, particularly when it is built on land (including the Gyanvapi Koop and Nandi idol) made available without any controversy? We will gain nothing by criticising the effort, which is a part of Hindu assertion. But we must express concern about the inherent intention of using it in the Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections and in the future to further the agenda of political Hindutva, which targets the 'others'. Here, the line of distinction is thin but essential. Unlike Hindutva, the Hindu way of life that has thrived in this land for thousands of years is secular, though it is also associated with a plethora of religious rituals. But, at the core, it is about dharma (whatever 'holds' an individual, a family, a community, and the creation as a whole) and karma (deeds in consonance with dharma). Most importantly, dharma has in its fold rajdharma, which signifies protecting all the subjects who have not done wrong. The Indian Muslims and other minorities consisting of one-fifth of the Indian population have a place of pride among the subjects (now called citizens) of India. So a true Hindu, particularly a ruler, is bound to protect the innocent minorities and their genuine interests. In simple terms, the resurrection of the concept of a timeless Kashi, protected by its kotwal Kal Bhairav, is tantamount to going back to the roots. It cannot be used to muzzle the rights of anyone. According to Hindu scriptures, Shiva means 'perfection'. This concept, secular by nature, cannot be towed into any controversy like "mandir wahin banayenge (the temple shall be constructed there)". It will be profane to drag the transcendental into base political fights. As a political party, the BJP often uses Ram, Krishna (who were humans, real or mythical) and even Shiva (the transcendental) for narrow political gains. Worse, it uses such figures to target the 'others' and thus violates the concept of rajdharma. Unfortunately, our secular leaders and intellectuals do not care to counter the BJP on the grounds of dharmic philosophical thought and allow it to usurp the entire 'Hindu' space. In fact, the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) will do well if it realises that assertion of the Hindus, something started by Swami Vivekananda one and a half-century ago, will be bereft of its true glory if it targets the 'others'. But, perhaps, it is futile to expect the Sangh may shun narrow Hindutva to embrace the true 'dharmic' path, which is the essence of the Hindu way of life. (The writer is a journalist and author based in Kolkata) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/why-we-should-critique-kashi-event-on-the-basis-of-hindu-philosophy-1062794.html
20-12-2021||Panorama||BJP backed my report for political mileage, then it turned 180-degrees: Madhav Gadgil||As the Centre is expected to soon issue the final notification on ‘Ecologically Sensitive Areas’ (ESA) in the Western Ghats on the basis of the Kasturirangan committee report, the states through which the Western Ghats pass are pushing for relaxations. The Kasturirangan report is itself widely seen as a dilution of the recommendations of the Western Ghats Ecology Experts Panel, which was headed by noted ecologist Madhav Gadgil. Gadgil tells DH’s Arjun Raghunath that his report was pro-people and democratic; the Kasturirangan report could be considered “unconstitutional” as it did not provide for considering the local peoples’ views. How different is your report from the Kasturirangan report? There seems to be a general confusion about what is ‘Ecologically Sensitive Area’ as per the Kasturirangan report and what it is in our (Gadgil) report. Our report said there cannot be a rigid set of regulations on all areas of Western Ghats that have to be considered ESA. Instead, we recommended three levels of ESA zones — higher sensitivity, moderate sensitivity and lower sensitivity. But in the Kasturirangan report, there is no such distinction. It had just one zone. The second major difference is that we suggested that certain activities should not take place in the ESA of higher sensitivity, but we also said that these recommendations should not be applied rigidly. The recommendations should be made available to the local grama sabhas and feedback obtained through a grassroots process and then appropriate decisions could be made. The Kasturirangan report, on the other hand, maintained that local communities can have no role in decision-making, which I think is completely unconstitutional. Now, the government is talking mostly about the Kasturirangan report only, which to my mind is flawed. How do you say that your approach is right? As per our report, the recommendations of the local community must be taken seriously. The problems cropping up regularly in the sensitive regions indicate that the local people have been kept away from the decision-making process. The recent disasters at Koottickal in Kottayam district of Kerala is a clear instance. Locals there told me that they had been agitating for more than 10 years to stop stone quarrying in the neighbourhood. Even on the day of the landslide, big blasts were carried out in those quarries. As per our report, that area is among the highest sensitivity zones. If our report was implemented, this feedback from the local community could have been obtained and the illegal quarrying could have been stopped. State governments are justifying seeking relaxations in restrictions citing the livelihoods of local people and their requirement of raw materials for construction activities… That is just nonsense. The farmers are weeping as their livelihoods are facing a threat from the illegal activities in the sensitive region. The recent calamities are instances. With regard to construction activities, we have to see whether all this infrastructure — like roads, railways — are really required. The kind of infrastructure we need pertains to health and education. Priority can be given to housing as a large number of people are still homeless. Most ‘development’ activities now are aimed at benefiting only the rich. Destroying mangroves to set up high-rises is only for the rich. The level of economic disparity, the number of people suffering anaemia, etc., are on the rise. These issues need to be addressed. Then what could be the real reason or the hidden agenda for states seeking relaxation? The agenda is not hidden at all. The relaxations in ESA will benefit the quarries that make huge, illegal profits. It is being shared among politicians and bureaucrats. Some 10 years back, some mine-owners in Goa had told me about the huge rates they pay to the politicians, right from the bottom to the top. It is regretful that in all states, the ruling parties are in cahoots with the vested interest lobbies. Before the 2014 elections, the BJP strongly supported our report, but the moment they came to power, they took a 180-degree turn. When not in power they supported our report only to get some political mileage. Those seeking relaxations in Kerala say that the major calamities were mainly due to poor dam management and not activities in the ecologically sensitive areas. Is that so? Poor dam management was one contributory reason for the 2018 calamities in Kerala. But in the subsequent years also, there were major landslides. I had personally visited the Puthumala area of Wayanad where the landslide happened and claimed many lives. It was evident that the construction of roads and buildings on the steep slopes were contributing factors. In Konkan areas of Maharashtra, this year, landslide geologists who did field studies told me that the rubble from quarrying activities had reached the river. They have documented all this. In Kerala, the Left Front government is pushing for a semi high-speed rail project. Does that pose an ecological risk? I would say a straight ‘no’ to the semi high-speed rail project proposal as it will definitely affect the natural flow of water. For instance, look at the floods in the Konkan region. There is good scientific data in this regard. What do you expect from the government on the ESA notification? The government should follow the democratic process. When that happens, then things will change. They will begin to respond only to pressure from the public below. Unfortunately, the government doesn’t want democracy and hence my report that suggested collecting opinions from the local community is not considered. Even on the farmers’ protest, the government tried to suppress public pressure. But finally, they had to yield. So, if public pressure builds up, the government will yield. Otherwise, it will only go by the vested interests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/bjp-backed-my-report-for-political-mileage-then-it-turned-180-degrees-madhav-gadgil-1063014.html
20-12-2021||Panorama||Nail hygiene amid Omicron scare||The world is now feeling the effect of yet another coronavirus variant, Omicron. People must stay alert for hand hygiene to curb the spread of the deadly virus. But are we paying sufficient attention to our nail hygiene? Our nails are the index of wellbeing for our entire body. The manifestations of several critical diseases were first detected within the dirty nails. The ignorance towards our nails becomes the breeding ground of harmful bacteria. These germs enter our body through our hands because in India we eat through our bare hands. Therefore, nail hygiene is crucial and without it hand hygiene is incomplete. Practising good nail hygiene involves following a systematic process to ensure the longevity of our nail health. It includes ensuring that food particles, dirt, dust are not sticking to our nails and there is no build-up of nail bacteria. Thankfully, contrary to popular belief, it is not that difficult to maintain good nail hygiene. A little diligence, awareness and attention are sufficient to keep our nails healthy. Avoiding nail hygiene makes you prone to viral infections. Due to constant negligence towards the cleanliness of the nails, many serious issues like bacterial and viral infections arise. Often these lead to serious health problems. Our hand hygiene is not perfect till the time we clean the undersides of our nails besides washing hands regularly. Most people don’t mind sharing nail clippers with others. This can be an extremely unhygienic practice if safety protocols are not followed. Nails harbour abundant germs, bacteria and viruses and sharing nail clippers is equivalent to exchanging those microorganisms. So always use nail clippers after sterilising them properly. Keep fingernails dry and clean. It prevents bacterial and fungal infections from growing under our nails. It has been observed that prolonged exposure to water can break nails. It is always recommended to wear cotton-lined rubber gloves while washing dishes, cleaning or using harsh chemicals. In order to follow good nail hygiene, we have to be careful about our nail care products. Use a sharp stainless-steel nail clipper with a grime remover, that can remove the hidden germs and grime below the nails. Trim nails straight, then round the tips into a gentle curve. Always wash hands and under nails with soap and water after a nail clipping session. Keep hands and nails moisturised to avoid the cuticles from overgrowing. Frequent use of nail paint remover, hand sanitisers and harsh soaps can result in the dryness of cuticles along with nails. Keep nails short, trim them regularly and washing hands for at least 20 seconds and then moisturise them. There are 100% stainless steel nail clippers that come with a nail filer, grime remover, nail tray and non-chromium coating making them safe and most effective for maintaining proper nail hygiene. Here are some of the more ways through which we can keep our nail hygiene intact, and protects nails from damage. Stay away from chewing fingernails: It has the potential of damaging the nail bed as a minor cut can cause infection. Moreover, when we bite our nails, germs enter our mouths directly. Be gentle towards hangnails: Never pull off your hangnails. Rather, be gentle towards them and carefully clip them off. Stop using those products which are harsh on nails. Always go for acetone-free products. Go for regular nail checkups: If you have a persistent nail problem, consult a doctor or dermatologist for an evaluation. Do not share: Try not to share your nail clipper, as they contain germs. Wash the nail clipper with lukewarm water and wipe with a soft cloth.  (The writer is the managing director of a manufacturing firm)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/nail-hygiene-amid-omicron-scare-1063015.html
20-12-2021||Right in the Middle||A shot in the arm||A shot in the arm! Now that is an expression I dislike. Yes, I know that it is used idiomatically to describe something that boosts one’s confidence, but for me, the phrase does not have positive connotations. On the contrary, it reminds me of an unpleasant event in my childhood. One morning, I was skipping along with seven-year-old exuberance, when I fell and hurt my knee. My parents were quick to get me to a doctor. He examined the deep gash and, when he heard how I had sustained the wound, immediately instructed his assistant to give me an injection. I faced it without fear or fuss, delighted at the prospect of a brief break from school. It turned out to be a horrible holiday. No sooner had I settled in bed with a book than my face and body began to swell. I learnt later that I resembled an oversized balloon. I was rushed to hospital, where several shots in my arm (and another part of my anatomy!) were administered at regular intervals. They were antidotes to the disastrous effects of the ATS (Anti Tetanus Serum) injection that I had taken. Apparently, although it could be dangerous for some people, the doctor had not tested my ability to withstand it. In fact, soon after, my Hindi teacher succumbed to the selfsame drug. When my mother and I went to pay our respects, a gentleman stepped out from amid the group of mourners. His shock and grief were evident as he told us that his wife, who had received a tetanus injection for a slight injury, was gone before the nurse removed the needle. Over the next few days, my parents seemed unable to talk of anything else. I suppose they were profoundly grateful that I had escaped a similar fate. As for me, while I was upset at the passing of someone known to me, I was imbued with the resilience of youth. Consequently, I did not unduly dwell on death. Six decades later, as I braced myself for my first dose of the Covid-19 vaccination, I was mindful of mortality. I thought of my former teacher who was cut off in the prime of life. I also recalled my alarming ATS allergy. Fortunately, neither of the two jabs proved problematic, unlike my long-ago shot in the arm!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/a-shot-in-the-arm-1063010.html
20-12-2021||Second Edit||Session of diversions and distractions||A week has passed since the 10-day winter session of the Karnataka legislature began at Suvarna Soudha in Belagavi, but nothing substantial has been achieved, with extraneous issues overshadowing the proceedings, even dashing the hopes of the people of Kalyana Karnataka that long-pending issues of their region will be discussed. While the Opposition’s protest demanding the resignation of Urban Development Minister Byrathi Basavaraj for his alleged involvement in a land grabbing case took much of the legislature’s time, the Assembly hit national headlines with former Speaker Ramesh Kumar’s insensitive remark on rape. The Congress held a tractor rally to highlight various issues, including non-payment of compensation to farmers for crop loss and the delay of over six months in releasing NREGA wages, but all this was to no avail. The defacement of the Sangolli Rayanna and Shivaji statues leading to frayed tempers between Kannada and Marathi-speaking people have provided the ruling party with a diversion from many important public issues. While these distractions have come as a blessing in disguise for the treasury benches, the opposition Congress itself appears to have gone soft on the government. Two letters to the Prime Minister, one by a whistle-blower accusing top politicians of being involved in the ‘bitcoin scam’ and the other by contractors alleging that 40% of the cost of infrastructure projects have to be paid as bribes, should have figured prominently in the discussions but did not. The Opposition also failed to put to test the government’s preparedness to tackle the new Covid virus variant, Omicron, especially given the acute scarcity of essential drugs and the deaths due to oxygen shortage during the second wave. With the proposed anti-conversion and ‘love jihad’ bills likely to consume much of the remaining time, it is unlikely that the promise of devoting two days for Kalyana Karnataka will be met. The issues include setting up of IT/BT park in Belagavi, execution of Mahadayi drinking water project, implementation of Phase 3 of the Upper Krishna Project, district status for Chikkodi and shifting of some government offices from Bengaluru to Belagavi to ensure that the people of the region do not have to travel all the way to the state capital to get their work done.  The current session is also marked by a general lack of interest among legislators themselves, with about 50% of them, including JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy, remaining absent. Several crores of taxpayers’ money are spent on holding the session and it is a sad commentary when pressing issues of the common man do not find a place in the proceedings.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/session-of-diversions-and-distractions-1063007.html
20-12-2021||South||Teacher in Chennai arrested after sharing porn on school WhatsApp group||A private school mathematics teacher, Mathivannan, who had shared pornographic videos in a school group — comprising Class 12 students and teachers — on Friday night, was arrested and remanded to judicial custody. Mathivannan was teaching mathematics for over a decade at a private school in Chennai and was living with his wife and children at Ambattur in the city. The teacher sent the porn video during the night to the group that was used for online teaching of students. Children and fellow teachers who were shocked on seeing the porn video popping up in the group, alerted school authorities. During an internal inquiry by the school officials, Mathivannan said that he did not know about the video and that he had shared it under the influence of alcohol. The school management lodged a complaint with the All women police station, Chennai who arrested him under the POCSO Act and IT Act. The teacher was produced before the Chief Judicial magistrate court and was remanded in judicial custody. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/teacher-in-chennai-arrested-after-sharing-porn-on-school-whatsapp-group-1062753.html
20-12-2021||South||In a first, gay couple get married in Hyderabad||For the first time in Telugu states, a gay couple has entered into wedlock. Abhay Dange (34) and Supriyo Chakraborty (31) exchanged rings and vow at a private ceremony held at a resort on the outskirts of Hyderabad on December 18. The wedding, attended by 60 family members and close friends of the couple, was officiated by Sophia David, a trans woman from Hyderabad. As same-sex marriages are not legally recognised in India, Supriyo and Abhay held a 'promising ceremony' to make their eight-year-long relationship official. Abhay, a Punjabi, is an IT professional who works for an e-commerce firm while Supriyo, a Bengali, is a hospitality professional. The ceremony was held with the Bengali and Punjabi traditions. 'Haldi', 'Mehendi' and 'Sangeet' were held as part of the wedding celebrations which were also attended by members of the LGBT community in Hyderabad. The duo, who met through a dating app, announced their wedding in October. Tollywood actor Samantha Ruth Prabhu had supported gay marriage and took to Twitter to congratulate the couple. According to Supriyo, their parents were not initially supportive but later accepted their relationship. Supriyo and Abhay feel that their wedding will give hope to many closet couples to come out and normalise LGBTQ relationships. They also hope that the way the same-gender relationship was decriminalised in India, the marriage of queer couples will also be legalised. They plan to register their marriage once queer couples are legally allowed to marry. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/in-a-first-gay-couple-get-married-in-hyderabad-1062756.html
20-12-2021||South||Alappuzha killings: Political rallies banned in Kerala; cops on high alert||After twin political murders, less than 12 hours apart, rocked Kerala's Alappuzha district on Saturday, the state police has banned political rallies and the use of mikes in the public domain for three days. State Police chief Anil Kant has directed his top officials to be on high alert and permit rallies and mike announcement only after a detailed inquiry. K.S. Shan of Islamist organisation SDPI was killed on Saturday and a few hours later, BJP's OBC Morcha state secretary Ranjith Sreenivasan also met with the same fate. While the last rites of Shan were held on Sunday, that of Sreenivasan's will take place on Monday. The activists of SDPI and the RSS/BJP are accusing each other of the crimes. On Monday, Vijay Sakhre, DGP of Police entrusted with the probe, after reaching Alappuzha said that as far, involvement of 12 people in Sreenivasan's murder have been confirmed and as the investigation progresses, the number is likely to go up. Meanwhile, the police have arrested two RSS workers in connection with Shan's murder. Special police teams are probing all aspects to unravel conspiracy angles if any, as a top police official has gone on record to state that no ne will be spared, even if they occupy high posts. Anil Kant has asked police officials to cancel their leave and join back. The Alappuzha district authorities have called for an all-party peace meeting on Tuesday. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/alappuzha-killings-political-rallies-banned-in-kerala-cops-on-high-alert-1062784.html
20-12-2021||South||Four more Omicron cases detected in Kerala, tally now 15||Four more new cases of the Omicron variant of coronavirus were detected from Kerala on Monday, taking the overall tally to 15, the state health department said. Two cases of the new variant were detected in patients aged 41 and 67. They are mother and grandmother of a 17-year-old patient in Thiruvananthapuram who came from the UK on December 9 along with his father, mother and sister. His grandmother was in the contact list. Two other cases of the Omicron variant were detected from Thiruvananthapuram – a 32-year old man came from Nigeria on December 17 and a 27 year-old woman who was included in the contact list of flight passengers. She came from the UK on December 12. The new variant was confirmed in the testing conducted at Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology here. The state had detected its first Omicron case on December 12 in Ernakulam district when a person who had returned from the UK tested positive. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/four-more-omicron-cases-detected-in-kerala-tally-now-15-1062821.html
20-12-2021||South||DVAC conducts fresh searches at 14 places related to former Tamil Nadu minister P Thangamani||The Directorate of Vigilance and Anti Corruption (DVAC) is conducting fresh searches at 14 places related to former Electricity Minister of Tamil Nadu and AIADMK leader P Thangamani, in a case related to the disproportionate assets of the former minister. The searches, which commenced Monday morning, are being conducted at Erode, Salem, and Namakkal, at places related to the former minister. The DVAC officers are conducting searches at one place in Salem, 10 in Namakkal and three in Erode. The agency had conducted searches at 69 places associated with Thangamani on December 15 as well. The DVAC had registered a disproportionate assets case against the former Minister P Thangamani, his son T Dharanidharan and his daughter-in-law Shanthi. In the FIR registered by the agency, it was mentioned that the former minister has amassed wealth to the tune of Rs 4.5 crore above his known sources of income between May 2016 and March 2020. P Thangamani was a minister during this period. The former minister was booked under Sections 13(2),13(1) (b), and 13(1) (e). Thangamani was the minister for electricity, excise, and prohibition from May 2016 to May 2021 in the previous AIADMK government. AIADMK leaders and former chief ministers Edappadi K Palaniswami and O Panneerselvam criticised the DVAC action against Thangamani and said that the raids were part of political vindictiveness. Thangamani is the fifth former minister who has been subjected to DVAC searches and raids, following MR Vijayabaskar, C Vijayabhaskar, SP Velumani, and KC Veeramani, all AIADMK leaders. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dvac-conducts-fresh-searches-at-14-places-related-to-former-tamil-nadu-minister-p-thangamani-1062822.html
20-12-2021||South||Lack of adherence to Covid norms concerns Tamil Nadu government||Regretting the “lack of adoption” of Covid appropriate behaviour in public places by a majority of people especially in the wake of the Omicron threat, the Tamil Nadu government has written to district collectors to lead campaigns to stress the need for people to follow the rules and increase monitoring and enforcement drives. Principal Secretary (Health) J Radhakrishnan wrote to district collectors, the Commissioner of Greater Chennai Corporation, Director of Public Health, and directors of airports in the state, saying a lot of “constructive contribution, and cooperation from the people” is needed in terms of adoption of prevention and control measures in a sustained manner.  Tamil Nadu has so far reported just one confirmed case of the Omicron variant but it suspects that the variant may be found in samples of over two dozen people who have tested positive for Covid-19 and have sent their samples for genomic sequencing. The state has also asked the Centre to bring all international travellers arriving at airports under the purview of compulsory RT-PCR tests, to avoid huge spread of the Covid-19 strain. The four-page letter stressed on the need to improve the vaccination coverage among the elderly and immune-compromised individuals and educating people – who have travelled and not travelled – to get tested immediately if they have symptoms of Covid-19. Radhakrishnan also asked the district administrations to give a daily update on Covid facilities, ICU beds, Oxygen beds and availability of oxygen concentrators, cylinders, and relevant medicines.    “…You are again requested to lead the Covid appropriate behaviour campaigns by involving people from all walks of life and making it a people’s movement and mission as repeatedly emphasised by our Hon’ble Chief Minister,” Radhakrishnan told the district collectors. He also asked them to increase the monitoring and enforcement drives on Covid appropriate behaviour in addition to strictly enforcing the Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) for permitted activities. The Health Secretary also stressed increased surveillance, continuing the aggressive and increased testing, tracking and treatment, complete adherence to Covid appropriate behaviour and vaccination.  “It is not vaccines instead of masks, distancing, ventilation or hand hygiene, but instead follow up of all the disease prevention methods completely and consistently. As stated by him (WHO Director-General), we need to Do it all, Do it consistently and Do it well,” Radhakrishnan added.   Tamil Nadu has so far administered nearly 8 crore vaccine doses and is fast-tracking vaccination by holding two special camps across the state every week. The state has also found that the death rate among the vaccinated population is very less, while it is quite high among the unvaccinated.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/lack-of-adherence-to-covid-norms-concerns-tamil-nadu-government-1062908.html
20-12-2021||South||Good leadership is one that forgives the wrong-doers: OPS message to EPS||With joint coordinator Edappadi K Palaniswami on the dais, AIADMK coordinator O Panneerselvam on Monday narrated a short story of Jesus Christ to drive home his point that “good leadership is one that forgives and accepts the wrong-doers” after they have expressed regret for their acts.   The comments by Panneerselvam is being interpreted as his way of telling Palaniswami, his deputy in the party, to display leadership qualities in “taking back” V K Sasikala, the ousted deputy general secretary of the AIADMK. The former Chief Minister made the comments at a Christmas celebration here which saw top leaders of the AIADMK in attendance.  In his speech, Panneerselvam referred to a short story in popular Tamil daily Dinamalar under the column ‘Christmas Thoughts’ which talks about a father accepting his son wholeheartedly after the latter “realised his mistake” of breaking away from the family.   “Jesus Christ, who told this story, said he did not come to the world to protect the good. He said he has come to the world to reform those who have sinned. Good people will always remain good. But accepting and taking back those who have done wrong implies the good quality of leadership,” Panneerselvam said with a smile on his face.  While Panneerselvam seems amenable to accommodating Sasikala in the party, Palaniswami is dead opposed to her re-entry as he fears such a move would undermine his authority within the party. It was under Sasikala’s guidance, the AIADMK Legislature Party had in 2017 elected Palaniswami as its leader.  Panneerselvam’s short story and his “message” to his colleagues comes close on the heels of the party unanimously electing him and Palaniswami as coordinator and joint coordinator respectively of the AIADMK. The unanimous election which was conducted after the Executive Council had cleared an amendment to the party by-laws triggered speculations that the doors on Sasikala were shut.  However, Panneerselvam’s statement on Monday has renewed the debate on Sasikala’s possible re-entry into the AIADMK. In October, Panneerselvam had directly attacked Palaniswami for his “distasteful comments” on Sasikala saying those at the helm of the party should maintain “dignity and discipline.” OPS’ latest statement also came on the day Tamil Nadu BJP chief K Annamalai told a popular English daily in an interview that “for the betterment of the state, in the long run, all good leaders should come together and the AIADMK should remain strong.” Political observers said Panneerselvam’s comments are a “clear message” that he was not averse to taking Sasikala back into the AIADMK. “This is not the first time that OPS has spoken indirectly about Sasikala. And this will not be the last time. He feels there is nothing wrong in re-admitting Sasikala into the party, despite being aware that the EPS faction which wields majority is not in favour,” a political analyst told DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/good-leadership-is-one-that-forgives-the-wrong-doers-ops-message-to-eps-1062925.html
20-12-2021||South||Tamil Nadu government overturns decision to reduce buffer zone of Vedanthangal bird sanctuary||Migratory birds from across the globe will continue to enjoy the pristine habitat that they were used to in the past at Vedanthangal, India’s oldest bird sanctuary, their favourite nesting and roosting place, thanks to a recent decision by the Tamil Nadu Government. The state government decided to overturn a controversial proposal of the then AIADMK dispensation in 2020 to reduce the outer boundary line around the Vedanthangal bird sanctuary by two kilometres, which could have posed a “serious threat” to the region’s ecology.  The proposal could have changed the land use of about 5,000 hectares, resulting in the destruction of the region’s ecology as the decision could have led to mushrooming of industries, commercial buildings, and residential apartments near the sanctuary.  The withdrawal of the order means the five-kilometre buffer zone around the sanctuary, which is visited by nearly 30,000 birds of different species every year, will remain intact. Chief Wildlife Warden Shekhar Kumar Niraj communicated the decision to Environment and Forest Secretary Supriya Sahu in a letter last week – both officers are nature-friendly.  The decision also comes in the wake of the new DMK government attaching top priority to ecology-related issues and embarking on a mission to save water bodies of the state, though at the behest of the Madras High Court.  Vedanthangal bird sanctuary, located around 90 kilometres from Chennai, is one of the favourite spots for birders across the world, who come here for various kinds of research. Environmentalists and bird watchers in Tamil Nadu welcomed the government’s decision saying it will not just help the migratory birds enjoy their natural habitat but also save water bodies in and around the village in Chengalpattu district.  Vedanthangal, one of the oldest bird sanctuaries in the country that was declared in 1936 and notified in 1963, is a paradise for migratory birds. “During the season, you can see nearly 30,000 birds of various species at the sanctuary. Many birds come here for roosting, while others come for nesting,” a birder, requesting anonymity, told DH.  The villages around Vedanthangal also took steps to ensure that the birds have a safe nest in the sanctuary by keeping fertilizers away from their agricultural lands and shunning firecrackers even during the Deepavali season.  Environmentalist G Sundarrajan of Poovulagin Nanbargal told DH that rationalising the boundaries of the sanctuary could have had cascading effects on the sanctuary.  “Five kilometres around the sanctuary is declared as a notified zone. The first kilometre is the core zone, the second and third kilometres form the buffer zone, while the remaining fourth and fifth kilometres constitute the eco-sensitive zone. Changes in the boundary could have had a serious effect on the core area of the sanctuary. With this order, the threat to ecology is gone. However, we should continue to protect such sanctuaries in our interests,” Sundarrajan said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-government-overturns-decision-to-reduce-buffer-zone-of-vedanthangal-bird-sanctuary-1062932.html
20-12-2021||South||Kerala High Court declares demand of 'nokkukooli' illegal, directs lodging extortion cases against such demands||The Kerala High Court on Monday declared demanding 'nokkukooli' or gawking wages as an "illegal and unauthorised" activity that needs to be banned and directed the police to lodge cases of extortion against whoever makes such demands. "I hereby declare that the demand of 'nokkukooli' in any form, manner, hue, by any person or trade union or registered worker is illegal and unconstitutional and is required to be banned without any reservation," justice Devan Ramachandran said. The high court directed the state government to carry out the necessary amendments to the Kerala Headload Workers Act in a time-bound manner so that this industry is organised and regulated to some extent. The state and the Headload Worker Welfare Board were also requested to devise a method to modernise the sector, impart training to the workers and equip them with the means to carry out their loading and unloading activity. Justice Ramachandran further directed that the areas covered by the Headload Workers Scheme, employers, workers and the Board shall act in "strict conformity" with the guidelines mandating requisition of labourers, their wage structure and mode of payment. The court said that compliance with these directions would "go a long way" in avoiding "deleterious tendencies" like 'nokkukooli' and will project the state as "investor-friendly". It also said that modernising the sector as well as training and equipping the workers would help reduce the health problems, like heart conditions and work-related physical injuries they suffer from, and the industry would become more organised and regulated and it would reduce the number of strikes and illegal demands. "Time has come to modernise the industry," the court said and disposed of a petition by a hotel owner, represented by advocate Manoj Ramaswamy, seeking police protection to carry out his business without intervention from some persons who were allegedly demanding gawking wages. While asking the state to modernise the sector, the court also suggested renaming the statute as the Loading and Unloading Workers Act. Explaining the origins of the 'nokkukooli' concept in the state, the court said it was a "by-product of a well-intentioned legislation" -- the Kerala Headload Workers Act. Justice Ramachandran said it was unclear how 'nokkukooli' "spread its tentacles in our small state", but it was "common and irrefutable knowledge" that it was being "practised as a matter of entitlement by various trade unions". The court said while the provisions of the Act were in place and operating satisfactorily to some extent, the advent of mechanised modes of loading and unloading and decrease in the requirement of workers to carry out these activities gave rise to this concept. It said that gawking wages were demanded by workers who could not be employed due to mechanisation of loading and unloading and subsequently, "it became a way of life". The court said that despite a 2012 circular by then state police chief to take immediate action in incidents of 'nokkukooli' demand by force, "nothing changed at the ground level". Subsequently, when complaints of 'nokkukooli' demands reached the high court, it intervened and issued several judgments forcing the government to issue an order in 2018 declaring demand of gawking wages as illegal. However, despite the intervention of the high court and the 2018 government order, "it was tragic" that nothing has changed even in 2021, the court added. It also led to Kerala developing an "unsavoury reputation" of not being investor-friendly, the court said. Even as it declared demand of gawking wages as illegal, the court also expressed concern over the plight of the workers who carry loads of 55 kilograms or more on their heads for days and months in a year and therefore, suffer from various health issues, prominent among them being heart problems, spinal injuries as well as injuries caused due to falls in course of their work. To prevent the health problems of workers and better equip them to do their work, the court said modernising the sector was the answer. The court had earlier said that carrying heavy loads on the head or body by a person was a "dehumanising activity" and the statute -- Kerala Headload Workers Act -- which permits this was a relic of the past. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-high-court-declares-demand-of-nokkukooli-illegal-directs-lodging-extortion-cases-against-such-demands-1062943.html
20-12-2021||South||Alappuzha political murders leave Left government on backfoot||The two political murders at Alappuzha district in Kerala have put the Left-front government on the defensive, with Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, who also has the Home portfolio, coming under criticism for allegedly backing communal outfits and also over lapses of the police. The police could so far nab only two of around 10 persons involved in the murder of an SDPI leader, while no arrest has been made in the murder of a BJP leader till Monday evening. Amid allegations of a police intelligence failure in curbing the second murder, additional DGP (law and order) Vijay Sakhare said that the police were clueless of any plan to murder the BJP leader — that took place early Sunday — in retaliation to the SDPI leader's murder on Saturday night. SDPI state secretary KS Shan and BJP-OBC Morcha's State Secretary Renjith Sreenivas were both hacked to death by large groups. The murders took place within a span of 10 hours on the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday. An all-party meeting convened by the district administration on Monday could not take place as BJP kept away, citing that the funeral of the BJP leader was scheduled for the day. The meeting was postponed to Tuesday. A tense situation prevailed in the region on Monday and the funeral procession of the BJP leader was held under tight police vigil. The additional DGP, who is supervising the police investigation, said that among the two held in connection with the SDPI leader's killing, one was the key accused. The other accused in both the cases were identified and efforts to nab them are under way. The car used by the gang in the murder of the SDPI leader was found abandoned on the outskirts of the district, the cop said. The opposition Congress and BJP continued their attack against the chief minister for the police's failure in curbing political murders and allegedly backing communal outfits. The CPM state leadership countered it maintaining that two sections of communal outfits were trying to destroy the peace in Kerala, even as the BJP National President JP Nadda said that Kerala was turning into an unlawful state under Pinarayi Vijayan. Kerala witnessed around 125 political murders over the past 15 years. During the term of the first Pinarayi Vijayan government from 2016 to 2021, nearly 30 political killings were reported in the state. In the last couple of months, five political murders have been reported.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/alappuzha-political-murders-leave-left-government-on-backfoot-1062954.html
20-12-2021||South||Tamil Nadu: Infant dies as husband carries out wife's delivery at home||A young couple’s desire to have the home birth of their first child went horribly wrong. The baby was found dead inside the uterus of the woman during the delivery done by the husband and another woman after watching YouTube videos on “home birth.”  The wife, Gomathi, is currently under treatment at the Government Medical College Hospital in Vellore, 140 km from here. The incident took place on Saturday when Gomathi’s husband, Loganathan, attempted to conduct the delivery with the help of Geetha, a relative, at their home in Panapakkam in Ranipet district.  As the baby was found dead inside the womb of Gomathi, who began bleeding profusely, Loganathan rushed her to a government hospital in Panapakkam after which she was transferred to the medical college hospital in Vellore. A preliminary inquiry has found that the couple has been dodging the medical teams that visited their home saying they are consulting a doctor with the Christian Medical College (CMC) in Vellore where they were planning to have the delivery.  Police said that the due date was on December 13 but Loganathan kept postponing taking his wife to the doctor. “The woman developed labour pain on Saturday,” a police official said, adding that an FIR has been registered against the husband and the relative.  The incident has come as a shock to people in Tamil Nadu as a well-educated couple decided to go for risky home delivery without the assistance of experienced people. The state boasts of 100 per cent institutional delivery. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-infant-dies-as-husband-carries-out-wifes-delivery-at-home-1062989.html
20-12-2021||South||21-year-old held for sexually harassing schoolgirl, abetting suicide||A 21-year-old student was on Monday arrested for allegedly sexually harassing a 17-year-old schoolgirl, who died by suicide on December 18 after leaving a note saying, “only cemetery or mother’s womb can ensure safety” for a woman. The accused was arrested on Monday, after investigators found that he was in regular touch with the girl, and booked under various sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012. The girl, who was studying Plus-One in a government school, was found hanging at her residence in Mangadu, located on the outskirts of Chennai, last Saturday. Her mother, who saw her hanging, found a suicide note in her room in which the girl had complained that there was no safety for women in society. The suicide note, according to police, talks about the need for schools to impart lessons on treating girl students with respect. “Only cemetery or mother’s womb can ensure safety (for a woman),” the suicide note read. The police said that the accused was the girl's senior in a private school she had studied in before shifting to a government school. They said that the duo got in touch through social media. This is the third such incident in Tamil Nadu over the past two months, with two Plus-Two students having committed suicide in Karur and Coimbatore last month, alleging sexual harassment. The Coimbatore girl had accused her former teacher of sexually abusing her, following which the teacher and headmaster of the school were arrested and are currently in jail. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/21-year-old-held-for-sexually-harassing-schoolgirl-abetting-suicide-1062994.html
20-12-2021||South||Omicron cases in Kerala reach 15||Four more persons in Kerala were found to be infected with the Omicron variant of Covid-19 on Monday, taking the total infected with the new strain in the state to 15. The fresh cases included the mother and grandmother of a 17 year old boy who came down from UK to Thiruvananthapuram along with his parents and was tested Omicron positive the other day. The other two infected persons came from UK and Nigeria. Meanwhile, 2230 new Covid cases were reported in the state on Saturday taking the total active cases to 28,724. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/omicron-cases-in-kerala-reach-15-1062998.html
20-12-2021||South||Telangana to apply Covid-19 rules for all international arrivals who test positive||Following detection of Omicron cases among arrivals from countries not designated as 'at-risk', Telangana health authorities said they will implement isolation rules for all arrivals who test positive for Covid-19, irrespective of the country of origin or transit. Of the 20 persons found to be infected with the Omicron variant, only four are from countries categorised as 'at-risk', which majorly comprises cases from the UK. “We are trying our best to confine all the arriving passengers at the Hyderabad international airport till their Covid-19 test results are out and if anyone is found positive, we are taking them to Gachibowli TIMS (while their samples are sent for genome sequencing to confirm the variant),” Dr Srinivasa Rao, Director of Public Health, Telangana, told DH. The Telangana Institute of Medical Sciences (TIMS) is, at present, serving as the government's isolation and treatment centre for confirmed and suspected cases of the Omicron variant. “But the passengers from non-risk countries are refusing to cooperate. They are not understanding the seriousness of the situation and demand that Government of India guidelines should only be followed,” Rao said. The state, till Saturday evening, reported 20 cases of Omicron variant, while genome sequencing results of 15 Covid-19 positive samples are awaited. Officials had to trace arrivals from Kenya, UAE, Sudan and Somalia after their genome sequencing reports confirmed the Omicron variant. Most of the patients were found to be staying in Paramount Colony, in Tolichowki of Hyderabad, known as a hub for visitors from the African countries. Rao said surveillance, sanitisation and testing, and implementation of SOPs are being carried out in the locality, which is yet to be declared a containment zone. While anxieties are spreading over Omicron's “local spread” in the city, the official denied reports claiming that the locals and foreign visitors are being non-cooperative with officials. “In fact, we have collected around 900 samples from the locality. While reports came in for 200 samples, only two were Covid-19 positive. We have sent these for genome sequencing,” Rao said. The top health official said that a Somalian who had arrived in Hyderabad a few days ago for cancer treatment was shifted to Gandhi Hospital, the state's nodal Covid-19 care centre, on Monday for better medical care. “The person is already suffering from an advance stage cancer,” Rao said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-to-apply-covid-19-rules-for-all-international-arrivals-who-test-positive-1063005.html
20-12-2021||State||Tension over statue to eat into Belagavi session||The fresh round of linguistic tensions following the defacement of Shivaji and Sangolli Rayanna statues is going to impact the last four days of the Belagavi session, with the Opposition set to target the government over law and order issues. Tempers among Kannada and Marathi-speaking communities in parts of Belagavi had flared up after a Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti (MES) leader was smeared with ink, following which a Karnataka flag was torched in Kolhapur. The defacement of Shivaji and Sangolli Rayanna statues and retaliation by various groups have forced the state to impose prohibitory orders in Belagavi, where the legislature session is currently in progress. Amid the vandalism and uproar, key issues like widespread corruption in the tender process of various government projects and the case of hacker Srikrishna Ramesh alias Sriki are bound to take a back seat. The ruling BJP has targeted the Opposition for the situation in Belagavi, holding Congress workers responsible for disfiguring Shivaji statue in Bengaluru and Rayanna statue in Belagavi. Meanwhile, Kannada organisations have sought a ban on MES — a prominent Marathi organisation in Belagavi and surrounding areas. That these incidents have occurred during the Belagavi session — when the state administrative machinery is concentrated in the border district — will give ammunition to the Opposition. The divide between Kannada and Marathi-speaking population has already been a subject of discussion in the Assembly, which passed a censure motion last week after the burning of a Kannada flag in Kolhapur. The JD(S) has been raising such linguistic issues of late in a bid to place itself as a pro-Kannadaparty. Apart from this, the Congress will continue to demand a discussion on the FIR registered against Urban Development Minister Byrati Basavaraj, which was rejected by Assembly Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri on Friday. Similar demands in the Legislative Council have consumed nearly two days of proceedings. Corruption charges These issues will push the allegations of corruption in tender processes and the Sriki case to the backburner. Sources said the Opposition, too, was not keen to discuss the graft issue due to the video involving Congress leader V S Ugrappa and expelled media coordinator M A Saleem. The video had pinned the blame on KPCC president D K Shivakumar for increasing ‘commission rates’ for government projects. Sources said the Congress feared a strong retaliation from the BJP if the issue is taken up. Meanwhile, demanding the state to repeal farm laws along the lines of the central government, farmer organisations will stage a protest in Belagavi during the session. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/tension-over-statue-to-eat-into-belagavi-session-1062686.html
20-12-2021||State||Karnataka Cabinet clears Rs 100 crore fund for startups||The Karnataka Cabinet on Monday is understood to have approved a venture capital fund of Rs 100 crore that will be used to invest in startups from emerging technology sectors.  The fund will be set up under the Department of Electronics, IT/BT, and Science & Technology. According to sources, the fund will be to pump capital into startups that deal with artificial intelligence, machine learning, electric vehicles and other cutting-edge technologies. In another decision, the Cabinet granted administrative approval for the Dharwad-Kittur-Belagavi railway project. The 73-km rail line will come up at a cost of Rs 927.4 crore, sources said. The long-standing demand to connect the two cities received some momentum earlier this year when funds were allocated for the project in the budget. The new line will have 11 railway stations of which seven are new stations. The Railway Board had cleared the project in 2020. The Cabinet also cleared a proposal to raise loans worth Rs 1,650 crore for agencies under the Water Resources Department. With this, the Karnataka Neeravari Nigam Ltd (KNNL), Visvesvaraya Jala Nigam Ltd (VJNL), Cauvery Neeravari Nigam Ltd (CNNL) and Krishna Bhagya Jala Nigan Ltd (KBJNL) can raise term loans of Rs 1,650 crore with a government guarantee. Of the amount, Rs 650 crore will be raised under the Internal and Extra Budgetary Resources heads as term loans for KNNL. And, Rs 250 crore each will be raised by VJNL and CNNL and Rs 500 crore for KBJNL. Haveri gift Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai's home district Haveri received a gift in the Cabinet in the form of a drinking water project worth Rs 645 crore. Administrative approval was granted for the project being taken up under Jal Jeevan Mission by the Rural Development & Panchayat Raj department. The DBOT project will provide water to 285 villages of Savanur, Shiggaon, Hanagal and Haveri taluks. Bommai represents the Shiggaon constituency.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-cabinet-clears-rs-100-crore-fund-for-startups-1062947.html
20-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports 5 more Omicron variant cases; state tally 19||The state announced five more Omicron cases on Monday taking its tally to 19 in six districts. The government is clueless about the source of infection in 11 out of 19 cases, as only eight of them had international travel history. The oldest to contract Omicron was an 82-year-old man in Udupi. His 73-year-old wife has also contracted the variant. The six districts that have so far reported Omicron cases are Bengaluru (8), Belagavi (1), Dakshina Kannada (6), Dharwad (1), Shivamogga (1) and Udupi (2). Out of 19 Omicron patients in the state, 11 have been discharged after the 10-day hospital isolation that is mandated for Omicron by the state. District Health Officer of Udupi Dr Nagabhushan Udupa, told DH, “In case of the elderly couple, their 11-year-old granddaughter was tested because she wanted to start attending offline classes at school. She tested Covid positive. Her grandparents were tested as they were her contacts. But they also tested Covid positive for Omicron variant. From day 1 they have been in home isolation. They all have recovered and are doing fine.” The elderly couple’s samples were taken on November 11. They’re both fully vaccinated and at present show no Covid symptoms. Dakshina Kannada district added one more Omicron case (a 19-year-old girl) to its nursing college cluster taking the district tally to 6. In all, 19 students have tested positive and two have been found infected with Omicron. A total of 42 primary contacts and 293 secondary contacts of the two young women has been tested and all have tested negative. The district is clueless on the source of infection in the nursing college students as they have not come in contact with any international passengers. Dr Ashok H, Covid Nodal Officer, Dakshina Kannada, told DH, “From December 1, as many as 312 international passengers have arrived in Mangaluru. Of which, 115 have tested negative. Through Bengaluru airport, 259 transit passengers have arrived in Mangaluru airport. 53 of them have crossed day 8 of home quarantine. Those that belong to other districts and states are 39 in number.” District Surveillance Officer Dr Jagadeesh said, “Only one has tested positive who came from Ghana to Dubai and then to Mangaluru. He is quarantined at Wenlock and his sample has been sent for genomic sequencing.” Dharwad and Shivamogga districts have reported their first Omicron patients on Monday. The Dharwad patient, a 54-year-old woman, who tested positive on December 5, is currently healthy, relieved of symptoms and at home isolation. She is fully vaccinated and has no travel history or contact with an international traveller. Four of her primary and 133 secondary contacts have tested negative. A 20-year-old college student from Bhadravati has tested Covid positive for Omicron variant. Her samples returned positive for Covid-19 on Dec 6. She is currently in her hostel and has recovered. Fully vaccinated, she has no travel history or contact with international travellers. When 218 of her contacts were tested, 26 positives were found. All samples have been sent for sequencing. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-5-more-omicron-variant-cases-state-tally-19-1062715.html
20-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Twins, mother killed as drunk truck driver hits bike in Karnataka||In a case of drunk driving, a truck driver hit several vehicles before colliding with a bike, killing three of the four riders, including twins and their mother in Hassan district of Karnataka, police said. The accident happened on Sunday at midnight. The deceased have been identified as three-year-old Pranathi, Pranav and their mother Jyothi. The condition of Shivanand, the deceased children's father, is said to be critical. According to police, the incident took place on the National Highway in the outskirts of Hassan city. The victims' family was travelling on their bike when they were hit by the truck. The truck had also hit four other vehicles before hitting the bike. The impact of the collision was such that all four were thrown off. The twins came under the wheels and were dragged by the vehicle for a long distance. The body of Pranathi had been totally disfigured. Both kids died on the spot and their mother succumbed to injuries at the hospital, police said. The truck driver, who was found to be in an inebriated state, tried to escape from the spot but was arrested by the police. The investigation is on. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/twins-mother-killed-as-drunk-truck-driver-hits-bike-in-karnataka-1062761.html
20-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||We will not allow conversion of helpless: Karnataka CM Bommai||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Monday asserted that the ruling BJP will not allow religious conversion of helpless people in the state. Speaking at a function organised by the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP), he said that his government would soon bring in anti-conversion laws. "Innocent people are being converted across the state. They are lured by money and financial assistance," he said. "Religious conversions are not merely about increasing the number of people in a community. The mindset has to be changed. What appears to be luring initially will eventually affect society. Our government, our nation will not allow such things to happen. There is an attempt to encash poverty in our society," he reiterated. "As per law there is no provision which facilitates to lure people for conversions. There is no scope for this in the Constitution. The people who are opposing the anti-Conversion bill were ready to implement it in 2019. Now, they are bound by political compulsions," he said. State government would take decisive steps to stop vandalism. Stringent action would be initiated against those who take the law into their hands, the Chief Minister said speaking to media. "The main perpetrators of the recent vandalism in Karnataka have already been arrested. We will not allow any hooliganism to continue," he added. State Home Secretary and DG of Police have taken up the issue with their Maharashtra counterparts to protect the life and property of Kannadigas in Maharashtra, and also providing security for Karnataka government vehicles, Bommai said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/we-will-not-allow-conversion-of-helpless-karnataka-cm-bommai-1062799.html
20-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Cabinet clears controversial anti-conversion bill||The Karnataka Cabinet on Monday approved the controversial anti-conversion bill on Monday, paving the way for it to be tabled in the ongoing legislature session. According to sources, the Cabinet agreed to clear the 'Karnataka Protection of Right to Freedom of Religion Bill, 2021', without any changes. It will be tabled in the Assembly most likely on Tuesday. The Bill proposes up to 10 years of imprisonment for ‘forced’ religious conversion. Imprisonment ranges from 3 to 5 years with a fine of Rs  25,000. For conversion involving a minor, woman or an SC/ST person, jail term is 3 to 10 years, with a fine of Rs 50,000. Further, the Bill makes a provision for the court to ask the accused to pay up to Rs 5 lakh as compensation to those who were made to convert. Mass conversion will attract 3-10 years of jail time with a fine of up to Rs 1 lakh. The Bill has come under criticism from Opposition parties, who have accused the BJP government of introducing it to target the Christian community. The JD(S) has announced that it wouldn't support the Bill, making it a challenge for the Basavaraj Bommai government to pass it in the Legislative Council, where it depends on the regional party. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cabinet-clears-controversial-anti-conversion-bill-1062804.html
20-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Religious conversion is silent invasion, shouldn't be allowed: Karnataka CM Bommai||Terming religious conversion a silent invasion, Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Monday said the menace of conversion should not be allowed to grow in society. "Hindus were often invaded leading to large-scale religious conversions from time to time. If you see people from other religions around us, they were originally Hindus. Besides the geographical invasion, there is a religious invasion happening in the country. If geographical invasion happens openly, religious invasion happens slowly," Bommai said during an event organised by the Vishwa Hindu Parishad. Seers of various Maths under the banner of VHP and Bajrang Dal organised the event urging the Chief Minister to bring the anti-conversion Bill he had been talking about. According to the VHP sources, the event was organised as a few missionary organisations are opposing the Bill by saying that it was against the Constitution. The Chief Minister said that the anti-conversion Bill would be introduced as the conversion is a threat to society. According to Bommai, the attempt to change the cultural background through allurement is unethical and unjust, which is the root of the problem. Religious conversion is not about increasing the strength but changing the mindset. It would have a huge impact on society, hence should not be allowed grow, the Chief Minister said. "Initially it is coercion and allurement, then it becomes a disease and later a menace. Our society, State and the nation should not allow this to happen," Bommai told the Seers. Stating that poverty and disabilities are often misused to lure people to change their faith, Bommai said there was a need to bring a law because there is no scope for coercion and allurement in the Indian Constitution. In this regard, a law was needed to stop such practice, he said. The Chief Minister called upon the Seers, too, to start a social movement against conversion to start identifying and addressing the root cause of the problem, as Adiguru Shankaracharya did. "The government will do its job but the Seers here have to think about a mega social movement. I have faith in the Seers gathered here. We have to work together to save our religion. We will follow whatever decision you take," Bommai told the gathering. He claimed that the Congress government in Karnataka had thought of bringing a law banning religious conversion in 2016 but due to vested political interests, they could not do so. Speaking about the proposed anti-conversion Bill his government intends to bring, he said he cannot disclose the content of the matter because the legislative session was in progress. However, he said the process to enact the law was on different levels. Bommai had earlier said his government would bring the law and the draft was ready. Any marriage done only to change someone's faith would be declared void, according to the draft. It also says those changing religion should give prior notice to the district administration at least 60 days in advance so that an inquiry can be conducted into it whether the change in faith is by choice or by coercion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/religious-conversion-is-silent-invasion-shouldnt-be-allowed-karnataka-cm-bommai-1062885.html
20-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Minister calls for shooting miscreants who vandalised Rayanna's statue||Karnataka Minister for Rural Development and Panchayat Raj, KS Eshwarappa, said on the floor of the House on Monday that the miscreants who vandalised the statue of freedom fighter Sangolli Rayanna and burnt the Kannada flag must be shot dead. The act of vandalising the statue of freedom fighter Sangolli Rayanna and burning Kannada flag is highly condemnable and the miscreants should be tracked and shot dead, he said. Meanwhile, former Chief Minister HD Kumaraswamy demanded that the miscreants who indulged in the desecration of the statue and burning of Kannada flag must be extradited. The organisations which were involved in the acts must be banned, he said, terming the incident as a cowardly act. Those who are attempting to bring disharmony must not be spared, he added. Tension prevailed in Belagavi, which boredrs Maharashtra, after a statue of Rayanna was vandalised, following news that a statue of Shivaji was damaged in Bengaluru. Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-minister-calls-for-shooting-miscreants-who-vandalised-rayannas-statue-1062946.html
20-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka begins issuing 'BH' series for vehicle registrations||Karnataka has begun issuing BH ('Bharat') series of registration numbers for a select group of vehicle owners, to enable smooth transfer of government employees from one state to another. J Purushotham, additional commissioner for transport (E&EG), said the department began processing the applications for BH series two days ago. As per the rules, he said, those seeking BH series should be central government or PSU employees or employees of firms and organisations that have establishments in more than four states. Vehicles from other states migrating to Karnataka have to intimate the authorities within 15 days from the date of entry and register in the local RTO within the next 12 months. The process involves a whole set of procedures besides payment of fees. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-begins-issuing-bh-series-for-vehicle-registrations-1063035.html
20-12-2021||West||It's a mark of respect: Raut defends Maharashtra minister's comment likening road to Hema Malini||"This type of comparison has happened earlier too. It's a respect for Hema Malini. So, don't see it negatively. Earlier, Lalu Yadav had also given a similar example. We respect Hema Malini," the Rajya Sabha MP told news agency ANI. On Sunday, Maharashtra minister Gulabrao Patil stirred up a political controversy comparing the roads in his constituency of Jalgaon district to actor-lawmaker Hema Malini's cheeks. The remark invited a strong reaction from the state. Patil is the Water Supply & Sanitation Minister in the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government. Meanwhile, Hema Malini told ANI that the comments were not in good taste, particularly coming from an elected representative. The BJP MP noted that the trend was first started by Lalu Prasad Yadav a few years ago and many followed suit. When asked if she would seek an apology, she quipped that she did not care for such things. The actor also jokingly said she should now 'look after her cheeks' if they are being used as metaphors. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/its-a-mark-of-respect-raut-defends-maharashtra-ministers-comment-likening-road-to-hema-malini-1062749.html
20-12-2021||West||77 kg heroin apprehended from Pak at Gujarat port||In a joint operation, the Gujarat Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) and Indian Coast Guard (ICG) on Monday apprehended six Pakistani nationals with 77 kg heroin consignment worth Rs 400 crore from their fishing boat in a mid sea operation off Jakhau coast in Kutch district. ATS officials said that the consignment was supposed to land at Gujarat port and smuggled further to Punjab for local consumption. "There are handlers based in Rajasthan and Punjab who are behind this. We have identified their local pointsmen, who were to collect the consignment," officials said. A statement issued by ICG stated that six crew members of Pakistani fishing boat "Al Hussaini" were apprehended in Indian waters and 77 kgs of heroin worth Rs 400 crore were recovered from the boat. It said that ICG "ship sighted the suspiciously moving boat, which on being challenged, tried to flee, that was outmaneuvered. Ship displaying prompt agility forced them to surrender." The note added that the contraband was kept in five bags weighing 77 kg of heroin. It was the second joint operation in the last three months in which heroin worth Rs5,50 crore was confiscated. ATS officials said that the conspiracy to smuggle the contraband was hatched by two Pakistani drug mafia identified as Haji Hasan and Haji Hasam. The crew members set sail from Karachi and after reaching 35 nautical miles off Jakhau port in Kutch tried to contact their handler in Gujarat through very high frequency (VHF) channel-71, to contact their local handlers from 35 nautical miles from the Jakhau coast. They were using code words, Hari-1 and Hari-2 to contact their handlers here. The boat belongs to one Shahbaz Ali. The crew members have been identified as Md Imran Vagher, Ismail Badala, Md Sajid Vagher, Sagar Vagher, Md Danish Vagher, Ashfak Vagher, all residents of Karachi. The fresh operation came barely a month after ATS had seized 120 kg narcotics worth Rs 600 crore in the international market smuggled from Pakistan, in Morbi and Dev Bhumi Dwarka districts. Before these two cases, DRI had seized a whopping 3000 kg of heroin worth over Rs 20,000 crore from Mundra port which had landed from Afghanistan. This case is being probed by the National Investigation Agency. The ATS said in note that since August 2018, it has seized about 920 kg of drugs, worth Rs 4,600 crore in international markets and arrested Pakistani, Iranian and Afghan nationals along with their Indian handlers. The officials believe that "smuggling activities through the sea route has increased in the past several years primarily due to land border trade halt between Indian and Pakistan." Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/77-kg-heroin-apprehended-from-pak-at-gujarat-port-1062752.html
20-12-2021||West||Was never involved in production, distribution of pornography: Raj Kundra||Businessman Raj Kundra, who was arrested in a pornography case earlier this year and later granted bail, on Monday claimed he has never been involved in the production and distribution of pornographic content in his life. In a statement issued on a social media platform, Kundra, who is married to actor Shilpa Shetty, said the entire episode was nothing but a "witch hunt". The businessman also said has already been pronounced “guilty” by the media, and he wishes his privacy is not intruded anymore with this continued "media trial". In July this year, Kundra was arrested by the Mumbai Police in another case where he was accused of distributing porn films through an app. He was granted bail in September. On Monday, Kundra stated that, “After much contemplation, considering there are many misleading and irresponsible statements and articles floating around and my silence has been misconstrued for weakness. I would like to start by stating that I have NEVER been involved in the production and distribution of “pornography” EVER in my life." "This whole episode has been nothing but a witch hunt. The matter is subjudice so I can not elucidate, but I am ready to face trial and have full faith in the judiciary, where the truth will prevail." Kundra said, unfortunately he has already been pronounced “guilty” by the media and that his family and he have been subjected to a lot of pain (continuously), violating his human and constitutional rights at different levels. "The trolling, negativity and toxic public perception has been very debilitating. To set the record straight, I do not hide my face in shame, but wish that my privacy is not intruded anymore with this continued MEDIA TRIAL. My priority has always been my family, nothing else matters at this juncture," he said. Kundra said he believes it is every person's inalienable right to live with dignity and he requests the same. The businessman had been booked under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code, the Indecent Representation of Women (Prevention) Act and the Information Technology Act for allegedly distributing/ transmitting sexually explicit videos. Fearing arrest, Kundra first sought an anticipatory bail from a sessions court, but it was refused, so he moved the Bombay High Court, claiming that he had been framed. The HC also rejected his anticipatory bail application on November 25. The FIR named actors Sherlyn Chopra and Poonam Pandey as co-accused. Kundra's lawyers had claimed he was in no way connected to content creation, publication or transmission of alleged illegal videos even as the actors, who were named as co-accused, had given full consent to shoot the videos. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/was-never-involved-in-production-distribution-of-pornography-raj-kundra-1062773.html
20-12-2021||West||Will welcome 'official guests' with tea and cookies: Nawab Malik||In a fresh development, Maharashtra minority affairs minister and NCP chief spokesperson Nawab Malik claimed that he was expecting “official guests” – weeks after he dropped hints of attempts being made to implicate him in false cases. “It has come to my knowledge that some official guests will be visiting my residence early morning…I will be ready to welcome them wholeheartedly with tea and cookies. If they need the correct address, they can call me,” Malik tweeted on Sunday night. It has come to my knowledge that some official guests will be visiting my residence early morning tomorrow.I will be ready to welcome them whole heartedly with tea and cookies.If they need the correct address, they can call me. However, in another tweet on Monday morning, he targeted the BJP. “An ex- Maharashtra chief minister is showing a lot of interest in directing central agencies to take action against me. I suggest he gets himself appointed as OSD which he has plenty of experience of appointing as CM…and Kirit Somaiyya as spokesperson,” Malik said without taking any names. Later, local BJP leader Mohit Kamboj Bharatiya said: “One sitting NCP cabinet minister tried to contact me through a source that wanted to meet me and have all the corruption files of his party minister Nawab Malik. He wanted me to expose Nawab Malik. I told him to give it to NCP president Sharad Pawar. Expose him in front of Pawar saheb.” Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/will-welcome-official-guests-with-tea-and-cookies-nawab-malik-1062798.html
20-12-2021||West||Prove allegation that Maharashtra minister was at Karan Johar's party, Mumbai mayor tells BJP's Shelar||Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar on Monday dared BJP MLA Ashish Shelar to prove his statement that a Maha Vikas Aghadi minister was present in a party thrown by renowned filmmaker Karan Johar or tender a public apology. A recent party thrown by the filmmaker had come under the scanner of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation after two actors tested positive for Covid-19, while it soon turned into a political tussle with Shelar claiming that a state minister was also one of the attendees. Speaking to reporters at her official residence in Byculla, Pednekar, who is also a Shiv Sena spokesperson, asked Shelar to give proof to back his claim and also hit out at the BJP for creating unnecessary controversies through baseless allegations. The BMC, which is ruled by the Shiv Sena, has taken necessary action in connection with the party, she added. Earlier, the BMC had said it had prepared a list of those who had attended the party and intended to get them tested for coronavirus. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/prove-allegation-that-maharashtra-minister-was-at-karan-johars-party-mumbai-mayor-tells-bjps-shelar-1062807.html
20-12-2021||West||Another Goa Congress MLA resigns, party's strength in House down to 2||In yet another jolt to the Congress ahead of the Goa Assembly polls, the party's state working president, Aleixo Reginaldo Lourenco, resigned as Member of the Legislative Assembly on Monday, reducing the party's strength to two in the 40-member House. Two other Congress leaders had also recently resigned as MLAs in the state, where elections are due early next year. Notably, the Congress last week declared its first list of eight candidates for the forthcoming state polls, and Lourenco's name figured in it. Lourenco, who represented the Curtorim Assembly segment in south Goa district, submitted his resignation to the Assembly Speaker's office on Monday afternoon. He later also resigned from the Congress, sources said. Lourenco, who was the working president of the Goa Pradesh Congress Committee, was not available for comments. He may join the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress Party (TMC) soon, the sources said. Earlier this month, former Goa chief minister Ravi Naik resigned as Congress MLA. A few months back, ex-CM Luizinho Faleiro had also quit the Congress and joined the TMC, which has decided to contest the Goa Assembly polls. In the 2017 Goa Assembly elections, the Congress had won 17 seats in the House and emerged as the single largest party. But, the BJP, which had bagged 13 seats, quickly tied-up with some regional parties and independents to form government in the state.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/another-goa-congress-mla-resigns-partys-strength-in-house-down-to-2-1062810.html
20-12-2021||West||Far from reality: Raut on Shah's claim that BJP made clear Fadnavis would be made Maharashtra CM||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Monday said Union Home Minister Amit Shah's claim that he and Prime Minister Narendra Modi had made it clear that BJP's Devendra Fadnavis will become the chief minister of Maharashtra after the 2019 state polls is "far from reality". It was the BJP which "ditched" the Shiv Sena in 2014 for a larger share in power, Raut claimed while talking to reporters in Delhi. The Shiv Sena's spokesperson also said his party will never abandon Hindutva. The Uddhav Thackeray-led party fell out with the BJP after the 2019 Maharashtra Assembly polls following differences emerged over the post of chief minister, and joined hands with the NCP and Congress to form government in the state. Shah during his Pune visit on Sunday said he and PM Modi had made it clear that Fadnavis will become the CM of Maharashtra after the 2019 polls. Targeting Thackeray and the Shiv Sena, Shah had said "since you wanted to become a chief minister, you betrayed the BJP and became CM by compromising on Hindutva for power". Reacting to it, Raut said, "The comments are far from reality. We are trying to find out the truth in it. By questioning us (the Shiv Sena), our government and our Hindutva, they are misleading the country, but people are not ready to believe them. I can see this failure in state (BJP) leaders." The Shiv Sena has not left Hindutva and will never abandon it, the Rajya Sabha member asserted. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/far-from-reality-raut-on-shahs-claim-that-bjp-made-clear-fadnavis-would-be-made-maharashtra-cm-1062849.html
20-12-2021||West||Shivaji statue row: Shiv Sena MPs demand Karnataka CM's resignation||The Shiv Sena MPs in the Lok Sabha on Monday protested against the recent desecration of a statue of Chhatrapati Shivaji in Bengaluru and demanded the resignation of the Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai. The Shiv Sena MPs from Maharashtra trooped into the well of the Lok Sabha soon after the House assembled for the day and the proceedings of the Question Hour commenced. They raised slogans condemning the desecration of the statue of the 17th-century founder of the Maratha Empire and criticising the Bharatiya Janata Party’s government in Karnataka. Some miscreants smeared black ink on the statue of Chhatrapati Shivaji at Bashyam Circle in Sadashivnagar in Bengaluru last Friday. Police till Sunday arrested seven people suspected to be involved in defacing the statue. The Shiv Sena’s protest in the Lok Sabha against the desecration of the statue came after Maha Vikas Aghadi government of Maharashtra also strongly reacted to the incident in neighbouring Karnataka. The Shiv Sena supremo and Chief Minister of Maharashtra, Uddhav Thackeray, stated that the Union Government must take cognisance of the issue and Prime Minister Narendra Modi should intervene to stop “atrocities” on Marathi people of Karnataka. Thackeray also stated that Modi should ask Bommai to take action against the miscreants. Arvind Sawant and the other Shiv Sena MPs on Monday trooped into the well of the Lok Sabha, protesting against the incident. They held up placards, demanding the resignation of Bommai as Chief Minister of Karnataka. They joined the MPs of other opposition parties who were also in the well of the Lok Sabha, protesting on other issues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/shivaji-statue-row-shiv-sena-mps-demand-karnataka-cms-resignation-1062852.html
20-12-2021||West||Will court asking political parties to shun 'bandhs' have any impact on them: Bombay HC||The Bombay High Court on Monday wondered if directions from the court to political parties, asking them to refrain from calling bandhs, would have any effect on them. The remarks were made by a division bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice MS Karnik while hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by four senior citizens, including retired IPS officer Julio Ribeiro, challenging the October 11 bandh in Maharashtra called by the three constituents of the Maha Vikas Aghadi government (MVA) in the state. As per the plea, the bandh, called by the three MVA parties to express solidarity with farmers' protest over the now scrapped agri laws and against the violence in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri district on October 3, had caused a loss of Rs 3,000 crore to the public exchequer. The petition sought the high court to declare the bandh as "unconstitutional and illegal" and direct the three coalition partners - the Shiv Sena, the Congress and the NCP - to pay compensation to the affected citizens. The bench, however, asked if the petitioners feel that if the court says no more bandhs should be declared, the same would be followed or adhered to by political parties? “This requires a change of mindset. We wonder whether directions from court to political parties to refrain from calling bandhs would have any effect on them or not,” CJ Datta said. The bench directed the Maharashtra government to file its affidavit in response to the petition and posted the matter for further hearing on February 14. The PIL said the members of the MVA government which “enforced” the bandh in solidarity with farmers had “blatantly violated the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens”. The shutdown caused huge intangible loss too in terms of anxiety, stress and inconvenience for the citizens, the plea said. Compensation, it said, should be paid to central and Maharashtra governments, which in turn should disburse the payout to the affected citizens. The PIL is “being filed in the interest of citizens at large who have suffered major hardships, acute inconvenience, loss of livelihood and income and also damage to their assets and property besides disruption of their basic liberties and fundamental rights on account of the calling for and enforcement of the bandh”, it said. “Past experience over the last several years indicates that a bandh is usually called for and enforced by a political party or a group which is in the opposition,” the petition said. But this bandh was “unique and unprecedented” as it was called by the parties of the ruling coalition, it maintained. The shutdown was called “despite” knowing that the Supreme Court had held such bandhs “unconstitutional and hence illegal”, the PIL added. Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/will-court-asking-political-parties-to-shun-bandhs-have-any-impact-on-them-bombay-hc-1062864.html
20-12-2021||West||Varavara Rao must go back to prison as other old people also in jail: NIA to Bombay HC||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Monday urged the Bombay High Court to direct poet-activist Varavara Rao, an accused in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case, to surrender before the Taloja prison authorities, saying that several "other old people" in need of medical treatment were also in prisons. The NIA made the submission as a bench of Justices Nitin Jamdar and SV Kotwal extended the time for 83-year-old Rao to surrender till January 7, 2022. Rao was granted temporary medical bail for six months by the HC in February this year and was supposed to surrender on September 5, but he applied for the extension of such bail, stating that he continued to suffer from several ailments. The HC has extended his bail multiple times due to reasons like the need for further medical care, and time sought by the NIA to get him medically examined. On Monday, as Rao's counsel Anand Grover sought time to file an affidavit responding to his medical examination reports submitted by the Nanavati Hospital here, the NIA opposed any further extension of time for surrender. Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh, who appeared for the NIA, told the HC that on December 17, a panel of expert doctors from the Nanavati Hospital, a private medical facility, submitted a one-page document stating that Rao had been examined thoroughly, his vital parameters were stable, and he did not need continued medical treatment or hospitalisation. "We are not experts to examine or analyse Nanavati Hospital's opinion. Once it says that he (Rao) is fit for discharge, then there is no question of any further extension," Singh told the HC. "In jail, there are other old people who need medical treatment. They are treated when needed. Let him (Rao) surrender. His age can't be a ground for extension," Singh said. However, Grover told the bench that though the NIA had submitted Nanavati Hospital's opinion on Rao's medical condition, and his medical reports, he must be permitted to file an affidavit to inform the court whether or not Rao was in a position to be sent back to the prison. He said in February this year, the bench of Justices S S Shinde and Manish Pitale had granted medical bail to Rao, despite a similar opinion from the Nanavati Hospital. "On my original application, Nanavati Hospital had given a similar conclusion. The hospital had said at the time that I (Rao) didn't need indoor hospital treatment and could be discharged from the hospital," Grover said. But, the HC bench (of Justices Shinde and Pitale) had granted bail observing that Rao's condition was "not compatible for being sent to judicial custody", he said. The current bench of Justices Jamdar and Kotwal then asked what the NIA had to say about the previous bench's observations. While ASG Singh reiterated that Rao be asked to surrender and the court could continue to decide his application for further medical bail even while the activist is in custody, the bench found merit in Grover's submissions. The HC noted that the NIA says it is not necessary to analyse the hospital's preliminary report any further and that it should be accepted as expert opinion. "However, the earlier bench (of Justices Shinde and Pitale) had considered the larger situation, and analysed the reports despite Nanavati Hospital saying Rao's condition had improved and he was fit for discharge. The counsel's (Grover's) request for this bench following the same course taken by the previous bench is justified," the high court said in its order. The HC directed Grover to file an affidavit by December 28 and posted the matter for further hearing on January 4, 2022. But, Singh argued that if the process of granting extensions to Rao continued, "he will never have to surrender". "In effect, he's being given bail," Singh told the HC. The high court, however, said it was merely going by the earlier bench's order. The Elgar Parishad case is related to inflammatory speeches made at a conclave held in Pune on December 31, 2017, which, the police claimed, triggered violence the next day near the Koregaon-Bhima war memorial located on the outskirts of the western Maharashtra city. The police had claimed the conclave was organised by people with alleged Maoist links. The NIA later took over the probe into the case. Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/varavara-rao-must-go-back-to-prison-as-other-old-people-also-in-jail-nia-to-bombay-hc-1062872.html
20-12-2021||West||Bombay HC rejects bail plea of actor Armaan Kohli in drugs case||The Bombay High Court on Monday refused bail to actor Armaan Kohli, arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) for alleged possession and consumption of drugs. A single bench of Justice N W Sambre rejected Kohli's application seeking bail. The court will pass a detailed order giving its reasons later. Kohli was arrested in August this year for possession of 1.2 grams of cocaine, a quantity falling under the 'small category meant for consumption. Later, the NCB arrested the drug peddler from whom commercial quantity was recovered. Kohli approached HC after a special court rejected his bail plea. Kohli's advocate Aabad Ponda had argued the offences against the actor were bailable considering he had been allegedly found with a small number of drugs. He also contended that except for statements and panchnamas, there was nothing to justify why sections 27A (illicit trafficking) and 29 (conspiracy) of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act were invoked. Ponda argued that mere collection of bank statements and Whatsapp chats was not sufficient to invoke the stringent provisions of the NDPS Act. Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh, appearing for NCB, pointed out to the court that Kohli has been accused of supplying contraband to third parties, for which he had received the money. Singh said that several links had been found between Kohli and foreign nationals during the investigation indicating illicit procurement of drugs. The ASG also showed court Whatsapp chats and financial transactions from Kohli's bank accounts to point out that the latter had committed a serious and grave offence. The bench, however, granted bail to Kareem Dhanani and Imran Ansari, two other accused in the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bombay-hc-rejects-bail-plea-of-actor-armaan-kohli-in-drugs-case-1062879.html
