21-12-2021||Comment||Stagnant sector: Manufacturing drag on growth||Although Covid-related restrictions on economic activity have been substantially relaxed, stagnant manufacturing sector output is a matter of concern. The expansion of GVA (gross value-added) in the manufacturing sector during the second quarter was the lowest among secondary and services sectors at just 5.5%. As compared to the pre-pandemic level, it was just 3.9%. The performance of the sector in the two months of the third quarter too does not infuse much confidence. The growth of industrial production in October was at 3.2%, an eight-month low. It is not only that the growth was unimpressive, but it was virtually stagnant at the previous month’s growth of 3.3%. The output of the eight core industries comprising coal, crude oil, natural gas, refinery products, fertilisers, steel, cement and electricity actually recorded an increase of 7.5% over October 2020, which implies that the contraction has come about mainly in the consumer goods industry. In fact, the weight of the eight core industries in the Index of Industrial Production (IIP) is 40.27%, which means that contraction in other industries must have been really steep. The stagnancy in industrial production growth has come about mainly from the automobiles and transport equipment segment. The production of motor vehicles, trailers, and other transport equipment declined by 12.6% in October, on top of the 9% contraction in the previous month. The manufacture of other transport equipment contracted by 15.6% in October, as against 18.5% in the previous month. The manufacture of consumer durables declined by 6.1% as compared to 1.9% last year, and the contraction in the output of capital goods was 1.1%, as compared to the growth of 2.4% in September. The major reason for the contraction in manufacturing was supply-side constraints. In fact, the cheer of festive season demand was severely dampened by the contraction in the manufacturing output due to coal shortage, power cuts, an increase in raw material prices and more importantly, the non-availability of semiconductors. According to the Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers (SIAM), the passenger vehicle despatches in October dropped by 27% (year-on-year) from 3,10,694 units last year to 2,26,353 this year. This is compounded by the 18% fall in despatches in November as compared to the sales in the period last year. Thus, it is not the lack of demand which is the source of the problem but the shortage of semiconductors. The problem is not likely to ease soon as there are no easy or fast solutions. The industry relies on the import of semiconductors, and there is a severe global supply shortage. The excess demand due to reduced manufacturing is stretching the delivery period, with many turning to buying used vehicles. In all possibility, the November estimate of IIP may fare worse. While the supply shortage of semiconductors has continued, unseasonal rains have caused problems in the transportation of coal, affecting not merely coal production but also the generation of power, and these have impacted the production of steel and cement. The power disruptions must have impacted the production of other consumer goods industries as well. The actual position will be known only when the core industries’ output and IIP are available later in the month. These problems will adversely affect the output growth of industry in general and the manufacturing sector in particular in the third and fourth quarters. With the contact-intensive sectors, particularly travel, trade, hotels, transport and communication sectors, still to open up fully and the real estate sector still suffering from inertia, the services sector, too, may not register high growth unless government spending is increased substantially. Besides, there are downside risks arising from the spread of new variants of the virus, the impact of draining out liquidity by the advanced countries, including the US Fed, elevated international crude oil prices, and global supply bottlenecks. These developments could pose difficulties in achieving the growth of 6.6% in the third quarter and 6% in the fourth quarter assumed by the Monetary Policy Committee of the RBI, and that would mean that the feasibility of the economy growing at the 9.5% estimated for the whole year is in question. The coal supply and power situation would improve but the shortage of semiconductors cannot be overcome any time soon. Immediately augmenting domestic supply to ease the constraints is not feasible and attempts to augment imports may not be easy. As there is a significant global supply shortage, the imports will be at significantly higher prices. The only short-term remedy to accelerate growth seems to be to increase public spending by both the Union and state governments. This would help revive government consumption and capital formation as other growth engines, namely private final consumption, will continue to be in slow motion and capital formation from the private sector is yet to take off. However, the lack of fiscal space constrains loosening of the public purse. The higher buoyancy in tax revenues and additional dividend from RBI is expected to exceed the budget estimate by Rs 1.7 lakh crore at the Centre. The Centre has also placed a supplementary demand for grants amounting to Rs 3 lakh crore. This implies that the revenue and fiscal deficit may increase when the actual numbers come out, unless the budgeted disinvestment proceeds of Rs 1.75 lakh crore are realised. At the state level, too, there would be higher revenues from the states’ own tax revenues due to better buoyancy of GST and VAT on petroleum products as well as shared taxes from the Centre. However, it is customary for state governments to show lower fiscal deficit in the budget estimate, and considering the additional expenditure incurred during the second wave of the pandemic and the additional spending they had to incur to strengthen the health infrastructure, it may be difficult to adhere to the budgeted revenue deficit of 0.5% of GDP and fiscal deficit of 3.7%. Thus, the economic revival process is not likely to be smooth, the challenges to accelerating growth are formidable. (The writer is Chief Economic Adviser, Brickwork Ratings. He was a Member of the Fourteenth Finance Commission, and former Director, NIPFP)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/stagnant-sector-manufacturing-drag-on-growth-1063291.html
21-12-2021||Davangere||Commission begins survey of orphans in state||Karnataka State Permanent Backward Classes Commission Chairman K Jayaprakash Hegde stated that the survey of orphans would be conducted in the state, on the lines of Telangana, as they don't get a caste certificate. Speaking to mediapersons on Tuesday, he said, "The commission visited Telangana recently to study how the survey of orphans had been done there. We will submit a report urging the government to include orphans in a particular category based on their socio, economic conditions. Children aged below 16 years will be covered under the survey." He said the commission has also started surveying people belonging to the Panchamasali Lingayat community, initiated from Davangere, to study their socio-economic status and a report would be submitted to the government on the feasibility of their demand for inclusion in Category 2A of reservation (15 per cent) of the other backward classes (OBC) reservation matrix at the earliest. He said that Panchamali, a peasant community among Veerashaiva–Lingayats, is currently included under Category 3B (5 per cent). The members of the community argue that their community has been denied benefits of reservation under 3B as the dominant subcastes among the Veerashaiva–Lingayats have cornered most benefits. So they are, in reality, more backward. They claim that the state has over 80 lakh people from the community. In order to examine whether people of the community is backward in a true sense, the survey has been initiated, Hegde said. He said that education, employment and social status are the major criteria to be considered during the survey. People of the community are residing in over nine districts in the state. "We will visit all the districts and submit a report that will be close to the reality to the government." On the demand from other communities seeking reservation benefits, he said over 15 communities, including Kudu Vokkaliga and Madi Vokkaliga, are demanding reservation benefits. Some of them, in the 3(A), (B) categories, are seeking Category 2(A) reservation benefits.  On objections to the Panchamasali's demand, he said that over 45 castes have opposed the demand citing that they can't compete with them. The first public hearing was already held and the second one would be held on December 28 and 29 in Bengaluru. On the socio-economic survey conducted during the Congress-led government, he said there are some legal issues with the earlier report. However, it would prove beneficial for the commission while submitting a report to the government.  On a survey in Davangere, he said the commission members would visit various villages in Harihar taluk of the district, including Bannikodu, Devara Belakere, Bevinahalli and Haralahalli, till December 23, where most of the villagers belong to the Panchamasali community. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/davangere/commission-begins-survey-of-orphans-in-state-1063194.html
21-12-2021||First Edit||Grave implications for our democracy||It is unfortunate that yet another important bill with far-reaching implications for our democracy has been passed by both Houses of Parliament without a discussion. The Election Laws (Amendment) Bill 2021, which provides for the linking of electoral cards with the Aadhaar number, was passed by a voice vote amidst protests from the Opposition. Some Opposition members demanded that it be referred to a parliamentary panel. Since the provisions of the bill related to serious matters like citizenship, voting rights and personal identity, there should have been a detailed debate on its provisions. The government seemed to be in a hurry and the demand for referring the bill to a parliamentary committee was rejected. Law Minister Kiren Rijiju, who introduced the bill, told the Lok Sabha that some proposals which are part of the bill had already been recommended by the Standing Committee of Law and Personnel. This was an inadequate reply and there was need for more clarity on the matter.  The bill raises some genuine and serious concerns. A voter ID card is given only to citizens; an Aadhaar number is only a tool to verify identity, and is available to all residents, including non-citizens. A linkage between the two is unnatural and problematic. It has been pointed out that it can potentially lead to a situation in which non-citizens may get the voting right or bona fide citizens may be denied the right. Some critics have mentioned the possibility of disenfranchisement of voters with the help of the new law. Electoral registration officers can demand the Aadhaar number of those who seek a voter ID and even of those who already have the card. Refusal can mean denial of the voting right, though the linking is now said to be optional. But if such linking was optional, then why make a law? It is claimed that the linking will help to weed out fake voting cards. Maintaining the electoral list and ensuring that it is correct is the Election Commission's responsibility. There is no information that suggests that the EC has asked for a law on this matter.  The bill also faces criticism on the ground that it violates the Supreme Court judgement in the Puttaswamy case which has made privacy a fundamental right. Linking the voter ID with Aadhaar violates the right to privacy as defined by the judgement, and the competence of the government to legislate on the matter has been questioned. The Supreme Court judgement on Aadhaar had limited its use to welfare schemes, whereas voting is a constitutional right. The use of Aadhaar in matters related to citizenship might go beyond its scope as prescribed by the court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/grave-implications-for-our-democracy-1063314.html
21-12-2021||In Perspective||From 18 to 21: A step in the right direction||The government tabling a bill to increase the minimum legal age for marriage for girls to 21 years (based on the recommendations of a taskforce led by former Samata Party chief Jaya Jaitly) seems like a bit of sunshine amid the dark clouds of a culture otherwise premised on patriarchy. The bill has since been sent to a parliamentary committee for examination. If passed into law, it will have far-reaching consequences that will even require working towards modifying and reorienting personal laws of several religions as marriage is key to other socio-economic factors like faith and inheritance. The present minimum legal age of marriage for girls is 18 years while that for men is 21. The move to raise the former to 21 is path-breaking and important because it changes the perception that girls do not deserve the same educational and career-building opportunities that can be accessed by men. When the minimum age for marriage is 18, it becomes a denial of the right to pursue education after school or the opportunity to become independent financially up to the age of 21 years, a right secured so far only for the male population. The increase in the minimum age for marriage for women will result in amendments in several laws and legal procedures, such as the 1955 Hindu Marriage Act, 1972 Christian Marriage Act, 1936 Parsi Marriage Act, the Divorce Act, etc. The changed law will also impact age-old customs related to inheritance, divorce, maintenance. Once passed in Parliament, the law will mean that Indian women too will have the opportunity to educate themselves and engage in livelihood and will get 21 years to do that, just like the male population. While the proposed bill may be a move in the right direction and significant for women’s empowerment though, it is important to highlight that the move has failed to delve into the socio-cultural and economic factors that make child marriages common in the social fabric. While we cannot emphasise enough that women/men must not be forced into early marriage, there should be a focus on generating awareness, education among them such that they refuse early marriage. It is also important that there are widespread campaigns and awareness programmes on the increase in the marriage age and people must be encouraged to abide by the new legislation. There is also a need to focus on some urgent deliverables, without which the law wouldn’t mean much, like increase in enrolment rates of girls at both school/higher education levels, especially from the remote/disadvantaged communities; building new institutions for skill training/enterprise building at subsided rates such that women from humble backgrounds may be able to access these, etc. Unless these deliverables are given priority, it will be impossible to attain the measure of gender justice as intended by the programme. Another significant requirement would be to increase healthcare facilities for women, focus on issues like maternal wellbeing, childcare, nutrition etc. A 2017 report by the United Nations showed that over 27% of Indian women are forced into early marriages, before they even turn 18. Apart from ensuring implementation of the law, we should ensure that young women have access to free/subsidised education, employment and entrepreneurship opportunities, etc., which they seem to be missing today. Child marriage is blatantly against children’s rights and makes them vulnerable to exploitation, violence and abuse, and while it also impacts boys, its impact on women is disproportionate as it denies them the right to self-determination, education, health and well-being. A girl married early is more likely to enter pregnancy at a young age and face childbirth-related complications and even the possibility of death. It is well-known that India has the largest number of child brides, and at present nearly 16% of Indian girls are married off between the ages of 15 and 19 years. While child marriages are a result of complex socio-cultural factors and pressing economic concerns, there is gender inequality and a belief that the human rights of girls do not matter. Further, this leads to inter-generational poverty and illiteracy, impacting millions of families. Thus, while the decision to increase the minimum legal age for marriage for girls to 21 years is a step in the right direction, the fact is that the responsibility of joint and collaborative efforts by the central and state governments, the civil society, media, individuals and the larger socio-cultural fabric is much greater now. We must work towards a nation that celebrates its women and prioritises their human rights, not out of charity or pity but because that’s the right thing to do, with firm resolve and commitment. (The writer is Associate Editor, The New Leam)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/from-18-to-21-a-step-in-the-right-direction-1063295.html
21-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Three arrested for burning Kannada flag near Khanapur||Nandgad police in Khanapur taluk arrested three persons accused of burning a Kannada flag hoisted in the premises of Halashi Gram Panchayat. The flag had been burnt on Sunday night and the incident had come to fore on Monday. The Incident has triggered linguistic tensions in the village. A case was registered under Sections 153A, 295, 427, 120B of the IPC and Public Disfigurement Act. Accused were identified as Sanju Omanna Gurav, Ganesh Krishnaji Pednekar and Sachin Omanna Gurav. An investigation is under way. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/three-arrested-for-burning-kannada-flag-near-khanapur-1063150.html
21-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru witnesses series of protests||Many organisations staged protests across the city on Tuesday seeking measures to fulfil their various demands. While the theatre artistes continued their protest against Rangayana Director Addanda C Cariyappa demanding his dismissal, the Guest faculties continued their protest seeking regularisation and action against the Maharashtra Ekikarana Samiti. The artistes, under the banner of Rangayana Ulisi and representatives of various organisations, gathered on the Rangayana premises. However, they were denied entry into the theatre repertory. The irked protesters continued their protest outside the closed gate, raised slogans against Cariappa and sought his resignation. Activists Pa Mallesh, Umadevi, writer Diwakara, Karnataka State Backward Communities Awareness Forum state president K S Shivaramu, theatre persons Janardhan, Krishnajanamana, Dinamani and others participated. The protest against Cariappa was launched on Monday. The employees of Insurance companies, under the banner of Joint Action Committee of Public Sector General Insurance Employees, staged a protest near the office of the New India Assurance company divisional office. They demanded revision of wages and merger of New India Assurance, United India Insurance, Oriental Insurance, National Insurance companies. They stressed the withdrawal of the NPS scheme and an increase in the family pension by 30%. The guest faculties' protest near the deputy commissioner's office entered the 12th day. Kannada Chalavali Vatal Paksha leader staged a protest near Jayachamaraja Wadiyar Circle by auctioning the photographs of the MPs of Karnataka alleging inefficiency. The members of Karnataka Sena Pade staged a protest near the deputy commissioner's office against torching of Kannada flag in Maharastra and desecration of the statue of Krantiveera Sangolli Rayanna in Belagavi. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-witnesses-series-of-protests-1063264.html
21-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||MCC recovers eight acres of encroached land||Mysuru City Corporation and the taluk administration officials recovered eight acres of land worth Rs 8 crore at Gorur village in Kasaba hobli in the city on Tuesday. According to sources, 55 acre land was identified for Ashraya Housing Scheme at old survey number 38 in 2004. During the survey, it was found that eight acre land was encroached at RTC survey number 112 to 119, 121 to 124, 126 and 127. The city corporation has reclaimed the land. A board has been installed on the premises notifying that the land belongs to the MCC. A few had encroached the land for farming activities, according to officials. Mysuru taluk tahsildar Rakshit, additional commissioner Roopa, engineers, Ashraya Housing Scheme officials and the police took part in the operation. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mcc-recovers-eight-acres-of-encroached-land-1063275.html
21-12-2021||Karnataka Politics||Anti-conversion bill will be black mark on Karnataka: Shivakumar||Karnataka Congress President D K Shivakumar on Tuesday said that the proposed anti-conversion bill is going to be a black mark on the state. He further stated that, if the proposed bill is introduced it will affect the foreign investments in the state. Speaking to reporters at Suvarna Soudha in Belagavi, Shivakumar said that children of all top BJP leaders are studying in Christian institutes. "I have also studied in a Christian institute. Is there any instance of forceful conversions?" he asked. The Christians are running academic and medical institutions which are service-oriented and Hindu religious organisations are also running charities. "We are not forcing anyone to convert to Hinduism," he stated. "We have been opposing the anti-conversion bill since the beginning. The bill is against the constitution and it has to be opposed. The bill is being introduced to create unrest in society for political reasons. There has been an attempt to shift the focus of the people from real issues," he stated.' "There is no scope for forceful conversions and presently the issue of religious freedom is being addressed by existing laws. Many foreign nationals who come to ISKCON, Mata Amrutanandamayi centres chant Hindu bhajans. When this is the scenario, this bill is going to create an uneasy atmosphere for all," he explained. "This is a secular country and peaceful land. The foreigners have great respect towards the country as they think people of all faiths are living in harmony here. The bill is targeting Christians and it is a ploy to disturb the peace," he reiterated. This nation has been ruled by the Moghuls, Portuguese and Britishers in the past. Their population has not increased, so where is the question of conversion in a Hindu nation, he asked. "Forceful conversions have not taken place all these years and suddenly how did they discover religious conversions? Muslims are still 11 to 12 per cent in the country," he maintained. When questioned about 'Love Jihad', Shivakumar responded that, if two persons are in love and if two hearts are united, does it become 'Love Jihad'. C M Ibrahim, Congress MLC said that BJP should think about the safety of Kannadigas in foreign nations if they are planning to bring anti-conversion law in the state. "It is shameful on the part of BJP leaders who get their children educated at Christian institutes, avail health services at Christian hospitals and later blames Christians for conversions. If the bill is presented in the Legislative Council, it is going to be opposed," he said. "Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai is on exit mode already, let him not make this mistake," he underlined. The Karnataka Protection of Right to Freedom of Religion Bill 2021, commonly known as the anti-conversion bill has already been cleared by the Karnataka cabinet and is likely to be tabled in the state assembly on Tuesday. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/anti-conversion-bill-will-be-black-mark-on-karnataka-shivakumar-1063163.html
21-12-2021||Karnataka Politics||Do not oppose Anti-Conversion Bill: Yediyurappa to Opposition||Former Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Tuesday urged the opposition parties in Karnataka not to oppose the proposed Anti-Conversion Bill, which is being introduced by the ruling party BJP in the state. Speaking to reporters, he stated, there was nothing to hide in this regard. "The Anti-Conversion Law will be introduced in the Assembly. The law is already in place in many states. Opposition Congress and JD(S) should allow the Bill to pass. They should not oppose it," he said. "The law is being brought in the interest of the people. There is no emotional aspect in that. The opposition should allow the Bill to pass without posing any hurdles," he stated. Meanwhile, former Chief Minister H D Kumaraswamy stated that the ruling BJP can not indulge in muscle twisting tactics for the fact that it has a majority in the House. "We (JD(S)) will oppose the Anti-Conversion Bill in the Assembly as well as council," he said. The Congress in its legislature party meeting, held earlier in the day, decided to oppose the Bill tooth and nail. The Bill was cleared in the state cabinet meeting on Monday. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/do-not-oppose-anti-conversion-bill-yediyurappa-to-opposition-1063179.html
21-12-2021||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka government to convince Centre on ST tag for Kaadu Gollas: Madhuswamy||Law Minister J C Madhuswamy on Tuesday told the Legislative Assembly that the proposal to bring the Kaadu Golla community under the list of Scheduled Tribes (ST) is held up as the Centre has sought clarity on their customs and practices being similar to those followed by Hindus. Kaadu Gollas form a part of the Golla (Yadava) community. The issue was discussed at length, with Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah, BJP’s K Poornima, K M Shivalinge Gowda of the JD(S) and others arguing that Kaadu Gollas should come under the ST category. They are currently considered as OBCs. “The [anthropological report] says Kaadu Gollas are on par with Hindus when it comes to customs and practices of marriage and worship. The registrar-general has asked whether or not they can be considered STs. We need to clarify this,” Madhuswamy said. “We’ve been made aware of the fact that Kaadu Gollas are tribal in nature and they differ in all respects from Hindu religion. If there’s any community that doesn’t have the concept of a widow, it’s Kaadu Gollas,” Madhuswamy said, assuring the Assembly that the government will try to convince the Centre on giving the ST tag to Kaadu Gollas. Siddaramaiah said the anthropological report had certified that Kaadu Gollas are fit to be considered as STs as they have all the characteristics of a tribal community. “They live in hattis. Even to this day, their women are ostracized during periods and child birth. These practices exist because of low education,” he said. “My government had commissioned the anthropological report based on which it was recommended to the Centre in 2014 to bring Kaadu Gollas under ST. It was only last month the Centre wrote back seeking clarification,” he said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-government-to-convince-centre-on-st-tag-for-kaadu-gollas-madhuswamy-1063348.html
21-12-2021||National||Omicron spreading faster than first Covid-19 strain in India||India has registered 172 cases of Omicron in less than three weeks, with a top virologist stating that it is not an “insignificant number” and that many infections could be going unreported. Data shows that more Omicron cases were reported in fewer days than the original B.1 novel coronavirus which triggered the pandemic in January 2020. The heightened concerns come at a time when the variant is triggering lockdowns in Europe, where cases are surging rapidly, besides plunging a virus-weary world into a state of uncertainty. As of Monday evening, as per information collated by the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (CSIR-IGIB), 172 cases of Omicron had been recorded, including 54 in Maharashtra, 28 in Delhi, 20 in Telangana, 19 in Karnataka, 17 in Rajasthan, 15 in Kerala and 11 in Gujarat. The first Omicron case was reported in Karnataka on Dec 2 — a 66-year-old South African pharma executive who left the country with a fake RT-PCR report on Nov 27. The most recent case is of a 19-year-old traveller in West Bengal which was announced on Monday. These cases were racked up in a span of just 18 days. In comparison, it took the country 48 days, between Jan 30 and March 18, 2020, to record a comparable 171 cases in the first wave as per the pandemic data. Virologist Dr T Jacob John said the emergence of 172 cases in a span of 18 days is not an insignificant rate. “However, determining a rate of spread from this alone is not correct. For one, we do not know how many unknown infections are happening unreported. A majority of cases are asymptomatic, with probably only less than 10% having symptoms,” Dr John said. Another well-known virologist Dr Shahid Jameel, Director of the Trivedi School of Biosciences at Ashoka University, noted that cases are doubling in 1.5 to 3 days worldwide where Omicron is spreading. “To put this in context, this is about twice as fast as Delta in the first four weeks of its spread. In India too in the past 10 days or so, the case doubling rate is 3 days,” he said. Delayed sequencing results The challenge of tackling the new variant faces many hurdles, one of them being the slow pace of genomic sequencing in the country, which could be allowing Omicron-positive cases to spread quietly. Even in Karnataka, which has independently fast-tracked the sequencing of the first Omicron cases, results of the subsequent cases have taken between 8 to 20 days to arrive. Results are still pending for many of the positive primary and secondary contacts of known Omicron patients. An expert who did not want to be named said that what should be taking three days is taking three weeks because of poor sample collection from patients and storage, which causes the entire, expensive sequencing process to fail, plus red tape. “Following the completion of the bioinformatics analysis which determines genome typing, the results are sent to INSACOG and then to respective states. Only then is SRF ID verification begun. This circuitous system is causing huge delays,” the expert said. Dr John said that short of a lockdown, strict Covid-Appropriate Behaviour such as mask wearing, social distancing and mitigating all indoor events, must be strengthened to prevent spread. While infections will increase enormously, we cannot predict the volume of cases requiring hospitalisation, in other words a ‘wave’. In addition, he also called for vaccination rates to be enhanced, but added that this will not block a third wave, only delay it. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/omicron-spreading-faster-than-first-covid-19-strain-in-india-1063040.html
21-12-2021||National||Lok Sabha passes Bill to link voter ID with Aadhaar||Amid protests by Opposition parties, the Election Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021, which seeks to create a legal framework for linking electoral roll data with Aadhaar, was passed in the Lok Sabha on Monday. The Bill intends to amend the Representation of the People Act, 1950 and the Representation of the People Act, 1951, for the purpose and the Modi government said it will curb the menace of duplicate voters.  The proposed legislation also seeks to amend Section 20 of the RP Act, 1950 and the Section 60 of the RP Act, 1951, for replacing the word “wife” with the word “spouse” and thus making the statutes gender neutral. Law Minister Kiren Rijiju introduced the Bill even as the members of Opposition parties were in the well of the Lok Sabha, protesting against the government and waving placards on multiple issues. “You cannot bulldoze this kind of a legislative document, which is replete with legal infirmities,” said Adhir Chowdhury, leader of the Congress in the Lok Sabha. He demanded that the Bill should be sent to a parliamentary standing committee for scrutiny first, while his party colleague Manish Tewari said  the Aadhaar Act did not allow for linking of the Aadhaar number to the electoral roll. “The Aadhaar Act is very explicit. It is an Act which is for the targeted delivery of financial and other subsidy benefits and services. Voting is a legal right,” said Tewari. N K Premachandran of the Revolutionary Socialist Party (RSP) said the move will infringe upon the right to privacy, while the TMC and Asaduddin Owaisi of the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen pointed out that the Bill is not in sync with the Supreme Court order of September 26, 2018. Rijiju, however, dismissed these concerns as “baseless”, saying the SC order is being misinterpreted and that the move is aimed at making the electoral rolls credible. He also pointed out that proposed legislation will not make it mandatory for a citizen to link Aadhaar with voter ID card. The EC had in 2015 launched the National Electoral Law Purification and Authentication Programme to link Aadhaar numbers with voter ID. But the programme had to be suspended after the SC on August 11, 2015, ordered that the use of Aadhaar will be optional for availing welfare schemes of the government. After the SC in September 2018 upheld the constitutional validity of the Aadhaar Act, the EC in August 2019 proposed that the government should amend the election laws to empower electoral registration officers to seek Aadhaar numbers of existing and new voters. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lok-sabha-passes-bill-to-link-voter-id-with-aadhaar-1063041.html
21-12-2021||National||Sidhu condemns 'sacrilege bids', says conspiracies being hatched to disturb Punjab||Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Sunday condemned the alleged sacrilege attempts at the Golden Temple in Amritsar and at a gurdwara in Kapurthala, saying conspiracies are being hatched to disturb peace in the state. He also said "deliberate and malicious acts" intended to outrage religious feelings should be dealt with deterrent punishment. "Punjab is built on strong foundation of Oneness & universal brotherhood laid down by Guru Sahib. No divisive forces can destroy strong social fabric of Punjabi Community. Deliberate & malicious acts intended to outrage religious feelings should be dealt with deterrent punishment," Sidhu said in a tweet. Earlier, addressing a public meeting in Malerkotla district, he said, "Even today, conspiracies are being hatched to disturb peace in Punjab." The cricketer-turned-politician said those involved in any incident of sacrilege should be awarded the maximum punishment. "If any incident of sacrilege takes place -- be it of the Quran Sharif, the Bhagavad Gita or the Guru Granth Sahib -- the culprits should be publicly hanged, should be given the maximum punishment under the Constitution because such incidents hurt our sentiments. "Anyone can make a mistake, but this is not a mistake, this is a conspiracy to weaken and finish the society," he said. Two unidentified men were beaten to death in Amritsar and Kapurthala after they allegedly attempted to commit sacrilege. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sidhu-condemns-sacrilege-bids-says-conspiracies-being-hatched-to-disturb-punjab-1063066.html
21-12-2021||National||DH Toon | Sidhu calls for public hangings for sacrilege||Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Sunday condemned the alleged sacrilege attempts at the Golden Temple in Amritsar and at a gurdwara in Kapurthala, saying conspiracies are being hatched to disturb peace in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-sidhu-calls-for-public-hangings-for-sacrilege-1063071.html
21-12-2021||National||India reports 5,326 new coronavirus cases, 453 deaths||Two hundred cases of Omicron variant of coronavirus have been detected across 12 states and UTs in India so far out of which 77 patients have recovered or migrated, the Union Health Ministry said on Tuesday.  Maharashtra and Delhi have recorded 54 cases of Omicron variant each, while Telangana registered 20 cases, Karnataka 19, Rajasthan 18, Kerala 15 and Gujarat 14 cases. The ministry data updated on Tuesday also stated that India recorded 5,326 new cases of coronavirus infections, the lowest in 581 days, taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 3,47,52,164, while the active cases declined to 79,097, the lowest in 574 days . The death toll climbed to 4,78,007 with 453 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am.  The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been recorded below 15,000 for the last 54 days now. The active cases have declined to 79,097 comprising 0.23  per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has further improved to 98.40 per cent, the highest since March 2020,the ministry said.  A decline of 3,170 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of  24 hours. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 0.53 per cent. It has been less than two per cent for last 78 days. The weekly positivity rate was also recorded at 0.59  per cent. It has been below one per cent  for the last 37 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,41,95,060, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.38 per cent.  The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 138.35 crore.  India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.  India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 453 new fatalities include 419 from Kerala and 7 from West Bengal. Of the 419 deaths, 14 were recorded over the last few days and 405 were designated as Covid-19 deaths after receiving appeals based on the new guidelines of the Centre and the directions of the Supreme Court, a Kerala state government release said on Monday. A total of 4,78,007 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,41,353 from Maharashtra, 44,922 from Kerala, 38,290 from Karnataka, 36,686 from Tamil Nadu, 25,101 from Delhi, 22,915 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,676 from  West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-5326-new-coronavirus-cases-453-deaths-1063091.html
21-12-2021||National||200 Omicron cases in India; Maharashtra, Delhi have the highest||Maharashtra and Delhi have the highest number (54) of Omicron cases. With 20 and 19 Omicron cases respectively, Telangana and Karnataka are among the second and third highest states with the variant. More to follow... Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/200-omicron-cases-in-india-maharashtra-delhi-have-the-highest-1063105.html
21-12-2021||National||World expects more from India: Jaishankar||India's stature on the global stage has grown significantly and the world expects more from the country, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said on Tuesday. In an address at an event, he said there has been a profound transformation in the international order and its expressions are many. "We find ourselves in a different strategic environment. Our stature on the global stage has grown significantly. The world expects more from us and in a globalised era," he said. "There is so much that we too can seek from the world for our national development. All of this has direct relevance to good governance," Jaishankar said at the event organised to mark 'Good Governance Week'. The external affairs minister said the Covid-19 pandemic posed an unprecedented challenge before the country that compelled it to address many issues with greater urgency. "Among them was to keep the supply chains open at a time when many borders were closed," he said. Jaishankar highlighted the way the government extended assistance to the Indian nationals abroad and the diaspora community in the wake of the pandemic besides referring to the "active role" played by the Indian missions in many countries in the procurement of medicines and medical equipment. He said the Ministry of External Affairs led from the front in ensuring that stranded Indian nationals come back home safely. Referring to the 'Vande Bharat' mission, operation 'Devi Shakti' and assistance provided to Indian nationals facing difficulties, Jaishankar said, "We are a human-centric government dedicated to ease of living". Under the 'Vande Bharat' mission, India brought back home lakhs of stranded Indian citizens from various parts of the globe following the pandemic. The operation 'Devi Shakti' was launched to evacuate Indian nationals and others from Afghanistan after the Taliban seized power in Kabul on August 15. "In so far as our nationals abroad and diaspora are concerned, we have again demonstrated through our whole of the government approach involving different ministries that we are there when they really need us," Jaishankar said. "It could be the Vande Bharat' mission, or operation 'Devi Shakti' or the expanded use of Indian Community Welfare Funds. We are a human-centric government dedicated to ease of living," he said. Jaishankar also spoke about the significant improvement in services relating to the issuance of passports. "Our efforts at facilitating the issue of passport is illustrative of the changes brought in since 2014. At various levels, there has been an effective use of technology for the public good. This has made applications easier to receive and processed," he said. Jaishankar said the use of post offices for passport services is a real case of "minimum government and maximum governance". "All these are central to our goal of approaching the world as a global workplace," he said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/world-expects-more-from-india-jaishankar-1063131.html
21-12-2021||National||Linking Aadhaar with electoral roll will clean voters list of multiple enrolment: Government sources||Amid Opposition criticism of a bill to link Aadhaar with electoral rolls, sources in the government on Tuesday said the move would solve the "major problem" of multiple enrolment of the same person at different places and help in "cleaning" the voters' list to a great extent. The assertion comes a day after the 'Election Laws (Amendment) bill 2021' to link electoral roll data with the Aadhaar ecosystem and bring other poll reforms was passed by the Lok Sabha after a brief debate and amid demand by the Opposition to refer it to a standing committee. The government sources said the bill incorporates various electoral reforms which have been discussed for a long time. Registration in the electoral roll is done based on an application by a person who is eligible to be registered as a voter and this bill has a provision whereby the new applicant may voluntarily provide the Aadhaar number along with the application for the purpose of identity, they said. No application will be rejected on the grounds that Aadhaar number has not been provided, the sources added. Aadhaar linking with electoral roll will solve "one of the major problems" in electoral database management which is multiple enrolments of the same person at different places, they said. This may be due to the frequent shifting of residence by electors and getting enrolled in the new place without deleting the previous enrolment, the sources noted. Thus, the possibility of electors whose names appear in more than one electoral roll or at times more than once in the same electoral roll can be removed, they said. Once Aadhar linkage is achieved, the electoral roll data system will instantly alert the existence of previous registration(s) whenever a person applies for new registration, the sources said. This will help in "cleaning" the electoral roll to a great extent and facilitate voter registration in the location at which they are 'ordinarily resident', the sources added. Besides linking the electoral roll to Aadhaar, the bill also seeks to make the statutes gender-neutral by substituting the term 'wife' with 'spouse' to allow husbands of service voters to cast their vote from the place where their wives are posted. It also seeks to provide four qualifying dates -- January 1, April 1, July 1 and October 1 -- in a year for registration of voters, instead of a single qualifying date -- January 1. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/linking-aadhaar-with-electoral-roll-will-clean-voters-list-of-multiple-enrolment-government-sources-1063145.html
21-12-2021||National||BSP MP Danish Ali who attended Lok Sabha on Monday tests positive for Covid-19||BSP MP Danish Ali who attended Lok Sabha proceedings on Monday has tested positive for Covid-19. The parliamentarian, who is fully vaccinated, has mild symptoms. Ali tweeted on Tuesday to say that he has tested positive for the Coronavirus. "Despite being fully vaccinated, today, I tested positive for Covid-19. Yesterday, I attended Parliament also," he said and requested all those who came in contact with him to get tested and isolate themselves. "I am having mild symptoms and hope to recover soon," he said.   The Winter Session of Parliament is scheduled to end on December 23.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bsp-mp-danish-ali-who-attended-lok-sabha-on-monday-tests-positive-for-covid-19-1063153.html
21-12-2021||National||Why this photo triggered a political slugfest in UP||A seemingly innocuous photo clicked at a wedding reception attended by leaders from different political parties has triggered a political slugfest in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh. The photo, which was taken at the wedding reception of Vice-President Venkaiah Naidu's granddaughter at Delhi, showed Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat and Samajwadi Party (SP) patron Mulayam Singh Yadav sitting together. Mulayam's photo with Bhagwat triggered a sharp reaction from the Congress which said that it was reflective of a new SP in which 'S' denotes 'Sanghavad'. The grand old party wondered if Mulayam 'blessed' Bhagwat. ''Thank you Samajwadi Party. This is what we have been wanting to know. SP patron Mulayam Singh Yadav has blessed Mohan Bhagwat...thank you again for making it clear to the people of the state,'' said a tweet from the UP Congress. समाजवादी पार्टी ने स्वीकार किया है कि आदरणीय मुलायम सिंह यादव जी ने RSS प्रमुख मोहन भागवत को आशीर्वाद दिया है। SP leaders were quick to respond to the Congress' tweet saying that the latter appeared to have forgotten ''political courtesy''. ''In the same function many leaders from the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), an ally of the Congress in Maharashtra, also took blessings from Mulayam....what does the Congress have to say to that?'' a tweet from the SP said. Congress, which is contesting the forthcoming Assembly polls in UP on its own, has been attacking the SP and the latest attack was apparently aimed at sending a message to Muslims that SP and BJP had a tacit understanding in the polls. On the eve of the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, Mulayam had, while speaking in the House, heaped praise on the NDA government and even wished for Narendra Modi to become prime minister again. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/why-this-photo-triggered-a-political-slugfest-in-up-1063155.html
21-12-2021||National||Government slashes import duty on refined palm oil to 12.5% to cool retail prices||Concerned over high prices of cooking oils, the government has reduced the basic customs duty on refined palm oil to 12.5 per cent from 17.5 per cent till March next year to boost domestic supplies and bring down rates in the domestic retail markets. With reduction in the basic custom duty (BCD), the effective levy (including social welfare cess) on both refined palm oil and refined palmoline will come down to 13.75 per cent from 19.25 per cent, according to Solvent Extractors' Association of India (SEA). On Monday late evening, the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) issued a notification which "seeks to reduce BCD on refined palm oil and its fractions from 17.5 per cent to 12.5 per cent till March 31, 2022". The new rate is effective from Tuesday. The average retail prices of groundnut oil on Monday stood at Rs 181.48 per kg, mustard oil at Rs 187.43 per kg, vanaspati at Rs 138.5 per kg, soyabean oil at Rs 150.78 per kg, sunflower oil at Rs 163.18 per kg and palm oil at Rs 129.94 per kg, as per the data available with the consumer affairs ministry. Reacting on the duty cut, SEA President Atul Chaturvedi on Tuesday said: "The announcement of reducing import duty on palmolien ( refined Palm) from 19.25 per cent to 13.75 per cent without simultaneously reducing import duty on CPO has the potential to increase the imports of refined palmolien at the cost of CPO which is the raw material for our refineries." "This is contrary to our principle of Aatma-Nirbharta and may harm employment generation and value addition within India," he said. Chaturvedi, however, added that the silver lining is that this reduction has a sunset clause with 31st March as the last date. SEA Executive Director B V Mehta felt that the imports of refined palm oil would increase as duty difference with Crude Palm Oil (CPO) has come down to only 5.5 per cent now. The effective duty on CPO is 8.25 per cent at present. Besides reducing the BCD on refined palm oil, the government on Monday decided to allow traders to import refined palm oil without licence for one more year till December 2022. Market regulator SEBI banned launch of new derivative contracts of crude palm oil and a few other agricultural commodities. All these measures have been put in place at a time when wholesale inflation is ruling high. In order to rein in the prices of edible oil, the government has cut import duties on both refined and crude edible oils several times this year. The last reduction on import duty was done by the government on October 14. Earlier in the day, the commerce ministry said traders will be allowed to import 'refined bleached deodoerised (RBD) palm oil' and 'refined bleached deoderised palmolein' without licence for one more year till December 2022. According to the SEA, India's dependence on import of edible oils is nearly 65 per cent of the total consumption of about 22-22.5 million tonne. The country imports 13-15 million tonne to bridge the gap between demand and domestic supply. For the last two marketing years (November to October), due to the pandemic, the imported quantity reduced to nearly 13 million tonne. During 2019-20 oil marketing year, the import dropped to 13.2 million tonne valued at about Rs 71,600 crore. In 2020-21, India imported a similar quantity but the import bill jumped by 63 per cent and touched an alarming level of Rs 1.17 lakh crore due to hike in international prices of edible oils, SEA had said earlier. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-slashes-import-duty-on-refined-palm-oil-to-125-to-cool-retail-prices-1063169.html
21-12-2021||National||Bill to increase marriage age for women introduced in Lok Sabha||A bill that seeks to have a uniform age of marriage for men and women was introduced in Lok Sabha on Tuesday amid protests by opposition members, with Union minister Smriti Irani urging the chair to refer it to a parliamentary panel. Irani introduced the Prohibition of Child Marriage (Amendment) Bill 2021 that seeks to increase the legal minimum age for women to marry to 21 years, bringing it at par with that of men. Irani said the bill also seeks to override all existing laws, including any custom, usage or practice governing the parties in relation to marriage. The bill was referred to a parliamentary panel for detailed scrutiny. The House was later adjourned for the day amid continuous protests by opposition members over various issues, including the Lakhimpur Kheri killings.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bill-to-increase-marriage-age-for-women-introduced-in-lok-sabha-1063171.html
21-12-2021||National||Word 'anti-national' not defined in statutes, first inserted during Emergency: Government tells LS||The word 'anti-national' has not been defined in statutes but was first inserted in the Constitution during Emergency in 1976 and subsequently, removed a year later, Union minister Nityanand Rai informed Lok Sabha on Tuesday. Rai said this while replying to a question of Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi, who asked whether the government has defined the meaning of 'anti-national' under any legislation or 11 rules or any other legal enactment that is enforced in the country. Owaisi also asked whether the Supreme Court has prescribed any guidelines to deal with crimes relating to 'anti-national' activity. "The word 'anti-national' has not been defined in Statutes. However, there are criminal legislations and various judicial pronouncements to sternly deal with unlawful and subversive activities which are detrimental to the unity and integrity of the country," Rai said in the written reply. The Minister of State for Home said it is relevant to mention that the Constitution (42nd Amendment) Act, 1976 inserted in the Constitution Article 31D (during Emergency) which defined "anti-national activity" and this Article 31D was subsequently, omitted by the Constitution (43rd Amendment) Act, 1977. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/word-anti-national-not-defined-in-statutes-first-inserted-during-emergency-government-tells-ls-1063191.html
21-12-2021||National||Mobile app launched for live telecast of Parliament proceedings||Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla on Tuesday announced the launch of a mobile application which will enable the users to watch the live telecast of the House proceedings and view various parliamentary documents, including written questions-answers and reports of various committees. Informing the House about the mobile application and its features during the Question Hour, Birla asked the members to download it on their devices and also make the people of their respective constituencies download the LS Member App so that they can see the conduct of their MPs in the House. Displaying placards, members of various opposition parties, including the Congress, DMK and TMC, were protesting in the Well of the House on various issues such as Lakhimpur Kheri violence when the speaker was launching the mobile app. While some of the opposition members were demanding sacking of Union Minister for Home Affair Ajay Mishra as his son Ashish Mishra is one of the accused in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence, the Shiv Sena was demanding action in the matter pertaining to the alleged insult to Chhatrapati Shivaji in Karnataka. Carrying placards, DMK members were demanding that Tamil Nadu be exempted from the NEET exam, conducted for admissions to medical and dental colleges. Apprising the members of the features of the mobile application amid opposition protests, the speaker said, "This (app) will be very useful for you. It is my request to you that you also make people download this app in your respective constituencies so that you can show your conduct to people." The mobile application has been developed to facilitate users with easy access to the live telecast of Parliament proceedings, various parliamentary papers and other "important" documents, Birla said. "Through this app, you can see live telecast of Parliament proceedings, questions-answers, debates, information about the members, list of business, bulletins," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mobile-app-launched-for-live-telecast-of-parliament-proceedings-1063192.html
21-12-2021||National||Indians ordered 115 biryanis per minute in 2021: Report||The country's love for biryani only seems to be growing as online food delivery platform Swiggy said on Tuesday that Indians ordered 115 plates of biryani per minute in 2021. The report mentioned that over 4.25 lakh new users made their Swiggy debut by ordering a chicken biryani, while the most binged snack of the year was samosa, with about 5 million orders on Swiggy, equal to the population of New Zealand. "Swiggy's sixth annual StatEATstics report reveals how Indians ordered 115 plates of biryani per minute, samosas equal to the population of New Zealand, and enough tomatoes to play the Spanish Tomatina festival for eleven years," the company said in a statement. "In 2020, 90 biryanis were ordered per minute, which has gone up to 115 in 2021, which comes to 1.91 per second," the statement said. While samosa was ordered six times more than chicken wings, pav bhaji was India's second favourite snack, with 2.1 million orders. With a total of 2.1 million orders, gulab jamun, was the most ordered dessert on Swiggy, followed by rasmalai with 1.27 million orders. The search for healthy food on Swiggy doubled in 2021, and health-focused restaurants on Swiggy HealthHub witnessed a 200 per cent increase in orders. Bengaluru emerged as the most health-conscious city, followed by Hyderabad and Mumbai. Instamart delivered over 28 million packs of fruits and vegetables alone in 2021. Tomatoes, bananas, onions, potatoes, and green chilis were the top five fruits and vegetable delivered , it said. The total bananas ordered on Instamart outweighed the Statue of Liberty by 2.6 times, it stated. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indians-ordered-115-biryanis-per-minute-in-2021-report-1063197.html
21-12-2021||National||No person currently engaged in manual scavenging: GoI||No person is currently engaged in manual scavenging but 158 persons have died while cleaning sewers or septic tanks in the last three years, the government said on Tuesday. Responding to a question in the Lok Sabha, Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment Ramdas Athawale said there have been no reports regarding death of persons due to manual scavenging.  "However, as per reports received from States, 158 persons have died while cleaning sewers or septic tanks during the last three years," Athawale said in a written response. No person is currently engaged in manual scavenging as per reports, the minister added. The ministry had launched a mobile app, “Swachhata Abhiyaan”, to capture data on insanitary latrines still existing and manual scavengers associated with them after receiving reports from the social institutions that the practice continued, Athawale said.   "However, not a single insanitary latrine has been confirmed so far," Athawale said. Two surveys were conducted, in 2013 and in 2018, to identify manual scavengers and 58,098 manual scavengers were identified, he said.  Responding to another question, Athwale said as many as 321 people died due to hazardous cleaning of sewers and septic tanks and non-observance of prescribed safety precautions in the last five years. In 2017, 93 people died. In 2018, the figure was 70. In 2019, the number went up to 117 while 19 and 22 such deaths occurred in 2020 and 2021 respectively. Responding to another question, Athawale said presently there is no proposal to introduce 'The Prohibition of Employment as Manual Scavengers and their Rehabilitation (Amendment) Bill, 2020.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-person-currently-engaged-in-manual-scavenging-goi-1063211.html
21-12-2021||National||Gujarat woman set on fire by neighbour over puppy's name||A woman was seriously injured after she was reportedly set on fire by one of her neighbours who were angry over the similarity between the name of her puppy and the nickname of the wife of one of the attackers in Gujarat, police said on Tuesday.  The incident occurred at Palitana town in the Bhavnagar district on Monday afternoon. The victim, Neetaben Sarvaiya (35), suffered severe burn injuries. She is currently undergoing treatment at the government hospital in Bhavnagar, a Palitana town police station official said. Sarvaiya was at her home with her youngest son at the time of the incident. Her husband and two children had gone out, he said. Sarvaiya's neighbour Surabhai Bharwad and five others barged into her house on Monday afternoon. They objected to Sarvaiya naming her puppy as "Sonu", which is the nickname of Bharwad's wife, as per the FIR. Bharwad accused Sarvaiya of deliberately naming the puppy after his wife, police said. In her statement to the police, Sarvaiya said that Bharwad abused her but she tried to avoid him and others. As she entered the kitchen, three persons followed her. One of them poured kerosene from the container on Sarvaiya and set her on fire lighting a matchstick, the police said. Sarvaiya raised an alarm, hearing which some neighbours rushed to her house. At the same time, her husband also arrived. They put out the flames using her husband's coat. The woman suffered severe burn injuries, the official said. According to police, the families of Sarvaiya and her attackers had quarreled in the past over the issue of water supply. However, that matter was resolved amicably. Police registered an FIR against six persons under various sections of the Indian Penal Code for the attempt to murder, house trespassing, insult etc. Nobody has been arrested so far, police said.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gujarat-woman-set-on-fire-by-neighbour-over-puppys-name-1063214.html
21-12-2021||National||Opposition MPs hold march from Parliament to Vijay Chowk, demand Ajay Mishra's sacking||Opposition MPs from Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha on Tuesday took out a joint march demanding the removal of Union Minister Ajay Mishra for his reported links in the Lakhimpur Kheri killings, with former Congress president Rahul Gandhi saying that they will not spare the culprit and will not rest until he is sent to jail. Besides Rahul, Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge, Congress Leader in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, Trinamool Congress’ Dola Sen, CPI(M)’s Elamaram Kareem, CPI’s Binoy Viswam, Shiv Sena’s Sanjay Raut and Priyanka Chaturvedi, RSP’ NK Premachandran among others marched from the Gandhi Statue in Parliament to Vijay Chowk. Inside both the Houses too, the Opposition MPs demanded the sacking of Mishra, whose son is in jail in connection with the case and a latest Special Investigation Team report has said that the mowing down of farmers, which killed four farmers and a journalist, was allegedly part of a conspiracy. Addressing the media, Rahul said the entire opposition in one voice was raising its demand for the sacking of the Minister. Referring to the SIT report, he said, "we will not spare him (Ajay Mishra) and continue our struggle till he is sent to jail. The prime minister has not done anything on this. I know once I finish speaking there will be questions on some other issue to divert attention. Neither the media nor the government is doing its job." "The Prime Minister on the one hand apologises to farmers, but on the other hand he keeps the minister who is involved in the Lakhimpur Kheri incident in the Council of Ministers. We will not accept what is being done against farmers," he said. When a reporter sought his reaction on his tweet on lynching, Rahul shot back, “don’t do the bidding for the government.” Earlier in the morning, Kharge and Congress MP Deepinder Singh Hooda gave adjournment notices to suspend the business in Rajya Sabha to discuss the Lakhimpur Kheri issue. "I have given a suspension of business/notice under Rule 267 to discuss the recent SIT report on the manslaughter of Lakhimpur. We demand that MoS Ajay Mishra be immediately removed from his position to ensure a free and fair trial," Kharge said on Twitter. "In order to ensure a free and fair trial of the murder case of innocent farmers, the Mos, who is father of the accused, must immediately be removed from his position," Kharge said in his adjournment notice under Rule 267. In Lok Sabha, Congress MP Manickam Tagore gave an adjournment notice on the same issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/opposition-mps-hold-march-from-parliament-to-vijay-chowk-demand-ajay-mishras-sacking-1063220.html
21-12-2021||National||Rahul Gandhi targets Modi over mob lynching; BJP calls Rajiv Gandhi 'father of mob lynching'||Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday said the word lynching was practically unheard of before 2014 when the BJP came to power and mocked the Prime Minister with a "Thank you Modiji" even as the BJP hit back saying the Congress leader's father and former prime minister Rajiv Gandhi was the "father of mob lynching". "Before 2014, the word 'lynching' was practically unheard of. #ThankYouModiJi," Rahul tweeted.  The BJP hit back at the Congress, saying Rahul's father Rajiv Gandhi, who was a former Prime Minister had justified the anti-Sikh riots. BJP's IT department head Amit Malviya tweeted with a short clip of Rajiv's speech, "meet Rajiv Gandhi, father of mob lynching, justifying blood curdling genocide of Sikhs. Congress took to streets, raised slogans like 'khoon ka badla khoon se lenge', raped women, wrapped burning tyres around necks of Sikh men while dogs gorged on charred bodies dumped in drains."  Malviya also posted about various riots that happened under the Congress rule between 1969 and 1993. Positing a video, BJP national spokesperson R P Singh tweeted, "Rahul Gandhi forgets that his father Rajiv Gandhi patronage mob lynching of more than 3000 Sikhs by Congress MP and workers." Union Minister Ashwini Kumar Choubey told reporters that hundreds of Sikhs were killed in the 1984 riots.  "Mobs killed Sikhs by burning tyres around their neck. Wasn't it lynching?" he said. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rahul-gandhi-targets-modi-over-mob-lynching-bjp-calls-rajiv-gandhi-father-of-mob-lynching-1063225.html
21-12-2021||National||No evidence to suggest that existing vaccines don't work against Omicron: Government||There is no evidence to suggest that existing vaccines do not work on the Omicron variant of coronavirus, although some of the mutations reported on spike gene may decrease the efficacy of existing vaccines, the Rajya Sabha was informed on Tuesday. "There are limited available data, and no peer-reviewed evidence, on vaccine efficacy or effectiveness to date for Omicron," Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said in a written reply. He was responding to a question on whether the vaccinations that are given in the country are effective to develop immunity for this variant.  "However, vaccine protection is also by antibodies as well as by cellular immunity, which is expected to be relatively better preserved. Hence vaccines are expected to still offer protection against severe disease and, vaccination with the available vaccines remains crucial," he said.  Listing the steps taken by the government, after the news of the spread of Omicron variant of Covid-19 in various countries, Mandaviya said that his ministry reviewed the existing travel guidelines and revised rules for international arrivals on November 28, which were further amended two days later.  According to the guidelines, regions or countries have been re-classified as 'at-risk' based on the epidemiological situation of Covid-19 there and reporting of Omicron variant from these countries.  "The list of such 'at-risk' regions or countries is dynamic in nature and has been updated from time to time. All travellers coming from countries deemed 'at-risk' will also mandatorily undergo Covid-19 testing on arrival through RT-PCR, followed by mandatory home quarantine for 7 days,' Mandaviya said. A repeat RT-PCR testing shall also be done on the eighth day of arrival in India, which would be monitored by state health authorities. Two per cent of travellers from 'non-at-risk' countries will be tested at random for Covid-19.  Samples of individuals testing positive shall be subjected to whole genomic sequencing at identified INSACOG network laboratories to determine the presence of SARS-CoV-2 variants (including Omicron). States and Union Territories have been asked to undertake several activities, which include strict monitoring of international travellers in the community, contact tracing of positive individuals and follow-up for 14 days, genome sequencing of positive samples through INSACOG labs in a prompt manner, Mandaviya said.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-evidence-to-suggest-that-existing-vaccines-dont-work-against-omicron-government-1063226.html
21-12-2021||National||Centre orders blocking of 20 'anti-India' YouTube channels, two websites||The government said that in a ‘closely coordinated’ effort with intelligence agencies, it has ordered the blocking of 20 YouTube channels and two websites which were allegedly spreading anti-India propaganda and fake news. On Monday, the Union Ministry of Information and Broadcasting issued two orders -- one directing video sharing platform YouTube to block the 20 channels and the other, for blocking of the news websites. A government release said that the content across these channels had garnered a total of 58,68,07,175 views and had 37,52,898 subscribers.  “The channels and websites belong to a coordinated disinformation network operating from Pakistan and spreading fake news about various sensitive subjects related to India. The channels were used to post divisive content in a coordinated manner on topics like Kashmir, Indian Army, minority communities in India, Ram Mandir, General Bipin Rawat, etc,” a release from the I&B ministry read.  The move also marks the maiden application of the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021, which was notified by the government in February this year. The government invoked section 16 of the Rules and intimated YouTube India’s offices for the takedown.  Channels that were taken down include The Punch Line, Khalsa TV, Punjab Viral, and International Web News. Among the content that was taken down was a video by The Punch Line titled ‘200 Indian Army Personnels Accept Islam In Srinagar’. Another video, uploaded by a channel called 48News, was titled ‘Chinese army plans to occupy Assam after Ladakh’. Another such video, titled ‘Turk Army Enter Ayodhya Ram Mandir To Takes’ was uploaded by a channel called Historical Facts.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-orders-blocking-of-20-anti-india-youtube-channels-two-websites-1063239.html
21-12-2021||National||At least 64 cases of Delta plus reported in country, says Health Minister Mandaviya||At least 64 cases of the 4.2 variant (Delta plus) of Covid-19 have been reported in the country as of December 16, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya informed Rajya Sabha on Tuesday. This includes 42 cases from Chhattisgarh, 11 from Gujarat, 4 from Tamil Nadu, 3 from Bihar, 2 from Assam and one case each from Maharashtra and Telangana. The health ministry continues to keep a close watch over the Covid-19 situation across the country and globally, Mandaviya said. Given the emergence of mutated variants with variable impact on transmissibility, virulence and effectiveness of vaccines, the likelihood of resurgence of Covid-19 trajectory in the country is examined by various expert committees under the Indian Council of Medical Research, Directorate General of Health Services and other relevant ministries and departments, Mandaviya said. The public health measures to control its further spread are the same as the measures taken for various variants of SARS-CoV-2.  States and Union Territories have been repeatedly advised through formal communications as well as during regular videoconferences to continue to focus on the five-fold strategy of test-track-treat-Covid appropriate behaviours and vaccination, the minister said. States and UTs have also been advised to undertake genomic sequencing of positive samples through designated laboratories in the INSACOG networks of laboratories.  The health ministry has issued detailed guidelines related to containment and clinical management for managing Covid-19. The ministry has stressed continued monitoring of areas where clusters of positive cases emerge, and further strengthening of Covid-19 testing infrastructure and ensuring early identification of cases through adequate testing across the states. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/at-least-64-cases-of-delta-plus-reported-in-country-says-health-minister-mandaviya-1063240.html
21-12-2021||National||Take steps to release fishermen from Sri Lankan custody: Stalin to EAM||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin on Tuesday wrote to External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar seeking his intervention in ensuring the release of 68 Indian fishermen who have been apprehended by the Sri Lankan Navy along with their boats in the past couple of days.  In the letter, Stalin asked the Indian Government to prevail upon the Sri Lankan Government through diplomatic channels to “put an end to the intimidatory tactics of the Sri Lankan Navy.” Noting that another incident of apprehension of fishermen who set sail from Pudukkottai district by the Sri Lankan Coast Guard, Stalin said 13 fishermen who were on board the boats have been taken to the Mayilatti fishing harbour. “The alarming frequency at which these incidents of apprehension and attacks are happening warrants urgent attention. The lives and livelihoods of our fishermen must be protected when they fish in the traditional waters of Palk Bay,” Stalin said.  “I request your urgent intervention in this matter to secure the immediate release of 68 fishermen and 75 fishing boats that are in the custody of the Sri Lankan Navy and Coast Guard,” the Chief Minister added.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/take-steps-to-release-fishermen-from-sri-lankan-custody-stalin-to-eam-1063244.html
21-12-2021||National||Facing stiff resistance, govt refers bill on women's marital age to standing committee||Facing stiff resistance from the Opposition and child activists, the government on Tuesday sent the Prevention of Child Marriage (Amendment) Bill, which proposes to increase the minimum age of marriage of women from 18 to 21 years, to a Standing Committee. As Union Minister of Women and Child Development Smriti Zubin Irani introduced the bill on the floor of the Lok Sabha, several opposition members interrupted her and said that the bill was brought in despite not being listed by the Business Advisory Committee.  Congress MPs Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, Gaurav Gogoi, TMC’s Saugata Ray, AIMIM’s Asaduddin Owaisi and DMK’s Kanimozhi were some of the members who raised objections.  The bill, which aims to change the minimum age of marriage of women to 21 years, follows the recommendations of a committee set up by the NITI Aayog, headed by former Samta Party president Jaya Jaitly.  Presenting the bill in the Lower House, Irani said that the several laws that legislate the minimum age of marriage are not uniform in their prescription. “The enactments relating to the age of marriage of parties such as the Indian Christian Marriage Act, 1872, the Parsi Marriage and Divorce Act, 1936, the Muslim Personal Law (Shariat) Application Act, 1937, the Special Marriage Act, 1954, the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955, the Foreign Marriage Act, 1969, are not in agreement,” Irani said.  “I rise to move for leave to introduce a bill further to amend the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006.” However, Irani met stiff resistance. Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said that while there has been a lot of discussion over the issue, the government has not invited stakeholders for a wider view of the matter.  Speaking to DH, Congress MP and party deputy leader Gaurav Gogoi said that the Congress was opposed to the manner in which the bill was brought in.  “Why wasn't the bill listed in business today, and why does the government need to bring it surreptitiously? We have seen during the whole session how the BJP has bulldozed its way. This legislation needs wider consultations, and we demanded that it needs to be sent to the Standing Committee for greater scrutiny. The bill warrants more debate and the issue of child marriage is a sensitive one, and the government needs to focus on women’s education and empowerment and police enforcement,” said Gogoi.  In the Lok Sabha, Gogoi pointed at the Law Commission’s 18th report on the reforms of Family Law of 2018, which recommends 18 years as the uniform age of consent for marriage for men and women alike, as per the Indian Majority Act, 1875.  During the proceedings, AIMIM MP Asaduddin Owaisi said that the amendment is retrogressive and infringes on the right to freedom under Article 19.  Speaking to DH, Owaisi questioned the lack of uniformity across legislations. “My argument is that this government is against the institution of marriage. On one hand, you are treating an 18-year old as an adult, allowing her to have a live-in relationship, and, under the POSCO Act she can consent to sexual relations, but she cannot marry? Who is the government to tell an adult when to marry and when to have a baby? The government’s job is to empower women by working on human development indicators and educating and empowering women, a job it has failed to do,” said Owaisi.  Quoting the NFHS data, which said that 45 per cent of child marriages take place in BPL homes and 10 per cent in rich households, Owaisi also questioned the government’s steps to address the issue. The bill was, eventually, sent to the Standing Committee on Empowerment of Women Child rights activist and co-founder of HAQ: Centre for Child Rights Enakshi Ganguly said that she is relieved that the bill has been sent to the committee. “The age of marriage should be harmonious and 18 years is advisable. There is a lot of confusion if the government amends the age -- will there be criminalisation? What happens to the POCSO Act? A knee jerk reaction is not the solution. The government should use the law that exists and find a way to address the sexual and reproductive needs of adolescents,” said Ganguly, adding that they support the government’s intent to empower women.  Muslim bodies, too, opposed the bill. Maulana Khalid Saifullah Rahmani, General Secretary of the All India Muslim Personal Law Board, in a statement issued Tuesday, said that the move is illegal, and the age of marriage should be decided by the parents of the girl.  "Raising the minimum age of marriage of girls from 18 to 21 years and declaring marriage before the prescribed age as illegal is neither in the interest of the girls nor the society. Rather it can cause serious damage to moral values,” read the statement.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/facing-stiff-resistance-govt-refers-bill-on-womens-marital-age-to-standing-committee-1063267.html
21-12-2021||National||States must watch out, warns Centre as India crosses 200 Omicron cases||India’s Omicron count crossed 200 on Tuesday amid expectations among medical experts that the country’s shrinking Covid-19 epidemic will reverse and slip into an Omicron-driven rise, even as the Union Health Ministry asked districts to watch local epidemic trends. The ministry on Tuesday directed the district administrations to impose “containment measures and restrictions” if the test positivity rate in an area has gone up to 10 per cent or more over the past week. Similar restrictions would fall into place when the occupancy of ICU or oxygen supported beds cross the 40 per cent mark, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan wrote in his letter to the states. “Based on the current scientific evidence, the Omicron variant (of SARS-CoV-2) is at least three times more transmissible than the Delta variant. Besides, Delta is still present in different parts of the country. Greater foresight, data analysis, dynamic decision making and strict and prompt containment action is required at the local and district level,” Bhushan wrote in his letter. The fresh warning from the Centre comes at a time when doctors and medical researchers said the number of Omicron cases would increase as local transmission of the highly infectious variant would overtake the infections detected at airports. "There is no reason to believe what has been seen in other countries will not happen in India. The number will increase fast and doubling days will reduce. Since Omicron is highly transmissible, there will be a significant number of reinfection and breakthrough infection cases,” Sandeep Budhiraja, Group Medical Director, Max Healthcare and one of the advisors to the Delhi government on Covid-19, told DH. “A rise in cases due to Omicron coming soon is highly likely. It is best to prepare for the worst,” said Anurag Agarwal, Director of CSIR’s Institute for Genomics and Integrative Biology, Delhi, one of the INSACOG laboratories sequencing the SARS-CoV-2 variants. Of the 200 Omicron cases recorded till early Tuesday, Maharashtra and Delhi reported 54 each, followed by Telangana (20), Karnataka (19) and Rajasthan (18). Kerala and Gujarat are the two other states with double-digit Omicron figures. Although the majority of the patients are international travellers, there are a few local cases without any established travel link. “The local transmission might have been established in some parts, suggested by reported cases without any obvious links to travel,” said epidemiologist Giridhara Babu at the Public Health Foundation of India, Bengaluru. “We should start seeing a rise in cases by January. There's some evidence for community transmission already and we have travel links to the countries which are reporting a sudden rise in cases, such as the USA, the UK and South Africa. There's no reason to believe that, given what we know of the experience of other countries, something similar should not happen here,” said Gautam Menon, a professor of physics and biology at the Institute of Mathematical Sciences, Chennai and Ashoka University, who is closely tracking the pandemic. Asked whether a rise in Covid-19 cases would mean increased hospitalisation, Budhiraja said, “South African data shows that during the peak of the Delta outbreak, 19 per cent of the patients were hospitalised whereas during the Omicron peak, 1.8 per cent was hospitalised.” “But even in such a scenario in India, there would be too many people requiring hospitals in a short span of time. So hospitals should be fully prepared,” he said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/states-must-watch-out-warns-centre-as-india-crosses-200-omicron-cases-1063273.html
21-12-2021||National||BJP giving lectures after breaking every rule: Derek O'Brien on suspension||The suspension of Derek O'Brien from Rajya Sabha for the Winter Session came within three hours of the Trinamool Congress floor leader throwing the Rule Book at the reporter's table even as he defended his action saying the BJP was trying to give "lectures" when it is breaking every rule. However, Leader of the House and senior BJP MInister Piyush Goyal told the House that the incident was "not just an insult to the House, not just the Chair but to the whole country" and that "we thought that the opposition will learn some lessons but the same thing has been repeated". The incident of throwing the Rule Book came at around 3 pm after the Opposition demand for voting on a motion for sending the Election Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021 was not allowed citing that the House was not in order. Soon after the Bill was passed, Environment Minister Bhupender Yadav and Goyal spoke about the incident. At around 6 PM, Minister of State for Parliamentary Affairs V Muraleedharan moved a motion charging the Trinamool leader for unruly behaviour and gross indiscipline. According to the motion adopted in the House, O’Brien has been suspended for the remaining part of the Winter Session for his “unruly and contemptuous behaviour, unbecoming” of a Rajya Sabha MP by “brazenly throwing the Rajya Sabha Rule Book towards the Chair” and thereby “bringing disrepute and shame to the august House”. Following the announcement, O'Brien tweeted, "the last time I got suspended from Rajya Sabha was when the government was bulldozing farm laws. We all know what happened after that. Today, suspended while protesting against BJP making a mockery of Parliament and bulldozing election laws bill. Hope this Bill too will be repealed soon." We all know what happened after that. Hope this Bill too will be repealed soon He defended his action saying what happened in the House was a repeat of how the now repealed farm laws were passed and said the BJP has the gall to give lectures about the Rule Book after breaking every rule and precedent. "Irony just died. (Only two people at the funeral) Guess who," he tweeted earlier after Goyal made remarks against him in the House. Asked whether his action was against the decorum of Parliament, he told DH, "(Narendra) Modi and (Amit) Shah have snatched the soul and heart of Parliament. It is a serious issue" O'Brien said they all have regard for the Chair and rules but alleged that the Chair did the same thing that the Chair did on the farm laws. He was referring to the passing of contentious farm bills during the 2020 Monsoon Session amid Opposition protest over not allowing voting on it. Speaking in Rajya Sabha Goyal said, "they are doing this kind of politics in one state and if they pass on such bad traditions to the next generation, then I am afraid that there is a lot of danger to the democratic traditions of the country...I think decency is the least that we can expect even amongst ourselves." Yadav said throwing the rule book was against the decorum of the House. "This country has been witnessing drama for a long time.... This is a shame on the democratic system of the country.... We are tied to the rule book," he said. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-giving-lectures-after-breaking-every-rule-derek-obrien-on-suspension-1063274.html
21-12-2021||National||NEET-PG 2021 counselling: Protesting doctors 'return' flowers, 'taali-thaali'||In a novel way to register their protest over the delay in NEET-PG 2021 counselling, several resident doctors in Delhi on Tuesday threw flowers on security barricades, and clanged utensils and clapped in front of the Nirman Bhawan here, saying they were symbolically "returning" the adulation showered on them for being Covid warriors. As the stir led by the Federation of Resident Doctors' Association (FORDA), resumed after a week-long hiatus, entered into its fifth day in Tuesday, patient care remained affected at three Centre-run facilities -- Safdarjung, RML and Lady Hardinge hospitals -- and some of the Delhi government-run hospitals. Meanwhile, the IMA's Junior Doctors Network has written to Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya demanding fast-tracking of the court hearing to expedite NEET-PG 2021 counselling, while extending solidarity with resident doctors protesting outside Nirman Bhawan, which houses the health ministry office, for the second consecutive day. Many wore white lab coats, and stethoscopes thrown around the neck, chucked floral petals on security barricades, and on a lab coat hung on a barricade, with "Dear Union Health Ministry" scrawled on its back, as scores of other medics clanged utensils, clapped and chanted 'We want justice'. During the first wave of the Covid -19 pandemic, the government authorities had showered floral petals from mid-air and had asked people to clang utensils and clap for a few minutes by coming out in the open in balconies of their homes, in acknowledgement of the yeoman services rendered by doctors to fight the pandemic. FORDA, in a statement issued late evening, said, "Since the voices of thousands of resident doctors are not being heard by the authorities, we have returned the 'taalis and thaalis' that were clamoured, and 'phool' (flowers) which were showered upon us during the previous waves of Covid -19 pandemic". "We have also requested the honourable presidents of all political parties of the nation to take note of our grievance, and to highlight the issue in Parliament of India during the ongoing Winter Session," the statement said. Resident doctors of various hospitals in Delhi on Monday had protested in front of the Nirman Bhawan over the delay in NEET-PG 2021 counselling, affecting patient care services. "In the face of the imminent third wave of COVID-19 and one third of the remaining resident workforce, we have been left with no choice but to intensify the ongoing strike to push further our demands. We stand in solidarity, and participate with resident doctors all over the country who are protesting against the delay in NEET PG counselling, including withdrawal from all services, and protesting today (20th December 2021) at Nirmal Bhavan," the IMA's Junior Doctors Network had said in the letter written on Monday. "For the due optimisation of lives of the patients, the overburdened junior residents and around 50,000 doctors who have been waiting to be deployed in their earned PG seats amid repeated deferment and hazy policies, we demand the fast tracking of court hearing to necessarily expedite NEET PG counselling," it stated. The protesting doctors carried banners and posters, held demonstrations and raised slogans, seeking redressal of the issue. Police security has been stepped up in the street in front of Nirman Bhawan. Members of RDAs of all major hospitals of Delhi under the banner of FORDA had marched and demonstrated in front of Nirman Bhawan as part of the ongoing agitation to expedite NEET-PG counselling 2021 on Monday, FORDA president Dr Manish said. Subsequently, there was a meeting of FORDA and RDA representatives with the Union health minister at Nirman Bhawan, he said. "However, as earlier, the minister gave only verbal assurance... no concrete measure has been taken by the authorities concerned," he had said. By evening, protesters went away as they were not prepared to camp in the streets and returned to the same place on Tuesday morning. On December 9, the resident doctors had said they were suspending the agitation, called by the FORDA for a week following the health ministry's assurance to expedite court hearing and subsequently fast-tracking of the counselling process. However, on Wednesday, FORDA wrote to the Union health minister informing him that it was resuming the stir from December 17. AIIMS RDA, which has been protesting the delay in NEET-PG counselling by working with black ribbons on their arms, held a candlelight march in the evening from JLN auditorium, in the campus to gate number one on Monday. Resident doctors at Ram Manohar Lohia, Safdarjung and Lady Hardinge Hospitals, and three hospitals under the Maulana Azad Medical College (MAMC), including LNJP Hospital, had resumed the stir on Friday, accusing the government of making a false promise. They also pointed out the "acute shortage" of resident doctors across the country as the counselling of NEET-PG 2021 batch has already been delayed by eight months. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/neet-pg-2021-counselling-protesting-doctors-return-flowers-taali-thaali-1063335.html
21-12-2021||National||India conveys concern to Sri Lanka over detention of fishermen||The High Commission of India in Colombo has taken up with the Sri Lankan government the issue of detention of fishermen from Tamil Nadu by the navy of the island nation. New Delhi conveyed its concern to Colombo over detention of the fishermen from Tamil Nadu by Sri Lankan authorities between December 18 and 20, Arindam Bagchi, spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs, said. He said that the Government of India had so far received information about 68 fishermen from Tamil Nadu and 10 boats being taken into custody by the authorities of the neighbouring country. The officials from the Consulate General of India in Jaffna in Sri Lanka met the detained fishermen and are providing all necessary support, including clothes, toiletries, snacks, dry essentials and masks, besides facilitating phone calls to relatives. The CGI in Jaffna is also arranging legal representation for the detained fishermen. India’s consular officer visited a hospital and met one of the detained fishermen as he was indisposed. “Our High Commission in Colombo has taken up the issue of early release of the Indian fishermen and boats with the Government of Sri Lanka,” Bagchi said in New Delhi. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-conveys-concern-to-sri-lanka-over-detention-of-fishermen-1063337.html
21-12-2021||National||Modi government committed to deal with cybercrime, says HM Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Tuesday said that all FIRs in 99 per cent of police stations are registered on the central government's online portal CCTNS, which is accessed by all 16,347 police stations in the country. Chairing a meeting of the Consultative Committee of the Ministry of Home Affairs on the topic 'Cyber Crime: Threats, Challenges and Response' here, Shah said that the work of making analytical tools against cybercrimes has been completed up to 40 per cent. He said that in the last seven years, Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government has taken many important steps to tackle cybercrime, an official statement said. "In the last seven years, the work of setting up the infrastructure to deal with cybercrimes in the country has been completed fully up to the police post level," he said. Shah said efforts are being made to train police personnel and lawyers for the prevention of cybercrime. "Crime and Criminal Tracking Network and Systems (CCTNS) has been implemented in all 16,347 police stations in the country. In 99 per cent of police stations, including newly established police stations, 100 per cent FIRs are being registered directly in CCTNS," he said in the meeting attended by several MPs. The home minister said as public representatives, it is the responsibility of the MPs to try to spread awareness about cybercrimes. "The central government under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi is committed to deal with every aspect of this new menace," he said. Shah referred to various e-initiatives of the Ministry of Home Affairs to deal with cybercrimes such as the National Cybercrime Reporting Portal (NCRP) which facilitates victims and complainants to report cybercrime online. So far more than 6 lakh complaints have been received and 12,776 FIRs have been registered, he said. The home minister said the National Cybercrime Threat Analysis Unit (NCTAU) has issued 142 cybercrime prevention advisories and has blocked 266 mobile apps while 3,800 forensic services were provided by the National Cybercrime Forensic Laboratory (NCFL). He said that seven Joint Cybercrime Coordination Groups (JCCTs) have been constituted which include all States and Union Territories. Shah said the National Cybercrime Training Center (NCTC) registered 8,075 police personnel for online training and issued 1,877 certificates. The home minister said 960 cyber security tips were issued by the authorities and these are constantly being issued on social media. The initiatives focusing on cyber awareness and cyber hygiene promotion among general public through social media handle of MHA @CyberDost, regular SMSs to citizens, etc. are being taken so as to strengthen the mechanism to deal with cybercrimes in a comprehensive and coordinated manner were discussed. During the discussions, the MPs gave constructive suggestions for further strengthening and improvement of response mechanism to effectively deal with the menace of cybercrimes, challenges and response, including the importance of cyber hygiene for prevention of cybercrimes. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-government-committed-to-deal-with-cybercrime-says-hm-amit-shah-1063344.html
21-12-2021||National||India committed to free and open Indo-Pacific: Jaishankar||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Tuesday said India is committed to a free and open Indo-Pacific region, and expressed concerns over "complicating" actions, including unilateral changes of the status quo and militarisation. The external affairs minister was speaking at the India-Japan Indo-Pacific Forum. Delving into India's ties with Japan, he underlined that the partnership has made great advances with a convergence on regional and global matters. "Addressed the India-Japan Indo-Pacific Forum today. Underlined that the India-Japan partnership has made great advances with convergence on regional and global matters. Recalled that PM @narendramodi called it the most natural relationship in the region," Jaishankar tweeted. "We are committed to a free and open Indo-Pacific. And concerned at complicating actions including unilateral change of status quo and militarization. Urged Japanese companies to respond positively to the Production Linked Incentive (PLI) scheme," he said in another tweet. Though Jaishankar did not name any country, the comments on "unilateral change of status quo and militarisation" came in the backdrop of growing global concerns over China's increasing military muscle-flexing in the Indo-Pacific region. On the India-Japan relations, the minister said the "closeness" in the ties is evident not only in the Quad but also in many trilateral formats. "Mutual benefit in also establishing a Green Partnership. Our closeness is evident not only in the Quad but also in many trilateral formats. 70th anniversary of diplomatic relations in 2022 should take ties to a higher level," he said. The fourth India-Japan Indo-Pacific Forum was hosted by the Japan Institute of International Affairs and the Delhi Policy Group. The organisers said Hayashi Yoshimasa, the foreign minister of Japan, also spoke at the forum. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-committed-to-free-and-open-indo-pacific-jaishankar-1063373.html
21-12-2021||National Politics||Oppn MPs move notices in Rajya Sabha, Lok Sabha to discuss election laws bill, Lakhimpur Kheri||The Congress MPs on Tuesday moved adjournment notices in both the Houses of Parliament to discuss the Bill linking electoral roll with Aadhaar and Lakhimpur Kheri violence. While Manish Tewari moved an adjournment notice in the Lok Sabha over linking Aadhaar with Voter ID, Deepender Hooda sought a discussion on Lakhimpur Kheri violence in the Upper House. Tewari in his notice said: The Lok Sabha on Monday passed 'The Election Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021' amid protest by the Opposition parties. The Bill seeks to link electoral rolls with the Aadhaar ecosystem. This will allow the electoral registration officers to seek the Aadhaar number of people who want to register as voters for the purpose of establishing the identity." The Bill was passed amid protests in the Lok Sabha on Monday and has been listed for consideration and passing in the Rajya Sabha on Tuesday. Hooda demanded adequate compensation for the farmers and removal of Minister of State for Home Ajay Misra. Manickam Tagore too moved a similar notice in the Lok Sabha. The government has to pass two bills and the BJP has issued a whip to MPs to be present in the House. The Lok Sabha is likely to discuss and pass "the Chartered Accountants, the Cost and Works Accountants and the Company Secretaries (Amendment) Bill, 2021" on Tuesday. The Bill was introduced in the Lok Sabha last week. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/oppn-mps-move-notices-in-rajya-sabha-lok-sabha-to-discuss-election-laws-bill-lakhimpur-kheri-1063152.html
21-12-2021||National Politics||Rajya Sabha passes electoral reforms bill, Opposition stages walkout||Parliament on Tuesday passed a Bill to link electoral roll data with the Aadhaar ecosystem with Rajya Sabha passing it by voice vote amid a walkout by the Opposition. The Election Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021, which was passed in Lok Sabha on Monday, seeks to weed out fake voters from electoral rolls. The opposition parties were demanding a division of votes as they had moved a motion to send the Bill to a select committee, which was rejected by voice vote. TMC member Derek O'Brien cited rules for a division of votes even as Deputy Chairman Harivansh urged members to go to their seats to enable the division. However, opposition members continued to raise slogans in the well. O'Brien threw the rule book on the table where officials sit and staged a walkout. Ruling party members strongly condemned his behaviour. Members of Congress, TMC, Left parties, DMK and NCP also walked out from the House in protest. Members of BJP, JD(U), YSRCP, AIADMK, BJD and TMC-M supported the Bill, saying it will help in eradicating duplicate and fake voters from electoral rolls. Earlier, Congress, TMC, CPI, CPI-M, DMK and Samajwadi Party opposed the Bill saying it infringes on voters' right to privacy. Terming the Bill "very good", Law Minister Kiren Rijiju said the legislation will help end fake and bogus voting in the country and make the electoral process credible. Dismissing the Opposition's apprehensions about the Bill as "baseless", the minister said the Opposition was "misinterpreting" the Supreme Court's judgement on personal liberty. "There is no basis of your opposition to the Bill. The Election Commission and the government have held many meetings and the EC's biggest concern is that the same person has (his or her) name in multiple electoral rolls and there is no other system to check this," Rijiju said. "In our democracy, the electoral process should be clean and that can happen only if the electoral rolls are clean. "This Bill will be opposed only by those who take advantage of fake voting. Otherwise, there is no basis for opposing this Bill," he said. The Election Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021, seeks to allow electoral registration officers to seek Aadhaar number of people who want to register as voters "for the purpose of establishing the identity". It also seeks to allow the electoral registration officers to ask for Aadhaar number from "persons already included in the electoral roll for the purposes of authentication of entries in electoral roll, and to identify registration of name of the same person in the electoral roll of more than one constituency or more than once in the same constituency". At the same time, the amendment Bill makes it clear that "no application for inclusion of name in the electoral roll shall be denied and no entries in the electoral roll shall be deleted for inability of an individual to furnish or intimate Aadhaar number due to such sufficient cause as may be prescribed". Such people will be allowed to furnish other alternative documents as may be prescribed.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rajya-sabha-passes-electoral-reforms-bill-opposition-stages-walkout-1063176.html
21-12-2021||National Politics||High drama in Rajya Sabha as Derek O'Brien throws Rule Book during passage of electoral reforms||High drama was witnessed in Rajya Sabha during the passage of a bill to change election laws on Tuesday afternoon after Trinamool Congress floor leader Derek O'Brien threw the Rule Book at the reporters' table after the Chair did not allow voting citing disorder in the House. "After breaking every rule and precedent, BJP has the gall to give lectures about the Rule Book. Irony just died. (Only two people at the funeral) Guess who," O'Brien tweeted. Irony just died. (Only two people at the funeral) Guess who. Congress Chief Whip Jairam Ramesh said, "today in the Rajya Sabha the Chair didn’t even allow a vote on the Opposition motion to send the Electoral Roll-Aadhaar Bill to a Select Committee. The Opposition walked out in protest. Like the farm Bills, this Bill too was passed most undemocratically." Referring to O'Brien throwing the rule book, Leader of the House Piyush Goyal said in Rajya Sabha, the incident was not just an insult to the House, not just the Chair but to the whole country. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/high-drama-in-rajya-sabha-as-derek-obrien-throws-rule-book-during-passage-of-electoral-reforms-1063190.html
21-12-2021||National Politics||Biggest lynching in Independent India happened in Rajiv Gandhi's era: Gajendra Singh Shekhawat||Union Minister of Jal Shakti, Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, said on Tuesday that Congress has no right to raise the issue of mob lunching, as the biggest incident of lynching in the history of Independent India happened during Rajiv Gandhi's era. Shekhawat's response came hours after Congress leader Rahul Gandhi tweeted, "Before 2014, the word 'lynching' was practically unheard of. #ThankYouModiJi." 2014 से पहले ‘लिंचिंग’ शब्द सुनने में भी नहीं आता था। BJP national spokesperson R.P. Singh said, "Rahul Gandhi forgets that his father Rajiv Gandhi supported mob lynching of more than 3,000 Sikhs by Congress MPs and workers." Referring to Rajiv Gandhi's comment, 'Jab bhi bada ped girta hai, dharti hilti hai' (whenever a big tree falls, the earth shakes), another BJP leader, Manjinder Singh Sirsa, said, "It is true that Rahul Gandhi didn't hear about lynching before 2014, because they equated the killings of thousands of innocent Sikhs with fall of a big tree." "Rahul Gandhi heard the word lynching for the first time when Congress leader Sajjan Kumar was sent behind bars for the anti-Sikh riots, after Prime Minister Narendra Modi came to power in 2014," Sirsa said. Quoting Rahul Gandhi's tweet, BJP IT Cell in-charge Amit Malviya said, "Meet Rajiv Gandhi, father of mob lynching, justifying blood curdling genocide of Sikhs. Congress took to the streets, raised slogans like 'khoon ka badla khoon se lenge', raped women, wrapped burning tyres around necks of Sikh men while dogs gorged on charred bodies dumped in drains." "Ahemdabad (1969), Jalgaon (1970), Moradabad (1980), Nellie (1983), Bhiwandi (1984), Delhi (1984), Ahmedabad (1985), Bhagalpur (1989), Hyderabad (1990), Kanpur (1992), Mumbai (1993). This is just a small list in which more than 100 people died under Nehru-Gandhi parivar's watch," Malviya said.' Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/biggest-lynching-in-independent-india-happened-in-rajiv-gandhis-era-gajendra-singh-shekhawat-1063193.html
21-12-2021||National Politics||Yogi government hacked my children's Instagram accounts too: Priyanka Gandhi||Within days of Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav's claims that his and his party's senior leaders' phones were being 'tapped', Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Tuesday accused the government of 'hacking' the Instagram accounts of her children. ''Phone tapping chodiye mere bachhon ke instagram account tak hack kar rahen hain...aur koi kaam nahin hai kya sarkar ke paas'' (Forget about tapping phones, the Instagram accounts of my children are also hacked....does the government have no other work?) Priyanka said in an informal chat with reporters.   The Congress leader had earlier lent support to Akhilesh's allegation of phone tapping by the Yogi Adityanath government. She had also decried Income Tax raids on some key aides of Akhilesh. ''Phones of myself and some other party leaders are being tapped....the chief minister himself listens to the recordings in the evenings.....some senior bureaucrats are involved in the act at the behest of the state government,'' Akhilesh had claimed a couple of days ago. The SP president had also said that he had the names of the bureaucrats, who were doing it on the instruction of the government.   Akhilesh had said that the BJP was staring at defeat in the next assembly polls and therefore, had unleashed central agencies on his supporters. Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, however, had defended the Income Tax raids. Adityanath said that only a man with a 'guilty conscience' would fear the raids. ''How can someone's wealth double in five years....it is possible only in the SP government,'' the Chief Minister had said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/yogi-government-hacked-my-childrens-instagram-accounts-too-priyanka-gandhi-1063199.html
21-12-2021||National Politics||TMC's Derek O'Brien suspended from Rajya Sabha for throwing Rule Book||Trinamool Congress floor leader Derek O'Brien was on Tuesday suspended from Rajya Sabha for “unruly and contemptuous behaviour”  after he threw the Rule Book at the reporter's table protesting against Deputy Chairman Harivansh not allowing the opposition's demand for a vote on sending a bill to amend election laws for further Parliamentary scrutiny. The suspension of O’Brien, the 13th MP to face such a punishment during the Winter Session, is for the remainder of the session, which would mean just a day as the government is planning to adjourn the Session sine die on Wednesday instead of the scheduled Thursday. This is the second suspension of the quiz master-turned-politician in 15 months, the first being in September 2020 with seven others MPs for protesting against the passage of contentious farm bills in din. Already in this session, 12 other MPs were suspended for for their "unruly" behaviour on the last day of Monsoon Session on August 11, against which the entire opposition has been up in arms since the first day of the Winter Session. The throwing of the Rule Book came minutes after Law Minister Kiren Rijiju's reply to the debate on the Election Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021 and during the process of voting on the bill that saw protest from the opposition which wanted the bill to be sent to a Rajya Sabha Select Committee. The run-up to the incident saw opposition MPs rushing to the Well of the House protesting against the bill, which was passed with a voice vote in the absence of opposition MPs, who walked out. The opposition MPs cited privacy concerns, among other reasons, even as around half-a-dozen MPs, including a couple of them from the opposition, who said democracy needed protection, spoke on the bill. At the time of voting on the bill, CPI(M)'s John Brittas demanded voting on his motion to send the bill to a Select Committee. Harivansh said that he was ready to conduct the vote provided the protesting MPs who were in the Well returned to their seats. As some MPs remained in the Well, Harivansh said he cannot conduct the voting and said that they should bring the House in order. Brittas responded that the Chair should protect his right for voting and he should get the House in order instead of asking an MP to do so. While Congress Deputy Leader Anand Sharma raised a Point of Order on allowing voting, Leader of Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge then said that the protesting MPs would go to their seats once the Deputy Chairman announces voting. However, Harivansh wanted order in the House first and called for voting. In protest, Kharge announced a walk-out and a number of opposition MPs left the House. O’Brien and other Trinamool MPs as well as Brittas stayed back and the former then sought a Point of Order, insisting on voting on the motion by Brittas. However, the Chair went ahead with the voting process saying that the House was not in order, which angered O’Brien, who threw the book at the reporter's table without hitting anyone. Following this, he and other Trinamool MPs walked out. With no opposition MPs in the House, Brittas also raised a Point of Order on the Chair's role in ensuring voting, but was rejected following which he announced a walk-out. The suspension came almost three hours after the incident, at the end of the day's proceedings, around 6 pm when Minister of State for Parliamentary Affairs V Muraleedharan moved a motion charging the Trinamool leader for unruly behaviour and gross indiscipline. According to the motion adopted in the House, O’Brien has been suspended for the remaining part of the Winter Session for his “unruly and contemptuous behaviour, unbecoming” of a Rajya Sabha MP by “brazenly throwing the Rajya Sabha Rule Book towards the Chair” and thereby “bringing disrepute and shame to the august House”. O'Brien tweeted, "The last time I got suspended from Rajya Sabha was when the government was bulldozing farm laws. We all know what happened after that. Today, suspended while protesting against BJP making a mockery of Parliament and bulldozing election laws bill. Hope this Bill too will be repealed soon." He defended his action saying what happened in the House was a repeat of how the now-repealed farm laws were passed and said the BJP has the gall to give lectures about the Rule Book after breaking every rule and precedent. "Irony just died. (Only two people at the funeral) Guess who," he tweeted. Referring to the incident, Leader of the House Piyush Goyal told the House the incident was "not just an insult to the House, not just the Chair but to the whole country" and that "we thought that the opposition will learn some lessons but the same thing has been repeated." Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/tmcs-derek-obrien-suspended-from-rajya-sabha-for-throwing-rule-book-1063212.html
21-12-2021||National Politics||Parliament to adjourn sine die ahead of schedule on Wednesday||The Winter Session of Parliament will adjourn sine die on Wednesday, a day ahead of schedule. The session started on November 29 with the repeal of three contentious farm laws in both Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha and suspension of 12 MPs in the Upper House for "unruly behaviour" during the last day of Monsoon Session in August. Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla and Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi have called press conferences on Wednesday to brief about the Winter Session. Besides the repeal of farm laws, the highlights of the session include the passing of the Election Laws (Amendment) Bill and introduction and sending of a bill to increase the age of marriage of girls from 18 to 21 years to a Parliamentary Standing Committee. The session also witnessed growing schism between the government and the Opposition. The suspended MPs were sitting on a sit-in at Gandhi Statue in Parliament since December 1 while the Opposition accused the government of not taking any steps to resolve the impasse. The government, on its part, argued that without expression of regret, they could not terminate the suspension of MPs. The Opposition also demanded the sacking of Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra for his alleged links in the Lakhimpur Kheri killings of farmers. Check out latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/parliament-to-adjourn-sine-die-ahead-of-schedule-on-wednesday-1063278.html
21-12-2021||National Politics||Govt doesn't agree with India's rank in World Press Freedom Index: I&B minister||The Centre does not agree to conclusions drawn by Reporters Without Borders about press freedom in India for various reasons, including very low sample size and little or no weightage to fundamentals of democracy, the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting told Lok Sabha on Tuesday. In a written reply to a question on India being placed at 142 out of 180 countries in the World Press Freedom Index, compiled and published by the Reporters Without Borders this year, Information and Broadcasting Minister Anurag Thakur said the adoption of the methodology by the publisher of the report is "questionable and non-transparent". "The World Press Freedom Index is published by a foreign non government-organisation, Reporters Without Borders. The government does not subscribe to its views and country rankings and does not agree to the conclusions drawn by this organisation for various reasons, including very low sample size, little or no weightage to fundamentals of democracy, adoption of a methodology which is questionable and non-transparent, lack of clear definition of press freedom, among others," he said. The minister asserted that the government is committed to ensure right to freedom of speech and expression enshrined under Article 19 of the Constitution of India. Replying to questions on the safety and freedom of journalists as well as on Tripura police recently booking 102 people, including media persons, under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, he said, "Police and public order are state subjects under the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution of India, and the state governments are responsible for prevention, detection, registration and investigation of crime and for prosecuting the criminals through their law enforcement agencies." The central government attaches "highest importance" to the safety and security of "every citizen of the country, including journalists", he said. "An advisory specifically on safety of journalists was issued to states/UTs on October 20, 2017, requesting them to strictly enforce the law to ensure the safety and security of media persons," Thakur added. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/govt-doesnt-agree-with-indias-rank-in-world-press-freedom-index-ib-minister-1063341.html
21-12-2021||North and Central||Unnao rape victim road accident: Sengar, five others discharged||Expelled Uttar Pradesh BJP legislator Kuldeep Singh Sengar, along with five others, was on Monday discharged in the Unnao rape survivor's rape accident case after a Delhi court found no evidence against him. "No prima facie evidence on record to charge Kuldeep Singh Singer regarding a criminal conspiracy to extend threat to kill the victim or her members. No charges can be framed against him," said Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Ravindra Kumar Pandey in the order. Apart from Sengar, his aides Gyanendra Singh, Komal Singh, Arun Singh, Rinku Singh, and Awdesh Singh were also discharged in the case. However, accused Ashish Kumar Pal, Vinod Mishra, Haripal Singh and Naveen Singh were charged under Sections 506(ii) of IPC read with 34 of IPC. The case pertains to an accident on July 28, 2019, when a truck had rammed into the vehicle in which the rape survivor, her lawyer, and two relatives were travelling to Rae Bareli. The rape survivor and the advocate sustained grievous injuries while the two others were killed on the spot. An FIR had been filed against Sengar and nine others in relation to the accident. Earlier, he had been convicted in the Unnao rape case, in December 2019 and was sentenced to imprisonment for the remainder of his life, besides getting a fine of Rs 25 lakh. Sengar, a former BJP MLA from Unnao's Bangarmau seat, was accused of rape charges in a case that created a political storm in 2017. Also in March 2020, a special court sentenced Sengar, his brother Atul Singh and five others to 10 years' imprisonment in two cases linked to the death of the Unnao rape survivor's father in 2018. Kuldeep Sengar was expelled from the BJP and disqualified as a member of the Assembly after the trial court convicted him. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/unnao-rape-victim-road-accident-sengar-five-others-discharged-1063039.html
21-12-2021||North and Central||UHQ meeting discusses security situation in J&K, frames strategy to deal with challenges||Amid a recent spike in violence in the valley, Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha on Tuesday chaired the Unified Headquarters meeting where the security situation in the union territory was reviewed and a strategy framed to deal with possible challenges. Official sources told DH the meeting, which was attended by top brass of police and security agencies in J&K, discussed security related issues, including anti-militancy operations, infiltration status and recent attacks on civilians and policemen in the Valley. “During the meeting recent militancy-related incidents and the steps being taken to for maintaining close relations with the general public and putting in best efforts to mitigate the sufferings of people were also discussed,” they said and added the LG was apprised about successes of security forces during the ongoing year. “The LG also reviewed the power restoration scenario in J&K in the aftermath of the strike by the power department employees that was called off on Monday midnight,” sources added. The UHQ is the apex decision-making body on security affairs in the UT which has representatives from the army, paramilitary forces, police and intelligence agencies and is headed by the Chief Minister. In the absence of the elected government in J&K, the LG heads the UHQ. Though the graph of militancy-related violence in Kashmir has shown a decline this year compared to 2020, Srinagar which was by-and-large militancy-free not long ago has emerged as a hotspot of militant activities in Kashmir in 2021. In 2021, J&K’s summer capital saw around 21 encounters and shoot-outs in and around the city in which 35 people, including seven policemen, 15 militants and 13 civilians were killed till date “The situation in Srinagar was a special focus in the UHQ meeting with top brass of police and intelligence agencies sharing heir inputs with the LG,” sources added. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uhq-meeting-discusses-security-situation-in-jk-frames-strategy-to-deal-with-challenges-1063093.html
21-12-2021||North and Central||Lok Sabha likely to pass amendments to laws governing chartered & cost accountants, company secretaries||The Lok Sabha on Tuesday is likely to discuss and pass the Chartered Accountants, the Cost and Works Accountants and the Company Secretaries (Amendment) Bill, 2021. The Bill was introduced in the Lok Sabha last week. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman will move the Bill for an amendment to the Chartered Accountants Act, 1949, the Cost and Works Accountants Act, 1959 and the Company Secretaries Act, 1980. She will also move that the Bill be passed by the Lok Sabha. Union Minister Pashupati Kumar Paras is likely to move a motion for the election of two members for the Council of the National Institutes of Food Technology, Entrepreneurship and Management (NIFTEM) from the Lok Sabha. Report of the committee of the absence of members from sitting of the House will be also present in the Lower house. Amit Shah is to lay the paper related to the Ministry of Cooperation. Union Ministers Sitharaman, Narendra Singh Tomar, Prahald Singh Patel, Ramdas Athawale, Niranjan Jyoti, Nityanand Rai, Pankaj Chaudhary, Shobha Karandlaje, Kailash Choudhary, B L Verma, Ajay Kumar, Pratima Bhoumik, Dr L Murugan will also lay paper of their respective ministry. The twelfth report of the Committee on Estimates (2021-22) on the subject 'Review of Progress of all AIIMS' pertaining to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare will also be presented. Report of the Standing Committee on Agriculture, Animal Husbandry and Food Processing (2021-22) on 'The Pesticide Management Bill, 2020' of the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare (Department of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare) is also presented in the Lok Sabha. Anubhav Mohanty to call the attention of the Minister of Youth Affairs and Sports on the subject 'Khelo India Scheme and sports infrastructure'. Under rule 193, Congress member Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury and Trinamool Congress Saugata Roy to raise the discussion on price rise. Further discussion in the Lok Sabha will take place on climate change which was raised by Kanimozhi Karunanidhi last week under rule 193. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lok-sabha-likely-to-pass-amendments-to-laws-governing-chartered-cost-accountants-company-secretaries-1063096.html
21-12-2021||North and Central||Slight respite from cold as ‘Chillai Kalan’ begins in Kashmir||As ‘Chillai Kalan’, the 40-day harshest winter period, began in Kashmir on Tuesday, there was some respite from the chill as the minimum temperature in Srinagar and other places improved. A MeT department official said Srinagar recorded a minimum temperature of 2.8 °C last night, against the previous night's minus 5.8 °C. The city had also recorded a low of minus the lowest 6 °C on December 18, which was the season’s lowest. He said a weak Western Disturbance is going to affect Jammu and Kashmir from Wednesday afternoon onwards. “Under its influence, light rain/snow can occur at a few places between 23 and 24 in the afternoon. A short moderate spell in higher reaches can't be ruled out,’ he said. On the first day of the ‘Chillai Kalan', long icicles were seen hanging from leaking taps and branches of trees which presented a kaleidoscopic view as the sun struggled its way through cloud covers. In recent days water bodies, including Dal Lake in Srinagar have frozen in parts, due to the extreme cold in the valley. ‘Chillai Kalan’, the coldest period of the winter starts from December 21 which will be followed by 20-day-long ‘Chillai Khurd’ and 10-day-long ‘Chillai Bacha’. During the 40-day‘ Chillai Kalan’, it is said earth goes dead, air and water are the coldest. The arrival of ‘Chillai Kalan’ has set people in motion across the valley to stock food items and fuel. “Whenever Chillai Kalan begins in Kashmir it signals people to stock food and fuel for Kangris (traditional firepots),” said Rahil, a college student. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/slight-respite-from-cold-as-chillai-kalan-begins-in-kashmir-1063099.html
21-12-2021||North and Central||Yogi government seeks 'guidance' on quota for Nishads||Sensing the increasing resentment among the Nishads on the reservation issue, the Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh has sent a letter to the Registrar General and Census Commissioner of India seeking guidance over the reservation to the community under the Scheduled Caste (SC) category. A state government spokesperson said that special secretary of the Uttar Pradesh government Rajnish Chandra has sent the letter in which he has drawn the attention of both the authorities towards the Majhwar caste which is mentioned at number 53 in the list of SCs of the Uttar Pradesh government. The memorandum given to the state government by Sanjay Nishad, president of the Nishad Party, has also been attached with the letter. The Nishad Party is an ally of the BJP in Uttar Pradesh. Sanjay Nishad has stated in his letter that Majhi, Majhwar, Kewat, Mallah and Nishad surnames are used by people of Majhwar caste in different areas of the state. "Due to the use of various surnames, they are not issued SC certificates whereas other SC people using various surnames are getting benefits meant for SC members," he said. "He has demanded that all the people with surname of Majhwar caste should also be given SC certificates," the spokesperson added. The Nishad Party chief had raised the demand for the inclusion of Nishad, Majhwar, Kewat and Mallah communities in SC category and quota for them in government jobs. Union Home Minister Amit Shah had earlier assured the Nishad community that the government would fulfil their demands and resolve all the problems. However, Shah did not mention the reservation issue at the joint BJP-Nishad rally in Lucknow on December 17, which angered the community who went on rampage at the rally venue. Reacting to the letter, Sanjay Nishad said: "The party thanks the BJP leadership and Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath for taking up the issue. The Nishad community has been fighting for justice since long. The reservation to the Nishad community under SC category was one of the main demands of the community." Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/yogi-government-seeks-guidance-on-quota-for-nishads-1063106.html
21-12-2021||North and Central||Rajya Sabha adjourned till 2 pm after Oppn raises boycotting Business Advisory Committee meet||Rajya Sabha proceedings on Tuesday were adjourned till post-lunch session without transacting any business after opposition parties objected to the allocation of time for passage of a bill to link voter rolls to Aadhaar without them being part of the Business Advisory Committee (BAC) meeting. Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu adjourned the proceedings of the House till 2 pm as Leader of Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge raised objection to BAC allocating three hours for passage of The Election Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021. Soon after the listed official papers were laid on the table, Naidu said the BAC at its meeting on December 20 allocated time for government legislative business. This included three hours for discussion and passage of the electoral bill. While he was reading out the decision, opposition members from the Congress, the TMC and other parties questioned how the BAC could allocate time when they did not attend the meeting. Besides the government, leaders of major opposition parties are represented at the BAC. The BAC decides on the time for discussions in the House. "It is Business Advisory Committee, whoever attends it, attends it. Ok, you (opposition parties) have boycotted it... you have got a right to boycott," Naidu said. The Chairman then went on to say that he had not admitted notices under rule 267, saying "let the House transact the business so that we can take up all these”. The Congress and other opposition parties had given notices under rule 267 on the Lakhimpur killings. The rule calls for setting aside the business of the day to take up the issue being raised. "This is not the way to point. Let the Hosue be in order," Naidu said as opposition members protested against the time allocation for the bill. Kharge said when the opposition was not part of the BAC, "why we should accept it”. "Don't accept it. The House accepts it," Naidu replied. "You are not understanding. If the members of (the Business Advisory Committee) choose not to come, what can anybody do." TMC leader Derek O’Brien wanted to raise a point of order but Naidu abruptly adjourned the proceedings till 2 pm. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajya-sabha-adjourned-till-2-pm-after-oppn-raises-boycotting-business-advisory-committee-meet-1063113.html
21-12-2021||North and Central||Three of Delhi's Omicron positive patients had no travel history||Delhi Health Minister Satyendra Jain said on Tuesday that of the 34 Omicron variant cases reported so far, three do not have any travel history. Of the total Omicron positive cases in the city's Lok Nayak Jai Prakash hospital, three such cases do not have any travel history and have not been abroad, he said. There may be some more cases in other hospitals as Delhi government has designated four more private hospitals for the treatment. "We are assembling the data from these hospitals too, he said, adding that 17 patients have been discharged from the hospital. However, the union health ministry in a statement on Tuesday said that the national capital has reported 54 cases of Omicron infection so far. According to the ministry, the number of cases of new Covid strain has crossed the 200-mark in the country. Of them, 77 patients have recovered or migrated, the ministry added. Maharashtra and Delhi have recorded 54 cases of Omicron variant each, while Telangana has 20 cases, Karnataka 19, Rajasthan 18, Kerala 15 and Gujarat 14 cases of Omicron, said Union Health Ministry. Seeing the steady rise in the Omicron infection, Delhi government on Monday announced that now all Omicron positive samples will be sent for genome sequencing. "Delhi government has decided to send all the Omicron positive samples for genomen sequencing now and we have adequate arrangements for that", said Minister Jain. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/three-of-delhis-omicron-positive-patients-had-no-travel-history-1063123.html
21-12-2021||North and Central||Sukhbir's brother-in-law booked in drugs case in Punjab||Just weeks ahead of the Assembly polls in Punjab, the police have booked former Akali minister and brother-in-law of Sukhbir Badal, Bikram Singh Majithia, under sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act. As per the FIR, Majihtia was booked for allowing drug smuggling through use of his property or conveyance, financing the distribution or sale of drugs and hatching a criminal conspiracy for smuggling. State Congress chief Navjot Sidhu took to Twitter to announce that a case has been registered. Sidhu said: "An FIR has been registered in Punjab Police Crime Branch against the main culprits of Drug Trade on basis of February 2018 STF report, wherein i demanded this 4 years ago - It is a slap on the face of all those powerful who slept for years on issues at the heart of Punjab’s soul. "After 5.5 Years of fight against Corrupt System run by Badal Family & Captain and delay of 4 years without action taken on ED & STF Report against Majithia. Finally now, after pushing for credible officers in positions of power and influence first step has been taken !!" An FIR has been registered in Punjab Police Crime Branch against the main culprits of Drug Trade on basis of February 2018 STF report, wherein i demanded this 4 years ago - It is a slap on the face of all those powerful who slept for years on issues at the heart of Punjab’s soul Claiming that the FIR was just one of the steps against drug mafia, Sidhu in another tweet said, "Justice will not be served until main culprits behind Drug Mafia are given exemplary punishment, this is merely a first step, Will fight till punishment is given which acts as deterrent for generations. We must choose honest & righteous & shun drug traffickers & their protectors." Responding to the highly sensitive action, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) patron Parkash Singh Badal termed the registration of the case as the worst example of political vendetta. "We have been airing our fears about such a vendetta. We will fight the injustice," he told the media in Muktsar town. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sukhbirs-brother-in-law-booked-in-drugs-case-in-punjab-1063146.html
21-12-2021||North and Central||Veteran Punjab Congress leader Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi joins BJP||Punjab Congress leader Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi quit his party and joined the BJP on Tuesday, accusing the Congress of putting the state's "security and communal harmony at stake". Sodhi, an MLA who is considered close to former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh, announced his resignation from the Congress on Twitter and posted the letter sent to party president Sonia Gandhi. "I cannot accept Punjab's suffocation and helplessness! Congress party has put state's security & communal harmony at stake. With deep agony, I put forth my resignation from all posts & primary membership of Congress party with immediate effect," he said. Later, he joined the BJP in the presence of Union ministers Gajendra Singh Shekhawat and Bhupender Yadav at its headquarters here. The BJP has announced tie-up with Singh's party, the Punjab Lok Congress. Noting that he had been in the Congress for over four decades, Sodhi expressed his frustration at the state of affairs in the party, especially Punjab, alleging that its senior leadership is "hell bent on destroying the border state for their personal gains." Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/veteran-punjab-congress-leader-rana-gurmit-singh-sodhi-joins-bjp-1063147.html
21-12-2021||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh govt faced flak over 'underreporting' of Covid-19 deaths||The Shivraj Singh Chouhan-led government in Madhya Pradesh faced opposition fire over alleged underreporting of coronavirus cases, even as it registered a sound performance in Lok Sabha and Assembly bypolls held in the state during the year. Blaming the state government for underreporting Covid-related deaths, former chief minister Kamal Nath claimed that over one lakh people died from the infection in March and April across the state. Bhopal police lodged an FIR against Kamal Nath, Leader of Opposition in the Assembly, for his controversial “Indian Variant” coronavirus remark. The ruling BJP accused Kamal Nath of spreading misleading information through his remarks on the B.1.617 variant, which he referred to as the “Indian Variant”. While state Congress spokesman K K Mishra claimed that over two lakh people died during the pandemic, health officials put the death toll so far at 10,529. Mishra cited figures from various cremation grounds in the state to prove his point. National and international media highlighted a large number of deaths in the state but the BJP government continues to hide the real figures, he said. After a tumultuous 2020 that saw the fall of the Congress government, followed by the Covid-19 pandemic, this year was largely stable on the political front. Sixteen months after joining the BJP, former Congress leader Jyotiraditya Scindia was inducted as Union minister in July this year. At the Janjatiya Gaurav Divas Maha Sammelan in November, organised to mark the birth anniversary of revered tribal leader and freedom fighter Birsa Munda, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced that the birth anniversary of Munda will be celebrated on the lines of Gandhi Jayanti and Ambedkar Jayanti. Modi also inaugurated the newly-revamped Rani Kamlapati Railway Station, earlier known as Habibganj railway station. It has been named after the famous Gond queen. The ruling BJP in Madhya Pradesh retained the Khandwa Lok Sabha seat and wrested Prithvipur and Jobat Assembly seats from Congress during the bypolls, but lost the Raigaon seat to the main opposition party. Congress also won the Damoh bypoll in May. The BJP now has 28 of the total 29 Lok Sabha seats from the state. After the Assembly bypolls, BJP’s strength in the 230-member House is 127, while Congress has 95 members there. Officials said 82 per cent of the eligible population in Madhya Pradesh received both doses of coronavirus vaccines so far. Chouhan congratulated people, social workers, institutions, crisis management committee members, health staff and public representatives for this achievement. In March, the Assembly passed the Madhya Pradesh Freedom of Religion Bill 2021 to check religious conversions through marriage or by any fraudulent means, with the provision of 10 years imprisonment in some cases and a hefty fine for violators. Soon after it was passed, cases were filed against religious conversions in Khargone, Jhabua and Barwani districts. In December, right-wing activists and local residents barged into St Joseph School in Ganj Basoda town, about 110 km from Bhopal, and pelted stones and vandalised property. Similar organisations also ransacked the sets of web series Ashram in Bhopal claiming it maligned Hindu culture. Ahead of the Assembly winter session, which began on December 20, the Madhya Pradesh government cleared a draft bill to penalise those who destroy government and private property during protests, demonstrations, strikes and riots and recover double the amount of damage. Fifty-four bus passengers died after the vehicle fell into a canal near Patna village in Sidhi district in February. More bad news came as the year was about to end as Group Captain Varun Singh and Lance Naik Jitendra Kumar, who hailed from the state, died in a helicopter crash in Tamil Nadu. Among the victims was Madhulika Rawat, originally hailing from Shahdol district, and wife of the country’s first Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat, who also died in the crash. Four infants died in a fire that broke out in the special newborn care unit of a government hospital in Bhopal in November, prompting the government to order a high-level probe into the incident. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-govt-faced-flak-over-underreporting-of-covid-19-deaths-1063172.html
21-12-2021||North and Central||Centre considering moving review petition in Supreme Court to allow reservation of OBCs in local body polls||The Centre has said it considering moving a review petition before the Supreme Court to allow political reservation of OBCs in local bodies and municipal corporations for the time being till the states comply with the triple test criteria set forth by the apex court. The development comes after the Supreme Court decided to strike down the recent 27 per cent reservation in favour of Other Backward Classes (OBCs) in local bodies made by Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh governments. "In this connection, states are being advised to follow the reservation policy as per provisions of the Constitution in the election to the local bodies after observing all the criteria set forth by the Supreme Court," the Social Justice and Empowerment ministry said in a statement issued late Monday night. The ministry said it is also considering moving a review petition before the Supreme Court to allow political reservation of OBCs in the local bodies and municipal corporations for the time being till the States comply with the triple test criteria set forth by the top court. The triple test includes setting up a dedicated commission to conduct a contemporaneous rigorous empirical inquiry into the nature and implications of the backwardness as regards local bodies within the state. The second condition is to specify the proportion of reservation required to be provisioned local body-wise as per recommendations of the commission, and the third test is that the reservation should not exceed an aggregate of 50 per cent of the seats reserved in favour of SCs, STs and OBCs taken together. The Centre said it is concerned about the matter and is examining the issue in its entirety taking into account the opinion of all stakeholders including the Ministry of Panchayati Raj and Parliamentary Affairs, the Department of Legal Affairs and the Ministry of Home Affairs. The Supreme Court has directed the State Election Commission (SEC) of Maharashtra to notify 27 per cent of seats in the local body, which were reserved for the Other Backward Classes (OBCs), as a general category so that the poll process can be taken forward. Also, the apex court on Friday directed the Madhya Pradesh State Election Commission (SEC) to stay the poll process on seats reserved for Other Backward Classes (OBCs) in the local body there and re-notify those seats for the general category. Senior BJP leader Uma Bharti on Monday had claimed that panchayat polls in her party-ruled Madhya Pradesh without reservation for the OBCs will be injustice with about 70 per cent of the state's population. She urged state Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan to find a way out that these polls are not held without ensuring the participation of the OBCs.  Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/centre-considering-moving-review-petition-in-supreme-court-to-allow-reservation-of-obcs-in-local-body-polls-1063175.html
21-12-2021||North and Central||Decision to raise women's marriage age to 21 upsetting for some: PM Modi's jibe at rivals||Taking a swipe at his rivals, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said the government is trying to raise the marriage age of women to 21 so that they can have time to study and progress, but this has upset some. Addressing a rally here in Uttar Pradesh, were assembly elections are due early next year, he also said 25 lakh of the 30 lakh houses given under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana are registered in the name of women in the state. This shows the government's commitment to "sacha (true) empowerment of women", Modi said. "We are trying to increase the age of marriage of women to 21 years so that they can have time to study and progress. The country is taking this decision for its daughters. Everyone is seeing who is having problems with this," he said. Samajwadi Party (SP) MPs Shafiqur Rehman Barq and ST Hasan had made adverse comments over the Centre's move to increase the legal age of marriage. SP president Akhilesh Yadav had, however, distanced himself from the statements of his party’s Sambhal and Moradabad MPs, saying the SP is progressive and the views expressed are personal. On Tuesday, the Prohibition of Child Marriage (Amendment) Bill, 2021, that seeks to fix 21 years as the uniform age of marriage for women and men was introduced in Lok Sabha. Soon after its introduction, the government urged the Chair to refer it to a standing committee. The bill seeks to amend seven personal laws -- the Indian Christian Marriage Act; the Parsi Marriage and Divorce Act; the Muslim Personal Law (Shariat) Application Act; the Special Marriage Act; the Hindu Marriage Act; and the Foreign Marriage Act. In an apparent dig at the SP's rule in the state, Modi said, "Five years ago the mafia ruled the roost on the roads of Uttar Pradesh, and the worst sufferers were our sisters and daughters". "It was difficult for them to move out on roads and go to schools and colleges. But Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has put these hooligans in their right place," he said. The SP government in the state from 2012 to 2017 was succeeded by the BJP government. Hailing the Adityanath government, Modi said, "Now in Uttar Pradesh there is security, rights and opportunities (for women). I am confident that with the blessings of our mothers and sisters, no one will push the state back into darkness again.” “Come let us take an oath from this pious land of Prayagraj that the state will progress," he said. Schemes like the Mukhyamantri Kanya Sumangala Yojana are becoming a great medium of trust for the rural poor and girls, Modi said after transferring crores of rupees to accounts of over one lakh girls in the state. He also interacted with banking correspondent (BC)-sakhis, women self help groups preparing supplementary nutritious food manufacturing units, and beneficiaries of the Kanya Sumangala scheme "Now with the help of BC-sakhis, banks have reached villages. Those who have to withdraw money from direct benefit schemes now do not have to leave villages. For those who think that this is not a big task, I want to tell them that the Uttar Pradesh government has given responsibility of transaction of Rs 75,000 crore to BC-sakhis," he said. "More the transactions in a village, more will be their income. Many of these BC-sakhis are those who did not have bank accounts but now they have the power of digital banking," Modi said. Criticising previous governments, he said now the pace of the state’s development cannot be stopped by anyone. Now, women have decided that they will not let previous governments come again. The security and honour given to women in the “double engine (BJP) government is unprecedented", the prime minister said. Formation of BJP’s government in 2014 has put new "confidence and energy" in women, he said, adding that schemes like 'beti padhao, beti bachao' have succeeded in creating awareness and preventing sex-selective abortions. The government is focused on immunisation of pregnant women, institutional deliveries and nutrition during pregnancy, he said. Modi said over two crore women were benefited by the Matra Vandan Scheme, in which Rs 50,00 is given in accounts of pregnant women. To ensure school dropout rate of girls decreases, he said separate toilets were constructed and sanitary pads distributed free of cost. "We have opened account of girls under the Sukanya Samridhi Scheme and interest rates were kept high. Crores of toilets were made under 'Swachh Bharat scheme', free gas connections were given under Ujjwala scheme and under Ayushman scheme free treatment facility up to Rs 5 lakh is being provided," he said. He lamented that for decades, house and property were considered as the right of men only "In families where there was no property in the name of women for generations, they now have a house in their name. This is true women empowerment. In village 'swamitva scheme' is underway in which property papers were given to house owners and women are being given priority,” he said. "The state government will do mapping of village houses and give property papers to women," modi said. The prime minister transferred Rs 1,000 crore to bank accounts of self help groups (SHGs) to benefit around 16 lakh women. Under the Mudra Scheme, 70 per cent beneficiaries are women, he said and termed SHGs as "rashtra sahayata samooh" and women there as "champions" of ‘atmanirbhar bharat’. He said the help given to SHGs after 2014 has been increased 13 times and added restrictions for women to work in mines have been lifted and doors of 'sainik schools' have been opened for women. Modi earlier paid tribute to doyen of Hindi literature Acharya Mahavir Prasad Dwivedi on his death anniversary. He released over Rs 20 crore to over 1 lakh beneficiaries of the 'Mukhya Mantri Kanya Sumangala Scheme', which provides conditional cash transfer to a girl child at different stages of her life and also laid the foundation stone of 202 supplementary nutrition manufacturing units in 43 districts. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/decision-to-raise-womens-marriage-age-to-21-upsetting-for-some-pm-modis-jibe-at-rivals-1063177.html
21-12-2021||North and Central||Modi attacks opposition over women's marriage age bill||Prime minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday sought the support of the women for his party in the forthcoming assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh even as he slammed his rivals (Samajwadi Party, Congress) for opposing his government's plan to raise the marriage age of the girls from 18 to 21 year. Addressing a meeting of the women at Prayagraj, about 200 kilometres from here, Modi also listed various welfare measures taken by the centre and the state government for the women. ''UP ki mahilaon ne than liya hai...ab woh pahle wali sarkaron ka daur nahin ane dengi,'' (the women of UP have already taken the decision not to allow the era of the previous governments return in the state), the prime minister said. Modi also said that the women found it difficult to venture out of their homes during the previous regimes as the criminal elements ruled the streets then. ''Even if a woman approached the cops with a complaint, the police officials would get a call from the higher ups in favour of the rapists and mafias,'' he added. ''Nai UP ko wapas andhere mein dhakel sakte hain'' (the new UP can not be pushed back into the era of darkness), the prime minister said. Modi referred to his government's plan to raise of the age of marriage of the women from 18 to 21 and said that the women also needed time for study and get opportunities to excel. ''We want the women to progress but some people are opposing our move....the country is watching,'' he said apparently referring to the SP and Congress, whose MPs have said that they will oppose the Bill in Rajya Sabha. Modi also transferred Rs 1000 crore to self help groups (SHGs) that have 16 lakh women members.  The officials in Prayagraj claimed that more than two lakh women attended Modi's program. Women had started arriving in the town since Monday and they were housed at different inns and government schools and colleges.  Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, however, sought to make light of Modi's address saying that the latter's government did not do anything for the women during the past five years. She said that making such announcements before the elections indicated that they were aimed at garnering votes of the women in the poll. Modi's attempt to garner support of the women for his party in the forthcoming polls appeared to be intended to counter  Priyanka's efforts to bring them into her party's fold by making a slew of promises to them, including reserving 40 per cent tickets for them, deploying women cops a every police stations and others in the event of her party coming to power in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/modi-attacks-opposition-over-womens-marriage-age-bill-1063187.html
21-12-2021||North and Central||What was the Election Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021 chaos in Rajya Sabha all about?||Parliament passed the Election Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021, piloted by law minister Kiren Rijiju, on Tuesday with Rajya Sabha approving it through voice vote amid a walkout by the Opposition. The Bill was passed in Lok Sabha on December 20 and moved to Rajya Sabha for discussion on December 21 where the Opposition MPs pointed out the Centre’s haste in passing the bill. The Opposition leaders also questioned the motive behind the Bill. What does it have to do with Aadhaar and Voter ID linking? The Election Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021 allows electoral registration officers to seek Aadhaar number of people who wish to register as voters “for the purpose of establishing identity.” However, it will be done on a volunteer basis. Hence, the proposed law will not reject an application if the Aadhaar number is not linked to the Voter ID. Why was the Bill opposed? Even though Rijiju said that the Bill “would not be compulsory but only voluntary”, the Opposition leaders protested claiming that the “voter’s privacy will be compromised”. Congress MP Shashi Tharoor pointed that Aadhaar was only meant to be proof of residence, it's not proof of citizenship. “If you're in a position asking Aadhaar for voters, all you're getting is a document that reflects residence, not citizenship. You're potentially giving the vote to non-citizens,” he added. Congress MP Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said, “The Bill is being introduced today, taken up for consideration and passing today. What is the hurry? We have requested that it be referred to the standing committee.” Along with many other Opposition leaders, Nationalist Congress Party MP Supriya Sule questioned the “tearing hurry” in passing the Bill and demanded a detailed discussion on it. Earlier, Congress, TMC, CPI, CPI-M, DMK and Samajwadi Party opposed the Bill saying it infringes on voters' right to privacy. What did the Centre say defending the Bill? Following the turmoil after the Bill was passed in Lok Sabha, the Centre clarified on December 21 that the Bill seeks to link electoral rolls with the Aadhaar ecosystem to weed out duplication of voters and weed out fake votes. Through the proposed law, the names of electors that appear in more than one electoral roll or more than once in the same electoral roll can be removed. Once the Aadhaar is linked, the electoral roll data system will get a notification when the person is trying to apply for another ID. Terming the Bill "very good", Law Minister Kiren Rijiju said the legislation will help end fake and bogus voting in the country and make the electoral process credible. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/what-was-the-election-laws-amendment-bill-2021-chaos-in-rajya-sabha-all-about-1063196.html
21-12-2021||North and Central||Explained | J&K Delimitation Commission's draft proposal: Why leaders in the Valley are against it||In a controversial move, the J&K Delimitation Commission has suggested only 6 new legislative seats for Jammu and only one for Kashmir. Local parties criticised the move and said that it tilts in the favour of Jammu. What is Delimitation? Delimitation is the process of redrawing boundaries of a constituency according to population change to reflect changes in the population of the region. A delimitation commission is an independent body free from interference of any political party. The J&K Delimitation Commission is headed by a retired Supreme Court judge and includes the Chief Election Commissioner or Election Commissioner and state election commissioners. There are also five MPs from J&K who are associate members of the commission but their recommendations are not binding. What the J&K Delimitation Commission has suggested As per the mandate of the Commission, the sole reason to redraw boundaries is the population as per the 2011 Census. Earlier, Jammu had 37 seats, Kashmir 46 seats and Ladakh 4 seats. As per the proposal Kashmir will have 47 seats and Jammu 43. Earlier when the Union Territory had a special status, it’s delimitation of Lok Sabha seats was governed by the Constitution of India, and assembly seats by the Jammu and Kashmir Constitution and Jammu and Kashmir Representation of the People Act, 1957. Since the loss of the special status, both the Lok Sabha and assembly seats are to be demarcated under the Constitution of India. Why is it controversial? Basing this on the 2011 Census, the Kashmir Valley should get more seats than Jammu. As per the new assembly constituencies, seats in Kashmir will have a population ratio of 1.46 lakh against 1.25 lakh in Jammu province. According to J&K’s former law secretary Muhammad Ashraf Mir, the commission has proposed to carve out one seat per 1,25,082 people in the Jammu region and one seat per 1,46,563 people in the Kashmir region. “One constituency has been carved out for 1,25,082 people in Jammu Division. For Kashmir Division, the same constituency has been established for 1,46,563 people. In effect 10,09,621 people of the valley have been disenfranchised,” Mir tweeted. What party leaders said about this President of the National Conference Farooq Abdullah who attended the meeting said that his party will respond to the draft proposal formally on Dec 31, 2021. Omar Abdullah called the proposal “absolutely unacceptable.” “The draft recommendation of the J&K delimitation commission is unacceptable. The distribution of newly created assembly constituencies with 6 going to Jammu & only 1 to Kashmir is not justified by the data of the 2011 census,” he tweeted. It is deeply disappointing that the commission appears to have allowed the political agenda of the BJP to dictate its recommendations rather than the data which should have been it’s only consideration. Contrary to the promised “scientific approach” it’s a political approach. Former Chief Minister Mehbooba Mufti slammed the proposal and stated that the commission “want to pitch people against each other by ignoring the population census & preposing 6 seats for one region & only one for Kashmir.” She also added that the Commission is serving the interests of the BJP.  This commision has been created simply to serve BJPs political interests by dividing people along religious & regional lines. The real game plan is to install a government in J&K which will legitimise the illegal & unconstitutional decisions of August 2019. "The recommendations of the delimitation commission are totally unacceptable. They reek of bias. What a shock for those who believe in democracy," Jammu and Kashmir People's Conference chief Sajad Lone tweeted. The recommendations of the delimitation commission are totally unacceptable. They reek of bias. What a shock for those who believe in democracy. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/explained-jk-delimitation-commissions-draft-proposal-why-leaders-in-the-valley-are-against-it-1063198.html
21-12-2021||North and Central||Jammu & Kashmir reports first cases of Omicron||Jammu and Kashmir on Tuesday reported its first three cases of the Omicron variant of SARS-CoV-2. “Three Omicron cases confirmed by (National Centre for Disease Control) NCDC, Delhi from a cluster in Jammu. Sample taken on 30th November. RT-PCR testing of entire locality ordered”, read a tweet by Health & Medical Education Department. “Please observe Covid Appropriate Behaviour”, it said. J&K recorded 104 fresh Covid cases on Tuesday, taking the infection tally to 3,40,036, while one fresh fatality due to the virus was reported from the Union Territory in the past 24 hours, officials said. India has at least 200 cases of the new Omicron variant till now, the health ministry said on Tuesday. The Omicron variant of Covid-19 is at least three times more transmissible than the Delta variant, the Centre told all States and Union Territories. Maharashtra and Delhi have the highest number of Omicron cases, at 54 each followed by Telangana (20) and Karnataka (19). Check out DH's latest videos on Covid:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-kashmir-reports-first-cases-of-omicron-1063271.html
21-12-2021||Oasis||Boundaries of freedom||Existentialist philosophers believe that freedom is an instrument of human agency and action. To live as one wants it is essential to be free to do so. Is this freedom unconditional? Here is a folk tale that gives us an insight into this question, as only folk tales can. A compassionate and enlightened sage empathised with the sorrow his wife felt about not having children. One day as he sat contemplating, a baby rat near him. The wise man had an idea. He decided to give his wife a surprise. Using the powers he had gained from contemplation, he transformed the rat into an adorable human infant and presented it to his wife. She was delighted and the couple reared the child who grew up to be a maiden of great beauty and intelligence. Now, the wife wanted the sage to find a match for the girl. The indulgent father would have none but the best. The girl would, of course, have the freedom to choose from among those he considered worthy of her. His first option was the mighty sun, the sustainer, warm and bright. No, said the maiden, he is scorching. Then he considered the gusty wind. No, said the girl, he will blow me away. Perhaps, the strong and steady mountain he thought, and sounded the maiden out. Oh no, she wailed, he is so huge and rough. All the contemplation had not given him any clue to the woman’s mind. Finally, he took the problem to his wife. The lady now wanted to know more about the child’s origin. As the sage confessed proudly, the worldly-wise woman smiled and gave him a solution. He found a handsome mountain rat with fine whiskers and a shiny coat. The maiden trembled with joy, blushed and said, yes. Even when there is no other fetter, all freedom comes with its boundaries. The well being in a choice is determined as much by the freedom to choose as by the desire for what one chooses. Desires, in turn, are shaped by perceptions, objective, subjective, or even delusional. And all freedom is limited by what one desires. Even as we live in a world where a woman need not take a manly pseudonym to write – as the Bronte sisters did in the nineteenth century – the freedom would not mean very much if we do not want to write.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/boundaries-of-freedom-1063292.html
21-12-2021||Opinion||Will Russia and US go to war over Ukraine?||Ukraine, a lower-middle-income country in Eastern Europe, with a population of 43 million and an area of 603,550 square kilometres, finds itself in the crosshairs of the United States and Russia. Recently, the presidents of both the countries met virtually to discuss the latter's overtures on the borders of Ukraine, where Russia has positioned 100,000 of its troops, hinting at a massive military attack on the country. During the meeting, President Joe Biden threatened Russia with severe economic sanctions if it did not pull back its forces from the Ukrainian borders. Some analysts said its déjà vu 2014 when Russia had annexed the Republic of Crimea without as much as firing a gunshot. The history We need to reflect on three significant years to decipher the situation today and understand Vladimir Putin's fascination for Ukraine. Until 1991, Ukraine was part of the USSR, when Putin was climbing the KGB ladder. That year, the USSR fell apart, and Ukraine, among other countries, became an independent country. Ukraine had always been viewed as part of the Russian cultural hegemony and an extension of Russia by the likes of Nikolai Gogol. The second important year in this timeline was 1999, when Putin ascended to power after Boris Yeltsin's ouster. From the beginning of his tenure, first as the prime minister and subsequently, in successive terms as Russia's president, Putin has been vigilant about his legacy, of laying the ground for being remembered as a 'great leader'. Russia, we must note, measures greatness with territorial expanse and not economic development of its people. The year 2014 is the third important year, which saw the unseating of the Ukrainian president, Viktor Yanukovych. He had declined fervent appeals for Ukraine's greater integration with Europe, resulting in widespread violent protests in Kyiv and other major cities. Yanukovych had to relinquish his post ultimately and take refuge in Moscow. Throughout his reign (three terms as the prime minister and a single term as the president between 2002-14), he was seen as Moscow's man. Putin took Yanukovych's removal as a personal affront to his leadership and as a western conspiracy to thwart the expanse of his ambition. In the ensuing months, thousands of Ukrainian citizens were killed by the 'rebels', who also went on to, probably accidentally, shoot down Malaysian Airlines 17. Over 14,000 of its citizens have been killed since 2014, Crimea has been annexed, and several parts of Ukraine are in Russian control. What will Putin do next? Ukraine's President, Volodymyr Zelensky, has made claims that Russia is not only preparing to invade the country but also to remove him in a coup. It is not uncommon to see an autocrat claim another country as his own territory and deny its citizens their sovereignty and history. In this case, it is Putin who claims Ukraine as Russian territory. As we are aware, Ukraine became an independent country in 1991, but it was the seat of a medieval kingdom, which emerged in the 10th century Kyiv and ruled the current day Ukraine, Poland, Russia, and Belarus. It is this origin that both the Russians and the Ukrainians lay claim to. This is also the history Putin wants his country to hark back to, thereby making his indelible mark on the Russian society. Earlier this year, Putin published his 5,000-word essay describing Ukraine as a western 'project' and said the country "is entirely the brainchild of the Soviet era and was to a large extent created at the expense of historical Russian lands." Throughout this diatribe, Putin continues to say that "I am convinced that true Ukrainian sovereignty is only possible in partnership with Russia. After all, we are one people." His assumptions are perfectly in line with populist leaders of countries bent upon taking their countries to their golden pasts and making them great again. Will there be a war? Biden is not looking to engage his country in a war with Russia, particularly after the recent experience in Afghanistan. Yet, he will do his best to maintain (or reclaim) the American hegemony in world politics. Albeit, it can be safely said that the American special forces will not be fighting in Kyiv. However, the US can ensure that Ukraine has all the tools it needs to unsettle the Russians. Putin, on the other hand, does not like unpredictability. This was one of the reasons Russia does not have a big footprint in Syria. It did not know which way it might have gone. Putin also knows if Russia does go through with its veiled threat of attacking Ukraine, NATO might get involved in what could end up becoming Europe's biggest land war since WWII. Putin perhaps believes he can overpower Ukraine without having to enter a full-scale war, and hence, the positioning of his army is an overture to Biden to come to the negotiating table, to withdraw support for Ukraine. If anything, this posturing has given him the headlines, the meeting with Biden, and the attention he so dearly seeks. It has also won him the first round of his preferred coercive diplomacy – the endgame of getting Biden to pledge to keep Ukraine out of NATO. (The author is a former Chief of Communications with UNICEF in New York, where he worked for more than a decade.) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/will-russia-and-us-go-to-war-over-ukraine-1063134.html
21-12-2021||Opinion||The anti-cancer vaccine most kids miss out on||Vaccine hesitancy is hardly limited to shots against Covid-19. Even the HPV vaccine, which can prevent as many as 90% of six potentially lethal cancers, is meeting with rising resistance from parents. The Food and Drug Administration licensed this lifesaving vaccine in 2006 to protect against sexually transmitted infection by HPV, the human papillomavirus. Most of us will get infected with HPV during our lifetimes, certain strains of which can lead to cancers of the cervix, vagina and vulva in women; cancers of the anus and back-of-the-throat in both women and men; and penile cancer in men. HPV can also cause genital warts. But the vaccine only works if it’s administered before people become infected by the virus. And that often means getting vaccinated before teens and young adults have any form of sexual activity, including oral sex and skin-to-skin contact without penetration. More than half of adolescents ages 15 to 19 report having had oral sex, and 1 in 10 say they have had anal sex. Unless they are vaccinated, more than 80% of women become infected with HPV by age 50. There is no treatment for an HPV infection. Yet Kalyani Sonawane, a researcher at the University of Texas Health Science Center, and her colleagues reported in March that parental intent not to vaccinate their adolescents against HPV rose from 50.4% in 2012 to 64% in 2018. Ironically, parents were most resistant — at 68.1% — to vaccinating girls, the very group for whom this vaccine was initially developed to prevent cervical cancer. Now, if not for the slow adoption of the HPV vaccine by the parents of adolescents, we would likely be well on our way to eliminating nearly all cases of cervical cancer and the five other HPV-caused cancers. Highly-effective vaccine Until recently, the vaccine’s ability to prevent cancer was presumed but not proved. Cervical cancer risk rises with age, most often occurring in midlife or later, so it can take many years to confirm the vaccine’s ability to protect against cancer. Now a new study in Britain of an early version of the vaccine found that within 13 years of vaccine administration, there were 87% fewer cases of cervical cancer among young women immunised between ages 12 and 13, compared to unvaccinated women. Significantly lower cancer rates were also found among women immunized between ages 14 and 16 and between 16 and 18, although the greatest benefit occurred among those vaccinated at the youngest ages, before most girls were likely exposed to the virus through sexual contact. Based on a steadily declining incidence of cervical cancer and a high rate of vaccine coverage in Australia, researchers predicted that the country would have fewer than four new cases of cervical cancer per 100,000 women by 2028 and virtually none by 2066. To be sure, regular Pap smears that detect precancerous cervical lesions have helped greatly to prevent the development of invasive cancer, but early detection efforts do not fully eliminate the risk of cervical cancer. This year, the American Cancer Society estimates that 14,480 new cases of invasive cervical cancer will be diagnosed in the United States and about 4,290 women will die from it. And there is no screening test like the Pap smear for the other five HPV-caused cancers. Once the real cancer culprit was identified as the human papillomavirus and a vaccine to prevent it finally developed, persuading parents to have their young daughters immunised has been an uphill battle for practitioners. Few have the time and factual ammunition to counter parental fears and misinformation about this vaccine. Getting parents to agree to immunise boys has faced an additional obstacle. The original approval of the vaccine to prevent cervical cancer prompted many parents to question its value for boys, for whom the vaccine was approved three years later. Parental resistance to immunising their sons rose to 59.2% in 2018, up from 44.4% just six years earlier. How the vaccine is given Between ages 9 and 15, two shots of HPV vaccine are required, administered six months apart; from age 15 on, three shots are needed. Side effects are usually mild, like pain or swelling at the injection site and perhaps brief fever, fatigue, nausea or muscle pain. The vaccine’s cost is nearly always covered by insurance. Sonawane said parental misconceptions about the vaccine’s safety are commonplace, and doctors rarely have the time to debunk vaccine misinformation parents find online. “Positive information about vaccines doesn’t get posted on social media,” she observed. Some parents fear that immunizing their children against HPV will encourage them to engage in sexual activity, although there is no evidence this happens. Aragones, among others, suggested that the best way for doctors to minimize parental opposition is to describe the vaccine’s anticancer role, limit discussing the link to sexual activity and include the immunization with the other vaccines that are routinely given to adolescents.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-anti-cancer-vaccine-most-kids-miss-out-on-1063312.html
21-12-2021||Panorama||Linking Aadhaar, voter ID: Path to a ‘Delhi Analytica’, 'Mumbai Analytica’?||The Lok Sabha has passed the bill to amend the Representation of People Act, 1951. The bill provides for the linking of voter IDs with Aadhaar cards, ostensibly on a voluntary basis. Earlier, in 2015, the Electoral Commission of India (ECI) had managed to link the Aadhaar numbers of nearly 38 crore voters, before the Supreme Court put a stop to the exercise. In its interim order, the apex court had explicitly prohibited the use of Aadhaar for any purpose other than State-facilitated welfare schemes aiming to distribute food grains and cooking fuel such as kerosene and LPG. Voting is a constitutional right, and can by no means be considered a welfare benefit. While the linking is touted as being voluntary, the short history of Aadhaar-related matters in the last seven years teaches us important lessons when it comes to ‘mandatory-voluntary’ rhetoric. The government has throughout insisted on linking Aadhaar to everything from the PAN card and bank accounts to even school admissions, backing off only in the face of the Supreme Court’s ruling on Aadhaar. The new bill has revived concerns surrounding privacy and voter profiling. The single most problematic aspect of the move is that no information has been revealed in relation to the extent to which data-sharing will occur between the Aadhaar and the Electors Photo Identification Card (EPIC) databases. No procedures through which the consent of the individual whose data is being shared can be obtained have been outlined either. If all data is indeed shared between the databases, and such sharing is done without the consent of the concerned individual, then the resulting consequences for one’s constitutionally guaranteed right to privacy will be disastrous. The process of obtaining an Aadhaar number often requires the provision of demographic information, such as one’s caste certificate. Such information, if shared with the EPIC database, can be appropriated and can lead to targeted political advertising, disenfranchisement based on identity, commercial exploitation of one’s private sensitive data and increased surveillance. In the past, there have been instances of targeted surveillance using Aadhaar and demographic data. For instance, a website operated by the Andhra Pradesh state government facilitated tracking the locations of several families using religion and caste as search criteria. The Cambridge Analytica scandal already confirmed the worst of our nightmares by demonstrating the impact that voter profiling can have on democracy. Commenting on the consequences of the linkage between the two databases, Justice B N Srikrishna earlier stated that the link will invariably lead to instances of ‘Delhi Analytica’, ‘Mumbai Analytica’, ‘Kolkata Analytica’, and so on. To ensure that such a situation does not come to pass, the government should have first got the Personal Data Protection (PDP) bill passed, before pursuing the Aadhaar-voter ID integration. What’s more, the UIDAI has recently sought an exemption from the PDP bill. The PDP regime must apply to government entities and require them to obtain the explicit consent of an individual before sharing their data across the government (between the Election Commission of India and the UIDAI, in this case). Citizens would also benefit by incorporating the principle of data minimisation in such sharing. This principle would require the data controller to limit the cross-database sharing of any personal demographic data to only that which is directly relevant and, more importantly, necessary to accomplish a particular purpose. Now, the primary rationale that the government has provided for pursuing the linking is to preserve the sanctity of the voting ecosystem by eliminating multiple enrolments. The government argues that purifying the electoral rolls is a precondition for free and fair elections, and so privacy concerns are rebutted by playing up the ‘public interest’ card. However, it is important to realise that the bill might destroy the very sanctity it purportedly seeks to preserve. The Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) has admitted that it possesses no information regarding the enrolment operator, agency, or registrar for each Aadhaar number. Neither does it have any information about the primary documents that were used to establish the identity, address, age, etc., of the person allotted an Aadhaar number. This raises questions about the possibility of dubious enrolment practices. There also exist valid concerns regarding the security of the Aadhaar database, which several experts argue is prone to data leaks. The validity of voter IDs that are authenticated by Aadhaar numbers, which can be dubiously created, then comes under question. Before embarking on such an authentication process, we must first verify the Aadhaar number being used to verify one’s voter ID. Unless this is achieved, the bill’s intended aim will be undermined and the electoral rolls will be tainted. There is also the question of voter deletion that needs to be addressed. In 2015, the Telangana State Election Commission utilised Aadhaar-based software to expel bogus voters from the system. This resulted in the exclusion of lakhs of voters from the electoral process. The Chief Electoral Officer of the state claimed that the majority of the exclusions were genuine. However, several lakhs of voters were still unjustly disenfranchised. The main reason for this was the fact that mandatory door-to-door verification was not carried out prior to the deletion of the voters from the database. It is not clear yet if the government plans to delete those voter IDs which cannot be authenticated on the basis of the Aadhaar number alone. It must not be so. (The writer is a student at the National Academy of Legal Studies and Research, Hyderabad)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/linking-aadhaar-voter-id-path-to-a-delhi-analytica-mumbai-analytica-1063294.html
21-12-2021||Right in the Middle||The portmanteau trap||Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who has a penchant for playing with words, was at it again recently. Inaugurating the 594 km-long Ganga Expressway in Shahjahanpur district, he said, “UP plus Yogi, bahut hai upyogi.” This made me recall a few incidents where portmanteau could have caused havoc or would have had undesirable outcomes. In Chandigarh in the mid-1970s, a few of us were recently married and were either expecting our first child or were proud parents of a newborn. The Kannadigas in Chandigarh from different professions, particularly from the Armed Forces, had formed a Kannada association. During the association’s meetings, one of the subjects discussed among parents and grandparents was the selection of a name for a newborn, or to-be-born babies. The fashion then was to form a name by combining a syllable from the names of each one of the parents. For example, the son of Shantaram and Sushma was Sushant. If it were a girl child, it could be Shama. Similarly, the son of Prabhakar and Veena would be named Praveen.  It was at this time, that we, Vani and I, were blessed with a male child. Our friends suggested that we also use the same principle that they had successfully applied in naming their child and were very happy with the outcome. I had to tell my friends very politely that, unfortunately, application of the same logic in naming our son would be disastrous. Our son, when he came back from his first school day, would have never pardoned us; had we not been careful, our child’s name would have turned out to be ‘Prani’, taking Pra from Prakash and ni from Vani. Thankfully, Uday is happy that we did not fall prey to the ‘in thing’ prevalent at the time of his birth. Years later, the discussion within our organisation was to pick an appropriate name for our in-house magazine. Since the organisation deals with construction projects, a name suggested was ‘yojana’ meaning projects. To further finetune and keep the name apt for the services we render it was suggested that we take Pra from my name (since I am the founder) and make it Prayojana, meaning useful both in Sanskrit and Kannada. Thankfully, it occurred to me at the right time that a wag could pick up my initials also, which are ‘A N’ and prefix Prayojana and turn it to ‘anprayojana?’ meaning ‘of what use?’ A very dangerous name for an organisation rendering professional services! We finally decided on another name. Since then, I am of the opinion that all portmanteau words don’t necessarily result in being pleasant and useful. I am not sure how useful Modi’s coinage would be in garnering votes in Uttar Pradesh elections but it would certainly have lifted the spirits of the doting crowds at Shahjahanpur.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/the-portmanteau-trap-1063313.html
21-12-2021||Second Edit||Anti-conversion bill: Regressive legislation||The Karnataka Protection of Right to Freedom of Religion Bill, which was tabled in the state legislature on Tuesday, runs contrary to Articles 25-28 of the Constitution, which guarantee the freedom of conscience and the right to freely profess, practice and propagate religion. Ironically, the government has invoked these very provisions to introduce the bill, taking shelter under Clause 1 of Article 25 which states that this freedom shall be subject to public order, morality and health. The government has also referred to the Supreme Court order in Rev Stanislaus v/s State of Madhya Pradesh and Odisha, which held that the ‘right to propagate’ does not include the right to convert another person. While this is true, there is no bar on voluntary conversion, on which Karnataka seeks to place impediments through this legislation, which has come to be known as the anti-conversion bill. The Statement of Objects of the bill claims that in recent years the state has noticed many instances of conversion by “allurement, coercion, force, fraudulent means and mass conversion” which are claimed to have caused disturbance to public order. However, the government has failed to bolster its claim with facts and figures. In fact, when BJP MLA Goolihatti Shekar complained on the floor of the House during the previous session that hundreds of people, including his own mother, were forcibly converted to Christianity in Hosadurga constituency, the government ordered a survey by the local tahsildar. The report said that there were no cases of conversion by coercion or inducement. If the anti-conversion bill becomes law, people will no longer be able to “freely profess and practice” any religion of their choice, as anyone intending to convert will have to give a notice of one month to the district magistrate, who will then get an inquiry conducted by the police to ascertain the real intention of conversion. The punishment for contravention of any of the provisions ranges from an imprisonment of three to 10 years and a fine of Rs 10,000 to Rs 10 lakh.  While conversion through coercion or fraudulent means is undesirable and should no doubt be curbed, a bare reading of the bill indicates that the real intention is to appease vigilante groups and the ruling party’s hardline Hindutva base. It is also seen as a move by an increasingly politically vulnerable Chief Minister Bommai to strengthen his position by pandering to party hardliners. Whatever be the reason, the bill is a regressive piece of legislation and a blot on the image of a progressive state like Karnataka where all communities have generally coexisted in harmony.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/anti-conversion-bill-regressive-legislation-1063318.html
21-12-2021||South||'Frivolous, political': Kerala HC fines Rs 1L for plea to remove PM's photo on vaccine certificate||The Kerala High Court on Tuesday dismissed a plea seeking removal of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's photograph from Covid-19 vaccination certificates and imposed a cost of Rs 1 lakh on the petitioner by terming the petition as "frivolous", being "politically motivated" and a "publicity interest litigation". Justice P V Kunhikrishnan directed the petitioner -- Peter Myaliparampil -- to deposit the cost in favour of the Kerala State Legal Services Authority (KeLSA) within six weeks. The court said in case of failure to deposit the cost within the stipulated period, KeLSA shall recover the amount from his assets by initiating revenue recovery proceedings against him. It said the cost was being imposed to let people and the society know that frivolous pleas like this which waste judicial time will not be entertained by the court. The court also said that the "frivolous contentions" by the petitioner objecting to the PM's photo and his "morale boosting message" on the vaccination certificate, was "not expected from a citizen of the country". It also said that when there are thousands of criminal appeals, bail pleas, civil suits and matrimonial cases pending in the courts, frivolous petitions like the instant one waste judicial time. The court had previously observed what was wrong in Covid-19 vaccination certificates carrying the photograph of the Prime Minister when he was elected to power by the people of the country. The court had also remarked, "They may not be proud of their PMs, we are proud of our PM" and had asked the petitioner -- "why are you ashamed of the Prime Minister? He came to power through the mandate of the people...we may have different political views, but he is still our PM." The petitioner had contended that the certificate was a private space with personal details on record and therefore, it was inappropriate to intrude into the privacy of an individual. He had contended that adding the Prime Minister's photo to the certificate was an intrusion into an individual's private space. The petitioner, a senior citizen, had contended in his plea that the Prime Minister's photo on his vaccination certificate was a violation of fundamental rights. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/frivolous-political-kerala-hc-fines-rs-1l-for-plea-to-remove-pms-photo-on-vaccine-certificate-1063114.html
21-12-2021||South||Kerala political murders: Several suspects in custody, says police||Claiming 'good development" in the investigation of the recent killings of SDPI's K S Shan and BJP functionary Ranjith Sreenivas here, the police on Tuesday said several suspects have been taken into custody and interrogation is progressing fast to identify whether they were directly involved in the crime. While SDPI state secretary Shan was killed by a gang on Saturday night while he was on his way back home, the BJP OBC Morcha state secretary, Sreenivas was hacked to death in front of his family by some assailants in his house on Sunday morning. ADGP (Law and Order) Vijay Sakhare, who is heading the Special Investigation Team (SIT) probing the two separate cases, said all aspects including the conspiracy angle would be investigated after the culprits are identified. Social media surveillance has been intensified in connection with the murders, the officer said and warned of stringent action against those putting up provocative and illegal posts. The senior IPS officer also said there is good development in the investigation and he and his team were expecting to get a "breakthrough" in the case soon. "We have taken several suspects into the custody. But it is too early to say whether they were directly involved in the crime. Our immediate target is to complete the interrogation at the earliest, identify the culprits and record their arrest," Sakhare told reporters here. No specific confirmation could be given right now unless the story is clear to the investigators, he said. Seeking to maintain the law and order situation and to check recurring of similar crimes, raids have been carried out across the district and several history sheeters have been taken into custody, the official added. The Police on Monday had arrested two persons in connection with the death of Shan and claimed "substantial lead" in the investigation into the murder of Sreenivas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-political-murders-several-suspects-in-custody-says-police-1063140.html
21-12-2021||South||Tamil Nadu CM Stalin to get dashboard for monitoring status of projects from his desk||From Wednesday, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin will be able to monitor the status of projects being implemented by various government departments across the state through a giant digital screen installed at his office at the Secretariat. CM Dashboard developed by the Tamil Nadu e-Governance Agency (TNeGA) aims at integrating data from all government departments, district administrations, government agencies, and police force to ensure easy monitoring of projects being implemented in the state. Stalin will launch the much-hyped CM Dashboard on Wednesday – the government released a teaser video on Tuesday in which IT Minister Mano Thangaraj, Director General of Police (DGP) Sylendra Babu and top government officials explain the need for such a system for easy implementation and monitoring of schemes and projects. Stalin had on September 17 told a meeting of department secretaries’ that his government will not just stop at announcing projects and schemes but will introduce a mechanism to monitor them on a regular basis. He had announced that the TNeGA will develop a dashboard that will be installed at his office to enable him to personally monitor the implementation of the projects and schemes announced in the Budget and during various occasions. Sources in the know told DH that the CM Dashboard combines data informatics and artificial intelligence to bring about a massive change in the way things are monitored by those at the helm of the government.  “The dashboard will combine different sets of data from different departments. It will allow the Chief Minister to check the current status of a project being implemented in a remote village in the state, sitting from his desk at the Secretariat,” an official said.  The development is expected to ensure that works are completed on time since officials know that the schemes are being monitored by the Chief Minister. The official added that the TNeGA has worked for over two months to develop the dashboard.  Stalin, who assumed office on May 7, has been stressing about using technology to infuse more transparency in government functioning. The government for the first time presented an e-budget and is now spending crores of rupees on setting up e-offices which will enable files to be checked and signed digitally. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-cm-stalin-to-get-dashboard-for-monitoring-status-of-projects-from-his-desk-1063237.html
21-12-2021||South||Congress, CPM nurtured communal outfits in Kerala, say analysts||Even as the Congress in Kerala has been alleging that the recent back-to-back political murders in Kerala involving communal outfits were the outcome of communal appeasement politics being nurtured by the ruling CPM and Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, political analysts say that the Congress is also equally responsible for the growth of the communal outfits in the state. Analysts said that both the Congress and the CPM used to enter into electoral nexus with these outfits at local levels overtly and covertly. Hence, the CPM and the Congress, which have been ruling Kerala over the years, are equally responsible for the growth of these outfits, they say. Even as Muslim fundamental outfits like Popular Front of India's affiliate Social Democratic Party of India and People's Democratic Party led by Abdul Nasser Madani and Hindu outfits like RSS are not having much voter base in Kerala, they are influential in many pockets of the state. Hence, they attain significance in local body elections and even have representatives in many local bodies. Veteran political analyst MN Karassery said that both the Congress-led United Democratic Front and the CPM-led Left Democratic Front used to take support of these outfits at local body levels. In Assembly elections as well, the mainstream political parties used to enter into nexus with these communal outfits. Hence, both Congress and CPM were equally responsible for the growth of communal outfits in the state. In a recent instance, SDPI backed a no-confidence motion of the LDF against the UDF at Erattupetta municipality in Kottayam district, while the BJP backed LDF's no-confidence motion at Kottayam municipality. The state had also witnessed top leaders of both the UDF and the LDF rallying behind PDP leader Maudany, who was accused in a Bengaluru blast case.  In the recent Assembly elections, the Indian Union Muslim League, which is a key coalition partner of the UDF, had reportedly received SDPI's support at Manjeshwar in Kasargod where the BJP's State President, K Surendran, was the favourite to win. During all general elections, Congress and the CPM used to make allegations and counter-allegations of tie-ups with fundamental outfits. Political analyst Jacob George said that the Congress was quite concerned that CPM, especially Chief Minister Vijayan, was making inroads into its Muslim vote banks in the state through various strategical moves like his recent intervention to settle a row over Kerala Wakf Board recruitment. That could be the reason why Congress is now trying to unleash a campaign that the CPM was facilitating the growth of the communal outfits. Even on Tuesday, Opposition leader VD Satheesan of the Congress, stated that the CPM was entering into nexus with minority and majority communal outfits at the same time with the intention of destroying the Congress-led UDF. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/congress-cpm-nurtured-communal-outfits-in-kerala-say-analysts-1063247.html
21-12-2021||South||Karunanidhi’s personal secretary for 50 years passes away||K Shanmuganathan, known as the ‘shadow’ of late Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M Karunanidhi as he served as his personal secretary for half a century, passed away in Chennai on Tuesday. He was 80.  Shanmuganathan, who hailed from Tiruvarur in the fertile Cauvery Delta region, much like his boss, suffered a heart attack at the Kauvery Hospital where he was admitted and breathed his last at around 4 pm.  An expert in shorthand, Shanmuganathan was working with the police department taking notes of speeches by Opposition leaders in 1967 when Karunanidhi spotted him.  Two years later and days after Karunanidhi was sworn in as Chief Minister following the death of DMK founder C N Annadurai, Shanmuganathan joined his team as personal secretary and there was no looking back.  Shanmuganathan served with Karunanidhi till the latter’s death in August 2018.   “This life is for Thalaivar (Karunanidhi),” Shanmuganathan repeated these words often after the DMK patriarch took ill in 2016 and was confined to his Gopalapuram residence. Shanmuganathan was more than a personal secretary – he was Karunanidhi’s "shadow" and was seen with him from morning till midnight.  Shanmuganathan, who would take a seat behind Karunanidhi in all public meetings or events, diligently taking notes, was constantly by his side.  At Karunanidhi’s Gopalapuram residence, Shanmuganathan used to sit in a tiny room often typing statements or articles dictated to him by the late chief minister. He was also the first point of contact for journalists to get an appointment with Karunanidhi, who engaged with the media almost every day.  Shanmuganathan was much respected by DMK leaders and cadres for he accompanied their leader to almost every event.  “Shanmuganathan was the shadow of Thalaivar Kalaignar (Karunanidhi) more than a secretary or assistant. He travelled with Kalaignar for about fifty years…Above all, one of the main pillars of the Gopalapuram family has fallen,” Stalin said in a moving tribute, recalling that he was the groomsman when Shanmuganathan got married.  A teary-eyed Stalin also visited Shanmuganathan’s residence and paid his last respects. In a rare interview with popular Tamil magazine Ananda Vikatan, Shanmuganathan spoke in detail about his relationship with Karunanidhi.  “I joined Thalaivar after he became the chief minister of Tamil Nadu. It was me who typed the second volume of his (Karunanidhi’s) biography,” Shanmuganathan said during the interview. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/karunanidhi-s-personal-secretary-for-50-years-passes-away-1063252.html
21-12-2021||South||Alappuzha murders: Kerala government under fire for lack of arrests||While two RSS activists were arrested on Monday in connection with the murder of SDPI state leader KS Shan on Saturday evening, no arrest was made till Tuesday evening in the murder of BJP leader Renjith Sreenivas. Cultural Affairs Minister Saji Cherian, who chaired an all-party meeting in the district, assured that the police were carrying out an effective investigation and all involved would be held. BJP and SDPI leaders raised their protest against the police at the meeting. The BJP district leaders also reportedly demanded that the case be transferred to the central agencies. The police carried out raids at several suspected hideouts of the accused in the district. Several SDPI leaders were detained, with officials claiming that arrests are likely to be made soon. Nearly 10 more are wanted in the murder of the SDPI leader, while around 12 are wanted in the BJP leader's murder. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/alappuzha-murders-kerala-government-under-fire-for-lack-of-arrests-1063328.html
21-12-2021||State||Karnataka Assembly passes Bill for new AYUSH varsity||The Karnataka Assembly on Tuesday passed a Bill to establish an AYUSH University in Shivamogga, amid criticism from opposition MLAs on the need for such a varsity now. Health & Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar, who piloted the Karnataka State AYUSH University Bill, said it will a first-of-its-kind university in south India that will focus on research. "It will also address the publication of research material on Ayurveda, which is very less now," he said. Congress MLA Dr HD Ranganath said he has concerns on the new university as it took the state government 20 years to approve cadre and recruitment rules for the Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences (RGUHS). "The RGUHS does not have a separate campus till now," he said, urging the government to invest in RGUHS before floating any new varsity. Former Congress minister Priyank Kharge questioned the suitability of promoting alternative medicine especially at a time when the state is facing a pandemic along with financial crisis. Another Congress MLA Dr Yathindra was of the view that the state should allocate more funds for RGUHS rather than invest in a new university. Meanwhile, Deputy Speaker Anand Mamani and MLA Bandeppa Kashempur urged the government to allot the varsity to Belagavi and Bidar, respectively. Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri advised the government to choose districts where such projects were essential, rather than allotting it to districts that already have various infrastructure. The Assembly also passed a Bill to rename the University of Agricultural and Horticultural Sciences in Shivamogga as Keladi Shivappa Nayaka Agricultural and Horticulture University. Another Bill that was passed was the Karnataka Municipal Corporations and Certain Other Law (Second Amendment) Bill, 2021, which proposes a separate slab of property tax for industrial buildings in municipal limits.  Urban Development minister Byrathi Basavaraju, who piloted the Bill, said that the legislation was aimed at encouraging the establishment of industries in the State. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-assembly-passes-bill-for-new-ayush-varsity-1063263.html
21-12-2021||State||Kannada delegation urges Centre to hold all exams in Kannada language||A delegation of Kannada literatures in the aegis of Kannada Development Authority (KDA) met Union Minister for Prime Minister Office Jitendra Singh here on Tuesday and requested him to conduct all examinations under National Recruitment Agency in regional languages including Kannada.   Delegation headed by KDA Chairman T S Nagabharana in their memorandum said that since NRA examinations will be a base for recruitment for all central government jobs in future, holding it in regional languages instead of only in English and Hindi, will help poor and economically weaker sections to get employment.   The delegation also requested the Centre to make a national level policy to ensure 75% of all kinds of jobs should be reserved to locals. He said the Staff Selection Commission should also be held in regional languages instead of only Hindi and English. Like railways, the Department of Personnel and Administrative Reforms can introduce a policy to give jobs to locals in government departments. He also demanded the restoration of the 2012 recruitment system in IBPS (Institute of Banking Personnel Selection) examinations, where group B and C jobs were reserved to only local candidates. Recruiting local candidates in banks will help the common man to deal with banks in their day today activities.   The delegation also met Union Minister of State for Home Affairs G Kishan Reddy and former Prime Minister H D Deve Gowda and submitted the same memorandums.  Writers Mallepuram G Venkatesh. C Manjula, H G Shobha, Ashwini Shankar, A C Kishore, and Suresh Bedigere and Secretary to KDA Santosh Hangal accompanied the delegation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kannada-delegation-urges-centre-to-hold-all-exams-in-kannada-language-1063331.html
21-12-2021||State||2,000 cases of domestic violence on elders in Karnataka||Bengaluru Urban and Ballari districts occupy the top two positions in terms of maximum cases of domestic violence on senior citizens in 2019-20 and 2020-21. While 447 such cases were booked in Bengaluru Urban in these two years, Ballari district recorded 393 cases. A total of 2,193 cases of domestic violence on senior citizens were registered across the state in two years Woman & Child Welfare and Disabled & Senior Citizens Empowerment Minister Halappa Achar told the Council. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/2000-cases-of-domestic-violence-on-elders-in-karnataka-1063346.html
21-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Police to recruit transgender persons||The Karnataka government has called for applications by transgender candidates for the recruitments in the state police department for the first time. As per the Amendment of Karnataka Civil Services (General Recruitment) Rules, 1977 to facilitate providing one per cent jobs to transgender persons, the Karnataka Police department has called for applications from transgender persons for various posts. As per the notification issued recently, four posts of special Reserve sub-inspector for Karnataka State Reserve Police (KSRP) and one post in India Reserve Battalion of the rank of special Reserve sub-inspector will be reserved for transgender persons. As per the Transgender Persons (Protection of Rights) Rules 2020 framed by Union ministry of social justice and empowerment, the transgender candidates must obtain a certificate from the district magistrate. The certificate is mandatory. The notification is published by the Additional Director General of Police (Recruitment). Out of the 70, five posts are kept away for transgender persons. The eligible transgender candidates can apply for posts online till January 18. In addition to this, three posts have been reserved for transgender candidates in the Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) for Scene of Crime Officer (SOCO). The applications can be submitted till January 15. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-police-to-recruit-transgender-persons-1063117.html
21-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Sedition, treason cases on those attacking statues: Karnataka HM||Home Minister Araga Jnanendra said that cases of sedition and treason will be filed against those attacking statues and pictures of national heroes like Chatrapati Shivaji Maharaj, Sangolli Rayanna and Lord Basaweshwar. Jnanendra informed reporters here on Tuesday that the incidents of desecrating statues and pictures of national heroes appear to be premeditated acts and police have been asked to identify the conspirators. He said that national heroes were not confined to any caste or community. They sacrificed themselves for the country. People should not fall prey to the acts of miscreants and conspirators and maintain communal harmony and peace. Kannada and Marathi-speaking people here were living in harmony, he said. Jnanendra said those involved in attacking statues and pictures of national heroes were descendants of those who had conspired against Rani Channamma and Sangolli Rayanna. The Government will give thought to banning MES. Such demands have been made from across the state, he informed. He said, police have arrested 38 persons in connection with the violence in Belagavi, seven in Bengaluru regarding the desecration of Chatrapati Shivaji Maharaj"s statue and Kannada flag burning in Khanapur. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sedition-treason-cases-on-those-attacking-statues-karnataka-hm-jnanendra-1063129.html
21-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||JD(S) will oppose anti-conversion bill: H D Kumaraswamy||Janata Dal (Secular) leader and former Karnataka chief minister H D Kumaraswamy said that his party will oppose the anti-conversion bill in both the Houses during the Winter Session of the state legislature at Suvarna Vidhana Soudha. Kumaraswamy told reporters on Tuesday that BJP cannot bulldoze the bill and pass it unilaterally for having majority in the Legislative Assembly, and JD(S) will not support it in the Legislative Council too, wherein the ruling party does not have majority.  He said he remained away from the session for one week due to his pre-occupied programmes. "I had conveyed to Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde-Kageri to earmark two days for discussing issues of North Karnataka and had been assured of last two days being reserved for it. Hence, I have arrived today," he said. He said that the decision to construct Suvarna Vidhana Soudha was taken in 2006 to make way for development of the region, but the purpose has not been served and he too was aware of it.  Regarding the Congress adopting "soft approach" on the demand to ban MES, Kumaraswamy said, "There was no need of soft corner for anybody, and goons involved in anti-state acts need to be taught a lesson and externed from state. Government should take a decision on this". Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/jds-will-oppose-anti-conversion-bill-h-d-kumaraswamy-1063141.html
21-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt imposes restrictions on New Year celebrations||Amid Omicron threat, the Karnataka government on Tuesday announced restrictions on the celebration of New Year 2022. However, there will not be any restrictions on Christmas celebrations and prayer meetings at Churches.  Soon after holding a high-level meeting with his cabinet colleagues, senior officials of the Health department and Covid experts at Suvarna Vidhana Soudha in Belagavi, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai told media persons that the restrictions will be in place from December 30 to January 2. "All public gatherings like revellers on MG Road, Brigade Road to welcome the New Year will be banned across Karnataka. There will not be any public celebration and special events in any part of the state," Bommai said. "It will be a regular business in all the clubs and restaurants with 50 per cent occupancy. However, there will not be any permission to host DJ events, New Year parties. All staffers at these places must be fully vaccinated with two doses of Covid vaccine, besides the mandatory RT-PCR tests for the staff," the CM added. The Chief Minister also said that directions have been issued to gated communities and large housing complexes to not have or host any special events on the New Year's occasion. "Respective RWAs or Apartment Associations have been told to comply with the decision," Bommai added.     Christmas as usual Stating that all the churches are currently holding prayers and meetings as per the Covid rules, CM Bommai clarified that there will not be any restrictions on gatherings. "Regular mass and prayers shall be held inside the Churches as they have been doing all these days by adhering to Covid protocols," Bommai said.  Check out DH's latest videos on Covid:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-imposes-restrictions-on-new-year-celebrations-1063180.html
21-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Bommai govt tables anti-conversion bill, Congress walks out||The controversial anti-conversion bill was introduced in the Karnataka Assembly on Tuesday, angering the Congress whose legislators went up in arms accusing the BJP government of bringing it slyly without any prior notice.  Home Minister Araga Jnanendra tabled the Karnataka Protection of Right to Freedom of Religion Bill after the Assembly resumed post lunch. The bill was not on the agenda. A supplementary agenda was prepared for the Bill to be introduced.  “We are against the introduction of the bill . What’s the emergency in this bill ? We weren't told that the bill will be introduced,” Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah said, adding that the provisions of the bill violated Articles 21 and 25 of the Constitution.  “Bringing such anti-people laws is wrong. Will you bulldose the House? Will you do whatever you like because you have a simple majority,” Siddaramaiah asked the treasury benches.  Karnataka Congress president DK Shivakumar was seen tearing a copy of the supplementary agenda. Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri objected to this.  “Last night, at the time of printing the agenda, the bill wasn’t ready and that’s why it wasn’t included. This morning, the bill was ready and the government wanted to introduce it. That’s why a supplementary agenda was prepared. I had informed your party’s whip about it,” Kageri said, denying the Congress’ charge that the bill was introduced slyly.  The bill, which the Congress says will target minorities, proposes imprisonment of 3 to 5 years with a fine of Rs  25,000 for 'forced' conversion. Converting a minor, woman or an SC/ST person will attract a jail term of 3 to 10 years, with a Rs 50,000 fine. Mass conversion will attract 3-10 years of jail time with a fine of up to Rs 1 lakh.  While the draft bill required a person wanting to convert to inform the deputy commissioner within 60 days, the bill tabled in the Assembly has reduced this to 30 days. Also, the government has added ‘colleague’ to the list of people who can lodge a complaint against ‘forced’ conversion.  Siddaramaiah said similar laws in UP, Uttarakhand and Madhya Pradesh had been challenged in the court. Jnanendra maintained that the bill will help people. “You’re saying this just to keep your vote bank intact,” he told Congress MLAs.  Kageri said he would put the bill to a vote on Wednesday. Siddaramaiah led his MLAs to walk out of the Assembly in protest.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bommai-govt-tables-anti-conversion-bill-congress-walks-out-1063249.html
21-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Bommai hikes crop loss aid for farmers||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Tuesday announced a new crop loss compensation regime for farmers that will cost the government an additional Rs 1,200 crore.  Bommai was replying to the debate in the Assembly on the flood situation and the massive crop losses suffered by farmers.  “As per NDRF norms, Rs 6,800 is the amount fixed for crop loss per hectare on dry land. We’ve decided to pay an additional Rs 6,800. Similarly, we will pay an additional Rs 11,500 to Rs 13,500 per hectare fixed for irrigated land. For horticultural crops, Rs 18,000 per hectare is paid. We will add Rs 10,000 to this,” Bommai said, adding that this measure could cost his government an excess Rs 1,200 crore.  With this, Bommai has followed the footsteps of his predecessor BS Yediyurappa, who also hiked the input subsidy for farmers in October 2019. Bommai said the hike will benefit farmers who have suffered crop losses on 12.69 lakh hectares.  Bommai defended the performance of his government in the handling of the flood situation. “Our government has always responded to the needs of farmers,” he said.  Revenue Minister R Ashoka said the government had not faltered in dealing with the floods and heavy rainfall. “So far, we have spent Rs 1,469.57 crore towards compensation to farmers and those whose homes were damaged,” he said.  Between July and November, Ashoka said heavy rainfall killed 62 people, 795 animals and damaged 54,716 homes, 45,119 km of roads and 13,419 government buildings.  “When the Congress was in power, they took months to submit memorandums to the Centre. We did it within 15 days,” Ashoka said. “Also, the Siddaramaiah government took 6-8 months to pay compensation to farmers. We’re paying farmers within days directly to their bank accounts.”  Ashoka also pointed out that Karnataka’s SDRF money has gone up from Rs 1,214 crore to Rs 3,823 crore.  “We have faced the flood situation effectively by keeping our officials active,” Ashoka said, laying out details to counter Congress’ claim that no minister toured flood-hit districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bommai-hikes-crop-loss-aid-for-farmers-1063259.html
21-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Stop hiking excise revenue target: Karnataka Speaker||Assembly Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri on Tuesday fumed at the government for hiking excise revenue targets, which he said led to a rise in liquor consumption in many parts of the state. He asked the government to stop increasing excise targets. His advice followed a question by Sandur Congress MLA E Tukaram over sale of spurious liquor. Kageri blamed the revenue targets for the increase in illegal sale of liquor. "Increasing excise targets is affecting lives," he said, requesting Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai to intervene and reduce excise targets. Earlier, Tukaram had complained that many were falling victims to the illegal sale of liquor. "Even degree students have started drinking," he complained. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/stop-hiking-excise-revenue-target-karnataka-speaker-1063347.html
21-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Mekedatu work after nod from Cauvery Management Authority: Karnataka CM||With the Opposition Congress piling pressure on the government to implement the Mekedatu project, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said that his government would take it up as soon as it is cleared by the Cauvery Water Management Authority (CWMA). Bommai said that CWMA had discussed the Mekedatu project in two meetings and is expected to give its nod for the project in the next meeting. “We are following up on the issue regularly,” he told the Assembly in response to a question by Hoskote MLA Sharath Bachegowda. Bommai added that his government was determined to implement the project. The project envisages a balancing reservoir across Cauvery river at Mekedatu to cater to the drinking water needs of the Bengaluru metropolitan region. According to a written reply by Water Resources Minister Govind M Karjol, clearances are pending from various directorates of the Central Water Commission, approval for Environmental Impact Assessment and Environmental Management Plan reports by the Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change, and other clearances pertaining to wildlife conservation, forests and environment. “We have urged the Centre to clear the project so that work can start,” Bommai said, adding that implementation of the project would be easier once CWMA cleared it. Apart from Sharath, Congress MLAs including KPCC president D K Shivakumar and Krishna Byre Gowda sought to know when the government would take up the project. Shivakumar cited a Supreme Court order to argue that works on Mekedatu could be taken up as it was a drinking water project. “You start the work. We are ready to support you,” he said. Gowda demanded the government to clarify when it would implement the project. “The state government is not taking any action to clear the project,” he said. The state government has petitioned all ministers concerned to clear the project at the earliest, Karjol said, noting that it was a sensitive issue. Earlier, Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri had advised Sharath against discussing the issue in detail, noting that the case is sensitive in nature. Congress padayatra Earlier in the day, the Congress announced that it will take out a Padayatra rom January 9 to 19 demanding the implementation of the Mekedatu project. It will commence from Mekedatu and conclude in either Basavanagudi or Freedom Park, Shivakumar said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/mekedatu-work-after-nod-from-cauvery-management-authority-karnataka-cm-1063352.html
21-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Land deal: Relief for minister as HC stays criminal proceedings||The high court on Tuesday granted interim stay on proceedings initiated against Urban Development Minister Byrathi Basavaraj and former minister R Shankar in a criminal case related to a land dispute. The dispute pertains to a land in Kalkere village at KR Puram hobli in Bengaluru East taluk. The criminal petition was moved by Basavaraj, Shankar and one A M Madappa. Appearing for Basavaraj, senior counsel B V Acharya submitted that the special court for MPs and MLAs issued summons on November 25 to five accused in a private complaint filed by A Madappa. The petitioners claimed that A Madappa’s father Annaiappa had sold 30 guntas of land to Basavaraj in 2003. Annaiappa, who passed away in 2004, owned a large number of properties in and around Kalkere village. However, civil suits and criminal complaints were initiated alleging fraud and fabrication of documents in the transaction with Basavaraj that continued till 2020. According to the petitioners, the original suit filed in 2003 was dismissed in 2015. Similarly, four private complaints were filed on identical allegations in which the police filed a ‘B’ report. In litigations that continued thereafter, the ‘B’ report was upheld by the high court. The petitioners said that one more private complaint was filed by A Madappa in 2018, which was referred for investigation under section 202 (1) of the CrPC. The police submitted a report. Meanwhile, the case was transferred from the additional city civil and sessions judge to the special court. The petitioners submitted that the court, without assigning reasons, disregarded the police report on September 9, 2021. Subsequently, the case was transferred to another special court and this time, the court took cognizance of offences and issued summons on November 25, 2021. The petitioners have challenged both the September 9 and November 25 orders. Justice Sunil Dutt Yadav observed that the facts in the present private complaint are similar to the proceedings in an earlier private complaint. Noticing that certain civil disputes are pending between the parties, the court said it is a fit case for grant of interim relief of stay for further proceedings till the next date of hearing. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/land-deal-relief-for-minister-as-hc-stays-criminal-proceedings-1063356.html
21-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Portal glitches hit NEET-UG registrations in Karnataka; last date extended||Chaos prevailed on the premises of the Karnataka Examinations Authority (KEA) here on Tuesday as hundreds of undergraduate medical seat aspirants thronged there, following technical issues in the website during registration. The KEA has invited NEET eligible candidates to register for undergraduate medical courses on its website. But many candidates were unable to register. This led to tension among candidates and several of them rushed to the KEA office. Some of them were unable to save the details entered while registering and for others, the password provided by KEA was not working. “Even after trying for half a day, I could not complete the registration as the website was crashing,” said one of the candidates. Many said the help desk set up at KEA was not responding. “Despite dialling the help desk number provided by the KEA continuously, there was no response,” said another candidate. Following the complaints from candidates, KEA has extended the last date to register for NEET-UG to December 27. Ramya S, executive director of KEA, said, “As we are conducting several admission activities simultaneously, like BSc (nursing), diploma lateral entry and NEET-UG, there were server problems. Everything is set right now. We have extended the last date too.” Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/portal-glitches-hit-neet-ug-registrations-in-karnataka-last-date-extended-1063357.html
21-12-2021||West||Gehlot writes to Sonia as coal crisis deepens in Rajasthan||In the wake of shortage of coal in the state, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has written a letter to Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi enumerating the political losses being reported due to delay in the approval of the coal mines by the Chhattisgarh government. The letter states that there will be a coal crisis in Rajasthan-based power plants by the end of December. If the coal mines are not approved, the state will have to buy coal at expensive prices which shall increase the cost and burden on the consumer. Official sources confirmed that the dispute between the Congress-ruled states has widened because the Baghel government is not giving permission for passing coal mine benefits even after getting approval from the Centre for Parsa East and another coal block of Chhattisgarh coal mines allotment to Rajasthan. Gehlot has hence sought the intervention of Congress chairperson Sonia Gandhi in the matter. Earlier, in November, Gehlot had appealed to Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel for early approval of coal mines. Even after a month of writing the letter, no action was taken, so now the matter has been taken to Sonia Gandhi. As per the sources, the Rajasthan government has been allotted mines in the second block of Parsa and in the second block of coal mines in Chhattisgarh. The central government has given environmental clearance for this, but the forest department of the Chhattisgarh government has not yet given approval. Officials said that coal mines area falls under forest areas where local tribes are protesting against the mining process and hence Baghel is keeping mum on the issue as it may lead to local protests. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gehlot-writes-to-sonia-as-coal-crisis-deepens-in-rajasthan-1063118.html
21-12-2021||West||Need to rebuild temples destroyed by Portuguese, says Goa CM Sawant||With the state Assembly polls months away, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Tuesday said that efforts need to be made to rebuild temples destroyed by the Portuguese during their colonial rule. Speaking at a state government function in the precinct of the Mangueshi temple in South Goa, Sawant also said that Hindu culture and temple culture needed to be preserved. "There are other temples which need to be re-established. In the 60th year of Liberation, we have to start rebuilding temples destroyed by the Portuguese. I do not ask for anything. I request you for the strength to preserve Hindu and temple culture and re-establish those temples and culture," the Sawant said. "The Portuguese started destroying temples. In 1560, the deity Manguesh was moved from Cortalim (South Goa village) to this place (Mangueshi village) by our ancestors. I thank them for it. God and religion are very important to us," Sawant said. Several temples in the coastal state were relocated to escape religious persecution by the Portuguese rulers. Portuguese colonial rule of Goa ended after 451 years in 1961. "We are fortunate for our ancestors who decided to save our god, to provide security for him in another place and re-establish it in another place during the cruel Portuguese regime," he added. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/need-to-rebuild-temples-destroyed-by-portuguese-says-goa-cm-sawant-1063173.html
21-12-2021||West||Goa polls: Father, son likely to lock horns for Poriem seat||Congress on Wednesday announced the candidature of former Goa Chief Minister Pratapsingh Rane as its candidate from Poriem, a day after his son Vishwajit, a BJP Minister, asked him to retire gracefully, and said that if he does not, he would be ready to fight against his father. The party had on December 16 put on hold Rane's candidature when the first list was released as their Goa in-charge Dinesh Gundu Rao submitted a note to Congress president Sonia Gandhi over the pressure faced by the former Chief Minister from the family against contesting. DH had then reported that Rane was under pressure from family not to contest, as the BJP has plans to field his daughter or son's wife from the seat. The party high command was apprised of the situation then. The party leadership released his name on Wednesday evening, a day after the senior Rane said that party workers had urged him to contest and he was fit for another battle. At present, Vishwajit represents Valpoi seat and on Tuesday said that he had asked BJP to allow him to take on his father if he contests. Vishwajit Rane had shifted to BJP soon after the 2017 Assembly elections and became a minister.  Vishwajit said his father should perhaps think about "retiring gracefully" and reminded him that he has been a Chief Minister for nine terms. "My father will also have to think. At 83, why does he have to continue in politics? A person who is my idol and someone I have so much respect for, that person should gracefully retire, not retire in the battlefield. It will be a messy thing," Vishwajit said. Sources said the Congress leadership went ahead with the announcement of his candidature after the veteran decided to stay in the fight. It also came at the right time for the Congress, which was on the backfoot after its working president Aleixo Reginaldo joined Trinamool Congress on Tuesday, days after being named as a candidate by the Congress. Sources said they were surprised by Reginaldo's decision as he had met the Screening committee and made some party committees to recommend his name for the seat.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-polls-father-son-likely-to-lock-horns-for-poriem-seat-1063257.html
21-12-2021||West||Goa first-class state with third class politicians: Kejriwal||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday took a dig at Congress over the resignation of the party MLAs ahead of the Goa Assembly polls, saying that while 15 legislators have been sold the "last stock" of two is available with a "heavy discount". He also said that Goa is a first-class state with "third class" politicians. “I don't understand politics, and I don't understand the politics of Goa. Yesterday, I was travelling somewhere. When I was boarding a flight, Congress had three MLAs, but when the flight landed, Congress had 2 MLAs,” the AAP national convener said while addressing a public meeting in Panaji. He said of the 17 MLAs of Congress elected by the people of Goa in 2017, 15 are sold while only two are remaining. "They are the last stock...Little stock is remaining. There is a heavy discount on this stock. Those who want to take the last stock can take it. This is the situation of Congress in Goa,” the Delhi chief minister said. He said a fresh stock of MLAs will come in March next year, post the elections. Kejriwal said Goa is a first class state with third-class politicians. "People of Goa are good but politicians are worse. Goa deserves better people,” the AAP leader said while exhorting people to elect his party to power in February polls. Kejriwal said that earlier there used to be horse-trading of MLAs, but now even poll candidates are being sold. “We have seen how they jump from one party to another. We have heard how some candidates are being sold for crores,” he said. Kejriwal said the AAP has designed the model of development for Goa after consulting local people. He said the AAP will form the first “corruption-free” government in the coastal state. “We assure you that not a single rupee would be allowed to be siphoned off. There will be zero tolerance towards corruption in Goa (if AAP voted to power),” he said. According to Kejriwal, there is no shortage of revenue in Goa but it does not percolate down for development because of corruption. He said both BJP and Congress didn't want to resume the mining industry as “their intentions are not proper.” “The AAP will resume the mining industry within six months of coming to power in Goa,” he said. He reiterated the AAP's promise that each family of mining dependents would be given Rs 5,000 per month as a remuneration until the resumption of the mining industry. In the 2017 Goa Assembly elections, Congress had won 17 seats in the House and emerged as the single largest party. But, the BJP, which had bagged 13 seats, quickly tied up with some regional parties and independents to form government in the state. The AAP had drawn a blank. Earlier this month, former Goa chief minister Ravi Naik resigned as Congress MLA. A few months back, ex-CM Luizinho Faleiro had also quit the Congress and joined the TMC, which has decided to contest the Goa Assembly polls. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-first-class-state-with-third-class-politicians-kejriwal-1063272.html
21-12-2021||West||Maharashtra reports 11 new Omicron infections; tally rises to 65||Maharashtra on Tuesday recorded 11 new infections of the Omicron variant of coronavirus which took the tally of such cases in the state to 65, the health department said here. “As reported by the National Institute of Virology, 11 more patients have been found to be infected by Omicron," it said. Eight of the new cases came to light following screening at the Mumbai airport while one case each was found in Navi Mumbai, Pimpri-Chinchwad and Osmanabad, said the official release.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-reports-11-new-omicron-infections-tally-rises-to-65-1063282.html
