22-12-2021||In Perspective||How to divest from loss-making SOEs||India’s State-Owned Enterprises (SOEs), or Central Public Sector Enterprises (CPSEs), have played an important role in the development of the economy. They offer a wide range of products and services. They account for, as per the IMF, 22% of GDP in total assets. There has been a phenomenal and tremendous growth of SOEs. A large number of SOEs were set up, especially during and after the second five-year plan. The Public Enterprise Survey-2020, tabled in Parliament in August 2021, reports that 256 SOEs are operational, 96 are under construction, and 14 are under closure or liquidation process. Of all SOEs, 10 are categorised as Maharatna, 14 as Navratna, 61 as Miniratana-I and 12 as Miniratna-II enterprises. 58 SOEs are listed in the stock market and several are large and have global operations. The outstanding investment in SOEs by the government is continuously increasing. There were only five SOEs with an investment of Rs 29 crore at the commencement of the first five-year plan. It jumped to 366 SOEs, with a total investment of Rs 21.59 lakh crore in FY20. The investment is largely driven by long-term loans. Over the last five years, major investments in SOEs were made through long-term debt. The total long-term loan has increased from Rs 9.47 lakh crore in 2016 to Rs 18.47 lakh crore in 2020. The ever-increasing loan has become a fiscal burden for the government. The aggregate profit of all operational SOEs has declined by Rs 0.5 lakh crore – almost 35% in FY20 against that in the previous year. It was mainly because of a decline in net profit of the manufacturing, processing and generation sector (52.7%) and mining and exploration (27.4%). Of the 256, two-thirds of the SOEs reported aggregate net profit of Rs 1.38 lakh crore, one-third of them reported aggregate net loss of Rs 0.45 lakh crore, and one SOE – the Food corporation of India -- was at break-even level. Among the profit-making SOEs, the top five SOEs – ONGC, Coal India, Power Grid, NTPCL and GAIL -- accounted for 37.8% and the top 10 accounted for 57% of aggregate net profit in FY20. The loss-making units are reducing the aggregate profit of SOEs by offsetting the gains from the profit-making units. They are facing the challenge of ensuring a reasonable return on investment, while discharging their constitutional and social objectives. The government should focus on loss-making units, especially the highest loss-making units. The aggregate loss of such units is widening. It has widened by Rs 0.13 lakh crore in 2020 from the previous fiscal year. The 10 top loss-making SOEs contributed 90.9% of the aggregate loss of the loss-making units in 2020. The point is, five SOEs – RINL, MRPL, BHEL, ONGC Mangalore Petrochemical and Hindustan Copper Ltd) — which were profit-making in FY19, recorded losses and were among the top 10 loss-making units in 2020. BHEL, which had a net profit of Rs 1,209 crore in 2019 became a loss-making unit in 2020 and realised a net loss of Rs 1,473 crore. It was the seventh-highest contributor to the losses in FY20. The continuously increasing loss and poor performance of SOEs have become a fiscal burden for the country. Therefore, the government adopted a disinvestment policy in 1991 to reduce the fiscal burden and further introduced a new strategic disinvestment policy in 2021. The new policy envisages the privatisation or closure of all SOEs in non-strategic sectors and keeping a bare minimum presence in the strategic sector. Although the financial performance of SOEs is poor, their contribution in the form of corporate tax, dividend, excise duty and sales tax, to the central exchequer remains an important source of revenue for the government. Their contribution to the government was Rs 3.76 lakh crore in FY20. The major contributors: petroleum companies contributed the maximum share of 55%, followed by coal (12%), and trading and marketing (5%). They are also earning foreign exchange through the export of goods and services. In FY20, their earnings stood at Rs 1.22 lakh crore. A point of discussion is whether profit-making or loss-making SOEs should be privatised, or strategic sector or non-strategic sector SOEs. A majority of the people believe that only loss-making units should be privatised and profit-making units should be retained. The government should avoid selling the profit-making units and focus on divesting from loss-making units. However, we have seen in the past that the privatisation of loss-making units is very difficult. The divestment from Air India is a clear example. The government should restructure SOEs before disinvestment so that loss-making SOEs can be privatised and maximum returns realised. (The writer is the author of ‘Privatisation of Public Enterprises in India’ and teaches at ITS Ghaziabad)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/how-to-divest-from-loss-making-soes-1063711.html
22-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||66 Kerala students test Covid positive in Dakshina Kannada till December||About 66 students from Kerala have contracted the coronavirus till December 20 in Dakshina Kannada. The number of students, including those from Kerala, suffering from the virus is 83. Of them, two have contracted Omicron variants of Covid-19.  While one student has recovered completely, another is recovering. Both the students hail from Kerala. They don’t have any travel history and the source of infection is not known, the officials said. Many of these students pursue programmes at nursing, paramedical and  Ayurveda medical colleges, according to the department of health and family welfare officials. The district recorded 325 cases between December 1 and December 20. Out of the 66 patients, 25 are from Kasargod, 35 from Kannur, three from Kottayam, one from Ernakulam and two from Kottayam.   “We have informed the respective districts in Kerala. We have directed colleges to strictly adhere to Covid-19 guidelines,” Covid-19 Nodal Officer Dr Ashok told DH. The officials are identifying the source. As per the guidelines, one sample out of 150 samples tested positive for Covid-19 have been sent for genome sequencing. However, from the Covid clusters, one sample out of 50 are sent for genome sequencing. In addition, even some of the suspected cases are sent for genome sequencing from Dakshina Kannada. The district administration has strengthened surveillance along the border. “Those entering Karnataka from Kerala should produce a negative RT-PCR certificate. The positivity rate in Kerala is still 8 to 9%. There are over 70 routes to reach the district from Kerala,” Deputy Commissioner  Dr Rajendra K V said. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/66-kerala-students-test-covid-positive-in-dakshina-kannada-till-december-1063503.html
22-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Human milk bank to come up at Mangaluru hospital||As many as 133 out of 1,781 babies born from April to November this year died within one month in Dakshina Kannada district, according to statistics compiled by the Reproductive and Child Health (RCH) wing of the district health and family welfare department.  The district’s neo-natal (below one month babies) mortality rate of 7.4 per cent, though is much lower than the state’s neo-natal mortality (which is around 17 per 1,000 live births), the district administration has refused to wring its hands in helplessness and allow more tiny babies to keep dying.  A concern to save as many babies as possible resulted in deciding to set up a human milk bank at Lady Goshen Hospital. “The human milk bank will be set up in Lady Goshen hospital, as 60 to 65 per cent of the total deaths are in Lady Goshen Hospital’s NICU (newborn intensive care unit),” Prof S Baliga, professor emeritus at Kasturba Medical College (KMS) told DH. Dr Baliga said that babies with a low birth rate (weighing less than 1,500 gms), with congenital abnormalities and premature babies (less than 32 weeks of gestation) are so sick that mothers cannot feed them. “The colostrum in mother’s milk, described as the elixir of life’, will boost immunity levels and help babies fight infections,” Dr Baliga explained.  Rotary Club of Mangalore, with the backing from senior paediatricians Dr U V Shenoy and Dr Baliga, has decided to implement the over Rs 40-lakh Milk bank project to save babies, the Club’s immediate past president Archie Menezes told DH. “The club overcame many hurdles and raised enough funds under the Global Grant project,” he recollected. Archie said they have sought the help of well-known Neonatologist Dr Sreenath Manikanti, who had set up the first public donor human milk bank in October 2017, to avoid mistakes made by the government’s first milk bank in Vani Vilas Hospital in Bengaluru. Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V said they are bent on setting up a milk bank at the earliest and the process is similar to establishing a blood bank. “The bank is a win-win situation as it will not only save babies even under the age of five years but will also give relief to mothers with excess milk,” he said.  Lady Goshen Hospital medical superintendent Dr Durgaprasad M R, Resident Medical Officer (RMO) and bank’s nodal officer Dr Balakrishna hoped that the work on the human milk bank will be completed by January. A dedicated team to operate the bank is likely to be trained by Dr Sreenath Manikant, they added. Archie said the club has volunteered to be part of a team, to be set up by the deputy commissioner to monitor Milk Bank during the first fewyears. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/human-milk-bank-to-come-up-at-mangaluru-hospital-1063662.html
22-12-2021||Karnataka Politics||Congress is an irresponsible opposition party: Karnataka CM Basavaraj Bommai||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Tuesday lashed out at the Congress over its conduct in the ongoing Assembly session, calling it an "irresponsible opposition party". "The Congress is not bothered about the development of northern Karnataka. It has come to the Belagavi session to deliver speeches and hold dharna in the house. It has failed to take up pro-people issues and seek reply," he said. Speaking to the media persons at Suvarna Soudha, he said: "The opposition leaders don't want farmers to get compensation for their crop losses. We have raised the compensation, the state cabinet has taken a slew of decisions for development of northern Karnataka. We are ready for discussion on any development projects." Referring to the anti-conversion bill, he said: "It is the right of an elected government, as the voice of the people, to decide as to what laws need to be brought. The opposition Congress members were not present when the bill was introduced in the House. It is the duty of the Opposition to be present. They have shown their irresponsibility by staying away. The state has the most irresponsible opposition party." Reacting to the Congress' charge that the bill was included in the supplementary agenda of the proceedings of the house, the Chief Minister said: "The Speaker is vested with the power to prepare supplementary agenda. It is an irresponsible party." Saying adverse impact of religious conversions on innumerable families is a known fact for all, the Chief Minister said "it should be prevented". "We are working under legal and constitutional provisions in this regard. The Congress has the opportunity to discuss it. We are ready to make amends if there are any mistakes in the bill," Bommai said. "The Congress has boycotted the proceedings as part of its vote bank politics. The state has an irresponsible opposition party," he said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/congress-is-an-irresponsible-opposition-party-karnataka-cm-basavaraj-bommai-1063386.html
22-12-2021||Karnataka Politics||Need longer Assembly sessions, fruitful discussions: Karnataka MLAs||The Karnataka Legislative Assembly on Wednesday discussed ways to regulate the proceedings, aimed at facilitating fruitful discussion with greater participation from members, as Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri reminded legislators about their responsibilities and conduct, and warned that "future generations will not forgive us". With several legislators urging the government to hold the sessions for a longer duration, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said that the government will certainly consider it in future occasions. "This House has to think very seriously....there is pride and dignity of this House, this is the temple that fulfills the expectations and aspirations of the people, and our conduct should be befitting to it," Kageri said. Speaking in the legislative assembly, he said, "we have the responsibility to strengthen this system, if we forget our responsibilities and create an anarchy in this system our future generations will not forgive us. Lot of sacrifice and pain of our elders has gone into building this system." "If we don't understand it and take this parliamentary and democratic system lightly, it will create an anarchy, write it down. The legislature, the parties should become responsible and society should be watchful for such a situation not to arise. Public should not lose faith in us and the system," Kageri added. The Speaker was expressing displeasure over the way in which the business was going on and the conduct of some legislators in the assembly, while responding to an issue raised by Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J C Madhuswamy. As several legislators wanted to speak on a question raised during the zero hour in the assembly, Madhuswamy objected to it and said the House cannot be run like this, where everyone wants to speak during question hour, zero hour and discussion under "calling attention". The Speaker too joined in and said he has been under immense pressure with everyone wanting to raise their issues and participate in debates, which may be genuine, but there are rules too. "I have made all my best efforts to accommodate every one, within the framework of the rules, but it is getting difficult, and the only solution for it is having sessions for more days and members following the rules....if it doesn't happen it will be difficult to manage," he said. Intervening, former Speaker and senior Congress MLA Ramesh Kumar said, a training programme for legislators is held when the new assembly comes into existence, but no one attends it, even whips don't look into the attendance of legislators. "We have turned calling attention, zero hour and question hours into discussions.....all political parties have responsibilities, we have to read and understand rules of procedures first...if everyone don't cooperate, how can Speaker alone run the House," he said, as he asked the Chair, along with Parliamentary Affairs Minister and Leader of Opposition to see if the session can be extended. Pointing out that many don't attend the proceedings, he further asked, "then why contest elections or go before the people?" Minister Madhuswamy said the House is there to legislate and formulate rules, "and we have not been able to concentrate on it for a single day, as no serious discussions are taking place due to number of calling attention, and question hour and zero hours getting prolonged." "Have we been able to debate on matters of public importance properly? where are we debating? Are we utilising talented members? The House is to debate," he said as he asked the Chair to be strict in disciplining and regulating the House. JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy asked the chair to fix time for any debate on any issue, and his party is ready to cooperate. Congress MLA Krishna Byre Gowda, conceding that the House should be conducted as per rules, noted that the legislators should also be given fair chance to air the concerns of their constituency. "What's the use of coming to assembly if MLAs don't get a chance to speak in the House...all these issues have cropped up because of short duration of the session, please think about holding longer sessions," he urged. BJP strongman and former Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa asked the Speaker to regulate the House properly and take a strong decision on what issue should be permitted and what not. "Take strong decisions, we will cooperate." Kageri said he is ready to take strict decisions for smooth conduct of the House in consultation with Parliamentary Affairs Minister, but noted that members and leaders too have responsibility in abiding by and cooperate with decisions taken by the chair. "Everyone has responsibility....I won't allow chair or any particular party or member to be singled out and held responsible," Kageri said. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai during his intervention welcomed JD(S) leader H D Revanna's suggestion that time should be fixed for parties to participate in any debate based on their strength in the assembly, like in Parliament. He conceded that the sessions should be held for longer duration in the future and that he will take a decision in this regard in consultation with the parliamentary affairs minister, while also stressing on the productivity.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/need-longer-assembly-sessions-fruitful-discussions-karnataka-mlas-1063587.html
22-12-2021||National||SOPs for drone application in agriculture released||Stating that the government is making continuous efforts to infuse new technologies in agriculture, Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Tuesday said that adoption of drone technology is the need of the times and will benefit farmers. "Adoption of technology will provide sustainable solution in the context of enhancing the productivity as well as efficiency of the agriculture sector. Along with it, formation of Farmer Producer Organisation (FPOs) and the Agriculture Infrastructure Fund (AIF) will bring about a revolution in the lives of small farmers," he said while releasing the standard operating procedures (SOPs) for drone applications in agriculture. He noted that the drones were used for the first time in warding off the locust attacks in various states of the country. The SOPs for drone regulation for pesticide application covers aspects like statutory provisions, flying permissions, area distance restrictions, weight classification, overcrowded areas restriction, registration, safety insurance, piloting certification, operation plan, air flight zones, weather conditions, SOPs for pre, post and during operation, and emergency handling plan. Considering the unique advantages of drone technologies in agriculture, the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, in consultation with all the stakeholders, has brought out the SOPs for use of drones in pesticide and nutrient application that provides concise instructions for effective and safe operations of drones. The use of Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs) commonly known as drones have great potential to revolutionise Indian agriculture and ensure the country's food security. The National Drone Policy has been notified and the Drone Rules 2021 have been made significantly easier for people and companies in the country to now own and operate drones. The requisite fees for permissions have also been reduced to nominal levels, a release from the Ministry said. Drones are well-equipped with many features like multi-spectral and photo cameras and can be used in many areas like monitoring crop stress, plant growth, predict yields, deliver props like herbicides, fertiliser, and water. They can be used for assessing the health of any vegetation or crop, field areas inflicted by weeds, infections and pests and based on this assessment, the exact amounts of chemicals needed to fight these infestations can be applied, thereby optimising the overall cost for the farmer. Drone planting systems have also been developed by many start-ups which allow drones to shoot pods, their seeds, and spray vital nutrients into the soil. Thus, this technology increases consistency and efficiency of crop management, besides reducing the cost. "The farmers face many problems like unavailability or high cost of labourers, health problems by coming in contact with chemicals (fertilisers, pesticides, etc.) while applying them in the field, bite by insects or animals, etc. In this context, drones can help farmers in avoiding these troubles in conjunction with the benefits of being a green technology. Use of drones in agriculture may also give ample opportunities to provide employment to people in rural areas," the release added. Agriculture Secretary, Sanjay Agarwal and Ministers of State for Agriculture Kailash Choudhary and Shobha Karandlaje were also present. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sops-for-drone-application-in-agriculture-released-1063388.html
22-12-2021||National||DH Deciphers | The controversy around linking Aadhaar with voter ID||Parliament has passed the Election Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021, which provides a legal framework for linking electoral roll data with Aadhaar. The legislation has been strongly criticised by the Opposition and civil society over privacy and voter data manipulation concerns. In its defence, the government says the law will weed out voter duplications and help first-time voters enrol in the electoral roll four times a year. Here's a deeper look at the matter: What does the bill say? The Election Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021, amends the Representation of the People Act, 1950, and the Representation of the People Act, 1951. It creates a legal framework for linking electoral roll data with Aadhaar. It designates January 1, April 1, July 1 and October 1 as qualifying dates for the enrolment of 18-year-olds as voters. The bill also amends Section 20 of the RP Act, 1950, and Section 60 of the RP Act, 1951, for replacing the word "wife" with the word "spouse", thus making the statutes gender-neutral. Why is it controversial?  The bill is controversial primarily because it amends Section 23 of the RP Act, 1950, allowing the Electoral Registration Officer (ERO) to ask any voter applicant or existing voter to give their Aadhaar. This is to weed out the registration of the same person as a voter in more than one constituency or more than once in the same constituency. The legislation, however, does not bar anyone from registering herself or himself as a voter or remove them from the electoral roll if they do not or could not provide the Aadhaar. The Opposition argued that the law is not in sync with the Supreme Court's 2018 order and that linking the electoral roll with Aadhaar will infringe upon the right to privacy and violate Article 21 of the Constitution. Aadhaar is proof of residence and not proof of citizenship while only citizens are allowed to vote, it said. What's the government's argument? The government argues that the Opposition is misinterpreting the Supreme Court order on Aadhaar and that the Election Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021, does not make it mandatory for citizens to link Aadhaar with voter ID. What did the SC say on Aadhaar? On September 26, 2018, the Supreme Court held that Aadhaar could be made mandatory for accessing any subsidy, benefit or service paid for by the Consolidated Fund of India. The judgement also upheld the constitutionality of the Aadhaar Act, 2016. It also ruled that the mandatory Aadhaar-PAN linking is legal since it neither violates the right to privacy nor is discriminatory. But the court ruled as unconstitutional the linking of mobile phone numbers with Aadhaar. What does the election commission say?  The election commission favours linking Aadhaar with voter ID, saying that will help curb multiple enrolments. In 2015, the commission launched the National Electoral Law Purification and Authentication Programme to link Aadhaar with the voter ID but suspended it after the Supreme Court ordered on August 11, 2015, that using Aadhaar for welfare schemes would be optional and no personal information of Aadhaar holders should be shared by any authority. After the court's September 2018 judgement, the commission in August 2019 asked the government to amend the election laws to empower the EROs to seek the Aadhaar of existing and new voters. What do the critics say?  The main problem with Aadhaar-voter ID linking, critics say, is that it could lead to mass deletion of names from the electoral roll. The fears are not unfounded. In 2018, a large number of names were deleted from the electoral roll as a result of a voluntary Aadhaar-voter ID linking programme in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. Then there are privacy concerns as the voter data could be manipulated or shared with unauthorised entities. This may lead to voter profiling, they say.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-deciphers-the-controversy-around-linking-aadhaar-with-voter-id-1063405.html
22-12-2021||National||DH Toon | Rupee becomes Asia's worst performing currency||The Indian rupee is set to end a tumultuous year as Asia’s worst-performing emerging market currency with foreign funds fleeing the nation’s stocks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-rupee-becomes-asias-worst-performing-currency-1063411.html
22-12-2021||National||India sees 6,317 new coronavirus cases, 318 deaths||India has recorded 213 cases of the Omicron variant of coronavirus across 15 states and UTs so far out of which 90 people have recovered or migrated, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday.  Delhi has recorded the maximum 57 cases of the Omicron variant followed by Maharashtra at 54, Telangana 24, Karnataka 19, Rajasthan 18, Kerala 15 and Gujarat 14. The ministry data updated at 8 am also stated that India has logged 6,317 new coronavirus infections taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 3,47,58,481, while the active cases declined to 78,190, the lowest in 575 days.  The death toll has climbed to 4,78,325 with 318 fresh fatalities, the data stated. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been recorded below 15,000 for the last 55 days now. The active cases comprise 0.22 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has further improved to 98.40 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. A decline of 907 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 0.51 per cent. It has been less than two per cent for last 79 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 0.58  per cent. It has been below one per cent for the last 38 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,42,01,966, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.38 per cent.  The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 138.96 crore.  India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.  India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 318 new fatalities include 233 from Kerala, 30 from Goa and 14 from Maharashtra. Of the 233 deaths in Kerala, 33 were recorded over the last few days and 200 were designated as Covid-19 deaths after receiving appeals based on the new guidelines of the Centre and the directions of the Supreme Court, a Kerala state government release said on Tuesday. For Goa, 29 deaths from the May to December period have been reported late. A total of 4,78,325 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,41,367 from Maharashtra, 45,155 from Kerala, 38,295 from Karnataka, 36,691 from Tamil Nadu, 25,102 from Delhi, 22,915 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,688 from  West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-sees-6317-new-coronavirus-cases-318-deaths-1063432.html
22-12-2021||National||TMC's Derek O'Brien joins 'dharna' of 12 suspended MPs at Parliament complex||TMC floor leader in Rajya Sabha Derek O'Brien on Wednesday joined the dharna of 12 suspended MPs at the Gandhi statue in the Parliament complex. On November 29, the first day of the Winter Session, the 12 opposition members of Rajya Sabha were suspended for the entire session of Parliament for their "unruly" conduct in the previous session in August. O'Brien was suspended from Rajya Sabha on Tuesday during a discussion on the electoral reforms bill. The 12 suspended MPs from various opposition parties have been sitting on dharna in front of the Gandhi statue. These MPs are also carrying out a 'Jan Sansad', mock parliament, at the same location to mark their protest against their suspension. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tmcs-derek-obrien-joins-dharna-of-12-suspended-mps-at-parliament-complex-1063444.html
22-12-2021||National||Gifts given to Jacqueline, Nora Fatehi by conman Sukesh likely to be seized by ED||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) will soon seize the gifts given to Bollywood actors Jacqueline Fernandez and Nora Fatehi by multimillionaire conman Sukesh Chandrashekhar. ED sources said that as few pet animals were also gifted to the actress, in such cases, they attach the property of similar value. A highly placed source told IANS that Nora Fatehi told them during the questioning 'that the officials were free to seize the BMW car gifted to her by Sukesh Chandrashekhar'. The sources also said that a similar case was with Jacqueline, and she too has told the same to the ED officials. "Jacqueline told us that she didn't know the background of Sukesh Chandrashekhar and she was ready to cooperate with us in the process of seizing the gifts given to her by Sukesh," said the source. This attachment processing will take place under section 5 of the PMLA. The source confirmed to IANS that they were about to seize the gifts and other things given to Jacqueline and Nora but they had to file a charge sheet and due to this work got delayed. "We also arrested Pinky Irani. It kept us busy. Filing a charge sheet, recording statements of new arrests was a time consuming exercise. We had to arrest seven more persons in the case who are currently lodged in the Tihar Jail. Then we will have to record their testimonies too, so it can take some time," said the source. Both the actresses are as of now witnesses in the case and have recorded their testimonies in the 200 crore PMLA case. When asked why they were not made an accused in the case, the source said that both the actresses were not aware about the criminal background of Sukesh. "We have to see whether the person who receives gifts knows about the money source, if it is a part of proceeds of crime or not. We have found that Jacqueline and Nora were not aware about this," said the source. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gifts-given-to-jacqueline-nora-fatehi-by-conman-sukesh-likely-to-be-seized-by-ed-1063447.html
22-12-2021||National||Lok Sabha adjourns sine die ahead of scheduled date||The Lok Sabha was adjourned sine die on Wednesday, bringing an end to the Winter Session of Parliament that saw opposition protests on issues such as price rise and the Lakhimpur Kheri violence. The Winter Session of Parliament, which had begun on November 29, was scheduled to end on Thursday. During the session, the House saw the passage of nine bills which included the Farm Laws Repeal Bill, the Election Laws (Amendment) Bill and legislations to fix the tenure of directors of the Enforcement Directorate and CBI at five years and supplementary demands for grants. Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla read out the valedictory remarks as soon as the House assembled for the day. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah, Congress President Sonia Gandhi were among those present in the House on the last day of the Winter Session. Floor leaders of political parties met the Speaker in his chamber after the House was adjourned sine die. The Lok Sabha had 18 sittings during the Session which lasted for 83 hours and 12 minutes. Debates on Covid-19 and climate change were held during the session lasting 12 hours 26 minutes and six hours and 26 minutes respectively. While 99 members participated in the debate on the pandemic, the discussion on climate change, which remained inconclusive, saw the participation of 61 members. The Lok Sabha Speaker said the House lost 18 hours and 48 minutes to disruptions, but saw productivity zoom to 204 per cent on December 2, when the issue of pandemic was taken up for discussion. “The overall productivity of the Lok Sabha was 82 per cent,” Birla said. The government introduced 12 bills during the session, including the Prohibition of Child Marriage (Amendment) Bill that seeks to increase the marriageable age for girls from 18 years to 21 years.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lok-sabha-adjourns-sine-die-ahead-of-scheduled-date-1063456.html
22-12-2021||National||When will govt provide Covid-19 vaccine booster shots? asks Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday said a large population of the country is still not vaccinated against Covid-19, noting that only 42 per cent of the population will be vaccinated by December end against the required rate of 60 per cent to prevent the third wave of coronavirus. He also asked the government to provide booster shots. Sharing data about vaccinations, Gandhi there is a daily shortfall of 55.3 million doses (one million is equal to 10 lakh). "Majority of our population is still not vaccinated. When will GOI begin booster shots? #VaccinateIndia," he said on Twitter. The former Congress chief said that going by the current vaccination rate, 42 per cent of the population will be vaccinated by December 2021. "Aim stop a 3rd wave. Target 60 per cent of population with both doses by December 2021.Required vax rate (vaccinations per day) 61 million/day. Actual last 7 days (vaccinations per day) 5.8 million/day. Daily Shortfall in last 7 days (average bad shortfall per day) 55.2 million/day," said the data shared by him. Majority of our population is still not vaccinated. The data also stated that "while the actual vaccinations today (Dec 22 (vax in previous 24 hours) 5.7 million/day, the shortfall today (vax shortfall in the previous  24 hours) 55.3 million/day." Gandhi and his Congress party have been critical of the government's vaccine strategy and have demanded that vaccinations be speeded up to prevent another wave of coronavirus. There are also growing concerns over the spread of the new Omicron variant of the virus in the country.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/when-will-govt-provide-covid-19-vaccine-booster-shots-asks-rahul-gandhi-1063468.html
22-12-2021||National||I-T Department conducts raids on entities linked to Chinese phone manufacturers||The Income Tax department on Wednesday conducted searches on several premises of Chinese mobile companies across the nation. These companies were allegedly violating rules and norms to evade taxes. They were under the radar of several probe agencies, including the Income Tax department. Earlier, the Chinese firms who were allegedly running mobile loan applications and transport businesses were raided by the agencies. A few more firms have now come under their radar. According to sources, several teams were formed by the IT department on Wednesday morning to conduct searches which started around 9 am. An official said that manufacturing units were raided along with a few corporate houses. "Few teams also raided the godowns of the Chinese mobile companies. The officials have recovered incriminating documents," said the source. ZTE, a Chinese firm that deals in telecom equipment manufacturing in Gurugram, was on the radar of the IT department. The firm was also raided in August this year. "We had recorded the statement of their India head in connection with tax evasion. We had found irregularities on their end. They were concealing information to avoid tax," said the official. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/i-t-department-conducts-raids-on-entities-linked-to-chinese-phone-manufacturers-1063482.html
22-12-2021||National||2021 was 'historic' for Jal Shakti ministry, several long-standing issues resolved, says Shekhawat||2021 was "historic" for the Jal Shakti ministry as several landmark decisions were taken and many long-pending issues were resolved, Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat said, noting that the focus next year would be to expedite the Jal Jeevan Mission to provide tap water connections to more rural households. Talking to PTI about how the year was for the Jal Shakti ministry, he said all responsibilities given to it were fulfilled. "The year has truly been historic for the ministry. The long-standing issue of interlinkage of rivers was resolved. An agreement was also reached between Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh in this regard," he said. The governments of Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh earlier this year signed an agreement to tackle a long-stalled multi-crore project to link the Ken and Betwa rivers and irrigate the water-deficient Bundelkhand region (spread across both states), as well as provide electricity. Shekhawat said 2021 was also significant for the Jal Shakti ministry as a law relating to dam safety was enacted. "The Machchhu dam collapsed in 1979 and in 1982, a report was given on the matter. Now after all these years, a dam safety bill was passed that is very significant," he said. In the Winter Session, Parliament passed a bill that seeks to set up an institutional mechanism for the safety of specified dams in the country. The bill provides for surveillance, inspection, operation and maintenance of the specified dams for the prevention of dam failure-related disasters. It provides for an institutional mechanism to ensure safe functioning of the dams. In December, the government also extended the Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchayee Yojana (PMKSY), launched in 2015, under which 90 per cent grant has been given to three National Projects including Renukaji (Himachal Pradesh) and Lakhwar (Uttarakhand). The minister said the construction of Renukaji and Lakhwar dams would be critical for the national capital's water supply needs and would also lead to a "rebirth" of the river. "Like in Ganga, it has been notified that all the dam holding stakeholders have to discharge a particular quantum of water in non-monsoon months. Similarly, we will make it mandatory that some amount of water has to flow into Yamuna too and when water will flow, and if effluent treatment plants are working, then fresh water and treated water both will improve Yamuna's water quality," he said. Speaking about the vision for 2022, Shekhawat said the biggest target for the Jal Shakti ministry is to complete the ongoing projects in a time-bound manner. "Drinking water supply has to reach every household, that is our foremost aim," he said. According to government data, 86,778,991 households have been provided with tap water connections till now, while 833,704 connections have been provided to schools and 876,664 to anganwadis. While 100 per cent households have been provided with tap water connections in Goa, Telangana, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Puducherry, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Daman and Diu, and Haryana, there are still five states, namely Uttar Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, West Bengal, Jharkhand and Rajasthan, where less than 25 per cent households have tap water connections. This year, the ministry also started water quality surveillance using field test kits, under which five women from every village are trained in water quality surveillance using these kits to lead these activities in their village. The year also marked the completion of several major projects on the Ganga main stem and tributaries such as the Yamuna. Elaborating on the progress made under the National Mission for Clean Ganga in 2021, NMCG Director-General Rajiv Ranjan Mishra said 2021 witnessed a watershed moment for public participation with a tremendous response received in the government's various endeavours such as Ganga Quest, Ganga Utsav and Ganga Mashal Abhiyan. "The success of Namami Gange is derived from its collaborative partnership. This year, we launched a capacity-building initiative with the Centre for Science and Environment for Making Ganga Basin Cities Water Sensitive. With TERI, we are launching the first of its kind Centre of Excellence on Water Reuse. Last but not the least, we launched the historic River Cities Alliance with NIUA which is a unique platform for river cities to embark upon the path of river centric planning and programs. We also launched the Urban River Management Plan for Kanpur," Mishra told PTI. As far as challenges that lie ahead in 2022, Mishra said there is a need to ensure the sustainability of the initiatives undertaken in the mission, expand activities along tributaries, further strengthen the people river connect and work extensively for improving ecology and flow. "It is a continuous process, and the task is not only to clean but also to keep it clean and rejuvenated. Another key challenge would be to record and manage the knowledge that has been created under the mission. All these would only be possible with collaborative partnerships, which has been the mainstay of Namami Gange mission," he added. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/2021-was-historic-for-jal-shakti-ministry-several-long-standing-issues-resolved-says-shekhawat-1063497.html
22-12-2021||National||4,690 arrested under UAPA, 149 convicted: Govt tells Rajya Sabha||As many as 4,690 people were arrested in different parts of the country under the stringent anti-terror law Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in the past three years, and 149 of whom got convicted, according to government figures. Union Minister of State for Home Nityanand Rai said in Rajya Sabha that 1,421 people were arrested in 2018 under the UAPA, 1,948 in 2019 and 1,321 in 2020. A total of 35 people were convicted in 2018, 34 in 2019 and 80 in 2020, he said in a written reply to question. The minister made it clear that the conviction is an outcome of an elaborate judicial process and is dependent on various factors, such as duration of the trial, appraisal of evidences, examination of witnesses. "There are adequate Constitutional, institutional and statutory safeguards including inbuilt safeguards in the UAPA itself to prevent misuse of the law," he said.  Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/4690-arrested-under-uapa-149-convicted-govt-tells-rajya-sabha-1063513.html
22-12-2021||National||Parliamentary affairs minister slams Opposition for disruptions during Winter Session||Union Minister Pralhad Joshi lashed out at opposition parties for repeated disruptions during the Winter Session of Parliament that concluded on Wednesday, saying they seem to be "unable to digest" the mandate of 2019. Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha were adjourned sine die, bringing an end to the session that saw opposition members protest on issues such as price rise and the Lakhimpur Kheri violence. The parliamentary affairs minister also said the productivity of Lok Sabha was around 82 per cent and that of Rajya Sabha around 48 per cent. During the session, which began on November 29 and was concluded a day ahead of its scheduled end on December 23, also saw the opposition protesting over the suspension of 12 MPs for their "unruly" conduct in the previous session in August. "It is unfortunate that despite our efforts and reaching out to the opposition, they created ruckus in the House. It seems that Congress and other opposition parties are unable to digest the mandate of 2019 given by the people," Joshi told a press conference after the session came to a close. The government has referred six bills to parliamentary committees for greater scrutiny, including the Prohibition of Child Marriage (Amendment) Bill that seeks to override personal laws of different religions, Joshi said. He also rejected the opposition's charge that adequate time was not granted to them for studying the bills, particularly the Election Laws (Amendment) Bill. The bill was circulated among members in advance to prepare for an informed debate, the minister said. During the session, 13 bills - 12 bills in Lok Sabha and one bill in Rajya Sabha - were introduced, while 11 bills were passed by both Houses of Parliament, Joshi said. He said the Biological Diversity (Amendment) Bill, 2021, was referred to the Joint Committee of both Houses of Parliament and five Bills have been referred to Standing Committees. Joshi said the Farm Laws Repeal Bill, the Election Laws (Amendment) Bill, legislations to fix the tenure of directors of the Enforcement Directorate and the CBI at five years were among the 11 bills passed by both Houses of Parliament. The Lok Sabha also passed the Appropriations (No. 5) Bill, granting the government permission to withdraw monies from the Consolidated Fund of India. The bill will be deemed to have been passed by Rajya Sabha after the mandatory 14-day period. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parliamentary-affairs-minister-slams-opposition-for-disruptions-during-winter-session-1063519.html
22-12-2021||National||Reliance, Tata, Patanjali among 11 private establishments guarded by CISF: Nityanand Rai||The Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) is providing security to 64 airports and 11 private establishments, including those of Reliance Industries, Tata Steel and Infosys, Union Minister of State for Home Nityanand Rai said on Wednesday. The minister said the deployment of the CISF is considered on the basis of threat perception and the commitment of the management concerned to bear the cost of deployment. "At present, the CISF is deployed in 11 private sector companies, including in electronics and information technology sector,” he said replying to a written question in Rajya Sabha. The private sector entities where the CISF has been deployed include Electronic City Industries Association, Bengaluru; Infosys Technologies Limited, Bengaluru; Infosys Technologies Limited, Mysore; Infosys Technologies Limited, Pune; Patanjali Food and Herbal Park, Haridwar; and Reliance Corporate Park Campus, Mumbai. The remaining are Nayara Energy Limited, Jamnagar; Tata Steel Limited, Kalinganagar (Odisha); Reliance Industries Limited, Jamnagar; Bharat Biotech International Limited, Hyderabad; and Hotel Terminal 1C, Chhatrapati Shivaji International Airport, Mumbai. Rai said the CISF was established under the CISF Act, 1968 for better protection and security of industrial undertakings owned and controlled by central and state governments, joint venture or private industrial undertaking. Accordingly, the CISF is providing security at 64 airports at present, including those operated under joint ventures and public private partnership (PPP), he said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/reliance-tata-patanjali-among-11-private-establishments-guarded-by-cisf-nityanand-rai-1063523.html
22-12-2021||National||Congress banks on Punjab CM to woo Dalits in Uttar Pradesh||Hoping to regain its past glory in Uttar Pradesh in the forthcoming Assembly elections in the state, Congress has decided to use Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi to garner the support of the Dalits in the state. According to the sources in the state Congress, Channi, who hails from the Dalit community, would be campaigning in the state to seek the support of the community. Congress would also be holding a 'Dalit Mahasammelan' (meet) in Kanpur next month which would be addressed, among others, by former Congress President Rahul Gandhi, General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and Channi. The 'Mahasammelan' was aimed at conveying to the Dalit community the various initiatives undertaken by the Congress governments in the past for the SCs. "Congress is the only party which has taken steps for the development and progress of the Dalit community...all the other parties have used the Dalits only as vote banks,''  Alok Prasad, the president of the party's SC cell in the state, said. He said that more 'Dalit Mahasammelans' would be organised in other parts of the state in the next few days. Prasad said that Congress's commitment toward the 'Dalit' community was evident when Channi was made the chief minister of Punjab. Sources in the state party said that Channi could be roped in to address rallies in the constituencies, where SC votes were in sizable numbers. "He (Channi) may be asked to campaign on reserved seats in particular,'' said another senior UP Congress leader. Sources said that Congress was also trying to rope in Bhim Army founder and SC leader Chandrashekhar alias Ravan, who wielded considerable influence over the community, especially in some western UP districts including Saharanpur, Muzaffarnagar and some others. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-banks-on-punjab-cm-to-woo-dalits-in-uttar-pradesh-1063533.html
22-12-2021||National||After Aadhaar linking, Modi government pushes for common electoral roll: Report||After Rajya Sabha passed a bill that enables linking of Aadhaar numbers with electoral roll data, the Narendra Modi government is pushing for a common electoral roll for all elections in the country -- that is, Parliament, Assembly and local body polls. On a day Upper House passed The Election Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021, the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Personnel, Public Grievances, Law and Justice has held a meeting on ‘Status of Common Electoral Roll for conducting elections in the country.' The Committee is headed by BJP Rajya Sabha MP Sushil Kumar Modi. The government's bid has reportedly faced backlash from the Opposition leaders in the Commitee, with some opposing it and others arguing that the Centre has no authority to intervene or modify powers granted to the State Election Commission under the Constitution. Reeta Vasishta, Secretary, Legislative Department, and representatives of Election Commission have put up a presentation for the Committee, Express reported. The Centre reportedly has informed the Committee that it intends to meet the state election authorities and convince them for a common electoral roll. Prior to that meet, Law Ministry had written to Election Commission saying that official from PMO "expects" CEC Chandra to be present at the meeting on common electoral roll. The CEC did not attend the meeting as the way the Ministry of Law had conveyed the PMO’s expectation for his participation in the meeting had not been in sync with the stature of the EC – an autonomous constitutional authority. However, later CEC and two other Election Commissioners had an informal interaction with Mishra, the Principal Secretary. Congress party had accused Modi’s government of treating the EC as “a subservient tool”. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/after-aadhaar-linking-modi-government-pushes-for-common-electoral-roll-report-1063534.html
22-12-2021||National||India successfully tests new-generation ‘Pralay’ missile||India Wednesday successfully conducted the maiden flight test of the indigenously-developed, surface-to-surface missile ‘Pralay’ off the Odisha coast, the DRDO said. The solid-fuel, battlefield missile developed by the Defence Research Development Organisation is based on Prithvi Defence Vehicle from the Indian ballistic missile programme. The missile, launched from the APJ Abdul Kalam Island around 10.30 am, met all the mission objectives, the DRDO said in a statement. “The new missile followed the desired quasi ballistic trajectory and reached the designated target with high degree accuracy, validating the control, guidance and mission algorithms. All the sub-systems performed satisfactorily. All the sensors deployed near the impact point across the eastern coast, including the down-range ships, tracked the missile trajectory and captured all the events,” it said. With a range of 150 to 500 kilometres, ‘Pralay’ is powered with solid propellant rocket motor and other new technologies. The missile guidance system includes state-of-the-art navigation and integrated avionics, the statement said. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh congratulated DRDO and associated teams for fast-track development and successful launch of the modern surface-to-surface missile. “It is a significant milestone achieved today,” Singh tweeted. Secretary, Department of Defence-R&D and Chairman of DRDO, Dr G Satheesh Reddy, said the new-generation missile will give the necessary impetus to the armed forces. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-successfully-tests-new-generation-pralay-missile-1063536.html
22-12-2021||National||Amid Omicron threat, PM Modi to hold Covid-19 review meeting on Dec 23||Amid the growing Omicron cases, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Thursday hold a review meeting on the Covid related situation in the country. The Omicron tally in the country has reached 213 as per the health ministry report. In a statement, the Union health ministry said on Wednesday morning that the Omicron infection tally has reached 213 across the nation. However, out of the total Omicron positive cases, 90 have been discharged. So far 15 states have reported Omicron cases, said the ministry. At 57, Delhi has the highest cases of Omicron infection followed by Maharashtra with 54 cases, said the ministry report. Meanwhile, the Centre has said that the new Covid variant Omicron is three times more transmissible than the Delta variant. The Centre has asked the states to review the emerging data of Covid-19 affected population, geographical spread, hospital infrastructure and its utilisation, manpower, notifying Containment Zones and the enforcement of perimeter of containment zones at the district levels. The Centre has also asked the states to formulate a strategy that can ensure infection is contained at the local level itself before it spreads to other parts. Amid the Omicron threat, the states have been asked to 'activate war rooms and keep analysing all trends and surges, no matter how small and keep taking proactive measures at the district or local level'. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amid-omicron-threat-pm-modi-to-hold-covid-19-review-meeting-on-dec-23-1063541.html
22-12-2021||National||Karnataka govt needs to show more respect to Shivaji Maharaj: Shinde||Maharashtra minister Eknath Shinde on Wednesday said the Karnataka government needs to show more respect towards Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj and his legacy, and an act to defame an icon like him cannot be pardoned. Seven people were recently arrested in Karnataka for reportedly desecrating the Maratha warrior king's statue at Bengaluru. Shinde on Wednesday made a statement in the Maharashtra Legislative Council over the incident. "The whole incident is to be condemned. I strongly express my condemnation as we all respect Shivaji Maharaj. His contribution towards us is inspirational, and defaming an icon like him is an act that cannot be pardoned,” the state urban development minister said. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi has used Shivaji Maharaj's name several times. He even used his name at the time of a function in Kashi recently. But, the Karnataka government needs to show more respect towards Shivaji Maharaj and his legacy,” the Shiv Sena leader said. The incident in Bengaluru had raised tempers in the border district of Belgaum, which Maharashtra claims should belong to it. Shinde claimed the Karnataka government has always been biased against Marathi people living there. "As Shiv Sena workers we had gone to Belgaum (in the past), but were put behind bars,” the minister said, without specifying the incident. The Shiv Sena had recently held protests in Mumbai against the alleged desecration of the statue of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj in Bengaluru. The Karnataka Legislative Assembly on Monday passed a unanimous resolution condemning the recent defacing of the statues of Shivaji Maharaj and Sangolli Rayanna and burning of Kannada flag, saying such incidents will be considered as an act of sedition and strict action will be taken against those involved under the "Goonda Act". Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, who moved the resolution, asserted that there is no question of letting go even an inch of the state's border, and said if Kannadigas in parts of Maharashtra wish to join Karnataka and pass resolutions in this regard, his government was ready for it.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/karnataka-govt-needs-to-show-more-respect-to-shivaji-maharaj-shinde-1063545.html
22-12-2021||National||Thailand alters entry rules for Indian travellers amid rising Omicron cases||The Tourism Authority of Thailand on Wednesday said it has altered the entry rules for Indian travellers entering the Southeast Asian country from different entry points, except for Phuket, due to rising Omicron cases. Phuket remains open for Indians under the Phuket Sandbox scheme; and in this programme, travellers will only need to do a PCR test and wait in the hotel until the result is received, the Tourism Authority of Thailand said in a statement. If tested negative, they can then move around in Phuket and after the second RT PCR test, done on the 5-6th day, they can travel to other parts of Thailand. "We are happy to welcome Indians to Thailand. However, we have just altered the entry rules for people entering our country from different entry points except for Phuket. The step comes in after the rise in new variant (Omicron) cases," Cholada Siddhivarn, Mumbai office director, Tourism Authority of Thailand, said in a statement. She said Thailand believed that it is better to take necessary precautions while the country still is ready to welcome travellers from different parts of the world. "Travellers wanting to travel to Phuket can register for the Thailand Pass under the Phuket Sandbox programme and Happy Quarantine," she added. Thailand's Centre for Covid-19 Situation Administration (CCSA) ordered a temporary suspension of the Thailand Pass for all new test-and-go and Sandbox applications (except Phuket Sandbox), effective from December 22, 2021, citing the rising number of Omicron variant cases in the country. The TAT India team will work closely with the travel trade partners to assist them with client queries and help them serve the clients better.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/thailand-alters-entry-rules-for-indian-travellers-amid-rising-omicron-cases-1063547.html
22-12-2021||National||Rakesh Jhunjhunwala-backed Akasa Air unveils aircraft livery, tagline||New Indian airline Akasa Air on Wednesday unveiled its tagline 'It's Your Sky' and aircraft livery that consisted of 'rising A' symbol in orange and purple colour. Backed by ace investor Rakesh Jhunjhunwala and aviation veterans Vinay Dube and Aditya Ghosh, Akasa Air had in October got the no-objection certificate from the Ministry of Civil Aviation to operate commercial flights. In a press release on Wednesday, the airline said the symbol 'rising A' was inspired by elements from the sky. "It symbolises the warmth of the rising sun, the effortless flight of a bird and the dependability of an aircraft wing," it said.  The airline noted that 'It's Your Sky' is the brand's promise to embrace everyone and to create an inclusive environment for all Indians regardless of their socio-economic or cultural backgrounds. "It (tagline) is a powerful pledge of ownership, promise, and possibilities that accompany each traveller on their journeys," the carrier mentioned. The brand colours, 'Sunrise Orange' and 'Passionate Purple' reflect the airline's warm, youthful, and respectful nature, it said. The airline had last month placed an order with US-based aircraft manufacturer Boeing for 72 '737 Max' planes. It is expected to start its commercial flight operations in the first half of 2022.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rakesh-jhunjhunwala-backed-akasa-air-unveils-aircraft-livery-tagline-1063550.html
22-12-2021||National||Eight members stay away from Lok Sabha citing wedding, jail term, illness||Eight members of Lok Sabha had sought permission to skip the Winter Session of Lok Sabha for reasons ranging from marriage to detention in jail. Sikkim Krantikari Morcha member Indra Hang Subba sought leave from the entire Winter Session of Parliament on account of his marriage. Samajwadi Party member Mohammad Azam Khan (Rampur) and Bahujan Samaj Party member Atul Kumar Singh have sought leave of absence from the Lok Sabha on account of their detention in jail. Former union ministers Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ and Sanjay Dhotre, Trinamool member Sisir Kumar Adhikari, and BJP member V Srinivas Prasad had sought leave of absence from the House citing illness. Vijay Baghel, BJP member from Durg in Chhattisgarh had sought leave of absence from the House citing elections in his constituency. Singh, Pokhriyal. Dhotre and Adhikari were granted leave for 26 days on August 6, a report on Committee on Absence of Members from the sittings of the House, chaired by Congress member Ravneet Singh Bittu, said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/eight-members-stay-away-from-lok-sabha-citing-wedding-jail-term-illness-1063560.html
22-12-2021||National||Unvaccinated government employees will not be paid salaries, states Punjab government||The Punjab government has told its employees they won't get their salaries if they don't furnish their Covid vaccine certificate. It has asked the employees to register their full or provisional vaccination certificate number with the state government's human resources portal iHRMS. If they fail to do so, they will not be able to get their salaries, the government said in an order. The move is being seen as the state government's attempt to encourage more and more employees to get themselves vaccinated against Covid as concerns escalate over the new variant of coronavirus, Omicron. In the order issued on Tuesday, the state finance department asked all senior officers, head of the departments, divisional commissioners, deputy commissioners and others to ensure compliance. According to the order, an arrangement for entering the Covid vaccination certificate number on the Integrated Human Resource Management System (iHRMS) portal has been made. Government employees should be informed that they should register the Covid vaccination certificate number of both doses with the iHRMS, said the order, adding if any employee has got one dose administered, he/she should register the number of the provisional certificate. It also asked to link the Covid vaccination certificate number with the salary module so that in case an employee does not furnish information regarding vaccination, his/her salary is not released.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/unvaccinated-government-employees-will-not-be-paid-salaries-states-punjab-government-1063567.html
22-12-2021||National||India's spices output up 60%, exports doubled since 2014-15: Agriculture Minister||Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Wednesday said annual production of spices in the country rose 60 per cent to record 107 lakh tonnes since the 2014-15 season. Among spices, jeera output rose 14.8 per cent, garlic 14.7 per cent, ginger 7.5 per cent, saunf 6.8 per cent, coriander 6.2 per cent, fenugreek 5.8 per cent, red chilli 4.2 per cent, and turmeric 1.3 per cent. He was speaking at the launch of a handbook titled 'Spice Statistics at a Glance - 2021' here. Besides, India's earnings from exports of spices almost doubled during the period at Rs 29,535 crore, Tomar said. The book constitutes statistics on production, acreage data, yield, export-import, historical prices, values and nutritional values of the commodities. Tomar, during his address at the launch event, said this book will benefit policy makers, stakeholders, scientists, researchers, and most importantly the farmers. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-spices-output-up-60-exports-doubled-since-2014-15-agriculture-minister-1063574.html
22-12-2021||National||Mehbooba likens Gen Zia's Pakistan rule to 'today's India', slams BJP for 'selling hatred'||PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti on Wednesday made veiled statements equating the BJP's rule with that of former Pakistani military dictator General Muhammad Zia-ul-Haq and accused the saffron party of “poisoning” people's minds. She appealed to the people, especially the youth of both Jammu and Kashmir divisions, to come together and fight for the “lost honour”, referring to the restoration of Article 370 of the Constitution that provided special status to Jammu and Kashmir. It was abrogated by the Centre in August 2019. “What is happening in our country is for everyone to see. Our democracy and Constitution are being destroyed… What is the difference between general Zia-ul-Haq's rule and today's India. They are poisoning our country like the Pakistani ruler did there,” Mehbooba said without naming the BJP. Addressing a public rally, she referred to the recent lynching of a Sri Lankan national in Pakistan and said while the Pakistani prime minister was quick to criticize it, those involved in such gruesome incidents in India were being garlanded. Mehbooba said while there was animosity against Pakistani founder Muhammad Ali Jinnah for dividing India and the Muslims “today, there are hundreds of Jinnahs polarising Indians." "They belong to the party that did not play any role in the freedom struggle. Today, they claim to be nationalists and dub their opponents as traitors and anti-nationals. None of them went to jail during the freedom struggle. They were not even hoisting the national flag at their headquarters until a few years ago,” she said.               However, the former chief minister said this is a place of 'Ganga–Jamuni Tehzeeb' (Ganges–Yamuna culture) and the politics of “Godse” (who assassinated Mahatma Gandhi) will not work. Slamming the BJP for allegedly using the Army to disperse employees of the Jammu and Kashmir Power Development Department, who went on a strike against privatisation last week, Mehbooba said, "They will repeat the practice outside Jammu and Kashmir, too, as they want to get things done by training guns on army men's shoulders."          She hailed former prime ministers Indira Gandhi and Atal Bihari Vajpayee for victories in the 1971 and 1999 wars. She sought to know what the incumbent regime had done even as "China had taken a large chunk of land in Ladakh and built colonies in Arunachal." Describing the Sangh's slogan 'Ek Desh, Ek Vidhan, Ek Pradhan, Ek Nishan' as the root cause of the Kashmir issue, she said it created discord among the people of Jammu and Kashmir, who rejected the two-nation theory. “They will boast about the revocation of Article 370 during the upcoming elections in different states to hoodwink the voters as they failed to provide two meals, jobs, good education and hospitals to the people. They have only hatred to sell,” she alleged. Mehbooba also defended her party's alliance with the BJP in 2014 saying her father Mufti Mohammad Sayeed wanted to take forward the political process initiated by Vajpayee, which "paved the way for ceasefire on the borders, opening of cross-border roads, reduced militancy and bringing India and Pakistan closer." Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mehbooba-likens-gen-zias-pakistan-rule-to-todays-india-slams-bjp-for-selling-hatred-1063576.html
22-12-2021||National||PIL seeks exclusion of religious institutes from sections of Right To Education Act||A PIL filed in the Supreme Court sought directions to the Centre to nullify provisions under the Right to Education Act that excluded religious institutions from its ambit for being "arbitrary irrational and contrary" to the Constitution. The plea filed by BJP leader and advocate Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay said the Centre inserted sections 1(4) and 1(5) of the RTE Act to deprive educational excellence to madrasas, vedic patshalas and educational institutions imparting religious instructions from the law.  He claimed that sections 1(4) and 1(5) of the RTE Act not only offend articles 14, 15, 16, 21 and 21A but also ran contrary to articles 38, 39 and 46 and the Preamble of the Constitution. "The prevailing system does not provide equal opportunity to all children as syllabus and curriculum varies for EWS, BPL, MIG, HIG and elite Class. It is necessary to state that purposive and harmonious construction of articles 14, 15, 16, 21, 21A with articles 38, 39, 46 of the Constitution which confirm that education is a basic right of every child and the state cannot discriminate the most important right," it said. The petitioner stated that the great golden goals as set out in Preamble will remain elusive until sections 1(4), 1(5) of the RTE Act are nullified and uniform education, i.e., common syllabus common curriculum in native languages is made available to all children aged 6-14 years. Towards this end, structured steps as a result of due deliberation, care and intelligence must be taken to achieve the goal of uniform education programme in furtherance of sections 7(6) and 29 of the Act, in a time-bound manner, the petitioner said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pil-seeks-exclusion-of-religious-institutes-from-sections-of-right-to-education-act-1063581.html
22-12-2021||National||Third Covid wave in India ongoing, to peak in February: Scientists||A slew of studies by Indian scientists show that amid rising cases of Omicron, the third wave of Covid-19 has set in India from mid-December, and it may hit its peak in February next year. A yet-to-be peer reviewed study led by a team of researchers from the Indian Institutes of Technology (IIT), Kanpur used a statistical methodology based on the fitting of a mixture of Gaussian distributions - based on an algorithm for clustering to estimate the parameters. The third wave was forecast using the data on the first two waves of pandemic. The team also utilised the data of different countries that are already facing the third wave, modelling their daily cases data and predicting the impact and timeline for the third wave in India. "The report forecasts India's third wave of Covid-19 to start around mid-December 2021 and the cases to peak in the beginning of February 2022," Subhra Sankar Dhar, Associate Professor, Department of Mathematics and Statistics, wrote in the paper. A separate study led by a joint team from the IITs Hyderabad and Kanpur is based on the Sutra model, which tracks the country's Covid-19 trajectory. According to Professor M Vidyasagar of IIT Hyderabad and Maninda Agrawal of IIT Kanpur, the daily caseload is expected to rise as Omicron begins to displace Delta as the dominant variant. Meanwhile, India registered 6,317 fresh Covid cases and 318 deaths in the last 24 hours, and the Omicron tally has reached 213, said the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on Wednesday. With the addition of 318 new deaths, the death toll has climbed to 4,78,325. However, out of total Omicron positive, 90 have been discharged. So far 15 states have reported Omicron infection, said the ministry. Delhi (57) has the highest number of Omicron cases 57, closely followed by Maharashtra (54). Daily Covid-19 caseload in India is expected to increase once the Omicron starts displacing Delta as the dominant variant, media reports quoted members of the National Covid-19 Supermodel Committee as saying. According to their prediction, the third wave of Covid wave in India is set to begin "early next year". However, they noted that the infection rate will be milder than seen in the second wave, due to a large-scale immunity and vaccination present in the country now. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/third-covid-wave-in-india-ongoing-to-peak-in-february-scientists-1063583.html
22-12-2021||National||58% of construction work in DRDO not completed on time from 2014-19: CAG||Around 58 per cent of the total construction work in the Defence Research and Development Organisation was not completed within the original schedule between 2014 and 2019, the Comptroller and Auditor General of India said in a report. Moreover, the national auditor found that 38 scientists of the DRDO were posted in the construction works department without the approval of the Ministry of Defence. The core activity of DRDO is research and development of technologies required for the armed forces and it had a deficiency of 180 scientists in Defence Research and Development Scientists (DRDS) cadre, the auditor's report, which was tabled in Parliament on Tuesday, noted.  "The purpose of having a dedicated Research and Development Construction Establishment (RDCE) for planning and execution of time-bound DRDO works was not fully met as 58 per cent of works for the period 2014-2019 could not be completed within the original schedule," the CAG report said. Further, the percentage of works completed within the original schedule declined from 47.09 per cent in 2016-17 to 36.53 per cent in 2018-19, it added.  The national auditor found that the DRDO does not have standards for assessing the requirement of guest houses (GH), similar to that of the defence services wherein the construction of officers' mess is based on the authorised strength of officers at a particular unit. "Audit observed that occupancy in 53 (41.40 per cent) out of 128 GHs under the jurisdiction of DRDO, was less than 20 per cent during the period from 2014-15 to 2018-19," the report noted. The CAG audit also found that two additional GHs were constructed at a station that already had three GHs having yearly occupancy between 11 to 42 per cent only. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/58-of-construction-work-in-drdo-not-completed-on-time-from-2014-19-cag-1063589.html
22-12-2021||National||CRPF women commandos to guard Amit Shah, Sonia Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra||A maiden contingent of CRPF women commandos trained in VIP security will soon be deployed with Home Minister Amit Shah, Congress leaders Sonia Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and other high-risk facing personalities for multiple duties, including accompanying them during the upcoming polls in five states, official sources said on Wednesday. The Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) has raised its first-ever contingent of 32 women commandos in its VIP security wing and they will now be tasked to guard its protectees, based in Delhi, who receive the top Z+ cover. Sources said these women commandos have just completed their 10-week training in rendering VIP security duties, unarmed combat, body frisking and special weapons firing, and will now be deployed on the ground sometime in January. Initially, the women commandos will be deployed with its Z+ category protectees based in Delhi like Union Home Minister Amit Shah, the first family of Congress that includes party president Sonia Gandhi, her children Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and Rahul Gandhi, and former prime minister Manmohan Singh as well as his wife Gursharan Kaur, they said. These protectees also are provided with an advanced security liaison protocol due to their high-risk profile. About a dozen other Z+ category CRPF protectees will have this women commando contingent on a rotational basis, sources said. The women commandos will be deployed as part of the house protection team of these VIPs and they will also accompany the personalities, if required, during the forthcoming assembly polls in five states of Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Uttarakhand, Manipur and Goa. These commandos, when deployed for house protection, will frisk female visitors and will be part of the overall security detail of the VIP's house during tours. They will provide proximate security to the protectee, especially in the case of Sonia Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi, sources said. The women commandos, like their male counterparts, will carry arms, ballistic protection and other gadgets as required on the job. The Assembly polls in the five states are expected to be held in February-March next year and a hectic political campaign is expected in the run-up to the elections with politicians, party leaders and ministers making whirlwind tours.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/crpf-women-commandos-to-guard-amit-shah-sonia-gandhi-priyanka-gandhi-vadra-1063594.html
22-12-2021||National||Parliament Winter Session: List of bills passed and other details||The Winter Session of Parliament came to an end a day ahead of schedule on Wednesday, with both houses adjourned Sine Die. Having begun on November 29, the session was dotted with Opposition protests on a wide range of issues and also the suspension of 13 Rajya Sabha MPs. Both Houses functioned for 18 sittings, spread across 24 days – beginning with the repeal of the farm laws. As the final session of the year reached its end, here's a wrap-up of all the important events and statistics from the Winter Session. Productivity and disruptions   Time spent on different proceedings Lok Sabha: Debates Covid-19: 12:26 hours, 99 MPs participatedClimate change: 6:26 hours, 61 MPs participated, debate inconclusive Rajya Sabha: Bills Discussion Discussion: 21:07 hoursInterventions made by MPs during debates: 127 Question Hour Productivity: 60.60% of allotted timeCould not be taken up on 7 of the 18 sittings Zero Hour Productivity: 30%Zero Hour submissions: 82Special Mentions: 64 Bills introduced Lok Sabha: 12Rajya Sabha: 1 Bills cleared by both Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha 1. The Farm Laws Repeal Bill, 20212. The Dam Safety Bill, 2021.3. The Assisted Reproductive Technology (Regulation) Bill, 2021.4. The Surrogacy (Regulation) Bill, 2021,5. The National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research (Amendment) Bill,     2021,  6. The Appropriation (No.5) Bill, 2021*7. The High Court and Supreme Court Judges (Salaries and Conditions of Service) Amendment Bill, 2021.8. The Delhi Special Police Establishment (Amendment) Bill, 2021.9. The Central Vigilance Commission (Amendment) Bill, 2021.10. Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (Amendment) Bill, 202111. Election Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021.*Deemed to have been passed. Bills sent to Parliamentary Standing Committees The Prohibition of Child Marriage (Amendment) Bill, 2021.The Mediation Bill, 2021The Wild Life (Protection) Amendment Bill, 2021The National Anti-Doping Bill, 2021The Chartered Accountants, the Cost and Works Accountants and the Company Secretaries (Amendment) Bill, 2021 Bill Sent to Joint Committee of Parliament The Biological Diversity (Amendment) Bill, 2021 Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parliament-winter-session-list-of-bills-passed-and-other-details-1063597.html
22-12-2021||National||Govt hikes MSP of milling copra by Rs 255/quintal, ball copra by Rs 400 per quintal||The government on Wednesday decided to increase the minimum support price (MSP) of milling copra by Rs 255 per quintal and ball copra by Rs 400 per quintal. The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs, chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, has given its approval for the minimum support prices (MSPs) for copra for 2022 season. "The MSP for Fair Average Quality (FAQ) of milling copra has been increased to Rs 10,590 per quintal for 2022 season from Rs 10,335 per quintal in 2021 and the MSP for ball copra has been increased to Rs 11,000/- per quintal for 2022 season from Rs 10,600 per quintal in 2021," an official statement said. The MSP has been hiked to ensure a return of 51.85 per cent for milling copra and 57.73 per cent for ball copra over the all India weighted average cost of production. "The increase in MSP for copra for 2022 season is in line with the principle of fixing the MSP at a level of at least 1.5 times the all India weighted average cost of production as announced by the Government in the Budget 2018-19," the statement said. The decision is based on recommendations of the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices (CACP). It assures a minimum of 50 per cent as margin of profit as one of the important and progressive steps towards making possible doubling of farmers' incomes by 2022. The National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation of India Limited and National Cooperative Consumer Federation of India Limited will continue to act as Central Nodal Agencies to undertake price support operations at the MSP in the coconut growing States. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-hikes-msp-of-milling-copra-by-rs-255/quintal-ball-copra-by-rs-400-per-quintal-1063609.html
22-12-2021||National||Retail prices of tomatoes down 13% in last one week: GoI||Tomato prices in retail markets have declined by 13 per cent at the all-India level as on December 21 as compared to a week ago on increased supply, the government said on Wednesday. "Price of tomato at the all-India level, as on December 21, was lower by 12.89 per cent as compared to last one week and by 23.69 per cent as compared to last one month," an official statement said. The retail prices of tomatoes stood at Rs 47.52 per kg on December 21, as against Rs 54.55 per kg on December 14 and Rs 62.27 per kg on November 21, 2021. Prices of tomato as on December 21 for all the major cities were lower when compared to the corresponding prices one week and one month ago. "Major markets in Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Delhi, have been seeing an increase in arrivals, and hence a correction in prices in the past few days," the statement said. The wholesale prices of tomato are forecast to go down as crop from Rajasthan is in the market and supplies from other states are expected to arrive by the end of December. "Due to subdued rains, the supply disruption in Maharashtra and Gujarat has resolved and most of the retail markets have seen a decrease in the prices," the Food and Consumer Affairs Ministry said. Prices of tomatoes had skyrocketed to as high as Rs 100-120 per kg in many cities last month due to disruption in supply.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/retail-prices-of-tomatoes-down-13-in-last-one-week-goi-1063611.html
22-12-2021||National||'Central Vista stretch required for Republic Day parade will be ready in time, some facilities later'||The Central Vista stretch from the Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate required to host the Republic Day Parade will be ready in time, but some facilities will be completed later, according to the project's architectural consultant. An official of the HCP Design, Planning and Management also said that arrangements have already begun for hosting the Republic Day Parade on the newly-developed Rajpath. On December 2, the government had told Lok Sabha in a written reply to a question that the redevelopment of Central Vista Avenue, which has a deadline of December this year, has achieved 60 per cent of physical progress. The HCP design official told PTI on Wednesday, "The stretch of Central Vista Avenue required for the Republic Day Parade will be ready in time. Some facilities are to be completed later." Shapoorji Pallonji and Company Limited is executing the redevelopment work of the Central Vista Avenue from the Rashtrapati Bhavan to the India Gate. Under the project, new trees would come up while parking spaces, vending areas and other facilities are being created. The official also said that the work design of the new vice president's enclave and executive enclave housing the Prime Minister's Office is underway. Earlier this month, the government had said that the new parliament building project, which is scheduled to be completed by October 2022, has achieved 35 per cent of physical progress. The redevelopment project of the Central Vista -- the nation's power corridor -- envisages a new triangular Parliament building, a common central secretariat, revamping of the three-kilometre-long Rajpath from Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate, a new prime minister's residence and prime minister's office, and a new vice president's enclave. At the inaugural ceremony of two office complexes for the employees of the Defence Ministry and the armed forces here on September 16, Union Housing and Urban Affairs Minister Hardeep Singh Puri had said the Winter Session of Parliament next year would take place in the new parliament building. Addressing Prime Minister Narendra Modi at the event, he had said, “I would like to assure you that the redevelopment work of Central Vista Avenue will be completed in two-and-a-half months, where the Republic Day parade will be held.” Last month, infrastructure firm Kamladityya Construction Pvt Ltd had won the bid to construct the vice president enclave. Larsen & Toubro Limited will construct the first three buildings of the Common Central Secretariat under the Central Vista redevelopment project. Tata Projects Limited is constructing a new parliament building.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/central-vista-stretch-required-for-republic-day-parade-will-be-ready-in-time-some-facilities-later-1063655.html
22-12-2021||National||Centre cuts over 25,000 compliances for 'Ease of Living', 'Ease of Doing Business'||To promote 'Ease of Living' as well as 'Ease of Doing Business', the Centre has reduced more than 25,000 compliances. The figure was furnished by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry after the valedictory session of the "National Workshop on the next phase of reforms to reduce Compliance Burden" which was held here. Addressing the session, the Minister of Commerce and Industry, Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution and Textiles Piyush Goyal said India's compliance systems for citizens must be based on the basis of trust, while calling for a focus on initiatives which can reduce the compliance burden to provide timely delivery of services. Goyal said that infinite possibilities in technology should aid the Centre's initiatives and not just further complicate the system. He also stressed the need for indigenous solutions to problems facing the country. "The Minister asked policy makers to consider the wide disparity in income, literacy level and the gaps in infrastructure, especially connectivity, while planning the delivery of services, especially if technology is involved," the ministry said in a statement. Goyal spoke of the need to combine various services like the 'Digi locker' and the 'National Single Window System', so that repetitive processes are rationalised, gaps are bridged and redundancies are eliminated when it comes to applying for approvals and permissions. Additionally, he called for the creation of a single identification number for businesses and individuals by merging the several identification numbers that exist presently, such as 'Aadhaar', 'PAN', 'TAN' so that delivery of services becomes smoother and faster. "He also called for promotion of self- attestation, self- certification and self- regulation. He added that it is high time that compliance systems were built on trusting the integrity of the citizens," the statement added. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-cuts-over-25000-compliances-for-ease-of-living-ease-of-doing-business-1063677.html
22-12-2021||National||Centre asks Bengaluru, 7 other cities to monitor community transmission of Omicron||The Centre on Wednesday asked eight major cities, including Bengaluru, to watch out for “community transmission” of the Omicron variant of SARS-CoV-2, as the number of such cases crossed the 220-mark spanning 15 states. “Delhi, Bengaluru, Bhubaneshwar, Chennai, Mumbai, Pune, Hyderabad and Kolkata were identified as cities for monitoring community transmission of the Omicron variant. Accordingly, it was decided that all RT-PCR positive samples from these cities would be sent for whole genome sequencing at designated laboratories,” Sujeet K Singh, Director of the National Centre for Disease Control wrote to the states in a letter. Health Ministry sources said the number of Omicron cases was currently at 222, with Maharashtra accounting for the most (65) followed by Delhi (54). However, what is worrying the officials most is 51 such cases in seven states — Maharashtra, Gujarat, Telangana, Karnataka, Kerala, Delhi and Jammu and Kashmir — without any travel history. This gives the first signal of the Omicron's community transmission in India with the experts noting that the numbers will start rising soon. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday will review the Omicron situation with top officials. The last such review chaired by the PM was held on November 27, in which it was decided to have a relook at the opening up of international travel. The review was held a day after the World Health Organization designated the Omicron as a "variant of concern." “It's only a matter of time before there is local transmission of Omicron. We simply don't have the evidence to understand how many of such cases will need hospitalisation in India. The South African evidence suggests it could be a large wave of infections but not a large wave of hospitalisations and deaths,” public health researcher Ramanan Laxminarayan, Director, Center for Disease Dynamics, Economics and Policy, Delhi, told DH. Amid a rise in Covid-19 cases and the threat of the Omicron variant, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority directed district magistrates to ensure no Christmas and New Year gathering takes place in the national capital. The authority asked the district magistrates to identify potential Covid-19 super-spreader areas ahead of Christmas and New Year celebrations. The district magistrates and deputy commissioners of police have been directed to tighten the enforcement machinery to ensure that people follow social-distancing norms and wear masks. The Union Health Ministry on Tuesday alerted the states on Omicron's ability to spread three times faster than Delta, advising them to activate 'war rooms' and imposing curbs and restrictions if the test positivity rate in an area goes up to 10 per cent or if the occupancy of ICU and oxygen beds is 40 per cent. Touching a six-month high, Delhi recorded 125 new Covid-19 cases in the past 24 hours, taking the tally of active cases to 624, which is the highest in the past five months. Last week, a disease model suggested R or reproductive number would be greater than one in almost all the metros, a clear sign of the epidemic growing in urban India. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-asks-bengaluru-7-other-cities-to-monitor-community-transmission-of-omicron-1063679.html
22-12-2021||National||SII waives AstraZeneca shot indemnity for COVAX||The Serum Institute of India (SII) has waived its protection from legal liabilities for any AstraZeneca-Oxford Covid-19 shots it supplies to a global programme for refugees, a spokesperson for the GAVI vaccine alliance told Reuters on Wednesday. The news comes days after Reuters reported that tens of millions of migrants may be denied Covid-19 vaccines from the vaccine-sharing programme COVAX because of concerns over who would be liable in the event of harmful side-effects. Many Covid-19 vaccine manufacturers require that countries indemnify them for any adverse events suffered by individuals as a result of the vaccines. But where governments are not in control - in the case of refugees - that is not possible. With the waiver, SII's version of the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine, Covishield, can now be allocated to COVAX's Humanitarian Buffer - a last-resort reserve of shots to be distributed by humanitarian groups, the GAVI representative said. SII, the world's biggest manufacturer of vaccines which also produces a version of Novavax's Covid-19 shot, declined to comment. AstraZeneca-Serum are currently the main suppliers of Covid-19 vaccines to COVAX, but are set to be displaced by Pfizer and BioNTech at the start of 2022. GAVI, a public-private partnership, was set up in 2000 to promote vaccination around the world. It operates COVAX together with the World Health Organization to supply Covid-19 shots to poorer nations.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sii-waives-astrazeneca-shot-indemnity-for-covax-1063683.html
22-12-2021||National||Differences should be reflected in debates, not through disruptions, says Lok Sabha Speaker||Differences of opinion among political parties are natural in a functional democracy, but they should be reflected in debates, not through disruption of parliamentary proceedings, Speaker Om Birla said after adjourning the Lok Sabha sine die, as the Winter Session of Parliament came to its end on Wednesday. He also said that construction of a new Parliament building was going on and efforts were being made to finish works within the next year, before the Winter Session in December 2022. The Lok Sabha had 18 sittings during the just-concluded Winter Session of Parliament. The sittings were spread over 83 hours and 12 minutes. The House, however, lost 18 hours and 48 minutes to disruptions, Birla said in his valedictory remarks. The overall productivity of the Lok Sabha during the session was 82 per cent, but it had increased to 204 per cent on December 2, when the House sat for extra hours till midnight to discuss the Covid-19 pandemic, he said. The Lok Sabha witnessed an uproar and repeated disruptions during the Winter Session, as the opposition MPs protested on multiple issues, ranging from price rise and killing of farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh to the absence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the House and desecration of the statue of Chhatrapati Shivaji in Bengaluru. The discussion on the pandemic in the Lok Sabha, however, lasted for 12 hours and 26 minutes and saw participation by 99 members. Altogether, 61 members took part in the discussion on climate change over six hours and 26 minutes. The government introduced 12 bills in the Lok Sabha during the session, including the Prohibition of Child Marriage (Amendment) Bill to increase the marriageable age for girls from 18 years to 21 years. Nine of the bills were passed by the House during the session, which included the Farm Laws Repeal Bill, the Election Laws (Amendment) Bill, Election Laws (Amendment) Bill and legislations to fix the tenure of directors of the Enforcement Directorate and Central Bureau of Investigation at five years and supplementary demands for grants, Birla said. He later told journalists that agreements and disagreements on issues should be reflected in debates and not through disruption. “Smooth conduct of the House is the responsibility of all stakeholders. The House must be run in accordance with the collective will and consensus,” the Lok Sabha Speaker said, interacting with journalists. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/differences-should-be-reflected-in-debates-not-through-disruptions-says-lok-sabha-speaker-1063695.html
22-12-2021||National||Sacrilege attempts could polarise people on religious lines, foment unrest: Amarinder Singh||Former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Wednesday said incidents like the alleged sacrilege attempt at the Golden Temple could polarise people along religious lines, fomenting unrest in the state. Singh also strongly condemned the killing of the two men for their alleged attempts to commit sacrilege at the Golden Temple in Amritsar and a gurdwara in Kapurthala recently. Agencies like Pakistan's Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) were desperately waiting for opportunities to exploit such situations in coordination with the sleeper cells of secessionist and terrorist groups, he told reporters. Referring to the Amritsar incident, Singh said the man involved should have been handed over to police instead of being killed. “Such incidents have a potential to polarise people along religious lines, which can lead to unrest and trouble in the state,” the former CM said. He had condemned the two lynching on Tuesday as well, saying it was “absolutely unacceptable”. Singh also slammed state Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu's for saying that those guilty of sacrilege should be hanged in public, and called the former cricketer’s remark shameful. “We are against sacrilege. There is a Constitution and there is a law in the country. We have to follow the law. If we don’t follow the Constitution or the law, how will the country move ahead,” he said. Amarinder Singh had made an unceremonious exit as chief minister in September amid a power tussle with Sidhu. Later, Singh quit the Congress and floated the Punjab Lok Congress. Asked about a seat-sharing arrangement with the BJP for the coming assembly polls, Singh said it would be discussed when Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat comes here in the next “two or three days”. Reminded about his allegation that Congress ministers and MLAs were involved in illegal sand mining, Singh again refused to name them. He said, “Then I will have to start from the top.” Singh said he had urged the BJP-led government at the Centre to give Rs 1 lakh crore to Punjab over five years for crop diversification and encourage farmers to switch from paddy to pulses. The former CM said there was no point in restarting trade with Pakistan as long as it did not stop funding terror and killing Indian soldiers. Terror and trade cannot go together, he said. He said with China and Pakistan coming together, almost becoming “one country”, India needed to be more vigilant. Given its geographical position, Punjab faced more security challenges now, he added. India also needed to build up a more sophisticated missile system to shoot down drones from across the border, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sacrilege-attempts-could-polarise-people-on-religious-lines-foment-unrest-amarinder-singh-1063702.html
22-12-2021||National||Kejriwal rules out pre-poll pact with TMC in Goa; says BJP discarded Parrikar's ideas||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) convener Arvind Kejriwal has ruled out the possibility of a pre-poll alliance with the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress (TMC) in Goa, but said he may think of tie-ups with non-BJP outfits post-results if the ensuing assembly elections throw up a fractured mandate in the coastal state. He said the AAP will contest on all the 40 seats of the Goa assembly and the party's chief ministerial candidate will be declared in time to come. The Delhi chief minister praised BJP stalwart late Manohar Parrikar and said those who are feeling "suffocated" in the state's ruling party can join the AAP. Talking to PTI during his visit here, Kejriwal said his party may go for post-poll tie-ups with non-BJP outfits in Goa if there is a fractured mandate and "if it is very necessary". "Post-elections, if it is a fractured (verdict) and it is very necessary, we may ally with non-BJP parties,” Kejriwal said. The Delhi chief minister ruled out the possibility of a pre-poll alliance with the TMC, whose chairperson Mamata Banerjee is projecting the opposition alliance led by her party as the main anti-BJP bloc in Goa. The TMC has tied up with Goa's regional outfit MGP for the polls due in early 2022. “Why should we go in for an alliance with the TMC in Goa? We are not forging an alliance with them,” the AAP leader asserted. Kejriwal said there is "no understanding, discussions...nothing is happening" with the TMC from the AAP’s side. Pointed out that he had once referred Banerjee as like his elder sister, Kejriwal said, “I had said Mamata didi was like my elder sister, but that does not mean we will have an alliance with her in Goa.” “I have several elder sisters, elder brothers in the country, I don’t have alliance with everyone of them. Political alliance is something different,” he stated. Asked whether he considers the TMC as a 'like-minded' party, the 53-year-old bureaucrat-turned-politician said, “It’s not about that. There are so many like- minded people. There is nothing of the TMC in Goa.” Kejriwal said the AAP has no tolerance for corruption and money that would come in the state coffers would be diverted for welfare of the people of Goa like it is happening in Delhi if his party comes to power here. Asked about the BJP’s statement of the AAP-ruled Delhi being a "half state", the CM said, “if Delhi was a full state, we could have given more things free.” “If we can handle health and education, we can also handle police and land (which fall in the Centre's domain). It is not a rocket science to run a government,” he said. Kejriwal said the only thing that is required to run a government is to have clean intentions. He described former Goa chief minister Manohar Parrikar as one of the great leaders. “Late Manohar Parrikar’s ideology has been discarded by the BJP. It is shameful that his son has to plead to the party for a ticket (to contest polls),” he said. Kejriwal said, “Those who are thinking that the BJP has neglected the legacy of Parrikar and are feeling suffocated (in the saffron outfit) can join the AAP.” Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kejriwal-rules-out-pre-poll-pact-with-tmc-in-goa-says-bjp-discarded-parrikars-ideas-1063704.html
22-12-2021||National||India should emerge as world leader in post-Covid global order: PM Modi||India should emerge a world leader in the post-Covid global order, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Wednesday, calling for "surging ahead with a focused approach setting new targets for ourselves for 2047". Addressing the second meeting of the national committee on 'Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav', Modi said the pandemic has taught new lessons and shattered the existing structures which will lead to the emergence of a "new world order" in the post-Covid era, according to a statement. It is commonly stated that the 21st century belongs to Asia, and it is important to focus on India's stature in Asia in this century, he said. Emphasising that this is an opportune time to set eyes on 2047 when the country will celebrate 100 years of independence, he said the current generation will be at the helm of affairs then and the nation's destiny will be in their hands. "Therefore, it is important to decide what we must inculcate in them now so that they will be able to make big contributions in the future towards the country," he said. "We have always insisted upon and fought for our rights but there is a higher greatness in following one’s duties," he added. It is only when people follow their duties religiously that they are able to ensure rights of others automatically, he said. Therefore, as Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav is celebrated, the commitment to duty should be the uppermost priority and the pledge to contribute meaningfully for the country should be the main resolve, he said, asserting the programme will sow the seed of a sense of duty among the youth. Noting that it must be remembered that the future is always born in the lap of the past, he said people must not forget their forefathers who have sacrificed their youth, their lives and their families for the country. No stone should be left unturned to pay respect to the freedom fighters and unsung heroes of the freedom movement, he said. "The Prime Minister concluded that as we observe Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav, we should surge ahead with a focused approach setting new targets for ourselves for 2047," the statement said. The members of the national committee who attended the meeting included the Lok Sabha speaker, governors, Union ministers, chief ministers, political leaders, officials, media personalities, spiritual leaders, artists, film personalities and eminent personalities from other walks of life, it said. Culture ministry secretary Govind Mohan gave a presentation on the overview of activities of Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav, being held to mark the 75th anniversary of India's Independence. The members who gave inputs at the meeting included former prime minister H D Deve Gowda; governors Acharya Devvrat and Arif Mohammad Khan; chief ministers Yogi Adityanath, Ashok Gehlot and Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy; BJP president J P Nadda, NCP leader Sharad Pawar, iconic singer Lata Mangeshkar and actor Rajnikanth among others. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-should-emerge-as-world-leader-in-post-covid-global-order-pm-modi-1063716.html
22-12-2021||National Politics||Winter Session ends, Centre-Opposition acrimony on||The acrimonious Winter Session of Parliament came to an end on Wednesday, a day ahead of schedule, amid the government and Opposition pulling themselves farther over suspension of MPs in Rajya Sabha, “rushing” Bills in din and “avoiding” discussions on contentious issues. This session was marked for Opposition protests in Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha over Lakhimpur Kheri killings and suspension of MPs with discussions on price rise remained unstarted and the one on climate change inconclusive while another on Omicron did not see Opposition participation. Lok Sabha clocked a productivity of 82 per cent while Rajya Sabha had a dismal 47.90 per cent, indicating that both the sides did not climb down and resulted in the Opposition boycotting the first meeting called by the government at the fag end of the session to resolve suspension issue, as they did not agree with the "selective invitation" to five parties. This was the fifth successive session since Budget Session 2020 that was adjourned ahead of schedule during the Covid-19 pandemic even as it passed 10 Bills, sent five to a Standing Committee and one to a Joint Committee of Parliament. The highlights of the Session were the repeal of farm laws, a bill to increase the age of marriage for girls from 18 to 21 that was sent to a Standing Committee for further scrutiny, and the move to link Aadhaar numbers with election I-cards through a bill, which the Opposition alleged was "bulldozed". The bills to extend tenures of Directors of CBI and Enforcement Directorate also received the Parliamentary nod. But much-anticipated bills that could ban cryptocurrencies and privatise two banks did not make it to the Parliament despite the government indicating that it is likely to bring it during the just-concluded Session. Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge said, “The government suspended MPs because it did not have the numbers to pass it in Rajya Sabha. This is for the first time the MPs were kept out of proceedings for this long. They also never allowed us to raise small or big issues. They did not want to face it. Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi countered, “The Opposition is not yet able to digest the people’s mandate won by BJP under Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s leadership in 2019. Congress, its friendly parties and no Trinamool Congress think that only they have the right to rule, it is some sort of family right, they think…not allowing Parliament to run is not good for democracy.” "Every single day washed out by the government, who will now spend the afternoon doing Press Conferences justifying cold-blooded murder of democracy," TMC parliamentarian Derek O'Brien tweeted. The growing chasm between the government and the Opposition were evident on day one, November 29,  when the government pushed the passage of the bill to repeal farm laws in both the Houses, ignoring the demands of the Opposition, and getting 12 Opposition MPs suspended for their “unruly” behaviour in the previous Monsoon Session. O’Brien became the 13th MP to be suspended on Tuesday after he flicked the Rule Book at the reporter’s table after Deputy Chairman Harivansh disallowed voting on a motion to send the contentious Election Laws (Amendment) Bill to a Select Committee. As the government dug in its heels insisting that there would be no compromise without MPs expressing regret, the Opposition rejected it claiming the procedure, including suspension of CPI(M) floor leader Elamaram Kareem without naming him, was faulty and it was the government’s actions inside Rajya Sabha on August 11 that led to the protests.   Suspended MPs then sat on an unprecedented sit-in at the Gandhi Statue in Parliament till the end of the Session, which saw the conclusion by reading of the Constitution’s Preamble and singing of the national anthem. Though Trinamool Congress’ not attending joint Opposition meetings due to their reluctance to be seen with Congress created a flutter, the Opposition parties coordinated and all of them attended two joint marches, including one demanding the sacking of Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra in connection with the killings of farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri. In his concluding remarks amid Opposition demand for raising allegations of MLAs, Mayor, officials and their relatives buying land in Ayodhya after Supreme Court judgement that allowed construction of Ram Temple, Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu said, "I urge all of you to collectively and individually reflect and introspect if this Session could have been different and better...What has happened is wrong." Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/winter-session-ends-centre-opposition-acrimony-on-1063443.html
22-12-2021||National Politics||Kharge accuses Modi govt of 'deliberately suspending' MPs to pass bills||Leader of opposition in the Rajya Sabha, Mallikarjun Kharge on Wednesday alleged that the government suspended MPs to pass the Bills in haste. On Tuesday, the House suspended Trinamool Congress MP Derek O' Brien. Kharge said, "The government wanted to pass the Bills easily so it deliberately suspended the 12 MPs. We had requested the government to revoke the suspension a number of times so that the House could run smoothly but they refused to do so." Suspended MP Derek O'Brien also joined the protesting 12 MPs in Parliament premises. Trinamool Congress floor leader in the Rajya Sabha, Derek O'Brien becomes 13th MP to be suspended for the remaining part of the winter session after the resolution was moved for his suspension by Minister of State (MoS) Parliamentary Affairs V. Muraleedharan on Tuesday. The incident occurred during the passing of Bill on electoral reforms. The government on Tuesday faced stiff resistance from the opposition parties in the Rajya Sabha and the BJP alleged that Trinamool Congress member Derek O'Brien threw the rule book on the Secretary General. Leader of the House, Piyush Goyal said, "We thought that the opposition would learn some lessons, but the same thing has been repeated." Goyal said Derek O'Brien threw the rule book and he should not have done it. Goyal also sought apology from the 12 suspended MPs. Bhupender Yadav raised a point of order and said that the opposition has been questioning the Chair repeatedly, but rules say that the Chair's ruling is binding on all. After being suspended from the Rajya Sabha, O'Brien said in a tweet, "The last time I got suspended from RS was when govt was BULLDOZING #FarmLaws. We all know what happened after that. Today, I was suspended while protesting against BJP making a mockery of #Parliament and BULLDOZING #ElectionLawsBill2021. Hope this Bill too will be repealed soon." We all know what happened after that. Hope this Bill too will be repealed soon Earlier, the Upper House had suspended 12 MPs for the entire winter session for creating a ruckus in the House during the monsoon session on August 11. The suspended 12 MPs are from the Congress, Trinamool Congress, CPI, CPI-M and the Shiv Sena.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/kharge-accuses-modi-govt-of-deliberately-suspending-mps-to-pass-bills-1063449.html
22-12-2021||National Politics||'Oh! Really?' says Derek on Rule Book throwing charge, asks for footage||"Oh! Really? Someone threw a rulebook?” said Trinamool Congress floor leader Derek O'Brien, who was suspended from Rajya Sabha for allegedly throwing the Rule Book at the reporter's table on Tuesday. O’Brien was suspended from Rajya Sabha for the rest of the Winter Session for “unruly and contemptuous behaviour,” when he allegedly committed the offence in a show of protest against Deputy Chairman Harivansh for not allowing the opposition's demand for a vote on sending a bill to amend election reforms for further Parliamentary scrutiny. “Parliament is being burned. Modi and Shah roaming around the parliament with a knife murdering democracy. 12 MPs are sitting outside. 700 farmers were murdered. Who did that?” he said. Derek O’Brien is the 13th MP of the Rajya Sabha to be suspended in this year’s Winter Session over unruly behaviour. He said he was suspended from the House “because this government doesn't like to listen to tutorials…,” and added, “For six minutes, I gave this government a tutorial. Yesterday, they passed the bill in 20 minutes in the Lok Sabha. You are supposed to allow me two days. No Rajya Sabha member was allowed even one day. It was the same as farm bills.” The opposition has been against the bill to link electoral roll data with the Aadhaar ecosystem. The Parliament on Tuesday passed the bill in Rajya Sabha in a voice vote, amid a walkout by the opposition. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/oh-really-says-derek-on-rule-book-throwing-charge-asks-for-footage-1063458.html
22-12-2021||National Politics||TMC 'not even in the race' in Goa, says Kejriwal||Aam Aadmi Party's national convener Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday assured a "corruption-free and honest" government in Goa if the AAP is voted to power in the Assembly polls due next year. On pre-poll alliance with the Trinamool Congress (TMC), which has jumped into the fray in Goa, he claimed the Mamata Banerjee-led party is "not even in the race". “There are 1,350 parties in the country, should I start mentioning everyone,” he said when asked about his silence on the TMC. Kejriwal told reporters that the guarantee was made based on the track record of the AAP's Delhi government, where its own minister was sacked for seeking a bribe from a shopkeeper. Ministers or MLAs won't be spared from punishment if they are found demanding bribe, the Delhi chief minister said. "We will provide the first corruption-free and honest government in Goa," he claimed. If the AAP is voted to power in Goa, its government will also stop petty level corruption by introducing doorstep delivery of services, Kejriwal said. “We have already introduced doorstep delivery of services in Delhi. All the government services would be available at your doorstep,” he said. In Delhi, government officers visit an applicant's residence to collect the documents, and a similar system will be introduced in Goa, he said. "Right from your panchayat work to the assistance from chief minister, everything will be at your doorstep,” he said. The AAP leader also claimed that if his party comes to power in Goa, people will see huge changes within a month in the way of the government's functioning. The government will also help the industrial houses to conduct their business in the state, he said. The AAP government would facilitate the re-entry of industries, which have left the coastal state, by providing them all the required assistance, Kejriwal said. Kejriwal said the TMC does not have even have one per cent vote share. “You cannot win the election merely on posters. You need to work and take your achievement to the people while asking for votes,” he said. The AAP had contested the 2017 Goa Assembly elections, but did not win a single seat in the 40-member House. The TMC has announced that it will contest all the 40 seats in the forthcoming elections in the coastal state.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/tmc-not-even-in-the-race-in-goa-says-kejriwal-1063467.html
22-12-2021||National Politics||Kejriwal govt hasn't opened new ration shops, but is opening liquor stores: Meenakshi Lekhi||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government has failed to open new ration shops in Delhi but has started opening liquor stores across the city, Union Minister Meenakshi Lekhi claimed on Wednesday. Participating in the Delhi BJP's signature campaign against the new excise policy of the Arvind Kejriwal dispensation, the New Delhi MP said that allowing private parties to open liquor stores will impact the revenue of the city government. "The Kejriwal government has not opened any new ration shops or issued fresh ration cards but is opening liquor stores all over the city. It will have a harmful effect as families will be broken with people falling prey to alcoholism," Lekhi told reporters. Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta said that his party's workers have been opposing the AAP government's excise policy for weeks and will not rest till it's withdrawn. "The people of Delhi are unhappy with this policy that aims to open 850 liquor stores across the city on the pretext of equal distribution. Is there any need for this? Why does not the Kejriwal government work for equal distribution of water, improving health and education, and cleaning the Yamuna river instead," Gupta said. He said that the campaign led by the BJP's Mahila morcha will collect 15 lakh signatures in the coming eight to 10 days. The list of signatures will be handed over to the President of India requesting him to intervene for withdrawal of the Delhi government’s excise policy, Gupta said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/kejriwal-govt-hasnt-opened-new-ration-shops-but-is-opening-liquor-stores-meenakshi-lekhi-1063506.html
22-12-2021||National Politics||'It is enough': Harish Rawat hints at quitting Congress||Congress campaign head for poll-bound Uttarakhand Harish Rawat created a flutter in political circles here on Wednesday, alleging non-cooperation from his organisation and noting he sometimes feels it is time for him to rest. In a series of tweets in Hindi, Rawat said, "Isn't it strange that the organisational structure at most places, instead of extending a helping hand, is standing with its head turned away or playing a negative role at a time when I have to swim across the ocean of elections." "The powers that be have left crocodiles there. People on whose orders I have to swim, their nominees are tying up my hands and feet," he said. "I am filled with thoughts. A voice from within sometimes tells me it is enough Harish Rawat, you have swam long, it is time to rest," he said. "I am in a dilemma. The New Year may show me the way," the former chief minister said. Uttarakhand goes to assembly polls early next year and the Congress is trying to return to power in the hill state. When senior Congress leader and Rawat's media advisor Surendra Kumar was asked by reporters about the tweets, he said some forces within the party are playing into the hands of the BJP to hurt the party's prospects in Uttarakhand. "There is no alternative to Harish Rawat in Uttarakhand. He is the most popular leader in the state who has kept the party flag flying. But there are some forces playing into the BJP's hands to mar the possibility of Congress making a comeback in the state," he said. Asked whether Rawat remarks had anything to do with All India Congress Committee (AICC) incharge for Uttarakhand Devendra Yadav, Kumar categorically said, "Devendra Yadav is our incharge. His role is that of a Panchayati Pramukh. But if the Panchayati Pramukh begins tying the hands of party workers and hurt the party's poll prospects, the high command should take notice of it." Devendra Yadav and Harish Rawat have been at loggerheads. While Rawat loyalists have been saying that the 2022 polls are being fought under his leadership, Yadav has been maintaining that it will be contested under a collective leadership. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/it-is-enough-harish-rawat-hints-at-quitting-congress-1063527.html
22-12-2021||National Politics||Protests in Well of the House should be stopped: Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla||Expressing anger at the Members of Parliament who storm into the Well of the House and protest, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla on Wednesday said it cannot be a part of tradition to protest in this way and even if there was any tradition, it is wrong and should be stopped. Talking to mediapersons after the end of the Winter Session of Parliament, Om Birla said that he tried to run the House smoothly. The Speaker said that he converses with all political parties from time to time so that the House can become a centre of discussion. "At times we reach a conclusion and at times we do not," he added. Om Birla said that he will continue to try to run the House without disruptions. He hoped that his efforts will bring positive results. Talking about the business transacted in the House, Birla said in the winter session, 18 meetings were held and work was done for 83 hours and 12 minutes. Due to the opposition ruckus, 18 hours and 48 minutes were wasted. He said that productivity of the Lok Sabha stood at 82 per cent. Birla said discussions on every subject and Bill should be held. When asked about Union Minister of State for Home Affairs Ajay Misra Teni's absence, Om Birla said no business was listed in Teni's name, so he cannot say anything. On the Opposition's demand for holding a discussion on the Lakhimpur Kheri violence, the Speaker said the subject of discussion is decided by process and rules. On the low attendance of MPs in Parliament, Om Birla said he will urge all lawmakers and parties to attend the House. He said construction of the new Parliament House will be completed by November 2022. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/protests-in-well-of-the-house-should-be-stopped-lok-sabha-speaker-om-birla-1063573.html
22-12-2021||National Politics||'Political immaturity': TMC dismisses Kejriwal's claims in run-up to Goa polls||Trinamool Congress Wednesday declined to attach much importance to AAP national convener Arvind Kejriwal's assertion that TMC "is not even in the race in Goa" and said such a statement only "reflects political immaturity and desperation". Reacting to Kejriwal's assertions, the TMC said it is for the people of Goa to decide who should be taken seriously. The Bengal-based party, which has jumped into the fray in Goa where the state election is due in February, and AAP, share cordial relations at the national level. TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee and Kejriwal, who publicly called her his "elder sister", are known to share a warm relation. "We firmly believe in WORKING FOR PEOPLE and STANDING BESIDE THEM through thick & thin. Those indulging in election forecasting & vote share predictions are simply reflecting their political immaturity and desperation. Let the people of Goa decide who should be taken seriously!" the TMC tweeted.   We firmly believe in WORKING FOR PEOPLE and STANDING BESIDE THEM through thick & thin. Those indulging in election forecasting & vote share predictions are simply reflecting their political immaturity and desperation. Senior TMC leader and State General Secretary Kunal Ghosh said Kejriwal's comments are out of "local compulsion" of Goa politics. "We don't attach much importance to it," he said. AAP had contested the 2017 Goa Assembly elections, but failed to win a single seat in the 40-member House. The TMC, which is seeking to make a foray into national politics, has announced that it will contest all the seats in the 2022 elections in the state. Kejriwal when asked earlier in the day about a possible pre-poll alliance with TMC in Goa, claimed that the Mamata Banerjee-led party is "not even in the race". Further, he said that "there are 1,350 parties in the country, should I start mentioning everyone," when asked about his silence on TMC. Kejriwal, who is also the Delhi Chief Minister, speaking to reporters in Goa, said that TMC does not have even have one per cent vote share in the state and one cannot win an election "merely on the strength of posters". "You need to work and take your achievement to the people while asking for votes," he said, and assured a "corruption-free and honest" government in Goa if the AAP is voted to power in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/political-immaturity-tmc-dismisses-kejriwals-claims-in-run-up-to-goa-polls-1063586.html
22-12-2021||National Politics||Govt dismantling democracy, slow-poisoning Parliament: TMC MP Derek O'Brien||A day after being suspended from the Rajya Sabha for the remaining part of the Winter Session, Trinamool Congress floor leader in the House Derek O'Brien on Wednesday accused the BJP-led government at the Centre of "mocking at and dismantling democracy" and "slow-poisoning Parliament". They have been holding day-long protests in front of the Mahatma Gandhi statue inside the Parliament complex and decided to continue to do so every day till their suspension is revoked. These 12 MPs also carried out a 'Jan Sansad' at the spot as a mark of protest against their suspension. Joining the dharna, the TMC MP said, "This government has tried to manufacture a majority in the Upper House by suspending 12 MPs. Under this dispensation, democracy is being mocked and dismantled every day. They are giving slow-poison to Parliament." About the Bill proposing linking electoral roll data with the Aadhaar ecosystem, O'Brien said it will expose the mobile phone numbers of voters through which their social media profiling can easily be done. The Parliament on Tuesday passed the bill in Rajya Sabha in a voice vote, amid a walkout by the opposition. It was passed in the Lok Sabha on Monday. Rajya Sabha was adjourned sine die on Wednesday, a day ahead of the scheduled end of the Winter Session of Parliament, with Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu lamenting that the Upper House functioned much below its potential due to repeated disruptions. The session, which started on November 29, was scheduled to conclude on December 23. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/govt-dismantling-democracy-slow-poisoning-parliament-tmc-mp-derek-obrien-1063630.html
22-12-2021||National Politics||Amarinder Singh takes jibe at Harish Rawat, says 'you reap what you sow'||Former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh took a swipe at Harish Rawat on Wednesday after the Congress leader alleged non-cooperation from his party ahead of the 2022 Uttarakhand Assembly polls. In a tweet, Singh told the former Uttarakhand chief minister: "You reap what you sow! All the best for your future endeavours (if there are any)." Singh faced an unceremonious exit as the Punjab chief minister in September amid a bitter power tussle with state Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu. Rawat was the Punjab affairs in-charge of the Congress at that time. The grand old party had then replaced Singh with Charanjit Singh Channi. In his resignation letter to Congress president Sonia Gandhi in November, Singh had slammed Rawat and dubbed him as the "most dubious individual". The former Punjab chief minister subsequently launched his own political party. Rawat, who is the campaign head of the Congress in poll-bound Uttarakhand, created a flutter in the political circles on Wednesday, alleging non-cooperation from his organisation and noting that he sometimes feels it is time for him to rest. In a tweet in Hindi, he said, "Isn't it strange that the organisational structure at most places, instead of extending a helping hand, is standing with its head turned away or playing a negative role at a time when I have to swim across the ocean of elections." "The powers that be have left crocodiles there. People on whose orders I have to swim, their nominees are tying up my hands and feet," he said. "I am invaded by thoughts. A voice from within sometimes tells me it is enough Harish Rawat, you have swam long. It is time to rest," the former Uttarakhand chief minister said. "I am in a dilemma. The new year may show me the way," he added. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/amarinder-singh-takes-jibe-at-harish-rawat-says-you-reap-what-you-sow-1063724.html
22-12-2021||National Politics||Congress workers' allegiance to Gandhi-Nehru family is not easily overcome: Shashi Tharoor||On a day when the stormy Winter Session of Parliament came to an end, senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor on Wednesday said to some degree, the opposition is "complicit in its own marginalisation" as by going in for disruptions, it is unable to voice its positions, but asserted that it was often left frustrated for not being allowed to raise issues. He said his party is aware of his view that "we should not disrupt" but use Parliament as a platform for debate, and do rallies and agitations elsewhere. Asked at an event here if the party should have an elected leader and not one who is there by bloodline, in an apparent reference to Rahul Gandhi, Tharoor said, "Frankly people who are there by bloodline can also get elected. In fact, there is very little doubt that Rahul Gandhi if he were willing to contest, he would get elected against anybody else in the Congress because the electorate of party workers has a certain sense of allegiance to the Gandhi-Nehru family for decades now which is not going to be easily overcome." "In Rahul's case, in all fairness he stepped aside, he even made a statement that 'it should not be me or anyone from my family', but the working committee went for Mrs (Sonia) Gandhi and pullled her out of retirement and said please lead us. So that is where we are now," he said. "I would say that this is a phenomenon across all parties. In SP, was there any question that after Mulayam ji, it would be Akhilesh; in DMK, was there any question that after Karunaidhi, it is Stalin; in Shiv Sena after Balasahab Thackrey, it is Uddhav," he said. Tharoor made the remarks during a discussion on his newly-launched book 'Pride, Prejudice and Punditry'. The event also offered a sneak peek into the three-day literary extravaganza 'Apeejay Kolkata Literary Festival' and was followed by the announcement of the Longlist of the seventh edition of Oxford Bookstore Book Cover Prize. Asked about the repeated disruptions in Parliament and the space for opposition allegedly shrinking, Tharoor said, "To some degree, we are complicit in our own marginalisation, by going in for disruptions, we no longer have a choice to voice our positions for the nation to understand." "But I recognise that mine is a minority view. I have not hidden my view and the party is very aware of my view that we should not disrupt, that we should use Parliament as a platform for debate, and do our rallies, dharnas and agitations elsewhere and on the streets," he said. There should be a clear distinction as it used to be earlier, but for some time now our politics has become so polarised that this is now manifesting itself in the parliamentary culture as well, he said. Citing the example of former prime minister Manmohan Singh for reaching out to the opposition, Tharoor said that is not happening anymore and even the parliamentary affairs minister "very rarely reaches out to the opposition members". "I think it is bad for our democracy," he added. Tharoor said he would like to see more days of sittings in Parliament as well as reforms in procedures of Parliament. "For example, many western parliaments allow the opposition one day to raise what they want to raise. We do not do that. Only the government sets the agenda....So, the opposition, in its frustration, because it cannot raise issues it wants to raise are forced to go (for disruptions)," he said. "Imagine if every day opposition had half-an-hour to raise an issue it wants ...Why cannot we have a reform like that, because the people in control do not want such a reform," he said. To another question on whether Rahul Gandhi would spearhead the opposition charge against the BJP, he said, "Voters will decide." "At the moment, what is very clear about the future of India is that it cannot be the BJP that is going to take us into the next decade. We are looking at a BJP that is demonstrated failure for the last seven years. Therefore, the best the opposition can produce would be the way forward," he said. In his remarks, Tharoor also said the term G-23 was a "media creation". He said the letter to party chief Sonia Gandhi calling for reforms was drafted by some colleagues which "23 of us happened to sign". "There could have been more people, but due to the pandemic lockdown, 23 people could be reached. I signed it because there was nothing exceptional... The letter says Congress should democratise itself more, we should revive the parliamentary board of the party, we should have elections to the elected seats of the working committee which are currently filled by nomination, we should revive the party at the grass roots," he said. "I did not think signing that, especially since people who were promoting it were very senior figures of the Congress party establishment, would cause as much offence as it turned out to cause. Indeed, it was seen as 23 people in rebellion and I do not think it was intended that way but has been seen that way," he said, adding that the 23 leaders never met. Tharoor also talked about the time when he was approached by the BJP after his unsuccessful bid to become United Nations secretary general. "When the BJP sent an envoy to talk to me in my office in New York shortly after I had stepped down from the unsuccessful race for secretary general, my answer was very simple -- 'don't you know what I have been writing...and they gave a very nice answer -- 'who agrees with everything their party stands for, does not matter, we are a meritocracy, your merit will be seen," he said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-workers-allegiance-to-gandhi-nehru-family-is-not-easily-overcome-shashi-tharoor-1063729.html
22-12-2021||North and Central||AAP to take out 5 yatras in Uttar Pradesh||Joining the race for Rath Yatras in Uttar Pradesh, the Aam Aadmi Party will be taking out five rath yatras in January in an effort to reach out to people with its agenda for the state. The yatras will be led by party MP and state in-charge Sanjay Singh. According to UP state president for AAP, Sabhajeet Singh, the yatras will start right after the January 2 mega rally which will be held in Lucknow and will be addressed by AAP national convenor and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal. This rally will officially kick off the party's campaign for the 2022 Assembly polls. "The dates are yet to be finalised, but the routes have been decided. One yatra will be from Varanasi to Lucknow, another from Saharanpur to Noida, another from Hardoi to Moradabad, one from Jhansi to Mahoba and the last one from Saryu to Sangam, which is Ayodhya to Prayagraj," he said. Singh added that the yatra aims to publicise AAP's commitments to the people of Uttar Pradesh and other senior party members from Delhi will join the program. The party has so far announced two election promises, one of free power and waiver of pending power dues and the other of 10 lakh jobs a year. The AAP will now be organising 'rozgar guarantee sabhas' across all 403 Assembly constituencies. "In these meetings, we will talk to people about the Delhi model of development, what work has been done by the AAP government and what we are planning to do in UP if we are elected. These meetings will be addressed by local office-bearers, and we are also expecting senior leaders from Delhi to come, especially MLAs who have a connection with UP. They will be deputed to campaign in their local districts," Singh said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/aap-to-take-out-5-yatras-in-uttar-pradesh-1063438.html
22-12-2021||North and Central||Pregnant woman fights stray dogs to save her 3 kids in Uttar Pradesh||A pregnant woman and her five-year-old daughter have been admitted to a hospital in a critical condition after being attacked by a pack of stray dogs. The incident took place on Tuesday at the Barha village on the outskirts of Pilibhit city under Sungadi police circle. The woman, Seema, was cooking when she heard the screams of her three children, who were playing outside. She rushed out and saw a pack of six dogs dragging away her daughter Pallavi, 5, while two dogs were mauling her sons, Anuj, 10, and Monu, 3. Seema fought with the pack of stray dogs single-handedly and she was scratched and bitten by the pack, but she pushed and kicked the dogs till they retreated. All three children have received injuries, but the condition of Seema and Pallavi is critical. The dogs had ripped off flesh from Pallavi's head and arms and Seema was also severely bitten by the canines. Seema and all three children were taken to the community health centre from where mother and daughter were referred to the district hospital. Doctors said Pallavi was suffering from trauma and was critical. Her husband Danveer Singh, a farmer, had gone out for work when the incident took place. Srikant Dwivedi, SHO of the Sungadi police station, said, "We went to the village after getting the information about the attack. Since the family was injured by stray dogs, no complaint is possible in this case. A team from the municipal corporation went to the village and assured the locals that a drive will be conducted to catch the stray dogs in the area." Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pregnant-woman-fights-stray-dogs-to-save-her-3-kids-in-uttar-pradesh-1063446.html
22-12-2021||North and Central||Minimum temperature in Kashmir remain below freezing point; snowfall, rain likely from December 26||There was a slight increase in minimum temperatures in most places in Kashmir, but they remained below the freezing point, meteorological department officials said on Wednesday. The department has also forecast three days of snowfall and rain from Sunday in the region. There was an improvement in the minimum temperatures on Tuesday night at most of places in the Kashmir Valley on the second day of Chilla-i-Kalan (big cold), the officials said. Srinagar recorded a low of minus 1.8 degrees Celsius on Tuesday night, a degree up from the previous night. The city had recorded a low of minus 6 degrees Celsius for two consecutive nights on Saturday and Sunday, which is the lowest of the season so far. The resort town of Gulmarg in north Kashmir's Baramulla district recorded a low of minus 4 degrees Celsius, a degree up from the previous night, the officials said. Pahalgam, which serves as the base camp for the annual Amarnath Yatra, recorded a low of minus 5.2 degrees Celsius, they said. The mercury in Kupwara in north Kashmir settled at minus 2.9 degrees Celsius, in Qazigund, the gateway town to the Valley, at minus 3 degrees Celsius and Kokernag recorded a low of minus 1.9 degrees Celsius, the officials said. The meteorological office has forecast snow spell of greater intensity during December 26 evening to 28 forenoon, with main activity on December 27, they said. The Chilla-i-Kalan, which began on Tuesday, is the 40-day harshest winter period when a cold wave grips the region and the temperature drops considerably leading to the freezing of water bodies, including the famous Dal Lake here, as well as the water supply lines in several parts of the Valley. The chances of snowfall are the most frequent and maximum during this period and most areas, especially in the higher reaches, receive heavy snowfall. The 'Chilla-i-Kalan' will end on January 31, but the cold wave continues even after that in Kashmir with a 20-day-long 'Chillai-Khurd' (small cold) and a 10-day-long 'Chillai-Bachha' (baby cold).  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/minimum-temperature-in-kashmir-remain-below-freezing-point-snowfall-rain-likely-from-december-26-1063450.html
22-12-2021||North and Central||India's Omicron tally at 213||India has recorded 213 cases of the Omicron variant of coronavirus across 15 states and UTs so far out of which 90 people have recovered or migrated, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday.  Delhi has recorded the maximum of 57 cases of the Omicron variant followed by Maharashtra at 54, Telangana 24, Karnataka 19, Rajasthan 18, Kerala 15 and Gujarat 14. The ministry data updated at 8 am also stated that India has logged 6,317 new coronavirus infections taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 3,47,58,481, while the active cases declined to 78,190, the lowest in 575 days.  The death toll has climbed to 4,78,325 with 318 fresh fatalities, the data stated. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been recorded below 15,000 for the last 55 days now. The active cases comprise 0.22 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has further improved to 98.40 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. A decline of 907 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 0.51 per cent. It has been less than two per cent for the last 79 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 0.58  per cent. It has been below one per cent for the last 38 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,42,01,966, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.38 per cent.  The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 138.96 crore.  India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.  India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 318 new fatalities include 233 from Kerala, 30 from Goa and 14 from Maharashtra. Of the 233 deaths in Kerala, 33 were recorded over the last few days and 200 were designated as Covid-19 deaths after receiving appeals based on the new guidelines of the Centre and the directions of the Supreme Court, a Kerala state government release said on Tuesday. For Goa, 29 deaths from the May to December period have been reported late. A total of 4,78,325 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,41,367 from Maharashtra, 45,155 from Kerala, 38,295 from Karnataka, 36,691 from Tamil Nadu, 25,102 from Delhi, 22,915 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,688 from  West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/indias-omicron-tally-at-213-1063461.html
22-12-2021||North and Central||Tea seller celebrates buying smartphone for 5-yr-old daughter by taking out horse carriage procession||A tea seller celebrated the purchase of a smartphone for his five-year-old daughter by taking out a procession in Madhya Pradesh, with people dancing to drum beats and the girl seated on a decorated horse carriage. The man claimed it was his family's first smartphone, bought at a cost of Rs 12,500. A video of the celebration, held on Monday night, went viral on social media. In the clip, the girl and her siblings were seen sitting on the horse carriage decked up with lights, with a song being played on a loudspeaker and people dancing in a procession. Murari Kushwaha, who earns his living by selling tea, told reporters on Tuesday that after be purchased the handset, a procession was taken out from the mobile phone shop to his home in an old area of Shivpuri town, with drum beats, horse carriage and fireworks. Later, he gave a party to his friends at home, the man said. He said his five-year-old daughter had been requesting him for a long time to get a mobile phone for her. Kushwaha said he had promised her that when he buys the phone, the entire city will witness it. Since he was short of the required amount, the mobile phone shopkeeper allowed him to buy the gadget on loan, he said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/tea-seller-celebrates-buying-smartphone-for-5-yr-old-daughter-by-taking-out-horse-carriage-procession-1063463.html
22-12-2021||North and Central||BJP using govt resources to ferry people for PM Modi's rallies in Uttar Pradesh: SP to EC||The Samajwadi Party (SP) has accused the BJP of 'misusing' government machinery for bringing crowds to the meeting of Prime Minister Narendra Modi at Prayagraj on Tuesday and has written to the Election Commission (EC) to take note of the same and ensure a free and fair election in Uttar Pradesh. SP state president Naresh Uttam said in his letter to the EC that hundreds of UP Roadways Transport Corporation buses were deployed to bring people to the rally from different parts of the state. "The state government, with the help of the RTO, deployed hundreds of government and private buses to ferry the people to the venue of the prime minister's meeting at Prayagraj......the chief minister of the state has been misusing the government machinery and public money for the rallies of the prime minister," Uttam said in the letter. He demanded that the EC give strict direction to the state government not to use public money and resources for campaigning. According to multiple reports, thousands of women had been housed at inns and guest houses by the district administration in Prayagraj a day before the rally. Modi had addressed a meeting of the women at Prayagraj on Tuesday. The district administration claimed that more than two lakh women had taken part in the meeting. Opposition parties had earlier taken strong exception to the use of government machinery for rallies of the prime minister in the state. SP president Akhilesh Yadav had said that the crowds at Modi's rallies in the state had been brought from different places in the state using government resources. "I wonder if BJP has held any real public meeting so far," he had said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-using-govt-resources-to-ferry-people-for-pm-modis-rallies-in-uttar-pradesh-sp-to-ec-1063499.html
22-12-2021||North and Central||Genome sequencing of samples of all Covid cases starts in Delhi to check for Omicron||Genome sequencing of samples of all Covid-19-infected people in Delhi began Wednesday to ascertain if the new Omicron variant has spread in the community, city Health Minister Satyendar Jain said. The national capital is recording around 100-125 cases a day, while it has the capacity of genome sequencing of 400-500 samples daily. "The Delhi government-run labs at the Lok Nayak Hospital and the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences can sequence 100 samples each day. Two Centre-run labs in Delhi can sequence 200-300 samples a day. So, 400-500 samples can be analysed in a day,” Jain said. "Around 100 to 125 new cases are emerging every day.... Samples of all Covid-19 patients will be sequenced from Wednesday. Through this, we will be able to ascertain the number of cases from the society. Till now, the maximum number of (Omicron) cases have come from foreign countries (sic)," he told reporters. Jain had said Tuesday that three Omicron patients in Delhi had no travel history. The total number of Omicron cases in the national capital mounted to 54, according to data shared by the Union Health Ministry on Tuesday. Following a meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority on Monday, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had announced that samples of all Covid-positive patients would be sent for genome sequencing. Minister Jain said the government will take steps to prevent crowding during Christmas and New Year's Eve celebrations. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/genome-sequencing-of-samples-of-all-covid-cases-starts-in-delhi-to-check-for-omicron-1063505.html
22-12-2021||North and Central||Priyanka recalls iconic Deewar dialogue to counter critics in UP||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Wednesday recalled the iconic dialogue from Bollywood movie Deewar to counter critics that her party had lost base in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh, saying, "Mere Paas Behene Hai" (I have sisters). In a video clip uploaded by the Congress general secretary on her twitter handle, a journalist is seen seeking her response to the rival parties' remarks that the Congress had been speaking about women in its rallies as it had no base left in Uttar Pradesh. To this, she asks the journalist whether he has heard the dialogue from Deewar in which Amitabh Bachchan and Shashi Kapoor played brothers. "Amitabh tells Shashi Kapoor, 'mere paas gaadi hai, mere paas bangla hai, yeh hai, woh hai, toh Shashi Kapoor ne kaha, mere paas maa hai (I have a car, I have a bungalow... so Shashi Kapoor says, I have a mother). "Toh main keh rahin hun, mere paas behene hai (I have sisters)," Priyanka said in a apparent reference to women in Uttar Pradesh.  "I have sisters ....sisters will bring change in politics. #ladki hoon lad sakti hoon," her tweet in Hindi read. मेरे पास बहनें हैं… The Congress has already announced 40 per cent reservation for women candidates in the 2022 Uttar Pradesh polls. On Tuesday, Priyanka had said the prime minister's programme in Prayagraj on women empowerment showed that Modi had bowed before them and that the unity of the sisters will usher in a revolution. Priyanka, who is also the Congress in-charge for Uttar Pradesh, had earlier released the party's election manifesto for women titled 'Shakti Vidhan'.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/priyanka-recalls-iconic-deewar-dialogue-to-counter-critics-in-up-1063521.html
22-12-2021||North and Central||Four terrorists targeting religious minorities in Jammu and Kashmir killed, says Nityanand Rai||Jammu and Kashmir has witnessed targeted attacks on people belonging to religious minority communities by terrorists sponsored from across the border, and four terrorists involved in the incidents have been killed, Union Minister of State for Home Nityanand Rai said Wednesday. In a written reply to a question in the Rajya Sabha, he also said that there has been an overall decline in terrorist incidents from 417 in 2018 to 203 in 2021 (till November 30, 2021) and the law and order situation in Jammu and Kashmir has improved. “However, there have been a few targeted attacks on people belonging to religious minority communities by terrorists sponsored from across the border,” he said. “Seven persons have been arrested in connection with attacks on religious minorities, while four terrorists involved in these incidents have been killed. Seven accused, including one absconder, have been charge-sheeted,” he said. The minister said that a robust security and intelligence grid is in place to prevent terrorist attacks. In addition, day and night area domination, patrolling and proactive operations against terrorists are being carried out. Besides, he said, round-the-clock checking at 'nakas' and road opening parties are being adequately augmented at strategic points to thwart attacks. Rai also said the State Investigation Agency (SIA) has been constituted by the Jammu and Kashmir government for speedy and effective investigation and prosecution of terrorism-related cases. He also said that the SIA shall be the nodal agency for coordinating with the National Investigation Agency (NIA) and other central agencies. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/four-terrorists-targeting-religious-minorities-in-jammu-and-kashmir-killed-says-nityanand-rai-1063522.html
22-12-2021||North and Central||Covid-19: Delhi bans New Year, Christmas gatherings||Amid a rise in coronavirus cases and the threat of the Omicron variant, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Wednesday directed district magistrates to ensure no Christmas and New Year gathering takes place in the national capital. It ordered the district magistrates (DMs) to identify potential Covid-19 superspreader areas ahead of Christmas and New Year. The district magistrates and deputy commissioners of police (DCPs) have also been directed to tighten the enforcement machinery to ensure that people follow social-distancing norms and wear masks. "All district magistrates shall conduct an intensive survey of the entire area falling under their jurisdiction and identify those pockets, colonies markets and crowded places which have the potential of becoming superspreaders of coronavirus and its Omicron variant," the DDMA said in the order. It stated that all DMs and DCPs shall deploy a sufficient number of enforcement teams on the field for keeping utmost vigil at public places to enforce strict adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour to avoid any possible surge in Covid-19 cases. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-delhi-bans-new-year-christmas-gatherings-1063532.html
22-12-2021||North and Central||Hindus in UP able to celebrate festivals under BJP rule, Yogi says in a bid to paint SP 'pro-Muslim'||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday said that Hindus were not allowed to celebrate their festivals under the previous government but could now do so in the BJP regime. His comments indicated that 'hard-core Hindutva' would form the core of his speeches during campaigning for the upcoming Assembly polls in the state and also sought to paint the past regimes as 'pro-Muslim'. "The difference between us and the previous government (SP) is clear.....we were not allowed to celebrate our festivals....now we can," Adityanath said while addressing a public meeting at Sonebhadra. "The previous government did not allow Kanwar Yatras nor did it allow Durga Puja celebrations...now Kanwar Yatras are being undertaken by the devotees," he said. The chief minister also raked up the Ram Temple issue and said that the SP government had ordered firing on the 'Ram Bhakts' at Ayodhya. "A grand Ram Temple is under construction in the BJP regime.....the Kashi Vishwanath Dham is also becoming grander," he added. Adityanath, who inaugurated several developmental projects in the district before addressing the meeting, also mentioned the measures being taken by his government, as well as the NDA government at the Centre, for the welfare of people. In his earlier speeches as well, Adityanath had raked up issues on cow slaughter, kabristan (graveyard), renovation of mosques, among others, to dub the previous SP regime as 'pro-Muslim'. "Those who loved kabristan, spent money on the same, and those who love their religion and culture, are spending money for their beautification and renovation," Adityanath had said at a meeting in Ayodhya. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister and former BJP national president Amit Shah have also, in their public meetings, made mention of Mughal ruler Aurangzeb – who had 'demolished' several Hindu temples. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hindus-in-up-able-to-celebrate-festivals-under-bjp-rule-yogi-says-in-a-bid-to-paint-sp-pro-muslim-1063544.html
22-12-2021||North and Central||Dimple Yadav, daughter test Covid-positive||Samajwadi Party President Akhilesh Yadav's wife and former MP, Dimple Yadav, and her daughter have tested positive for Covid-19. Dimple Yadav and her daughter, Tina Yadav, have isolated themselves at home where they are being given necessary treatment. Deputy chief medical officer (CMO), Milind Vardhan, has confirmed that Dimple Yadav and her daughter are Covid-positive. Vardhan said that Tina got herself tested after she developed fever and when her report came positive, Dimple Yadav's sample was also taken on the basis of contact tracing. Dimple's report also showed that she is Covid-positive. The staff members in the family are also being tested. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dimple-yadav-daughter-test-covid-positive-1063548.html
22-12-2021||North and Central||IIT Kanpur receives 49 offers worth above Rs 1 crore||In the ongoing campus placement season in the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT Kanpur), a total of 49 offers above Rs 1 crore were received in the first eight days. "In the first eight days, the institute received 47 international offers. This is a big jump of 150 per cent over last year when 19 international offers were received. The highest packages so far are $274,250 for international and Rs 1.2 crore for domestic," an official statement said. The top recruiters are Axtria, EXL, Graviton, Goldman Sachs, ICICI Bank, Intel, Microsoft, OLA, Rubrik, Samsung, Quadeye, Uber, Tiger Analytics, among others. "IIT Kanpur has witnessed excellent hiring trends across sectors this time. The numbers are very encouraging and much higher than the previous years. This growing trust the recruiters are bestowing upon the institute and its students is reflective of IIT Kanpur's resolution to thrive for excellence," the IIT-K spokesperson said. A total of 1,041 students have secured jobs through acceptance of 156 PPOs and 885 placement phase-1 offers while 287 companies have finished their recruitment process, it added. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/iit-kanpur-receives-49-offers-worth-above-rs-1-crore-1063557.html
22-12-2021||North and Central||J&K received investment proposals worth Rs 31,000 crore: GoI to Rajya Sabha||Jammu and Kashmir has received investment proposals worth Rs 31,000 crore and has notified a new central sector scheme worth Rs 28,400 crore which is likely to provide employment to over 4.5 lakh people, the Rajya Sabha was informed on Wednesday. MoS Home Nityanand Rai said Union Home Minister Amit Shah met several delegations, families of martyrs, members of civil society and panchayati raj institutions, the public in general besides interacting with about 50,000 members of 4,500 youth clubs during his visit to Jammu and Kashmir in October. "The government has notified the new central sector scheme for industrial development of the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir, with an outlay of Rs 28,400 crore. This is likely to provide employment to over 4.5 lakh people while boosting the industrial development of Jammu and Kashmir," he said in a written reply. The government has received investment proposals worth approximately Rs 31,000 crore, Rai said. He said the Jammu and Kashmir government has approved a business revival package of Rs 1,352.99 crore on September 25, 2020. Under the languishing project programme, 1,192 projects worth Rs 1,983.77 crore were completed, including five projects which were incomplete for more than 20 years, 15 projects for more than 15 years and 165 projects for more than 10 years. The minister said the progress of projects being implemented in Jammu and Kashmir under the prime minister's development package-2015 has been accelerated. A total of 53 projects pertaining to 15 ministries are being implemented at a cost of Rs 58,477 crore in various sectors such as roads, power, health, education, tourism, agriculture, skill development, etc. out of which 21 projects have been completed or substantially completed and the remaining 32 projects are at an advanced stage of progress.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-received-investment-proposals-worth-rs-31000-crore-goi-to-rajya-sabha-1063559.html
22-12-2021||North and Central||Civilian, police officer killed in Kashmir militant attacks||A civilian and a police officer were shot dead by militants in two separate attacks in Kashmir on Wednesday. A police official said militants shot at a civilian identified as Rouf Ahmad Khan, 45, at Merjanpora- Eidgah in old city Safakadal of Srinagar this evening. He was immediately shifted to nearby SMHS hospital, where he was declared brought dead. “#Terrorists fired upon a #civilian namely Rouf Ahmad at Merjanpora, Eidgah PS Safakadal #Srinagar. The injured was shifted to SMHS hospital where he was declared dead. #Case registered, investigation going on (sic),” Kashmir Zone Police tweeted. In a separate incident, an assistant sub inspector of police (ASI) was critically injured after militants fired upon him in Bijbehara area of south Kashmir’s Anantnag on Wednesday evening. A police official said pistol-borne militants fired upon ASI Mohammad Ashraf leaving him critically injured with two bullet wounds in neck and chest. He was shifted to a nearby health facility, and was later shifted to Srinagar hospital for advanced treatment, he said. However, he died on the way to Srinagar, the official said and added the area has been cordoned off and searches launched to nab the assailants. There have been spurt in attacks on civilians and policemen by militants in Kashmir this year.  In 2021, Srinagar saw around 22 encounters and shoot-outs in and around the city in which 36 people, including seven policemen, 15 militants and 14 civilians were killed. Inspector General of Police (IGP) Kashmir, Vijay Kumar recently said that the violence in Srinagar shows that Pakistan was hell-bent on disturbing the peace in the Valley, especially in the city. Watch the latest DH vidoes:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/civilian-police-officer-killed-in-kashmir-militant-attacks-1063562.html
22-12-2021||North and Central||J&K may be militancy free in eight to 10 years, ex-Army chief NC Vij writes in book||Militancy will start crumbling gradually in Kashmir after two-three years of resistance and in a period of eight to ten years, it is likely to be brought to an ineffectual state, says former Army chief Gen (retd) NC Vij. He has come out with a book The Kashmir Conundrum: The Quest for Peace in a Troubled Land, in which he tries to give a complete picture, starting with a history of Jammu & Kashmir and its people to the abrogation of special status. "Militancy in the region is not likely to disappear in a hurry. It may take eight to ten years, but the intensity is likely to decrease over time, as Pakistan's ability to create mischief will also reduce," says Vij, who is from Jammu and Kashmir. He says he is convinced that the "momentous developments" of August 5 and 6, 2019, dealt a death blow to the militancy in Kashmir. "From an aggressive position, Pakistan and the separatists have been reduced to scurrying and fending for themselves. Also, as a result of the abrogation of Articles 370 and 35A, new dilemmas have arisen for the Kashmiris. They have lost their special status. This had always made them think of themselves as different from the rest of India. Now, they fear that they will be reduced to a minority in their own home state," Vij writes in the book, published by HarperCollins India. He also says that Pakistan has been reduced to a hopeless situation by India and it has become quite clear that the country is no match for India in any field, whether diplomatically, economically or militarily. "The Kashmiris' dependence on Pakistan was perhaps a big mistake for which they have paid the price. Indeed, their desire to join Pakistan or become independent has become a lost hope," he says. According to Vij, all these factors put together will surely make the Kashmiris have a serious rethink about their approach and aims for the future. "What should they do? Should they still dream about independence or should they try and recover what they have lost? Can they really take on India with the assistance of a hopeless Pakistan? The answer is an emphatic 'No'," he says. "It looks likely that after the first 2-3 years of resistance, the militancy will start crumbling gradually in the Valley. Because of the extreme radicalisation in the region, they may manage to hold out for another 4-5 years at the most. Thus, in a period of 8-10 years, the militancy in Jammu and Kashmir is likely to be brought to an ineffectual state," he writes. By then, he says, Pakistan would possibly be in such a financial mess that they would be forced to look towards India, which will be on the way to becoming an economic giant, possibly the third-largest in the world. He says the Kashmir imbroglio was primarily the outcome of the Pakistan-sponsored proxy war, and their greatest success has been in deeply radicalising the somewhat confused and disillusioned people of the valley. "Radicalisation in the valley is a critical, perhaps, the most critical, factor now. These Kashmiris are, however, the same people who welcomed the Indian forces in 1947 with open arms and friendly slogans such as 'Hamlawar hoshiar, hum Kashmiri Hindu, Muslim, Sikh taiyar' (Attackers beware, we Kashmiri Hindus, Muslims, Sikhs are ready). Also, they are the same people who gave early warning about the intrusions by Pakistani forces in 1965 and 1971 and even during the Kargil war in 1999," the book states. "Once they see the economic progress and prosperity in the state, the better quality of education, better job opportunities, and the constant dialogues going on with them, including with religious teachers (maulvis), and they lose faith in Pakistan's ability to help them, they are likely to be more rational and amenable to a balanced solution and turn positively towards India," it says. According to the author, the biggest priority and challenge before the Central government will be to re-establish law and order, get the routine of daily life restarted and provide a first-rate administration. Terrorism, itself, should be dealt with an iron fist, he says. "The government should also work towards holding assembly elections in Jammu and Kashmir as soon as the security situation improves and the proposed delimitation has been carried out. Restoring the democratic process at the earliest must remain a priority," he says. "Bringing the Kashmiri Pandits back to their homeland in Jammu and Kashmir will be a litmus test of the success of India's Jammu and Kashmir policy. Finally, full statehood must be restored to Jammu and Kashmir (less Kargil and Ladakh) in a reasonable time frame," he says. The book has a foreword by veteran Congress leader Karan Singh, who says that all those concerned with the situation in Jammu and Kashmir, particularly those in positions of authority, would do well to take Vij's "valuable suggestions with regard to the security, strategic, diplomatic and political challenges" seriously. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-may-be-militancy-free-in-eight-to-10-years-ex-army-chief-nc-vij-writes-in-book-1063570.html
22-12-2021||North and Central||125-year-old Kashmir church reopens after three decades||The bells started ringing and the faithful gathered for a mass as the Saint Lukes church -- one of the oldest in Kashmir -- which came alive after three decades on Wednesday just ahead of Christmas. It was closed after the eruption of militancy in the valley in the 1990s. The church, located near the Chest Diseases Hospital on the foothills of the Shankaracharya hillock in Dalgate area of the city, will officially be opened to the public on Thursday. However, a prayer was held on Wednesday, officials said. The renovation of the church, which is about 125 years old, was undertaken by the tourism department under the 'Smart City Project'. The church has been opened after 30 years, after it was renovated and restored to its old glory, they said. The renovated church will be e-inaugurated on Thursday by Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha, church official Kennedy David Rajan said. He said that the Christian community is happy to see the church being re-opened after its renovation. Grace Paljor, principal of a private school, said the community was glad that a 125-year-old church was restored to its old glory, and prayers were held after three decades. The minuscule Christian population in the valley usually visits the Holy Family Catholic Church, a Roman Catholic Church, at MA Road, and the one at Church Lane for Sunday mass and Christmas mass. There are churches in Baramulla and Gulmarg as well in the valley.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/125-year-old-kashmir-church-reopens-after-three-decades-1063603.html
22-12-2021||North and Central||BJP to enrol one lakh 'cyber yoddhas' for Uttarakhand polls||Over one lakh social media 'yoddhas' (warriors) will be enrolled by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to spread the achievements of the Pushkar Singh Dhami-led Uttarakhand government and defuse the propaganda of Opposition parties in the poll-bound state, party leaders said. For this purpose, the BJP has launched a campaign to enrol volunteers, and made an appeal to the youth to join the campaign to become a cyber 'yoddha'. Uttarakhand Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami and BJP youth wing national president Tejasvi Surya has launched the campaign 'Dev Bhoomi ke Digital Yoddha'. The campaign is run by the Uttarakhand BJP's youth wing in the state. The party has appealed to the people to give missed calls to become its cyber yoddha. As per the plan, the BJP has decided to enrol one lakh cyber yoddhas in the coming week and they will spread works of Dhami government on various social media platforms like WhatsApp, Twitter, Facebook and Instagram. It is learnt that these cyber yoddhas will be provided content in the form of video and other materials, highlighting the work of Uttarakhand government to share on their social media handle. BJYM national secretary and Uttarakhand in-charge, Tajinder Pal Singh Bagga told IANS that many people who are active on social media and cannot work like a political worker on ground during the election have been appealed to work for the BJP. "People who are influenced by the BJP ideology and policy are asked to support us by becoming cyber yoddha and the party will provide the content which they will share on their WhatsApp group and other social media like Twitter, Facebook and Instagram," Bagga said. The election for the 70-member Uttarakhand assembly will be held in February- March next year along with Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Manipur and Goa. The BJP has set a target of winning over 60 seats in the next assembly polls in Uttarakhand. In the last assembly polls in 2017, the BJP won 57 seats. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-to-enrol-one-lakh-cyber-yoddhas-for-uttarakhand-polls-1063605.html
22-12-2021||North and Central||PIL in top court seeks naming ministers Ajay Mishra, Keshav Prasad Maurya accused in Lakhimpur Kheri case||A PIL has been filed in the Supreme Court for a direction to probe the alleged involvement of Union Minister Ajay Mishra 'Teni' and Deputy Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh Keshav Prasad Maurya in the Lakhimpur violence case, related to mowing down of farmers. In his plea, former BSF member Tej Bahadur Yadav sought a direction to the SIT, formed by the Supreme Court, to name Mishra and Maurya as accused in the matter. He claimed that Mishra had threatened the victims prior to the incident on October 3 and subsequently, sent his son for executing his plan. The SIT had recently claimed the killings were not a negligent act committed by the accused; rather, it was done intentionally as per a premeditated plan. On November 17, the court had appointed Justice Rakesh Kumar Jain, a former judge of Punjab and Haryana High Court, to monitor the October 3 Lakhimpur Kheri violence probe and to ensure "transparency, fairness and absolute impartiality in the investigation". As many as eight people, including four farmers, were killed, when a car allegedly ferrying the Union Minister's son ran over a group of protesters, who had gathered to oppose a programme attended by Uttar Pradesh's Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya in Lakhimpur Kheri. The minister's son has been arrested in the case. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pil-in-top-court-seeks-naming-ministers-ajay-mishra-keshav-prasad-maurya-accused-in-lakhimpur-kheri-case-1063621.html
22-12-2021||North and Central||Ahead of Uttar Pradesh elections, BJP's big Brahmin push||In the upcoming assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party is working hard to stay ahead of the race to woo a specific set of voters – the state’s Brahmins.  Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s inauguration of the Kashi Vishwanath corridor, and his visit to Ayodhya during Diwali are part of these attempts. The party also carried out ‘Prabuddh Varg Sammelans’ across the state in September to reach out to them.  The party will also try to project key religious places as part of a religious circuit, which seeks to build UP as a place of faith as well as one that is bringing in economic growth, said a state leader.  Varanasi’s Kashi Vishwanath Corridor, Mathura’s Banke Bihari temple, Mirzapur’s Vindhyavasini temple and the Ganga Expressway are part of the circuit, in addition to the Ayodhya temple. These sites of religious importance in the state will be linked to the Char Dham circuit, which will feature prominently in the party’s poll outreach in Uttarakhand, said the leader.   “The Ganga Expressway will fire up all the cities along its route, and there will be a lot of jobs for the local population in the cities that fall on the map. The idea is to highlight economic growth as well as religious sentiment,” said the leader.  But it is not as easy as it looks. The party is worried about the perception among the state’s Brahmin voters that the Yogi Adityanath-led BJP government has not done enough for the community. To add to that, Samajwadi Party and the Bahujan Samaj Party’s outreach attempts could play spoilsport. Senior party leaders that DH spoke to said that the party is “worried” about the state’s Brahmin voters. The party perceives them as the end to a crucial opportunity, one that has consequences in a significant part of Eastern UP.  “The vote bank is a cause for concern, and the party is working on subverting the anger,” said the leader, who is a national office bearer.  Gangster Vikas Dubey’s death in a police encounter has fed into the perception. This could also explain the BJP’s silence over the removal of junior home minister Ajay Mishra Teni.  The community holds sway in a significant part of Eastern UP; from Gorakhpur to Varanasi, including areas such as Devariya and Balia. Leaders said that the perception might affect the party’s chances in one of the five assembly seats under the Gorakhpur parliamentary constituency. Caimpiyarganj, Pipraich, Gorakhpur Urban, Gorakhpur Rural and Sahjanwa constituencies come under the Gorakhpur Parliamentary seat.  BJP Lok Sabha MP from Kannauj Subrat Pathak said that the idea that the Brahmins are not voting for the BJP is a misplaced one. “Brahmins are nationalistic and the BJP is a nationalistic party,” he said.  Pathak also said that the community has wide representation within the party in key government appointments, as Parliamentarians and within the party’s organisational structure, too. Party president J P Nadda and Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma are some of the party’s prominent Brahmin faces.  The Brahmin vote in UP is a swing vote. It has voted in favour of the dominant party historically, save for two terms – in 2007 and in 2012.  Post poll surveys by CSDS Lokniti suggest that in 2007 40 per cent of the Brahmins voted for the BJP, and in 2012, this fell marginally to 38 per cent. In 2017, however, the community overwhelmingly voted for the BJP, as much as 80 per cent. Sanjay Kumar of the CSDS-Lokniti said that the community constitutes 8 to 9 per cent of the state’s voters. In recent years, he says, the community’s trust has shifted from Congress to the BJP.  “The idea is that there is an anger that the ruling party is not doing much. But, this unhappiness is only till expressing that anger verbally, but on the day of election, the community might still vote for the party. Those who are very angry just might not vote,” said Kumar.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ahead-of-uttar-pradesh-elections-bjps-big-brahmin-push-1063685.html
22-12-2021||North and Central||Only fully vaccinated people will be allowed in malls, theatres in Haryana from Jan 1: Vij||Eligible people who are not fully vaccinated will not be permitted inside crowded places like malls, cinema halls, restaurants and grain markets in Haryana from January 1, state Health and Home Minister Anil Vij said on Wednesday. According to an official order, no individual, including government servants, is allowed to visit government offices without being fully vaccinated. Vij said the decision has been taken because the vaccine is the biggest protection from Covid, including its various variants, and a large number of eligible beneficiaries in Haryana were overdue for a second vaccination dose. "From January 1, 2022, any eligible person who has not taken both doses of Covid vaccine will not be permitted in malls, hotels, restaurants, marriage palaces, cinema halls, offices, banks or any such places which attracts crowds," Vij said in the Haryana Assembly here. Vij made the announcement while replying to a question to a Calling Attention Motion moved by Congress MLA Chiranjeevi Rao in the ongoing winter session of the Haryana Vidhan Sabha here. Rao had sought to know what steps the government had taken to stop the spread of the Omicron variant. Vij said wearing of masks in public places will be strictly enforced in the state and he has directed the superintendents of police in the districts and other officials concerned to impose Rs 500 fine on those not wearing masks. The detailed order was later issued by Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Rajeev Arora, in which the deputy commissioners have been directed to strictly implement the guidelines from January 1, 2022. "As all are aware that the Covid pandemic has posed a huge challenge to the community and affected each and every individual adversely," the order read. The first dose of vaccination has reached 93 per cent whereas the second dose is still lagging behind at 60 per cent, as on December 22, said the order. A large number of beneficiaries are due and overdue since long for the second dose of Covid vaccination. Further, new variants of Covid are emerging frequently and recently Omicron cases are showing an increasing trend in the country, it said. Looking into the current scenario steps need to be taken for increasing coverage of vaccination to mitigate spread of Covid, the order said while mentioning that second dose coverage was better than Haryana in states like Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Uttarakhand and Delhi. Covid vaccination has been made mandatory for eligible students of colleges/polytechnics, who are more than 18 years of age. Entry at places like sabzi mandi, bar, restaurants, hotels, grain markets, department stores, liquor and wine shops, malls, shopping complexes, cinema halls, haats, local markets and other places of public gathering should be allowed only to fully vaccinated people, the order read. Only fully vaccinated people will be allowed to travel from bus stand, railway stations. Other places of gathering like religious places, petrol and CNG stations, LPS gas cylinder collection centres, sugar mills, milk booths, ration shops will also allow only fully vaccinated people. Both private and public sector banks will allow only fully vaccinated people. Parks, yoga shalas, gymnasium, fitness centres to allow only those who have received second dose of Covid vaccination. Truck and auto rickshaw unions will allow only fully vaccinated passengers, according to the order. Deputy commissioners have been directed to constitute multidisciplinary teams to check implementation of these orders while civil surgeons have been directed to depute vaccination teams where and whenever demanded by office in-charges for on-the-spot vaccination or for regular vaccination camps at places of public gathering. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/only-fully-vaccinated-people-will-be-allowed-in-malls-theatres-in-haryana-from-jan-1-vij-1063693.html
22-12-2021||North and Central||Lookout notice against Akali leader Bikram Majithia, not allowed to leave country||The Union Home Ministry has issued a lookout circular against former Punjab minister and senior Akali Dal leader Bikram Singh Majithia who was booked under the anti-drug trafficking NDPS Act by the state police. The lookout circular, which prevents a person from leaving the country, was issued on the request of the Punjab police. The Bureau of Immigration under the Home Ministry sent the copy of the notice to Punjab's Additional Director General of Police (Counter Intelligence), Internal Security in Mohali. "This LOC shall remain in force until and unless a deletion request is received by BOI from the originator itself,” it read. The state police have been looking for the Shiromani Akali Dal leader to arrest him. On Monday, Majithia, 46, was booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act on the basis of a 2018 status report of probe into a drug racket. The report was filed by the anti-drug special task force (STF) chief Harpreet Singh Sidhu with the Punjab and Haryana High Court that year. The Congress government's move ahead of the assembly elections early next year has provoked accusations of “political vendetta” by the Akali Dal. Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu had been urging action by the Charanjit Singh Channi government against Majithia, who is the brother-in-law of SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal and brother of former Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal. Majithia had earlier denied all charges against him. The 49-page FIR was registered by the state Crime Branch at its Mohali police station. The NDPS sections mentioned in the FIR include 25 (punishment for allowing one's premises for the commission of an offence), 27A (punishment for financing illicit traffic and harbouring offenders) and 29 (punishment for abetting or plotting an offence). The FIR noted that the legal opinion of Punjab's advocate general too was taken before registering it. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lookout-notice-against-akali-leader-bikram-singh-majithia-not-allowed-to-leave-country-1063696.html
22-12-2021||North and Central||RSS begins massive outreach to Muslim women ahead of UP polls||The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh has launched a massive outreach programme to Muslim women in the poll-bound Uttar Pradesh. As part of the move, senior RSS leader Indresh Kumar on Wednesday presided over a day-long meeting of the women wing of the RSS-affiliated Muslim Rashtriya Manch (MRM) in the national capital. The meeting, which deliberated on various issues pertaining to empowerment and welfare of Muslim women, saw unveiling of a book, titled Dastan-e-Yogi, a biography of Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. The book, unveiled by Kumar, is an Urdu translation of The Monk Who Became Chief Minister, authoured by Shantanu Gupta and released originally in 2017. During the meeting, Muslim women thanked the MRM, court and the Modi government for giving them "freedom from the pain of instant triple talaq", RSS leader told reporters. "The meeting concluded with the participants (Muslim women) raising a significant question that what have they got from the parties that they loved and voted for in past 60 years, other than backwardness, poverty, hunger, insult, unemployment, pain of instant triple talaq and hatred against the Hindus," he said. "They thanked Muslim Manch, court and the government for freeing them from the pain of instant triple talaq and asked the other parties (in Opposition) whether they would re-enforce the instant triple talaq (if they are voted to power) or would let the practice remain scrapped," he added. Later while speaking to PTI, Kumar, who is the RSS national executive member and founder of the MRM, said Muslim women will take the message from the meeting to the community through social media and various meetings in an effort show people "a correct picture" of the RSS and the BJP. He claimed that Muslim women, who were "hurt" by the views of certain politicians on scraping and crminalisation of triple talaq two years ago, are once again hurt by their "immoral comments" on the Union government's move to increase the minimum age for marriage for women from 18 to 21. The Muslim women believe that increasing the minimum age of marriage from 18 to 21 will give them opportunity to complete their higher education, at least up to the level of graduation, or acquire some skills which will help them support their family in future. "When the message from this meeting will be carried forward through social media and meetings, naturally a correct picture of (the RSS and the BJP) will be there for everybody to see and there will be an impact everywhere,” he told PTI when asked if the meeting of the MRM's Muslim women wing will have any impact on the assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who had announced in October that her party will give 40 per cent tickets to women in the Uttar Pradesh assembly polls due early next year, recently accused the rival parties of ignoring women, saying they started talking about them only after her party gave the slogan of "Ladki Hoon, Lad Sakti Hoon" (I am a girl and I can fight).  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rss-begins-massive-outreach-to-muslim-women-ahead-of-up-polls-1063709.html
22-12-2021||Opinion||Prejudice in the time of a pandemic||Nearly two years into the Coronavirus pandemic, it is glaringly obvious that pandemics do not heal societal prejudices; they reveal them. It is equally clear that we are continuing to pay a very high price for such prejudice. Looking for a scapegoat during an infectious disease outbreak is not new. In the 14th Century, Jewish citizens were blamed for spreading the plague and accused of poisoning water supplies. In recent times, the spread of the Ebola virus triggered a spike in anti-African racism in many European countries, an essay in the International Journal of Social Psychiatry reminds us. The advent of the Omicron variant of the Coronavirus also brought out the deep-seated prejudice towards Africa. There are many more such examples. What fuels such prejudice? An infectious disease is "seen as a threat and therefore attempts are made to 'other' this threat," the authors note. "These attempts at 'othering' are commonly reinforced by a desire to assign blame and responsibility for the disease, in efforts to make sense of such adversity… Combined, this often manifests as xenophobic tendencies at a societal level, such as the blaming of 'out-groups' and increased 'in-group' protectiveness." During the ongoing pandemic, we see India wrestling with the same prejudice. "Within countries, and across countries, there has been targetting or scapegoating of certain groups blamed for the spread of the virus or for causing the restrictive lockdowns. In India, there was a scapegoating of Muslims, particularly as a result of the spread of infections at a gathering.  In some countries where there is great social and economic inequality, there has been scapegoating of the poor who live in crowded conditions for spreading the virus," says Sridhar Venkatapuram, Associate Professor, Global Health & Philosophy, King's College London and Chair, Independent Resource Group for Global Health Justice.  In the United States, for example, crimes targeting Asian-Americans have shot up dramatically since the beginning of the Coronavirus pandemic. According to Stop AAPI Hate, a coalition that tracks incidents of violence and harassment against Asian-Americans and Pacific Islanders in the US, there have been nearly 3,800 instances of discrimination against Asians between March 19, 2020, to February 28, 2021. In India, one telling illustration of prejudice has its origin in events that happened in Delhi's Nizamuddin area with the gathering of people from the Muslim organisation Tablighi Jamaat. The Tablighi Jamaat event, held in mid-March, turned out to be one of the hotspots of the infection, with travellers from the event possibly infecting many others around the country. Thereafter, it became fodder for malicious rumours in the social media about Muslims spreading the disease. "This led to discrimination against Muslim vendors and hawkers, who were attacked in many parts of the country. ...such rumour-spreading has negative labour supply effects amongst Hindus who have Muslim co-workers. This could have economic consequences as India exits the lockdown," wrote Arkadev Ghosh, a scholar affiliated to the University of British Columbia, in a report in the portal Ideas for India in May 2020. Ghosh conducted a phone survey with 500 workers at a factory in India the previous month. In a landmark judgement in August 2020, the Bombay High Court quashed three FIRs against 35 petitioners – 29 of them foreign nationals – who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation and travelled from there to different parts of India. "A political government tries to find the scapegoat when there is pandemic or calamity, and the circumstances show that there is (the) probability that these foreigners were chosen to make them scapegoats," the court observed. But the damage had been done. The rumour mill deepened pre-existing prejudices against minorities. As is now clear, prejudice in the time of a pandemic is not just a human rights issue; it also extracts a steep cost from the perspective of public health. Prejudice fuels stigma. And stigmatising specific communities has serious repercussions during all times but especially, during a pandemic, points out Dr Khan Amir Maroof, Professor of Community Medicine, University College of Medical Sciences, Delhi. "Following the Tablighi Jamaat religious congregation that took place in Delhi's Nizamuddin Markaz Mosque in early March 2020, there was an attempt by certain political parties and others to give the impression that Muslims alone were responsible for being super spreaders. This vilification continued for months. This had an adverse impact on Covid-related health interventions - specifically early detection of suspected cases and contract tracing. There is also anecdotal evidence that this fear also led to the collapse of trust and led to pockets of vaccine hesitancy in some areas in the early days." The stigma and discrimination in India during the pandemic is now a subject engaging many researchers. "Sensationalised and inaccurate reporting, like showing doctored videos of Jamaat members spitting on others, has contributed to public hysteria and widespread negative perception of the Muslim community. The consequence was the surge in hostility, segregation, and violence projected toward the whole Muslim community (123) and Twitter hashtags saying 'corona jihad'," notes a January 2021 article in Frontiers in Public Health. A new report by Oxfam India, based on two rapid surveys, provides more evidence. The report (Securing Rights of Patients in India: Lessons from rapid surveys on peoples' experiences of Patient's Rights Charter and the Covid-19 vaccination drive) reveals that a third of Muslim respondents reported that they felt being discriminated against on the grounds of their religion in a hospital or by a healthcare professional. At the same time, 22 per cent of people belonging to the Scheduled Tribes (STs) and 21 per cent belonging to the Scheduled Castes (SCs) said that they have been discriminated against by healthcare providers or in a hospital setting due to their tribal identity/caste. Fifteen per cent of people belonging to the Other Backward Classes (OBCs) also said they felt discriminated against because of their caste. These findings come from two rapid surveys conducted between February and April 2021 and August and September 2021. Health outcomes are consistently lower for Dalits, Adivasis and Muslim minority communities. "The pandemic has further deepened the systemic Islamophobia within the country's health system," says the Oxfam report referring to reports in the media about hospitals refusing to admit Muslim patients. This led to the Supreme Court stepping in and the Union Health Ministry eventually issuing a revised national policy for admission of Covid patients to various categories of Covid facilities in May this year. Pandemic policies are more likely to be designed with the situation of the majority or those in power in mind. They are unlikely to factor in groups hit hardest by prejudice. This must change. Prejudice is real. It is directly harmful to those targeted as well as in containing epidemics and pandemics, as Venkatapuram points out. As the New Year inches closer, it is vital to address this inconvenient truth. (The author is an independent journalist and columnist) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/prejudice-in-the-time-of-a-pandemic-1063494.html
22-12-2021||Opinion||Goa defections raise unsettling urgent questions||Over the past weeks, eight legislators in Goa have switched parties and affiliations, and more are likely to do so in the hyperactive political climate ahead of the 2022 Assembly polls. The current Assembly has fewer than two months to the end of this term. So the series of high-profile resignations and photo-op inductions are designed to create the optics of being a winning ascendant party and demoralise and portray a rival party as a losing side. The spate of resignations, defections, and inductions has evoked a groundswell of resentment among citizens. The tiny state of Goa is witnessing a worrying new trend of overtly corporatised corruption in politics. For starters, this election marks the calculated use of pre-election defections as a political weapon. Goa, unfortunately, is accustomed to witnessing post-election defections regularly, but the current trend is a new low. The gains have all been to the Trinamool Congress, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP). It started with Luizinho Faleiro leaving the Congress in September to join the TMC and being rewarded a Rajya Sabha seat. The latest Congress MLA to resign is Alexio Reginald Lourenco, who the AAP was earlier courting, then was caught in a controversy over meeting BJP election managers and finally, joined the TMC. Senior Congress leader Ravi Naik had been hobnobbing with the BJP for two years but recently was strategically inducted with the accompanying fanfare.  Goa Forward Party (GFP) MLA Jayesh Salgaonkar moved to the BJP, as did independent MLA Rohan Khaunte. The latter had been in talks with the Congress, had taken a strong anti-BJP stance over the past two years, even referencing Goa chief minister with the derogatory term "pappu", but did a volte-face in mid-December. Lone Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) MLA Churchill Alemao did not resign but claimed he had merged with the TMC as the NCP's legislature wing in Goa - a move that the NCP contested and sought his disqualification before the speaker. Alina Saldanha of the BJP joined the AAP, while BJP MLA Carlos Almeida resigned and joined the Congress. Saldanha and Almeida were unlikely to be offered a ticket by the BJP. At least one MLA has openly talked of "packages" in the exchange currently under way, and allegations and accusations of MLAs for sale are flying thick and fast and out in the open, unlike the furtive secret, sudden deals they once were. This latest last-stretch free movement of legislators, which the public view as blatant opportunism, has left voters disillusioned, cynical and angry. The past politically turbulent five years have seen the 2017 mandate upturned by a Raj Bhavan acting in favour of the ruling BJP. The BJP went on to induct 15 party defectors in a 40 member house to stay afloat through the term. Not surprisingly, the resentment and backlash against Lourenco's shift to the TMC may have forced him to clarify: "I didn't join any party for money. I joined the TMC keeping the interests of the people of Goa in mind."  Concern over the new political stock exchange is growing, with citizens speaking out. "There was always money in politics, but it was party-oriented and election oriented. Now it is about self-gratification. The corporatisation of politics is the worst thing, even worse than normal corruption," wrote human rights activist and political commentator Ranjan Solomon. He underscored the need for an independent investigation into the sources of income of political parties. "The Election Commission ought to take cognisance of this eleventh-hour party hopping as it completely undermines the party system under which elections are held. Perhaps there ought to be a stipulation of a one year minimum membership period of a party before one can contest on that party's ticket," suggests lawyer and political commentator Cleofato Almeida Coutinho. He believes direct involvement of corporate entities in the electoral process is a threat to the party system. "Should political work be outsourced like this?" asks Almeida Coutinho. Advantage BJP? Out of power for 10 years in the state, with most of its heavyweight politicians gravitating to the BJP, the Congress in Goa believed it was set to gain from the anti-incumbency and general fatigue with the BJP's misgovernance on Covid-19 management, infrastructural mess, price rise and unemployment. But then the TMC elbowed its way into the Goa picture, seeking to mop up this vote. The TMC's aggressive poaching had little effect, as long as it swept up every minor political activist in Goan politics. It had initially tried but failed to get Vijai Sardesai's regional Goa Forward Party onboard and sharpened its attack on the Congress and the GFP when the two announced their alliance. The game-changer came when the NCP's Churchill Alemao joined the TMC. Veteran politicians, Alemao and Faleiro still hold pockets of influence in some South Goa minority segments, and their foe-turned-friend act has the potential to give the TMC the boost it needs. However, the TMC's West Bengal regional origins remain a significant disadvantage in its Goa game.  The TMC's alliance with the saffron leaning Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP) accords the TMC a little more acceptability by association than when it started its Goa sojourn. For its part, the MGP's rejection this time of its saffron big brother BJP, for repeatedly poaching and discarding its ministers, is expected to sting the BJP from a vote split and may well be sweet revenge for the former. The MGP tie-up with new entrant TMC additionally gives the former the heft it requires to contest some twelve seats it has contestants for and back-in-the-game confidence after losing MLAs to the BJP in 2019. The overcrowded opposition lineup could work to the BJP's advantage. Public disenchantment with the BJP had put it on the back foot at the start of the campaign. Some of its MLAs were looking to shift to the Congress. It expected no thumping majority after ruling Goa for the better part of two decades. At best, the BJP's gambit is to get enough seats somehow to let a repeat of 2017 bail it out yet again. The late entry of the TMC could benefit the BJP. In a state where victory margins are a mere 3000 votes or less, for the most part, the opposition vote split is anticipated to give the BJP an edge in Goa's small assembly segments and close contests, which regularly throw up hung assembly numbers. Winnable candidates, who astutely gauge the political winds to ensure they pick a winning side had by mid-December and post-Mamata Banerjee's second Goa visit, began reading 'advantage BJP' and course-correcting in the complex political field. "The political situation is changing with the entry of new political parties which are setting up shops trying to sell their toys in Goa," independent legislator Rohan Khaunte was quoted saying. Khaunte was expected to join the Congress, his supporters already had, but instead swallowed his pride and picked the BJP. The Goan public, more than anyone, know there's nothing permanent in politics. (The writer is a senior journalist based in Goa) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/goa-defections-raise-unsettling-urgent-questions-1063512.html
22-12-2021||South||Woman allegedly kills newborn, dumps body in canal; lover nabbed||A 22-year-old woman was taken into custody by the police for allegedly killing her newborn child, born out of wedlock, and dumping the body in a canal in this district on Wednesday. Besides the woman, a native of Puzhakkal, her lover and his friend were also nabbed for allegedly helping her dispose of the remains of the infant, which was killed soon after its birth on Saturday night, police sources said. She reportedly killed the child soon after its birth and handed over its body to her lover for disposal the other day. "All the three are in custody and interrogation is going on. The arrest will be recorded soon. The real story will be revealed after the questioning," a senior police officer said. Locals found the decomposed body of the child, wrapped in a plastic carry bag, floating in the canal near a field on Tuesday morning. Based on the CCTV footage collected from nearby buildings, the police got a clue about the two men who abandoned the bag. The interrogation helped the investigators nab the woman, who reportedly managed to hide her pregnancy and delivery from relatives. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/woman-allegedly-kills-newborn-dumps-body-in-canal-lover-nabbed-1063481.html
22-12-2021||South||Congress MLA and Kerala PCC working president P T Thomas passes away.||Congress senior MLA and Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee working president P T Thomas passed away on Wednesday. He was 71. Thomas represented the Thrikkakara constituency in Ernakulam district. He represented the Idukki constituency in Lok Sabha from 2009 to 2014. He was elected to the Kerala Assembly thrice earlier. It was his second consecutive term from Thrikkakara. Thomas, who hailed from Idukki district, was known for his strong stand on environment protection. He had even taken a position in favour of the Madhav Gadgil panel report on the protection of Western Ghats. A native of Idukki, Thomas is survived by his wife Uma and two sons. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/congress-mla-and-kerala-pcc-working-president-p-t-thomas-passes-away-1063492.html
22-12-2021||South||Andhra's second Omicron case detected in Tirupati||A 39 year old woman who had arrived in Tirupati from Kenya via Chennai airport has become the second case of the Omicron variant in Andhra Pradesh. Health authorities have appealed to the public not to panic while informing that none of the woman's six family members have tested positive for Covid-19. The temple town in Chittoor district, with a huge floating population of pilgrims etc, was one of the worst hit spots in the state during the previous waves. Even the famous Lord Venkateshwara temple was closed for darshans for over two months during the first wave and the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanam was allowing devotees in restricted numbers later on. The woman had landed in Chennai on 10 December and traveled to Tirupati by car. She was tested upon reaching Tirupati and was declared RT-PCR positive on 12 December. Genome analysis of the virus samples showed that she had been infected by Omicron. “She is perfectly fine, in institutional quarantine under medical observation. She will be tested again on Thursday,” Dr G Hymavathi, director, public health, Andhra Pradesh told DH. The first Omicron case in the state was reported on 12 December - a 34 year old man who came to Vizianagaram from Ireland via Mumbai airport and Visakhapatnam. Dr G Hymavathi said that the man is now normal, and has completed the mandatory 14 day Covid-19 quarantine too. “But due to the now renewed stigma, the man is staying in Vizag”, the doctor added. State health officials have so far sent 54 samples of 45 passengers who arrived from foreign countries and nine of their contacts to the Center for Cellular and Molecular Biology, Hyderabad for genome sequencing. “We request the public not to worry. People are advised not to believe in rumors, but they should continue to take all Covid-19 appropriate precautions like social distancing, mask wearing and regular hand washing,” the top health official said. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhras-second-omicron-case-detected-in-tirupati-1063575.html
22-12-2021||South||Stalin to launch ‘Back to Cloth Bag’ campaign on Thursday||'Meendum Manjapai’, a campaign encouraging people to dump plastic bags and revert to using the traditional yellow cloth bag, will be launched in Tamil Nadu on Thursday.  The campaign known as 'Meendum Manjapai Vizhipunarvu Iyakkam' (Back to Yellow Cloth Bag Awareness Campaign) will be kicked off by Chief Minister M K Stalin as his government stresses the need to get back to healthy practices to protect the environment.  Brain child of Environment and Forest Department Secretary Supriya Sahu said the campaign aims at encouraging people to use cloth bags for shopping and other activities instead of those made of plastic. The Tamil Nadu government had imposed a ban on plastic with effect from January 1, 2019, but the GO is not being followed on the ground.  Sahu has been pushing people towards adopting good and sustainable practices to save the environment. The campaign will be conducted in schools, colleges, and markets where people come in large numbers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/stalin-to-launch-back-to-cloth-bag-campaign-on-thursday-1063590.html
22-12-2021||South||Sasikala’s nephew questioned in Kodanad case||Vivek Jayaraman, a nephew of ousted AIADMK interim General Secretary VK Sasikala, was on Wednesday questioned by the Nilgiris District Police in connection with a break-in-cum-murder at the Kodanad Estate owned by late chief minister J Jayalalithaa.  Jayaraman, who manages Jaya TV, owned by the Sasikala family, was questioned by a special team that is reinvestigating the case in Coimbatore. Sources said that Jayaraman, who was raised by Jayalalithaa at her Poes Garden residence after his father died while working at a property owned by her in Hyderabad, was questioned in connection with the case for about three hours.  The Nilgiris police launched a reinvestigation into the case after the DMK came to power in May. In October, the police arrested the brother and cousin of Kanagaraj, the late driver of Jayalalithaa and the alleged main accused in the case. Kanagaraj, who was one of the personal drivers of late Jayalalithaa, died in an accident days after he and an armed gang broke into the palatial bungalow of the former chief minister in Kodanad in the Nilgiris, which had also resulted in the murder of a security guard. The case came to spotlight when the then Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami’s name cropped up during the investigation. Sources said that Dhanapal and Ramesh were picked up by the Sholurmattam police, which is investigating the case. Kodanad was the summer retreat of Jayalalithaa since she and her long-time aide VK Sasikala bought a sprawling bungalow in Kothagiri in the early 1990s. The former chief minister would visit the bungalow often when her party, AIADMK, was occupying the Opposition benches in the Assembly. In April 2017, five months after Jayalalithaa’s death, the bungalow was in the news yet again. A group of men, allegedly led by Jayalalithaa’s driver Kanagaraj, entered the premises forcibly after killing a security guard and grievously injuring another in an incident of robbery. The break-in sent shock waves across Tamil Nadu as Jayalalithaa’s favourite bungalow was attacked under the AIADMK rule. The incidents that followed — Kanagaraj and his wife's death and the death daughter of one of the prime accused Sayan in separate road accidents and suspected suicide of staff of the estate — deepened the mystery. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sasikala-s-nephew-questioned-in-kodanad-case-1063593.html
22-12-2021||South||Overall crime rate dips in Hyderabad in 2021||||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/overall-crime-rate-dips-in-hyderabad-in-2021-1063596.html
22-12-2021||South||Kerala government loses fight against eight-year old as High Court orders compensation for police harassment||The Kerala High Court asked the police to award a compensation of Rs 1.5 lakh to the family of a minor girl who was harassed in the public by a woman cop by falsely accusing her of mobile phone theft. The court order is a major embarrassment to the Left-front government in Kerala as the government was strongly backing the woman police personnel despite the video footage of the eight-year-old child being harassed in the public, triggering much public criticism. Justice Devan Ramachanran, who gave the orders on Wednesday, strongly flayed the behaviour of the police and rejected the justifications of the police and the government. The court also ordered that Rs 25,000 be paid in litigation charges and directed that the woman cop, Rajitha, be kept off from duties that require public interaction and to impart her behavioural training. The child's family was also directed that they may proceed with any other litigation for stringent action against the woman police personnel or seeking higher compensation. The incident took place at Attingal, about 30 kilometres from Thiruvananthapuram city, on August 27. The child, along with her father Jayachandran, who is a tapping worker, went to the town to watch a trailer that was ferrying a huge consignment to the Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre in Thiruvananthapuram, as the movement of the huge cargo along the national highway had received much attention. Jayachandran parked his two-wheeler near a Pink Police patrol vehicle. Later, the woman police personnel accused the father and daughter of stealing her mobile phone kept in the police vehicle. She said that Jayachandran lifted the mobile phone and handed it to his daughter. The police even reportedly frisked the father and daughter in public even as they pleaded innocence. Later, the phone was found in the police vehicle itself after some onlookers suggested that the police dial the phone number. Onlookers had captured a video of the police questioning on their mobile phone and it went viral on social media. Despite strong public resentment against the woman police's behaviour and the child's family seeking action, the cop was only given a transfer to a neighbouring district. Subsequently, the family approached court seeking compensation of Rs 50 lakh and action against the cop. After the court pulled up the government over the incident, the woman police officer tendered a written apology in a bid to settle the case. However, the family did not accept the apology citing that they had suffered much harassment from police and the government by rejecting repeated pleas for action. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-government-loses-fight-against-eight-year-old-as-high-court-orders-compensation-for-police-harassment-1063606.html
22-12-2021||South||Refuse permission for 2022 jallikattu: PETA urges TN citing Covid-19||Citing the threat posed by the Omicron variant of Covid-19, a group of doctors from across the country have written to Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin demanding that his government refuse permission for jallikattu (bull-taming festival) in the state during Pongal celebrations in January 2022.  The letter written by the doctors from across the country was released to the media by PETA, an organisation that fights for animal rights. Jallikattu, the traditional bull-taming festival, is conducted in several places in southern Tamil Nadu during the Pongal festivities in mid-January.  However, the festival was banned following which huge protests erupted in the state prompting the then AIADMK government to bring a state-specific amendment in 2017 to lift the ban. The jallikattu events in Alanganallur, Palamedu, and Avaniyapuram attract visitors from across the globe – in 2021, Congress MP Rahul Gandhi visited Avaniyapuram to watch the event.    The doctors said allowing mass gatherings of hundreds or thousands of people at jallikattu events during a pandemic – especially given the new threat presented by Omicron (B.1.1.529) and the ongoing concern over Delta variants (B.1.617.2 and AY.4.2) – poses a considerable risk to public health and could increase demands on India’s health-care system.  "This is especially so considering that over 100 million Indians reportedly missed the second dose of their vaccine,” the doctors said, quoting a recent UK study that showed that immunity against Covid-19 is waning quickly – even among those administered with both doses of Covishield.  They told the Chief Minister and Health Minister Ma Subramanian that Karnataka had in 2021 disallowed a bull-taming event similar to jallikattu called Hori Bedarisuva Sparde because of concerns over Covid-19. They also said recommendations by healthcare professionals for the cancellation of the 2021 jallikattu events were ignored, and it can be reasonably assumed that an “indeterminable number of people became ill with Covid-19 at these events.”  “In light of the highly contagious nature of the disease and the way participants and spectators inevitably come into close proximity at such mass gatherings, despite any precautions planned by the Tamil Nadu government and the ongoing vaccination efforts, the risk of infection remains high,” the doctors said.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/refuse-permission-for-2022-jallikattu-peta-urges-tn-citing-covid-19-1063608.html
22-12-2021||South||Tamil Nadu treats over 400 accident victims under new scheme in 4 days||As many as 456 persons who met with various road accidents across the state have been treated under the Tamil Nadu Government’s Innuyir Nammai Kaakum 48 (Emergency care scheme) in the first four days of its launch.  The ambitious scheme provides for free treatment for the first 48 hours after an accident in 609 hospitals of which 408 are from the private sector in the state. The scheme also covers those from other states and abroad.  Chief Minister M K Stalin launched the scheme in Chengalpattu district on December 18 and visited the accident victims receiving treatment at the Melmaruvathur Adhiparasakthi Institute of Medical Sciences and Research.  Data released by the Health Department said 372 accident victims received or were receiving treatment at government hospitals, while the number at private hospitals is 84 from December 18 to December 21. A total of Rs 40 lakh has been spent by the government on the medical expenses of the victims.  While 31.67 lakh has been incurred as costs in government hospitals, Rs 9.26 lakh has been spent in private hospitals. Chengalpattu district topped the list with 38 persons who met with accidents getting treated under the scheme, followed by Kallakurichi (29), Tiruppur (27), Pudukkottai (26), Theni and Thanjavur (24 each), Tiruchirappalli (23), and Tiruvannamalai and Virudhunagar (21 each).  The scheme will be implemented for 12 months and will be integrated with the Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme. Officials said the scheme’s aim was to ensure that those who meet with accidents are treated immediately. They also said that a new law on the emergency response will be brought in the Tamil Nadu Assembly next year.  Health experts have welcomed the move as it allows accident victims to rush the nearest hospital without thinking about the cost. Under the scheme, anyone who meets with an accident will be eligible to get free treatment up to Rs 1 lakh for 48 hours at over 600 hospitals. The government has allotted Rs 50 crore as the initial fund for the scheme. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-treats-over-400-accident-victims-under-new-scheme-in-4-days-1063615.html
22-12-2021||South||Telangana reports 14 new Omicron cases; variant tally at 38||Telangana reported 14 new Omicron cases on Wednesday, the highest single day addition till now to the tally of the fast spreading Covid-19 variant in the state. Only two of these 14 persons are from at-risk countries and the rest are from non-risk countries, revealed by the random RT-PCR testing health officials are conducting at the Hyderabad airport for two per cent of the passengers arriving from all other nations. With this, the total Omicron cases in Telangana has climbed up to 38. Since the onset of the Omicron scare in the country earlier this month, 9,381 international passengers coming from at-risk countries were screened and Covid-19 was confirmed in 63. Out of these samples sent for genome sequencing, only six were of Omicron variant. The remaining 31 are all from non-risk countries. At least one contact of the international passengers has tested positive for Omicron variant in Telangana, according to the state government’s Covid-19 bulletin. Meanwhile, authorities are focusing on completion of the vaccination targets at the earliest. Dr Srinivasa Rao, director, public health, said that over 4.4 crore doses of vaccines were administered till now in Telangana. Rao said they have a good stock of Covid-19 drugs and other consumables. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-reports-14-new-omicron-cases-variant-tally-at-38-1063697.html
22-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka in grip of winter, Bidar shivers at 9.4 degrees C||After setting in late due to unseasonal rains, winter has turned severe with mercury levels dropping considerably across the plains in both north and south interior Karnataka. Bidar, which recorded its lowest temperature in 85 years with 9.7 degrees Centigrade on Monday, dropped further to 9.4 degrees on Tuesday. In 1936, Bidar had recorded a minimum temperature of 10 degrees Centigrade. According to officials at the India Meteorological Department (IMD), Bidar’s lowest minimum temperature was recorded between the mornings of December 20 and December 21. “It is not just in Bidar, but almost all locations in the plains of north and south have recorded low minimum temperatures. In fact, in Bidar, mercury levels are dropping every passing day,” the official said. Vijayapura recorded 10.4 degrees, Dharwad and Davangere recorded 10.8 degrees and 10.9 degrees respectively on Tuesday. IMD officials said that it is for the first time in recent years that mercury levels have been dropping to these levels. These weather conditions (dry weather) will continue across the state for the next four to five days. After that, the temperature will fluctuate. It might dip one day and rise the next. So far, we do not see any indications of extreme conditions,” said Sadananda Adiga, meteorologist, IMD (Bengaluru). The temperature in Bidar has plummeted six degrees from the normal this month. Hassan too has recorded a similar drop. After frequent rain spells, the weather conditions turned around in the state last week. “On December 16, all around the state, changes were seen in the weather, which was an indication of winter conditions setting in,” Adiga told DH. Bengaluru has also been experiencing chill since the second week of December. On Tuesday, the city recorded a minimum temperature of 16 degrees and a maximum of 27 degrees. The weather conditions are expected to continue till the end of the week. IMD has forecast clear skies for the city and with fog/mist likely during morning hours. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-in-grip-of-winter-bidar-shivers-at-94-degrees-c-1063381.html
22-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Halfway through academic year, Karnataka schools await books||More than halfway through the academic year, several private unaided schools affiliated with the state board are yet to get their share of textbooks. Some of the schools had paid the full amount and placed the indent well in advance with the state government. None of them have received the textbooks. According to sources, private schools are yet to get textbooks in English and Mathematics. While the state government had made Kannada mandatory by passing an Act, it is yet to supply Kannada textbooks to schools. Private school managements alleged that the Department of Public Instruction is focusing on government schools and isn't bothered about private schools. "While taking orders, the department had insisted that we pay the full amount. But to date, majority of the schools have not received textbooks for some of the titles," said D Shashi Kumar, general secretary, Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka. "Even the Kannada language textbooks introduced under the compulsory Kannada learning Act have not reached schools affiliated to other boards like CBSE and ICSE," said the management representative of a school affiliated to CBSE. A few private schools said they are struggling to conduct classes for grade 10 too, as some of the textbooks have not landed. "We are managing with photocopies of books obtained from other schools," said the principal of a private unaided school in Bengaluru. This year, the printing of textbooks was affected due to the lockdown. The department had plans to supply textbooks from the first day of school reopening, but it was delayed due to the pandemic situation. "Despite the financial crisis caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, we schools managed to pay the full amount, but the department has failed to supply textbooks on time. The syllabus for some grades has been completed but we wonder when the department will supply the textbooks," Shashi Kumar said. The government had set aside Rs 153 crore for supplying textbooks in the state budget. The officials of the Karnataka Textbook Society, however, said there was no delay from the department side. "When we asked for indents, majority of the private schools requested for 65% of the books, saying they have previous year's books pending. Later, they gave an additional indent for 15%, the printing for which is under process," said an official. Madegowda, managing director, Karnataka Textbook Society, said, "About 85% of the textbooks have reached and the additional indent given by private schools for 11.50 lakh textbooks is at the level of printing and will reach schools in the next 15 days." This academic year, offline classes resumed for grade 9 to 12 from August 23, for grades 6 to 8 from September 6, and for primary classes, from October 25. There are over 19,000 private unaided schools in the state, including those affiliated to other boards. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/halfway-through-academic-year-karnataka-schools-await-books-1063385.html
22-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Kannada outfits call for Karnataka Bandh on December 31||Several pro-Kannada organisations and transport unions have called for a day-long Karnataka bandh on December 31 demanding a complete ban on the activities of Maharashtra Ekikaran Samithi (MES) in Karnataka over its repeated involvement in "anti-Karnataka and anti-Kannada activities" in the recent times. Demanding a complete ban on the activities of the MES outfit in Karnataka, the organisations have set a deadline of December 29. “If the state government does not order a ban by December 29, we will go ahead with the Karnataka bandh on December 31,” said Vatal Nagaraj, former MLA and Chairperson of Federation of Pro-Kannada organisations. As many as 35 organisations have extended support for the dawn-to-dusk bandh. “We request everyone to support our call and come out in large numbers in the interest of Karnataka and Kannada. We do not want any moral or virtual support from anybody but we need actual support by joining us on the Bandh day. This would entirely be apolitical and in the interest of the state,” Vatal Nagaraj told media persons. According to the organisers, all services barring emergency services would be suspended on December 31. Sources told DH that more than 35,000 autorickshaws, 10,000 taxis including Ola, Uber will remain off the roads as the transport organisations have publicly expressed their support to the bandh.  While more than 35 Kannada and transport organisations have expressed support to the Karnataka Bandh, the Karnataka Rakshana Vedike (KRV) led by TA Narayana Gowda has distanced itself from the bandh. Making its stand clear, Narayana Gowda told media persons that there are several other methods to register our protest. “Observing Bandh is not the only solution. People have already suffered due to the pandemic. There are several other ways to express our anguish,” Gowda clarified. However, Gowda said that they would support the growing demand for a total ban on the activities of MES in Karnataka and they would carry out different kind of activities on December 31 across Karnataka.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kannada-outfits-call-for-karnataka-bandh-on-december-31-1063535.html
22-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Bommai emphasises practical-based education system||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Wednesday emphasised upon practical based education system and said the NEP would bridge the gap. "A practical based education system is needed to meet challenges of rapid change in the present era. There is a huge difference between the syllabus being taught and the practical needs of the world," the Chief Minister said after laying the foundation stone for the Rani Chennamma University building complex at Hirebagevadi. According to him, the New Education Policy(NEP) is being implemented to bridge this gap. "Present generation of students need the power of knowledge to face the challenges with confidence and courage and the NEP would empower them with necessary knowledge," Bommai explained. Stating that Rani Chennamma was the inspiration behind the university, Bommai said Kittur Rani Chennamma fought against the British with great courage and confidence and made history as the first woman freedom fighter He added that Sangolli Rayanna too played a big role in repulsing the British. The Chief Minister called upon those associated with this university to show the commitment to take this institution to international level. "Universities should not become mere centres of awarding degrees. They should foster innovation, experimentation and develop into centres for finding solutions for problems being faced by society. They should keep pace with technological and social changes happening in the world," Bommai said. Bommai also stressed upon universities inculcating logical and lateral thinking and creating a conducive eco-system for learning. He assured all help from the state government to enable Rani Chennamma university to bring changes in the education system. The State government would complete the works of providing a beautiful environment, roads and other infrastructure with modern buildings within a year, the chief minister told the gathering. He said every room in the building will be digitised and become a global link of knowledge. "This is the knowledge century. Those with knowledge would rule the world," Bommai said. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bommai-emphasises-practical-based-education-system-1063563.html
22-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Omicron: Karnataka asks districts to step up surveillance||The primary and secondary contacts of Covid positive patients are henceforth required to be identified by the BBMP and respective district health officials within 24 hours of reporting of the Covid positive case, said Health Secretary T K Anil Kumar in a circular. The primary contacts should be tested on day 1 and again on day 8, and home quarantined for 7 days from the date of Covid positive reporting, he said. Similarly the international travelers from high-risk countries need to be quarantined for seven days from the date of their arrival, until the follow-up and repeat RT-PCR test on day 8. If the primary/secondary contacts test positive, they are to be treated and managed as per the state Covid protocol. At present the healthcare personnel - public health inspecting officers, community health officers and ASHAs, who are doing contact tracing, quarantine watch and home isolation watch, shall continue doing them. The districts and BBMP shall post dedicated and full-time persons separately for contact tracing and quarantine/home isolation watch immediately, the circular said. The tracing, tracking and quarantine activity conducted has to be reported in the contact tracing application and quarantine watch application, which shall be activated, with necessary reorientation, it added. Further, all Covid-19 positive persons need to be triaged by a medical officer of the PHC and team on ground as per prevailing instructions (physical triaging). Over and above, this tele-triaging (over phone) shall be re-initiated at state-level and triaging information would be recorded in the index application (in the BBMP) and in the state line list (in the rest of the districts). Wherever necessary, and to match the demand on ground, further additional teams should carry out the above mentioned activities. They have to be deployed by the BBMP/district administration in consultation with the state nodal officers. Central War Room (CWR), BBMP, along with zonal and assembly constituency level war rooms and all district war rooms need to be re-activated and made fully functional to closely monitor and supervise the activities. The integrated testing app shall be rolled out on a pilot basis in the BBMP limits and if found feasible would be considered for a larger roll out. With a view to be well prepared to handle any anticipated spike in Covid cases and respond effectively, the BBMP and all district authorities are instructed to ensure the compliance of the above instructions, said Kumar, in his order. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/omicron-karnataka-asks-districts-to-step-up-surveillance-1063584.html
22-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Without BJP majority, Karnataka's anti-conversion bill may have to wait||The controversial anti-conversion bill may not become a law in the ongoing session of the Karnataka legislature as it is unlikely to get passed in the Legislative Council where the BJP does not have enough numbers.  The Belagavi session is scheduled to end Friday.  The BJP government may have succeeded in ramming the bill through in the Legislative Assembly where it is likely to come up for passage on Thursday.  In the 224-member Assembly, the BJP has a strength of 119, which will be enough to pass the Karnataka Protection of Right to Freedom of Religion Bill, 2021.  Even if the Bill is introduced in the Council on or before Friday, the government may not push for passage.  The JD(S), with which the BJP has an understanding in the Council, has also opposed the Bill. The regional party and the Congress have enough numbers to defeat the Bill in the Council, where the BJP is six short of a simple majority.  According to BJP sources, the Bill will be taken up for passage again during the joint session of the legislature in January. "Before the beginning of the joint session, our numbers in the upper house will be close to a majority. We’re confident of passing the Bill then," a senior BJP leader told DH. The BJP’s numbers in the Council will go up to 37 after January 5. It may depend on one Independent Lakhan Jarkiholi for support to pass the Bill.  The Bill was introduced in the Assembly on Tuesday amid protests by the Congress.  Even before the Bill was introduced, it attracted criticism from various quarters with allegations that the proposed law is being introduced to target Christians. Bangalore Archbishop Peter Machado flayed the Bill contending that even charitable activities conducted by various organisations could be construed as ‘allurement’, which the Bill proposes to punish.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/without-bjp-majority-karnatakas-anti-conversion-bill-may-have-to-wait-1063591.html
22-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Bommai will continue as Karnataka CM, says Pralhad Joshi||Union Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi on Wednesday dismissed speculation about a leadership change in Karnataka, saying Basavaraj Bommai will continue as the chief minister. "The CM will continue and will complete his term... there is no doubt about it. I have not heard anything at the party national level about discussions on changing the CM," Joshi told reporters here. Joshi also said he was not aware of Bommai's plan to visit the US. He was reacting to reports that the CM is suffering from knee-related problems and may undergo treatment abroad. On the border tensions and violence in Belagavi, Joshi said it was the handiwork of anti-social elements. The Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti (MES) is instigating the public to keep its relevance in the district, he said. Asked about the demands for banning the MES, Joshi said the organisation has already registered itself as a political party and legal experts have to be consulted on banning such parties. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bommai-will-continue-as-karnataka-cm-says-pralhad-joshi-1063617.html
22-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Delegation seeks appointment of Kannada-speaking officers in central government offices in Karnataka||A delegation comprising Kannada writers has demanded the Centre to appoint officers having Kannada knowledge in Central Government offices located in Karnataka. The delegation headed by Kannada Development Authority Chairman T S Nagabharana met Union Information and Broadcasting Minister Anurag Thakur here and submitted a memorandum to appoint Kannada-speaking employees in AIR, Doordarshan, Field Publicity and other offices in Karnataka. He also requested the Minister to give more importance to regional language programmes in AIR. The delegation also met Union Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi and requested him to take steps to implement Kannada in court proceedings in Karnataka especially in the High Court. The delegation also held a meeting with Karnataka MPs and requested them to pressurise the Central Government to implement their demands. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/delegation-seeks-appointment-of-kannada-speaking-officers-in-central-government-offices-in-karnataka-1063654.html
22-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Kannada outfits seek ban on MES, call for Karnataka bandh on Dec 31||Kannada organisations have called for a day-long Karnataka bandh on December 31, if their demand for a complete ban on the Maharashtra Ekikaran Samithi (MES) is not fulfilled by December 29. The call for a bandh on New Year’s eve, which accounts for business worth several crores of rupees, has left many organisations divided in their support to the state-wide shutdown. “This is the time that we as Kannadigas must show the country our strength. We seek everybody’s support in making it a success,” said Vatal Nagaraj, chairperson of the Kannada Chalavali Vatal Paksha. He said, “CM Bommai has time till December 29. He must take a strong decision to ban MES, which is indulging in anti-Karnataka activities. They have burnt the Kannada flag and damaged government vehicles. This is a question of our pride.” Vatal and his supporters refused to accept the CM’s statement that sedition cases will be filed against MES leaders and that he would write to the Centre, recommending a ban on the MES. He claimed that more than 35 organisations, including trade and labour unions, transport bodies have expressed their support, besides artistes from Sandalwood. However, Karnataka Rakshana Vedike (KRV), led by T A Narayana Gowda, has distanced itself from the bandh. “Observing bandh is not the only solution. People have already suffered due to the pandemic,” Gowda said. But they would support the demand for a total ban on the activities of MES in Karnataka, he said. The Bruhat Bangalore Hotels Association said they would only lend moral support to the bandh and keep hotels open. D Shashikumar, general secretary of the Associated Managements of Schools in Karnataka (KAMS), said they would wear black badges to support the cause. The KRV and the Karnataka Film Chamber of Commerce have called for a meeting of their members on Thursday to take a final decision on the support to the bandh. Supporting the bandh A majority Kannada organisations, garment workers union, transport organisations, autorickshaw unions, taxi owners and drivers association, roadside vendors, film artistes and technicians, Ola, Uber cabs association. Not sure of support Karnataka Rakshana Vedike, KAMS, Bruhat Bangalore Hotels Association, Peace Auto, KFCC. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kannada-outfits-seek-ban-on-mes-call-for-karnataka-bandh-on-dec-31-1063719.html
22-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Appoint Kannada-speaking personnel in AIR, DD: Writers||A delegation of Kannada writers has demanded that the Centre appoint officers having knowledge of Kannada in central government offices in the state. The team led by Kannada Development Authority chairman T S Nagabharana called on Union Information and Broadcasting Minister Anurag Thakur here on Wednesday and submitted a memorandum to appoint Kannada-speaking employees in AIR, Doordarshan, field publicity and other offices in Karnataka. He also requested the minister to give more importance to regional language programmes on AIR. The delegation also met Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi and requested him to take steps to implement Kannada in court proceedings in Karnataka, especially in the High Court. The delegation also held a meeting with Karnataka MPs and requested them to pressure the central government to implement their demands. The team also called on Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, urging her to shunt out all public sector bank employees in Karnataka who have failed to learn Kannada. Nagabharana said as per the new norms, public sector banks employees recruited 2015 onwards must learn the language of the state where they are posted within six months. A large number of such bank employees had not learnt Kannada,which has resulted in the common man struggling with banking transactions, the delegation said. The team urged the minister to ensure that all banking activities are conducted in regional languages also, instead of only Hindi or English. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/appoint-kannada-speaking-personnel-in-air-dd-writers-1063721.html
22-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reduces tax on ATF, giving relief to airlines||In a big relief to airlines, the state government on Wednesday reduced the tax on Aviation Turbine Fuel (ATF) from the existing 28% to 18%, with effect from January 1, 2022. A notification slashing the tax rate was issued by the Finance Department. The reduction could give a boost to airlines struggling under the pandemic-imposed restrictions. Last week, the Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) had reduced ATF prices, and this could further help airlines recover part of their losses. The reduced ATF price and taxes are also expected to help airlines operating out of the Kempegowda International Airport (KIA), currently the third busiest in the country. There has been widespread demand from airlines and other stakeholders in the aviation industry to reduce the tax. Seven states have already reduced the VAT to under 4%. Union Civil Aviation Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia had recently urged 22 state governments to reduce the VAT to a range of 1-4% and thus give an impetus to the struggling aviation industry. Currently, Karnataka levies three kinds of rates on ATF. While the tax is 1% for flights under the Regional Connectivity Scheme, airplanes weighing under 40,000 kg are levied 5% and all other aircraft are under the 28% tax category. The Kanara Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KCCI) had recently sought a reduction to as low as 1%. In a letter to Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, KCCI president Isaac Vas had drawn attention to such concessions extended to airlines by other state governments, particularly with the opening of new airports around the Mangaluru International Airport. Air passengers, most of whom have already booked their tickets for Christmas and New Year, will not benefit as the reduced tax is effective only after January 1, 2022. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reduces-tax-on-atf-giving-relief-to-airlines-1063723.html
22-12-2021||West||From 17 seats to mere 2, Congress faces desertion blues in Goa||When the 2017 Assembly elections were held in Goa, the Congress had put up a good show by emerging as the single largest party with 17 seats in the 40-member House, but it failed to form a government and could also not keep its flock together, with its strength now reduced to just two. However, the party is still trying to put up a strong face ahead of the Assembly polls due early next year, saying it is not deterred by the desertions. On Monday, Goa Pradesh Congress Committee's working president Aleixo Reginaldo Lourenco became the latest MLA to quit the party over the last five years. Notably, his name had figured in the first list of eight candidates announced by the Congress last week for the forthcoming state polls. Before Lourenco's resignation, BJP's Goa election in-charge Devendra Fadnavis had said, “The Congress has been reduced to a rickshaw party with three wheels, and soon it will turn into a bicycle party with only two of them remaining." Fadnavis had predicted that Pratapsingh Rane will also quit Congress. But, Rane is still with Congress. The biggest jolt the Congress came in 2019 when a group of its 10 MLAs, led by then leader of opposition Chandrakant Kavlekar, left the party together and joined the ruling BJP. This year, as the next Assembly election draws closer, more MLAs quit Congress one after the other. Following the 2017 Assembly polls, Vishwajit Rane, Goa's current health minister, was the first to resign from Congress as well as from the Assembly soon after taking oath as an MLA. After him, two other MLAs – Subhash Shirodkar and Dayanand Sopte – also resigned from the party. All the three were later re-elected in by-elections on the BJP's ticket. Recently, Luizinho Faleiro and Ravi Naik, both former chief ministers, also left the Congress. The party is now left with only Pratapsingh Rane and Digambar Kamat, both of whom are also former CMs. On Tuesday, the Aam Aadmi Party's national convener and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal took a dig at the Goa Congress, saying, "Fifteen are sold, only two are remaining, they are the last stock. Little stock is remaining.” However, Leader of Opposition Digambar Kamat has remained unfazed and expressed confidence that he will lead the Congress to a thumping victory in the 2022 state polls and that his party will form a government. “The Congress has successfully faced many storms, floods and tsunamis. Our functionaries have the strength and mettle to defeat opportunists,” Kamat recently said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/from-17-seats-to-mere-2-congress-faces-desertion-blues-in-goa-1063436.html
22-12-2021||West||Trinamool's entry enlivens Goa politics ahead of Assembly polls||The entry of Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress in Goa ahead of the ensuing Assembly elections jazzed up the colourful politics of the coastal state during the year. The Arvind Kejriwal-led Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) is also vying to dethrone the ruling BJP in the state and has embarked on a campaign to repeat its performance in Delhi Assembly elections. Elections to the 40-member Goa Assembly are due in two months. Recent visits by Banerjee, Kejriwal and Prime Minister Narendra Modi heated up things in the otherwise “susegad” (derived from Portuguese word sossegado, meaning quiet) atmosphere in the small state. The fag end of the year witnessed a series of resignations by MLAs switching political affiliations ahead of the Assembly elections. The strength of the Assembly was reduced to 34 as six MLAs quit recently. Congress MLAs Luizinho Faleiro and Aleixo Lourenco joined Trinamool, while Ravi Naik joined BJP. The ruling party lost MLA Alina Saldanha to AAP and another BJP MLA Carlose Almeida also quit on December 21. Independent MLA Rohan Khaunte joined BJP. After emerging as the single largest party in 2017 Assembly polls by winning 17 seats, the decline of the Congress, which now has just two MLAs, has baffled political observers. Besides BJP, Congress, TMC and AAP, Goa Forward Party, Nationalist Congress Party, and Goa Su-Raj Party are also in the fray for the February polls. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, Union Home Minister Amit Shah and BJP president J P Nadda also visited the poll-bound state. As many as 188 people died at the Goa Medical College and Hospital between May 9 and 14 amid interruptions in oxygen supply. The state has since ramped up oxygen capacity in various hospitals. On a positive note, Goa became the first state to cover all eligible populations with the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine. A semblance of normalcy on the coronavirus front saw the resumption of tourist season. Chartered flights began arriving to the beach destination ahead of the New Year celebrations. The state education department also gave its nod to resume schools in a phased manner. Classes for eighth to 11th standard have resumed in the state. While the BJP-led government earned credit for bringing the coastal state’s economy back on track, it also faced criticism for alleged scams. The government put on hold recruitment in the Public Works Department after ruling and opposition MLAs alleged massive corruption. BJP minister Milind Naik resigned from the state cabinet after Congress claimed he sexually exploited a woman. There were protests after the state government approved three infrastructure projects cutting through the Western Ghats amid concerns over loss of biodiversity. The opposition accused Chief Minister Pramod Sawant of backing these projects at the cost of the environment. The projects, which will cut through Mollem National Park and the adjoining Bhagwan Mahaveer Wildlife Sanctuary, include the expansion of a national highway from the capital Panaji to Belgaum in neighbouring Karnataka, the doubling of a railway track that will run through Goa’s Mollem forest and Karnataka’s Kali tiger reserve, and building a power transmission line through the forest. Modi was in Goa on the state’s 60th Liberation Day, celebrated to mark the success of 'Operation Vijay' of the Indian military which freed Goa from Portuguese rule on December 19, 1961. While the day is always celebrated with much enthusiasm, this year’s celebrations had an added dimension with Assembly elections a couple of months away. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/trinamools-entry-enlivens-goa-politics-ahead-of-assembly-polls-1063455.html
22-12-2021||West||Kangana fails to appear before Mumbai Police in case related to social media post on farmers' stir||Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut failed to appear before the Mumbai Police on Wednesday in connection with an FIR registered against her for a post that allegedly linked farmers' protests to a separatist group, an official said. An FIR was registered against Ranaut at Khar police station last month following a complaint by a Sikh organisation. The police earlier this month issued a notice to her for questioning. Her counsel had told the Bombay High Court that she would appear before the Khar police on December 22. On Wednesday, her lawyer sought another date for appearance. "Going by the spirit, aim and intent of the high court order, we requested the investigation officer for an earlier date and wanted to expedite process before the next court hearing. However, the investigation officer was not willing to accommodate us. He neither responded to my messages or calls nor did he revert on the letter which was served on him immediately after the order, Ranaut's lawyer Rizwan Sidiquee said. "Now my client will appear before him on another earliest date as may be available. If the officer does not accommodate us, then we will leave it to the high court to decide on the matter on merits,” he said. The city police had earlier told the Bombay High Court that they will not arrest Ranaut till January 25, 2022 over her social media post that allegedly linked farmers' protests to a separatist group. The police had made the statement after the HC said the issue involved the larger question of Ranaut's fundamental right to free speech and that the court will have to grant her some ad-interim relief. Ranaut approached the HC earlier this month, seeking that the FIR registered against her at Khar police station be quashed. The FIR was registered against the actor following a complaint made by some members of a Sikh body that claimed Ranaut, through her Instagram post, had portrayed the farmers' protest on Delhi borders as a Khalistani movement. The police then booked Ranaut on charges of deliberately hurting the community's religious sentiments, under Section 295-A of the Indian Penal Code. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/kangana-fails-to-appear-before-mumbai-police-in-case-related-to-social-media-post-on-farmers-stir-1063509.html
22-12-2021||West||Uddhav skips Day 1 of session, BJP wants charge of top post handed to someone else||As Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, who is recuperating after a surgery, skipped the first day of the Winter Session of the Maharashtra legislature, the Opposition BJP on Wednesday demanded that the charge of the top post be handed over to someone else. Thackeray (61), the Shiv Sena President, underwent a surgery for orthopaedic problems vis-a-vis cervical spine at the Sir HN Reliance Foundation Hospital, where he was admitted from 10 to 12 November, 2021. On Wednesday, the week-long Winter Session commenced in Mumbai instead of the customary setting in Nagpur because of the Covid-19 pandemic. The BJP has been targeting the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) dispensation and Thackeray for his long absence from the field even though he has been discharging official duties from his official bungalow or private residence and is presiding over meetings online. On Tuesday, during the customary tea meeting ahead of the legislature sitting, Thackeray joined his MVA colleagues online as the opposition parties boycotted it. He also held the Cabinet meeting online. On Wednesday, when the session commenced, Thackeray was not present. In his absence, Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar held the meeting of the MVA in the Vidhan Bhavan complex. State BJP President Chandrakant Patil and other leaders raised the issue of the Chief Minister and said that his absence during the legislature proceedings is inappropriate. They urged that he should be replaced by either his wife Rashmi or son and Tourism Minister Aditya Thackeray in the post. “The people of the state have not seen the Chief Minister for a long… It's understandable that he is unwell. As per tradition, the charge should have been handed over to someone else. It is possible that he has no faith in the two allies (NCP-Congress), and if he has no faith even in his own partymen (Sena), he can at least give charge to (his son) Aditya Thackeray,” Patil said. The MVA, however, hit back saying that Aditya Thackeray and Jayant Patil assured that Thackeray’s health is fine and he is likely to attend the House. Meanwhile, Shiv Sena Rajya Sabha MP and party’s chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut took a swipe at Patil by saying that “he should concentrate on the Opposition” instead of advising the MVA government. "Thackeray's health is good and can come to the legislature any time. There is no need to hand over the charge to anyone else. He is functioning from home,” added state NCP President and Water Resources and Command Area Development Minister Jayant Patil. It may be mentioned that during the visit of Union Home and Cooperation Minister Amit Shah in Maharashtra, the state BJP chief had pointed out that Thackeray's absence was an issue. "The state does not have a full-time Director General of Police and Chief Secretary...both are acting chiefs of police and bureaucracy, respectively." Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/uddhav-skips-day-1-of-session-bjp-wants-charge-of-top-post-handed-to-someone-else-1063515.html
22-12-2021||West||Opposition BJP extracts apology from Shiv Sena MLA for mocking Modi||Uproarious scenes were seen in the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly after Shiv Sena legislator Bhaskar Jadhav imitated Prime Minister Narendra Modi, agitating the BJP members.  After an hour-long war-of-words, the BJP members, led by Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis, extracted an apology from Jadhav.  During a debate, Jadhav, a six-time legislator and senior politician from the coastal Konkan belt, had made certain references to Modi’s pre-poll promises ahead of the 2014 Lok Sabha elections. As Fadnavis carried out a charge, the Maha Vikas Aghadi seemed to be on the back foot.   The House saw a couple of adjournments before the issue was resolved and further business could be carried out.  The issue started when BJP member Sudhir Mungantiwar, a former Finance and Planning Minister, wanted to know as to why Energy Minister Nitin Raut backtracked on his promise of waiving off power tariff up to 100 units. Raut, however, said he did announce it but the power department did provide uninterrupted electricity during the lockdown and the tariff for the same has to be paid. However, Jadhav mocked Modi on the issue of the promises which the PM made in 2014 before coming to power at the Centre.  The BJP members were immediately on their feet protesting against Jadhav and urged Deputy Speaker Narhari Zhirwal that the Shiv Sena MLA must tender an apology.  Parliamentary Affairs Minister Anil Parab said that objectionable words could be withdrawn.  Later, Jadhav said that he is withdrawing the words and whatever he imitated or gestured.  “Words can be withdrawn and expunged, but how can a gesture or body language be withdrawn,” Fadnavis said, adding that he would bring in a breach of privilege. "Modi ji is the Prime Minister of India, he is my Prime Minister, he is your Prime Minister...the Prime Minister has to be respected," he said, pointing out that senior leaders and chairs must be given respect.  Jadhav tried to reason that the statement of Modi that he was referring to was made before he became the Prime Minister. "Where is the question of insulting the Prime Minister," he said, saying that it was Fadnavis who remarked during the verbal exchange that the statement was made before Modi was the Prime Minister.  Zhirwal said he would examine if the Shiv Sena member made any unparliamentary comments and take a decision accordingly.  Water resources minister Jayant Patil of NCP and Parab said political party leaders should be respected in the legislature. Fadnavis, however, was firm on an apology from Jadhav or action against him.  The House had to be adjourned twice. When the House reassembled, Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar said: “Leaders of political parties have to be respected…our opinion is the same as yours (opposition)…Maharashtra has a tradition and this needs to be maintained.”  Thereafter, Jadhav tendered an apology.  "My way of talking is such that I inadvertently make hand gestures. If my body language hurt the members of the house I tender an apology, " he said. However, he pointed out that during his speech he has not uttered a single unparliamentary word.   Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/opposition-bjp-extracts-apology-from-shiv-sena-mla-for-mocking-modi-1063543.html
22-12-2021||West||100 polling stations in Goa to only have women staff: CEC||Out of the 1,722 polling stations in Goa for the 2022 state assembly polls, 100 will have only women as staff, Chief Election Commissioner Sushil Chandra said here on Wednesday, adding that the decision to have women on some polling booths was taken in order to boost their participation in the electoral process. Chandra also said that the objective of the Commission is to ensure maximum participation of new voters. "Around 100 polling stations will be managed only by women to boost their participation so that they can feel empowered and come with confidence to vote. This is the first time such a large number of polling stations will be managed by women," Chandra told a press conference in Panaji. "Our endeavour is to ensure participation of maximum voters including new voters, women voters and disabled voters and senior citizens," he also said. An Election Commission of India team led by Chandra is in Goa to review preparedness for the upcoming assembly polls. "Along with that four to five (polling stations) will be managed by PwDs (persons with disabilities), 491 divyang mitras will be appointed among government officials to guide the divyang voters and they will make awareness to those persons," Chandra also said. The CEC also said that around 9,000 PwD voters, 30,000 voters who are 80 years plus and 298 service voters have been mapped in the coastal state. "The total number of voters is going to be 11.5 lakh as on date, the final number will be published when the exercise is completed and the roll is published on January 5," Chandra also said. Chandra said that the maximum number of electors per polling station had been reduced from 1,500 to 1,000. "As a result we will have to set up more polling stations and already 60 new polling stations have been created and now there are 1,722 polling stations in the whole of Goa," Chandra said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/100-polling-stations-in-goa-to-only-have-women-staff-cec-1063549.html
22-12-2021||West||Ex-BJP MLA Carlose Almeida joins Congress in Goa||Former BJP MLA in Goa Carlose Almeida on Wednesday joined the Congress in Panaji, a day after resigning from the ruling party and the legislative Assembly, a switch over coming just a few months before polls. Almeida joined the opposition party in presence of All India Congress Committee in-charge of Goa Dinesh Gundu Rao, Goa Pradesh Congress Committee President Girish Chodankar and Leader of Opposition Digambar Kamat, among others. Chodankar said Almeida's entry will strengthen the Congress, which has been seeing desertions by its own MLAs, in Mormugao taluka. Almeida, who was elected to the Assembly from Vasco, became the second sitting BJP legislator to quit after Alina Saldanha. “Goan people will never bring the BJP back to power in Goa. Under the BJP government, the state's law and order situation has worsened,” the GPCC president claimed. Chodankar said "wrong" policies of the BJP government were responsible for rising inflation and various scandals. Kamat said Almeida has taken the right decision by joining the Congress although the former MLA had been approached by several other parties. Polls to the 40-member Goa Assembly are due in early 2022. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ex-bjp-mla-carlose-almeida-joins-congress-in-goa-1063561.html
22-12-2021||West||Disciplinary proceedings against Param Bir Singh||In a fresh development, disciplinary proceedings have been initiated against suspended IPS officer Param Bir Singh, according to the Maharashtra government.  Singh, an officer of the 1988-batch of the IPS, had served several key posts - Thane Police Commissioner, Additional Director General of Police (Law & Order), Mumbai Police Commissioner and Commandant General of Home Guards.  A few days ago, the Maharashtra government had placed him under suspension in the wake of multiple FIRs against him vis-a-vis cases of corruption and misuse of office.  “Disciplinary action initiated under against Param Bir Singh,” state Home Minister Dilip Walse-Patil said in a written reply to a question by Samajwadi Party legislator Abu Asim Azmi, which was tabled during the Question Hour in the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly. The disciplinary action was initiated under Section 8 of the All India Services (Discipline & Appeal) Rules, 1969. It may be recalled that Singh after being shunted out of Mumbai Police had in a letter to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray with a copy to Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari had alleged that the then Home Minister and senior NCP leader Anil Deshmukh had fixed a collection target of Rs 100 crore per month for now dismissed Assistant Police Inspector Sachin Vaze. Incidentally, Vaze was arrested in connection with the planting of gelatine-sticks laden Mahindra Scorpio with a threat note near the residence of Reliance Industries Ltd Chairman Mukesh Ambani and the subsequent murder of the SUV owner Mansukh Hiran.  Vaze, who was attached to the Crime Intelligence Unit, is a veteran in Crime Branch-CID and an encounter specialist and has worked under the direct command of Singh. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/disciplinary-proceedings-against-param-bir-singh-1063579.html
22-12-2021||West||Maharashtra crosses 1,000 daily Covid-19 cases||In what compounded concerns ahead of Christmas and New Year, the Covid-19 per day cases crossed the 1,000-mark in Maharashtra on Wednesday after around two months. However, no new cases of Omircon were reported. On Wednesday, 1,201 fresh cases and 8 deaths were reported taking the progressive total to 66,52,166 and 1,41,375, respectively. While Mumbai logged 480 total Covid-19 cases, Mumbai metropolitan region recorded 687. "We have to be more careful, we have to maintain all protocols and Covid-appropriate behaviour," said Dr Suhas Pingle, President, IMA-Maharsahtra State. In a related development, the state is also discussing about the whether to continue running the schools offline or impose strict measures.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-crosses-1000-daily-covid-19-cases-1063625.html
22-12-2021||West||HC extends stay on summons to Alia Bhatt, two others over film row||The Bombay High Court on Wednesday extended the stay granted on proceedings in a criminal defamation suit filed against Bollywood actor Alia Bhatt, and authors S Hussain Zaidi and Jane Borges, in connection with the upcoming Hindi film 'Gangubai Kathiawadi'. A single bench of Justice SK Shinde extended the interim stay that the HC had granted in August this year. Bhatt and the others had moved the HC against the summons issued against them earlier this year by a magistrate court after one Babuji Shah, who claims to be the adopted son of Gangubai Kathiawadi, alleged some portions of the film were defamatory and tarnished the image of his late mother, a powerful madam from Kamathipura, Mumbai's red light area, during the 1960s. On Wednesday, Justice Shinde said Shah had failed to prove so far that he was Kathiawadi's legally adopted son. The HC said the issue deserved attention since, in a defamation suit, only one's close relatives or family members have the right to raise a grievance. "The issue deserves attention since the right to raise grievances against defamation is limited to family members or close relatives, hence it was important for Mr Shah to prove he was one of them," the HC said. The bench said prima facie (on the face of it), a case was made out for the grant of interim relief to Bhatt and the others, and stayed the proceedings and summons against them till further hearing of their plea in the HC. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/hc-extends-stay-on-summons-to-alia-bhatt-two-others-over-film-row-1063692.html
22-12-2021||West||List reasons for fielding tainted candidates: CEC to parties||In a strict directive, Chief Election Commissioner Sushil Chandra on Wednesday said that political parties would have to put their justification for selecting candidates with a criminal background in the public domain before polls. Chandra, who was addressing a press conference in Panaji on Wednesday also said that poll authorities would crack down severely on hate speech during the campaign for the upcoming 2022 state assembly polls in Goa. "Parties having to declare to the public why they are choosing candidates with criminal antecedents They will have to state on their website, to the public. We have chosen so and so... these are his criminal antecedents and we are selecting him for these, these reasons and we couldn't find anyone in that area who is more so and so and so," Chandra said. Chandra is heading a team of the Election Commission of India to Goa to oversee and take stock of poll preparations in the coastal state. "This was happening earlier also but it was not enforced very strictly. In the past political parties gave reasons like they (the candidate) has done a lot of social work in that area and that is why we have put them," Chandra also said, adding that the Commission would ensure strict compliance of the norm in wake of a recent Supreme Court directive. "The Supreme Court asked to give the reasons and the elector can also understand the reasons why the party gave the candidate. Ultimately the party chooses the candidate but the final result is in your hand, the voter. We will be strict and when the elections are announced, we will launch an app," he said. The Chief Election Commissioner also said that its officials would crack down on hate speeches during the election campaign. "We don't want any hate speeches which vitiate the atmosphere and even social media be monitored and appropriate action will be taken," Chandra said. "All polling stations will be web cast. This is the first time we have started webcasting so that the booth can be real-time monitored by the commission so that impartiality of the official can also be supervised," he also said."All polling stations will be webcast. This is the first time we have started webcasting so that the booth can be real-time monitored by the commission so that impartiality of the official can also be supervised," he added. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/list-reasons-for-fielding-tainted-candidates-cec-to-parties-1063713.html
22-12-2021||West||'Pro-Pakistan' slogan was not raised at poll victory march in Kutch; facts twisted, say cops||Police investigation into a video in Gujarat has disclosed that no slogans in favour of Pakistan were prima facie raised during the rally of a candidate who won the village panchayat election in Kutch district contrary to the claims made on social media and other platforms, officials said on Wednesday. A police officer said that a probe will be conducted and action taken against the people who spread the misinformation claiming that some people had shouted 'Pakistan Zindabad' during the victory rally of Reenaben Radhubhai Kothiwad, soon after the result of the panchayat election was declared in Dudhai village on Tuesday. Earlier in the day, Gujarat Home Minister Harsh Sanghavi had cited this video and said Kutch (East) SP and Border Range IG were directed to take immediate action. The video had gone viral on social media with accompanying messages claiming that a group of people shouted pro-Pakistan slogans during the victory procession of a woman candidate. "Reenaben Radhubhai Kothiwad won the election as the woman sarpanch of Dudhai village, results of which were declared on Tuesday. In her victory rally, her supporters shouted 'Radhubhai zindabad' twice. However, some people misrepresented the video to claim that people shouted 'Pakistan zindabad," Superintendent of Police (Kutch East), Mayur Patil told reporters. He said if the video clip is listened to quietly, one can hear that, after eight seconds, people are shouting 'Radhubhai zindabad' twice. According to Patil, a probe will be conducted and action will be taken against people who twisted the words to spread misinformation. "We will issue a warning to the journalist who shared this video on Twitter without proper verification. We will also write to the organisation he is working for," the SP said. Sanghavi had said that a proper investigation was being conducted in the incident of slogan-shouting (at the rally) after the poll result in Kutch. "We are taking action with all seriousness. I assure you that all those who are involved in shouting the slogan will be arrested," the minister had told reporters. He also cited another viral video of a locality in Surat, saying a family living there was being harassed by some persons "despite the imposition of the Disturbed Areas Act". Sanghavi said that Surat Police are investigating. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pro-pakistan-slogan-was-not-raised-at-poll-victory-march-in-kutch-facts-twisted-say-cops-1063715.html
22-12-2021||West||Gujarat reports nine more cases of Omicron variant; state tally rises to 23||Nine persons, including six women, were found infected with the Omicron variant of coronavirus in Gujarat on Wednesday, officials of the state health Department said. With this, the state's overall count of Omicron cases has reached 23. Of these patients, four have already been discharged from hospitals following their recovery, while 19 are undergoing treatment. Till now, seven Omicron cases have emerged in Ahmedabad city, three cases each in Jamnagar city, Anand, Mehsana, and Vadodara city, two in Surat city, and one each in Gandhinagar city and Rajkot district, said a release by the health department. Of the nine persons found infected with the new variant on Wednesday, seven had arrived in the state from different countries recently, while two women from a village in Mehsana town contracted the Omicron variant infection after coming in contact with an already infected patient, it said. As many as five persons were found infected with the new strain in Ahmedabad upon their arrival. They include two male travellers from Congo, a female from Dubai, a male from Tanzania and one female traveller from the UAE. Two male travelers from Anand district, who have recently arrived in Gujarat from Tanzania, were found infected with the new strain, the release said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-reports-nine-more-cases-of-omicron-variant-state-tally-rises-to-23-1063720.html
