23-12-2021||First Edit||Religion, politics, sacrilege, and murder||Two recent lynchings following alleged cases of sacrilege in Punjab have raised disquieting questions at a time when the state is entering a hectic Assembly election campaign. The first incident was reported at the Golden Temple in Amritsar, where a person accused of sacrilege was lynched to death on the spot. The second case was from Kapurthala, where one person was accused of sacrilege. He was also lynched, but there is still no evidence that he had shown disrespect to the holy book or other symbols of faith, and he may have been attacked on the basis of unfounded suspicion. Some months ago, another person was beaten to death after he was falsely accused of committing a theft at a gurdwara in Gurdaspur. There have been other incidents also of instant justice being meted out to people accused of sacrilege.  Any act of sacrilege, intended to hurt the religious feelings of communities, should be condemned and strict action should be taken against those who indulge in such crimes. But the brutal killing of the persons accused of the crime was in blatant disregard of the law. Nobody has the right to administer instant physical punishment to the accused in a case of any kind. The suspected offenders should have been handed over to the police for investigation and suitable action. Many times, it has been seen that those who are accused of sacrilege are mentally disturbed persons. Even if it is a deliberate act or the result of a conspiracy, the evidence should not be destroyed by killing the person. The authorities in the Golden Temple failed to act with good sense and responsibility when the alleged sacrilege happened there. In the case of the Kapurthala incident, it is not clear whether an offence was committed at all.  The failure of the political community in Punjab to condemn the lawless killings is disturbing. Political and religious leaders have strongly denounced the alleged acts of sacrilege but have not said anything about the lynchings. Instead, the state Congress president Navjot Sidhu even called for public execution of the accused. Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and Opposition leaders have decided that there was a conspiracy, even before any investigation has taken place. Sacrilege is a sensitive issue in Punjab and has created communal, political and social disturbances in the state. Some cases relating to acts of sacrilege that happened before the 2015 Assembly elections have not yet been solved. The occurrence of similar incidents, once again on the eve of elections, is itself a matter of concern. Politicians play with danger when they try to exploit religious sentiments and endorse lawlessness. Punjab has paid a heavy price for that in the past.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/religion-politics-sacrilege-and-murder-1063670.html
23-12-2021||First Edit||Restore Lokayukta, bring ACB under it||The once-powerful Karnataka Lokayukta, which had sent shivers down the spine of politicians and bureaucrats, was reduced to a toothless tiger by the Congress-led Siddaramaiah government in 2016, by withdrawing the powers of prosecution from the Lokayukta and vesting it with the newly formed Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB). We now see that this defanging has had the ‘desired’ results, with the already low conviction rate in corruption cases plummeting further. According to a statement by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai in the legislature, of the 1,814 cases booked since the ACB’s inception, it has been able to secure conviction of the accused in only 10 cases. Another 25 accused were tried and acquitted. Chargesheets were filed in 753 cases and 682 cases are under trial. But the failure to secure conviction begins long before chargesheets are filed and the accused are tried — when the government unduly delays, and sometimes never accords, sanctions for prosecution of corrupt officials. Such sanction is pending in at least 520 cases at last count, including in cases where the accused were caught red-handed. The ACB cannot be expected to act fearlessly either as it reports to the political executive, unlike the Lokayukta, which is an independent body. No wonder the strike rate of the Lok Ayukta was much better at 18%.  Another problem faced by the ACB is that many of its officers are not fully conversant with the legal process, disabling them from creating watertight cases. Of course, in some instances, the failure to do so could be deliberate, too. In the run-up to the 2018 Assembly elections, the BJP had in its manifesto promised that it would scrap the ACB and once again empower the Lokayukta. Once in power, though, its mind changed, perhaps with the memory of the Lokayukta inquiry that had sent a BJP Chief Minister and several ministers to jail on corruption charges a few years ago. Until 2016, the Lokayukta, which was set up in 1984 when Ramakrishna Hegde was Chief Minister, had its own police wing, ensuring a level of impartial probe and trial even against top politicians and high-ranking officers. This also partly insulated police officers from undue political and bureaucratic pressure. If the Bommai government is serious about fighting corruption, it should put the ACB under the control of the Lokayukta, post officers of high integrity to it and ensure that they are provided with adequate legal training to ensure a better conviction rate. It is high time the Lokayukta was restored to its original function and enhanced effectiveness.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/restore-lokayukta-bring-acb-under-it-1063997.html
23-12-2021||In Perspective||Converging GST rates: Now’s not the time||Multiplicity of tax rates — 0%, 0.25% for semi-precious stones/diamonds, 3% for gold/silver, and 5%, 12%, 18% and 28% for a range of other goods and services — has dogged GST since its inception. Political reality dictated the need for so many rates. Revenue neutrality was lost very early on. As the 15th Finance Commission pointed out, the effective weighted average GST rate at the time of inception was 14-14.4%, as against a much higher pre-GST weighted average rate. An RBI study says this has come down to 11.6%; the IMF estimates the current effective tax rate at 11.8%. Despite this, GST seems to have settled down. Revenue is doing well. The gross revenue crossed Rs 1.3 lakh crore for the second month running in November. There is close coordination between CBDT, GSTN and CBIC, reflected in the increase in tax revenue. It was felt that this was the ideal time to rationalise rates. In September, the GST Council constituted a Group of Ministers (GoM) headed by the Karnataka Chief Minister to do so. Its task included reviewing tax rates, exemptions, inverted duty structure. It was to submit its report within two months — in effect, by end of November, but it has not done so yet. In the meantime, reports suggested that the GST Fitment Committee of officers had recommended rates to the GoM – to raise the slab of 5% to 7% and 18% to 20% and the rate on precious metals from 3% to 5%. Prof S Mukherjee of the National Institute of Public Finance & Policy has in a mid-November working paper (No 358) suggested a merger of the 12% and 18 % slabs into 15%, increasing the 5% slab to 8% and 28% to 30%. While all this was being discussed, a prominent business channel broke the news that the government had requested the GoM to defer its report. The reasons speculated were many — GST revenue stabilising, the possible impact of a hike in rates on inflation, and the “volatile political situation”, a euphemism for the fact that important state elections are round the corner. There is no denying that GST revenue is doing well. Any rationalisation at this juncture would most certainly have an impact, and not necessarily a positive one at that. Despite revenues having done well, the fact remains that expenditure also has ballooned to offset the pandemic-driven stress. Fiscal deficit during April-October touched Rs 5.5 lakh crore. Overall debt outstanding to GDP ratio for both the Centre and the states has gone up sharply. The progress on disinvestment has been muted. The target of Rs 1.75 lakh crore is some distance away despite the sale of Air India. The NSO data shows that retail inflation (consumer price index) has increased to a three-month high of 4.91%. Worrying still is the fact that food inflation has increased to 1.87% from 0.85% in October. Private consumption, as well as investments, continue to be subdued. Any rationalisation of slabs would necessarily involve goods from the 12% slab moving up. And going by the recommendations of the Fitment Committee and NIPFP, it could also mean the 5% slab being moving up to 7-8%. There is no doubt that these will have (political and) inflationary consequences. And there is still no certainty as to how Omicron will pan out and the impact it will have on the economy. There are too many unknowns. It is also understood that the Textile Ministry has requested that the rate rationalisation done to correct the inverted duty structure and effective from January 1, be put on hold. If this is indeed correct, it is strange, to say the least. The correction of the inverted duty structure was done at the behest of the industry. So, if even mere rate rationalisation is going to be such a challenge, any convergence of rates will take a lot of effort. The GST Council should continue to focus on easing compliance, tightening enforcement and making technology robust. GSTN data suggests that out of some 1.35 crore registrants, only about 35 lakh pay taxes in cash. This needs a closer examination. As does the regular debate on the inclusion of petroleum products, land and electricity within the GST fold. While the convergence of rates is desirable, the decision to defer it for the present is wise. Convergence should be done after a more informed public debate. It should be ensured that sufficient lead time is given for both industry and GSTN to prepare themselves. Ideally, there should be certainty in any change of tax slab. Any change going forward should be implemented from the beginning of the fiscal year. Mid-year corrections should be avoided, except in cases of emergency, like the Covid-related exemptions. (The writer is a former chairman of the Central Board of Indirect Taxes & Customs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/converging-gst-rates-now-s-not-the-time-1064047.html
23-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru detects first case of Omicron||Mysuru has detected the first case of Omicron in a nine-year-old child on Thursday. The infected person has an international travel history.  However, the health condition of the child, who is now isolated, is stable. The health department officials are tracing the child's primary and secondary contacts. Check out DH's latest videos on Covid:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-detects-first-case-of-omicron-1063864.html
23-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Six held after torturing fisherman for alleged mobile theft||Six fishermen from Andhra Pradesh who had hung another fisherman upside down from the hook of a pulley and tortured him into revealing the whereabouts of two missing cellphones were arrested by police on Thursday. The accused fishermen include Kondur Polaiah (23), Avul Raj Kumar (26), Karapingara Ravi (27), Pralaya Kaveri  Govindaiah from Nalluru, Katingari Manohar (21), Votu Kori Jalaiah (30) from Prakasham district. Based on the complaint from victim Vaila Sheenu (32), South police station registered an 'attempt to murder' case. Police initially had feared that the victim Vaila was murdered as he had gone missing after the incident which reportedly took place on December 16. Police succeeded in tracing Vaila who fearing for his life had fled to Karwar. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/six-held-after-torturing-fisherman-for-alleged-mobile-theft-1063874.html
23-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Excise head constable dies in honey bee attack in Karwar||A head constable of Excise department died on Thursday at Karwar district hospital a day after he was stung by a swarm of bees. Hasan Khan Kareemkhan (45) was serving at excise inspector's office in Yellapur. A swarm of bees attacked him at Ajjikatta near Ankola on Wednesday afternoon. He was rushed to the district hospital, where he breathed last on Thursday Honey bee attacks are on the rise in the taluk. Recently, three persons injured seriously in the honey bee attack in Ankola bus stand. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/excise-head-constable-dies-in-honey-bee-attack-in-karwar-1064076.html
23-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Anthony Swamy’s statue vandalised in Chikkaballapur district||The statue of Anthony Swamy was vandalised by unidentified persons near Susepalya in the taluk in the early hours of Thursday. The grotto of Anthony Swamy was installed near Rangadhama lake four decades ago. The glass casing of Anthony Swamy’s grotto was shattered and the grotto and the statue was desecrated. Christian faithful used to offer prayers to the saint on Tuesdays. The police have taken the desecrated statue into their custody. Meanwhile, Susepalya church has installed a new statue. “Anthony Swamy’s statue was placed in a grotto 42 years back. We have not converted anyone nor have done anything to hurt the sentiments of other communities. Susepalya church has got 150 years of history,” Ft Anthony Daniel, priest of Susepalya Church, told DH. Stanley Pinto of Karnataka Christian Association has warned of a protest in the district headquarters in January if the police fail to bring the culprits to justice. Superintendent of Police G K Mithun Kumar visited the spot and took stock of the situation. The SP has formed three teams under DySP to nab the culprits.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/anthony-swamy-s-statue-vandalised-in-chikkaballapur-district-1064078.html
23-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||No entry to Nandi Hill for New Year||The entry of visitors to the Nandi Hill has been banned from 6 pm on December 30 to 6 pm on January 2, in view of the crowding for the New Year celebrations. Deputy Commissioner R Latha said the measure has been taken in the backdrop of Omicron scare and maintaining law and order as thousands of visitors and tourists from Bengaluru and other parts of the state are likely to descend on the famed hill station.  Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/no-entry-to-nandi-hill-for-new-year-1064081.html
23-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||At height of pandemic, healthcare workers reused PPEs in Kalyana Karnataka||Frontline healthcare workers (HWCs) washed PPE kits and reused them in the next shift due to a shortage in a few government hospitals in Kalyana Karnataka region during the Covid-19 pandemic. This shocking fact came to light during a study conducted by the department of psychology in Central University of Karnataka (CUK) on “exploring the challenges, psychological problems and mental health needs among frontline health workers of government hospitals in Kalyana Karnataka”. Romate John, head of of the psychology department of CUK, said the study was undertaken from October-December 2020. A total of 221 HCWs, including doctors, nurses, group ‘D’ workers, security personnel and lab technicians who worked with Covid-19 patients in the region participated in the study. A majority of HCWs were male (58.4%), married (56.6%) and nurses (45.2%). Some of them were graduates (34.8%), he explained, adding that Azim Premji university funded the study. The healthcare system faced a severe shortage of resources after the Covid outbreak. This scarcity impacted the patients and HCWs. Shortage of protective gear compelled the HCWs to use the same PPE for long hours, substitute it with a cloth mask and reuse it. This increased the risk of infection and skin allergies among them. In some cases, they had to rewash the PPE kits and reuse them in the next shift. The shortage of staff, as several of them tested positive for the virus, and the high number of patients increased the burden on the existing HCWs, the study showed. A majority of the hospitals were found to have lacked facilities like beds, oxygen supply, basic facilities and intensive care. The unavailability of hospital infrastructure proved to be risky for the life of patients. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/at-height-of-pandemic-healthcare-workers-reused-ppes-in-kalyana-karnataka-1064084.html
23-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Flower show at Mysuru Palace from Dec 25 to Jan 2||The Mysuru Palace is gearing up for the 8-day flower show from December 25. The much-awaited event being organised after two years will conclude on January 2, 2022. Series of events that drew huge crowds normally during December were cancelled due to Covid-19 in the last two years. Though the number of fresh cases has come down, the show faces the Omicron variant scare. Only those who have been vaccinated will be eligible for entry. Visitors should produce vaccination certificates at the entrance. Number of visitors inside at a time is likely to be restricted to 500. Wearing a mask and ensuring physical distance are mandatory, said the Palace Board authorities. Different replicas A replica of Ram Mandir in Ayodhya, a vertical garden, flower replicas of elephants in Khedda operation, Goddess Chamundeshwari, Mahishasura and Nandi will be created. A replica of Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat, who was killed in a helicopter crash near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu recently, will be an added attraction. Cartoon characters like Tom and Jerry, Donald Duck and others will be on display. There are exclusive selfie points too. Cooperation and Minister in-Charge of the district S T Somashekar will inaugurate the show on December 25 at 4.30 pm. Deputy Commissioner Dr Bagadi Gautham and all elected representatives will participate. The show is open between 10 am to 8.30 pm, while the entry is free. The Palace will be illuminated between 7 pm and 8.30 pm on all the days. The visitors should enter the Palace from Balarama Gate (Palace north gate) and Varaha gate. Events for visitors Playback singer Vijay Prakash and troupe will perform as part of musical tribute to late actor Puneeth Rajkumar on December 25 at 7.30 pm. Artistes will perform on December 26 and 27. The police band will perform on December 31 from 11 pm to 12 midnight to welcome the New Year. Colourful fireworks by Mysuru Palace Board will welcome the New Year from 12 midnight to 12.15 am. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/flower-show-at-mysuru-palace-from-dec-25-to-jan-2-1064097.html
23-12-2021||Karnataka Politics||Anti-party activities: BJP sends report to central panel||BJP’s Disciplinary Committee state unit president Lingaraj Patil on Wednesday said that a report, recommending disciplinary action against MLAs and ministers who were involved in the anti-party activities during the recently held Legislative Council election, has been sent to the party’s central committee. Speaking to reporters, Patil said that there were complaints against some party leaders, including MLAs and ministers, that they had worked against the party’s official candidates in the MLC election held in Belagavi, Karwar, Hassan and Mandya constituencies. After holding a preliminary inquiry, a report had been submitted to the party. The central committee would take a final decision in this regard. He said the local units had been instructed to take action over anti-party activities. Patil, however, refused to disclose their names.  Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/anti-party-activities-bjp-sends-report-to-central-panel-1063742.html
23-12-2021||Karnataka Politics||D K Shivakumar vows to repeal Karnataka anti-conversion law if voted to power||Karnataka State Congress president D K Shivakumar on Thursday said that the proposed anti-conversion law will be repealed in 2023 after the party comes to power in the state. "I am telling you on record, including anti-conversion bill, the law prohibiting cow slaughter will also be repealed," he said. Shivakumar further stated that the BJP is under an illusion that they are in majority. They have forgotten that while taking oath, they had pledged that they will not work for a single community, but will work for the whole society, he said. Hindu farmers are in trouble after the ban on cow slaughter in the state, he opined. "People think, Muslims are affected by the banning of cow slaughter. But, the reality is Hindu farmers used to sell aged, unwanted cows and make some money. They were paid Rs 30,000 to Rs 40,000 per cow. Now, they are in a difficult situation. No compensation is given to them," Shivakumar explained. "As a President of the Congress party, I am telling you all these laws will be repealed when the Congress comes to power in the upcoming 2023 Assembly elections. This Anti-conversion law will affect the investments in the state. How can you invite investors by passing and implementing such laws," he questioned. Shivakumar underlined that the Anti-conversion law will be opposed by the Congress party in Assembly and the bill will be defeated in the council, where the BJP does not have a majority. Meanwhile, Shobha Karandlaje, Union Minister for State for Agriculture and Farmers Welfare questioned why Congress is opposing Anti-conversion law in the state. "What is on your mind? Conversions should not happen in society. Let Hindus, Christians and Muslims practise their religions freely without any fears. Congress is indulging in vote bank politics. Conversions are made through 'Love jihad', this should not happen, he said. Former Chief Minister H D Kumaraswamy said that the JD(S) opposes Anti-conversion law. He said, instead, backwards and poor people's hands should be strengthened. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/d-k-shivakumar-vows-to-repeal-karnataka-anti-conversion-law-if-voted-to-power-1063837.html
23-12-2021||Karnataka Politics||‘40% commission’ makes noise in Karnataka Legislative Council||The Opposition MLCs demonstrated in the Legislative Council demanding a written answer from Water Resources Minister Govind Karjol on kickback charges levelled by contractors. The ‘40% commission’ charge was raised by the Congress’ C M Ibrahim who suggested the government to constitute a joint house committee to look into the allegation made by the Karnataka State Contractors’ Association. “A permanent solution is needed as similar issues have been heard for a long time. Corruption is taking place in transfers also. About 60% of votes in elections have become purchasable. Distribution of money for getting votes came to fore during recently held MLC polls. People are not respecting the elected representatives. Only a few IAS officials are honest. The Contractors’ association said that 10% commission goes to politicians and 30% to officials,” he noted. “Based on my experience while working with the planning commission, I say if Re 1 is released from Bengaluru, only 40 paise reaches the village,” he added. “The Association members may be called for explanation and a case may be booked against them if the allegation is wrong,” he said when the BJP MLC N Ravikumar said somebody associated with the Congress might have written the letter (contractors’ association letter to the Prime Minister). There was a verbal duel between the opposition and the ruling members. In his response, Karjol observed that the views of the Association comprising 800 members could not be considered as the opinion of all 42,000 registered contractors in the state. “Even Kengal Hanumanthaiah had to face corruption charges regarding the construction of the Vidhan Soudha. Making allegations without evidence is not correct. Let the contractor who made 40% commission allegation explain how he can implement works with just 60% of the amount. Let him give the list of those who received commission,” Karjol said. The House was adjourned when Opposition members started a protest seeking a written answer from the minister. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/40-commission-makes-noise-in-karnataka-legislative-council-1064090.html
23-12-2021||Karnataka Politics||Siddaramaiah counters BJP on anti-conversion Bill||Following claims that the Anti-conversion Bill was first mooted by the Law Commission under the Congress rule, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah dug out a 2009 petition submitted by pro-BJP personalities to the then C M B S Yediyurappa to enact the law. On November 5, 2009, Chidananda Murthy, K Narahari, B N Murthy, Jayadeva, S R Leela and Mattur Krishnamurthy, affiliated to RSS, had petitioned the government for the law. “The Bill is a brainchild of the RSS and BJP,” Siddaramaiah said, adding that the draft submitted during the Congress rule in 2015 was based on a petition filed in 2009 when Yediyurappa was CM. The draft was placed before the Law Department by the Commission on September 21, 2013. This was discussed by Law and Social Welfare departments and placed before the government in 2015, he said. “We did not discuss it in the Cabinet, nor approve it. Several Bills and subjects which are approved by the CM for discussion in the Cabinet are rejected. The then Social Welfare Minister H Anjaneya had rejected the file stating that it need not be placed before the Cabinet,” he said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/siddaramaiah-counters-bjp-on-anti-conversion-bill-1064091.html
23-12-2021||Karnataka Politics||Faith, history & nationhood: The many facets of anti-conversion Bill debate||The Karnataka Assembly on Thursday passed the Anti-conversion Bill amid uproar by the Opposition during the ongoing Winter Session of the Asembly. The day was reserved for discussion on the Bill. "The Anti-conversion Bill is Constitutional and pro-people," Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said while speaking to mediapersons at the Suvarna Soudha here. The bill was passed by a voice vote on Thursday, even as Congress members were protesting from the well of the House, demanding continuation of the debate on it, that began earlier in the day. Rural Development and Panchayat Raj (RDPR) Minister K S Eshwarappa, during a heated debate on the Karnataka Protection of Right to Freedom of Religion Bill, said the BJP government would bring “another hundred Bills” to protect Hindu dharma. “Yes, we’re all RSS. And yes, the [Bill] came from the RSS. The RSS has taught us the culture of protecting this nation and dharma. We will bring a hundred more Bills, just like how we enacted the anti-cow slaughter law,” he said. Eshwarappa also made a remark that prompted Congress MLAs to rush into the well of the House. “Whatever benefits the nation and dharma, in accordance with what RSS has taught us, we will bring such Bills and save dharma in this state. We won’t allow Hindus to be converted. We won’t allow our population to reduce. We won’t bother others. But if someone bothers us, we will tear them apart,” the minister said, angering the Congress. The Bill witnessed a debate of nearly six hours traversing the chapters of history. Members such as Priyank Kharge and N Mahesh recalled speeches made by B R Ambedkar and Mahatma Gandhi on the issue of conversion. Former Congress minister K J George said the Bill would lead to harassment of Christians. “I agree that this Bill isn’t against any religion, but there are problems when one does a fine-reading of it,” he said. “The Bill defines allurement as gift, employment and free education. If we want to do something good to society and provide free education, is it wrong,” he asked. He said Christians run several educational institutions. “If I provide a job to someone, I can be accused of conversion,” he said. JD(S) deputy legislature party leader Bandeppa Kashempur also said there is no need for an anti-conversion law. “The panic is that this law will be misused and lead to harassment,” he said. BSY warns Cong Former chief minister B S Yediyurappa warned the Congress against opposing the Bill. “If you continue like this, people will tear you apart just like D K Shivakumar tore the copy of the Bill,” he said. “Christians can worship Jesus, Muslims can believe in Mohammed Paigambar and Hindus can worship their gods. The point is that there shouldn’t be forced conversion. Nobody can differ on this,” he said. What the Bill says: The Protection of Right to Freedom of Religion Bill, 2021, popularly known as Anti-conversion Bill proposes protection of right to freedom of religion and prohibition of unlawful conversion from one religion to another by misrepresentation, force, undue influence, coercion, allurement or by any fraudulent means and for the matters connected therewith or incidental thereto. "No person shall convert or attempt to convert, either directly or otherwise, any other person from one religion to another by use or practice of force, undue influence, coercion, allurement or by any fraudulent means or by any other means or promise of marriage, nor shall any person abet or conspire such conversion," the Bill says. According to new law, any converted person, his parents, brother, sister or any other person who is related to him by blood, marriage or adoption or in any form associated or colleague may lodge a complaint of such conversion which contravenes the provisions, the offence is made to be non-bailable and cognizable. The bill proposes declaration before conversion of religion and also pre-report about conversion. The declaration of post conversion of religion is also proposed. If any institution violates the Act, imprisonment of up to three to five years with a fine of Rs 25,000 is proposed. If the victim is a minor, the imprisonment is extended up to 10 years. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/faith-history-nationhood-the-many-facets-of-anti-conversion-bill-debate-1064092.html
23-12-2021||Karnataka Politics||Let select committee deliberate on anti-conversion Bill: A H Vishwanath||BJP MLC A H Vishwanath on Thursday criticised his party for tabling the Anti-conversion Bill and urged the state government to set up a Select Committee to discuss the pros and cons of the anti-conversion law. In a press conference here, Vishwanath said that the government must constitute the committee and gather opinions from heads of various religions. The Bill must be discussed and debated in detail before implementation, he said. “Basavanna, the 12th-century social reformer, established the Veerashaiva religion by converting the (people of) oppressed classes. The anti-conversion bill will be a blow to the ideologies of Basavanna”, he said. He also expressed displeasure against the pontiffs, writers and intellectuals for not opposing the government’s move. Questioning the urgency to implement the law, he said, this will not help in the development of the state. The law should be introduced only after deliberation, he advised. Questioning the urgency to implement the law, he said, this will not help in the development of the state. The law should be introduced only after deliberation, he said while speaking to reporters. “Kannadigas reside in various countries. Some people want higher education for their children in foreign countries and also a green card. But, they harass people belonging to other religions. Are the children of BJP and RSS leaders not studying in Christian institutions?” he questioned. “Basavanna, Gandhi, Ambedkar and Kuvempu should be jailed as per the new Bill. The daughters of RSS leaders Murli Manohar Joshi, L K Adwani, Subramanian Swamy and granddaughter of Bal Thackeray are married to Muslims. Likewise, film stars Shah Rukh Khan, Saif Ali Khan, Arbaz Khan are married to Hindu women. Is it possible to put them behind bars?” he asked. Vishwanath slammed Congress leaders and opined that they must oppose the law effectively. The leaders should not have dual-stand over the new law, said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/let-select-committee-deliberate-on-anti-conversion-bill-a-h-vishwanath-1064095.html
23-12-2021||Main Article||Karnataka’s progress, from mamool to mega-corruption||In the pre-1947 days of Mysore State, there was mamool, which meant a token appreciation of a contractor for getting his bill passed, usually not exceeding 10% of the bill amount. People express surprise that in 75 years, mamool has made much progress, it has reached 40%. They forget, in a democracy, there are many mouths to feed. Traditionally, the Public Works, Irrigation and Power departments are the main sources of mamool. This is because the government does not adopt best practices in executing works. They are: preparation of a Detailed Project Report by an outside agency; prequalification of tenders to avoid benami tenderers, such as the Chief Engineer’s son-in-law, minister’s brother, etc.; scrutiny of tenders by a committee consisting of reputed institutions such as the Indian Institute of Science. Once the tenders are received, they must be scrutinised for quality and cost and finally ranked as the Lowest (L-1), second lowest (L-2), third lowest (L-3) and so on. Once this is done, the work is awarded to the L-1 tenderer. The quality of work should be assessed by an external quality control agency selected by a tendering process. Only once that agency certifies that the quality of work is according to the DPR specifications, payment should be made within 15 days, and reimbursement claimed and received from the funding agency. This is the reason why we do not find potholes and craters on national and state highways as we find on BBMP roads. The state government taking up projects with its own funds does not follow these best practices. Take, for instance, the construction of Vikasa Soudha, taken up in 2001. It was unilaterally announced that Rs 100 crore was allocated for it, without any detailed plan and estimates. No Internationally Competitive Bids (ICBs) were called. Only those firms ‘registered’ with the PWD were eligible to give tenders. An internationally reputed firm which had constructed airports, metro rail, roads and buildings both in India and abroad did bid, and it was even the L-1 bid at Rs 76 crore. The PWD “negotiated” with another higher cost tenderer who was nowhere near L-1 in past performance and the construction was given to this small firm. Eventually, this contractor was paid Rs 150 crore, for the delayed completion of the work. These malpractices are intentional. On the other hand, best practices were followed in the State Highways Improvement (K-SHIP) of 2,300 kilometres, costing Rs 2,500 crore, with a 70% loan from the World Bank, which is why one will not find potholes or craters on them. In projects funded entirely by the Government of Karnataka, these practices are deliberately violated. There is the infamous DSR -- Divisional Schedule of Rates -- for each component of work, and these rates are never updated. So, when the PWD floats tenders, all kinds of ‘registered’ contractors quote DSR+50%, +75%, etc. Then the higher cost tenderer is called and he is asked to reduce his cost to the level of the L-1 tenderer. He obliges and gets the contract. Then, deliberately, implementation is delayed and the PWD certifies that the delay is justified and the cost over-run is allowed. As there is no outside agency to exercise quality control, the PWD engineers themselves certify defective work such as 2-inch top layer of road in place of the contracted 4-inch, and the higher rate paid is shared. This is how for the Vikasa Soudha, though the L-1 tender was for Rs 76 crore, the government ultimately paid Rs 150 crore. The excess is shared between politicians, officers and contractors. The recent outburst of the contractors that they have to pay now 40% is amusing. The inflated cost and its distribution between the contractors and ministers, MLAs and officers has been going on for decades. What has happened now is that the government is going bankrupt as salaries take away 75% of revenue and very little is left for paying the contractors. The available amount is supposed to be paid to contractors who are in the queue, but for jumping the queue, some more extra payment has to be made, and this has irked the smaller and medium-sized contractors. A few weeks ago, the house of an engineer of Nirmiti Kendra, among others, was raided by the Anti-Corruption Bureau and over 20 apartments and sites, six luxury cars, bank deposits, gold and silver were found, valued at over Rs 65 crore. The man had started his career 35 years ago at Rs 2,000 per month! From where does the unaccounted wealth come? Of course, it all comes from certifying defective work and sometimes even fictitious work, for which inflated bills are paid nevertheless. The officers, many MLAs and ministers are all together in this. Everyone admires the Lok Ayukta and the ACB for raiding the houses of corrupt officers. But does anyone know what happens after the raids? There is not a single case of a senior officer or an MLA or a minister having been punished with imprisonment. Firstly, under an antiquated and intentionally misinterpreted Section 197 of CrPC, the Department of Personnel under the Chief Minister has to give permission if a public servant has to be prosecuted. The corrupt officer always brings pressure, and that permission is withheld. Only a Village Accountant or a BBMP Health Inspector taking a bribe of Rs 5,000 is prosecuted and sometimes the court sends him to jail. When corrupt senior officers are prosecuted, under our Adversarial System of Law, the expensive lawyers that such officers hire are able to create “reasonable doubt” on technical points of law, and the accused goes free. Even the government advocates can be bought over. Recently, the recruitment of 80 of 193 Government Prosecutors was held invalid because they used forged documents to secure the position. We are fast descending into the Paleygar-raj of the kind that existed between the death of Aurangazeb in 1707 and the disintegration of Mughal rule thereafter and the establishment of British-raj in 1857 since no Chief Minister can survive without MLAs’ support, and that support comes at a cost. Corruption is the life-blood of our democracy. And history, it is said, repeats itself as a tragedy. (The writer is a former Additional Chief Secretary, Govt of Karnataka. He was Chairperson of the Task Force on Land-grabbing in 2010-11 and author of its report, Greed and Connivance)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/karnataka-s-progress-from-mamool-to-mega-corruption-1063675.html
23-12-2021||National||276 police cases against protesters during farmers' stir, most will be dropped: Haryana CM||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Wednesday said 276 cases were registered against protesters in the state during the year-long stir against the farm laws and the process to drop these, barring those of serious offences, is underway. Replying to an issue regarding withdrawal of cases against farmers in the state during their stir against the legislations that have now been repealed, Khattar said in the State Assembly that as per police records, 276 cases have been registered during the agitation. Of these, four cases are registered under serious offences. Out of remaining 272 cases, chargesheets has been prepared in 178 cases. As many as 57 cases are untraced. The cancellation report of eight cases has been prepared, of which cancellation report of four cases has been filed before the courts. The process of cancellation of 29 cases is going on, he further informed. He said the state government will withdraw all the cases registered against farmers except cases involving heinous crimes such as rape, murder, etc. The Chief Minister was answering questions raised by the opposition during the winter session of Vidhan Sabha. Responding to a question raised in the House regarding giving compensation to the next of kin of farmers who died during the stir, the Chief Minister said that at present, talks are going on with the farmers. According to a CID report, the number of Haryana farmers who died is 46 while post-mortem report available is of only 10-15. While interacting with farmers, it had been informed by the cultivators that the tally of deceased farmers of Haryana is 73, he said. The investigation in this matter is still going on. The decision regarding compensation will be taken after holding discussions, he said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/276-police-cases-against-protesters-during-farmers-stir-most-will-be-dropped-haryana-cm-1063739.html
23-12-2021||National||India sees 7,495 new coronavirus cases; 236 Omicron infections||India has recorded 236 cases of the Omicron variant of coronavirus across 16 states and UTs so far out of which 104 people have recovered or migrated, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday.  Maharashtra has recorded the maximum 65 cases of the Omicron variant followed by Delhi at 64, Telangana 24, Karnataka 19, Rajasthan 21 and Kerala 15. The ministry data updated at 8 am also showed that India recorded 7,495 new coronavirus infections taking the total tally of cases to 3,47,65,976, while the active cases increased to 78,291.  The death toll has climbed to 4,78,759 with 434 fresh fatalities, the data stated. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been recorded below 15,000 for the last 56 days now. The active cases comprise 0.23 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has further improved to 98.40 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. An increase of 101 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of  24 hours.  The daily positivity rate was recorded at 0.62 per cent. It has been less than two per cent for last 80 days. The weekly positivity rate was also recorded at 0.59 per cent. It has been below one per cent for the last 39 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,42,08,926, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.38 per cent.  The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive has exceeded  139.70 crore.  India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.  India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 434 new fatalities include 383 from Kerala and eight each from Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal. Of the 383 deaths in Kerala, 36 were recorded over the last few days and 347 were designated as Covid-19 deaths after receiving appeals based on the new guidelines of the Centre and the directions of the Supreme Court, a Kerala state government release said on Wednesday. A total of 4,78,759 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,41,375 from Maharashtra, 45,538 from Kerala, 38,299 from Karnataka, 36,699 from Tamil Nadu, 25,102 from Delhi, 22,915 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,696 from  West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-sees-7495-new-coronavirus-cases-236-omicron-infections-1063791.html
23-12-2021||National||14-year-old killed by friends; hands and legs chopped off, body dumped in forest||A 14-year-old boy was killed over a tiff allegedly by his friends who slit his throat, chopped off his hands and legs, stuffed the body in sacks and dumped it in a jungle in Jharkhand's Deoghar district, police said on Thursday. The victim's family filed a complaint on Wednesday, alleging that he went missing mysteriously the previous night, said Sub-Divisional Police Officer Pawan Kumar. During the course of the investigation, police detained the victim's friend who is also 14-years-old, the officer said. He told the police that he met the victim outside his house in Rohini village in Jasidih police station area around 8.30 pm on Tuesday and went to Kumrabad Station Road, where another friend Avinash (19) joined them, Kumar said. All the three were going towards Palanga Pahad Jungle when an altercation broke out between Avinash and the victim, he said. Soon, Avinash allegedly took out a knife and stabbed him, and then slit his throat, the officer said. After allegedly killing him, Avinash chopped off his hands and legs, then stuffed the body parts in three sacks and dumped it in the jungle, Kumar said. Police have recovered the body and arrested Avinash, he said. Avinash also confessed to the crime, Kumar claimed, adding that the blood-stained knife and the mobile phone of the victim have been recovered. A case under IPC sections 302 (murder), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence), 120B (criminal conspiracy), 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) was registered against the accused. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/14-year-old-killed-by-friends-hands-and-legs-chopped-off-body-dumped-in-forest-1063808.html
23-12-2021||National||Amid Omicron scare, PM Modi to hold Covid review meeting on December 23||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold a review meeting on the Covid-19 situation in the country on Thursday evening amid rising concerns over the spread of the Omicron variant of coronavirus. Official sources said Modi will take stock of the pandemic situation across the country. India has recorded 236 cases of the Omicron variant of coronavirus across 16 states and UTs so far out of which 104 people have recovered or migrated, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday.  In a communication to the states and Union Territories on Tuesday, the Centre said the Omicron variant of the coronavirus is at least thrice more transmissible than its Delta variant and asked them to "activate" war rooms, keep analysing even small trends and surges and keep taking strict and prompt containment action at the district and local levels.  There have been demands that the government allow booster doses of vaccines to be administered to those already fully inoculated against Covid-19, as has been done by many countries.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amid-omicron-scare-pm-modi-to-hold-covid-review-meeting-on-december-23-1063825.html
23-12-2021||National||Pakistan-India ties: Too near yet far apart||By Sajjad Hussain When Pakistan and India agreed to restore peace along the highly volatile Line of Control (LoC) in February 2021, it appeared that they were again ready to take a turn on the bumpy road of animosity and mistrust. The ensuing months, however, showed that it was yet another mirage. The story of Pakistan-India relations is a tale of the proverbial ‘one step forward, two steps backward’. So far, almost every positive development in terms of the bilateral ties has been overtaken by innate hostility that is often driven by popular sentiments. In a surprise announcement on February 25, India and Pakistan said that they have agreed to strictly observe all agreements on ceasefire along the LoC. India and Pakistan signed a ceasefire agreement in 2003, but it has hardly been followed in letter and spirit over the past several years with more violations than observance of the pact. The restoration of the ceasefire agreement of 2003 on the LoC was not an exception. Soon it was followed by reports, insinuating that the two sides were engaged in a secret diplomacy in some shady haunt of the Arabian deserts (the so-called talks reportedly being held in the UAE). No official statement was issued about the status of talks but ties remain frozen. Weeks later in March, Army chief Gen Qamar Javed Bajwa said that it was time for India and Pakistan to “bury the past and move forward”. In his address to first-ever Islamabad Security Dialogue, participated by ‘Who’s Who’ of Pakistan’s security establishment, Gen Bajwa said that “stable Indo-Pak relation is a key to unlock the untapped potential of South and Central Asia by ensuring connectivity between East and West Asia” but also mentioned that Kashmir was the main stumbling block in normalisation of bilateral ties. Previously Pakistan had conditioned the start of talks with India if it reversed the August, 2019 steps in Kashmir, but Gen Bajwa lowered the bar by saying that India should create a conducive environment. The powerful army, which has ruled Pakistan for more than half of its 70 plus years of existence, has hitherto wielded considerable power in the matters of security and foreign policy. Prime Minister Imran Khan, who had taken a hardline stance since India abolished the special status of Jammu and Kashmir in 2019, also reduced his rhetoric by saying that good relations with neighbours were paramount for national security. "We will not be able to take full advantage of our geo-strategic location until we have regional peace, until our relations with our neighbours and our trade ties do not improve," he said in the address to the same event. On March 31, Pakistan almost surprised India when its Economic Coordination Committee (ECC), a top decision-making body, lifted a ban on the import of sugar and cotton from India. Finance Minister Hammad Azhar had announced the big decision. Apparently, the permission for import was given without taking all stakeholders on board, including the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Sources in the ministry said that foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi was unhappy with the decision. Consequently, it was withdrawn as quickly as it was announced. Months later in November, Pakistan silently allowed India to use its airspace for direct flights between Kashmir and the UAE, but its fate was not different from the previous positive steps. The move was scuttled after a week when Islamabad withdrew the permission. No reason was given why the flights were allowed, and why they were discontinued. The event in Afghanistan served as a major diversion as the Taliban took over Kabul in August, giving a big boost to Pakistan vis-a-vis India’s stakes in Afghanistan. In the wake of the change in regime in Afghanistan, Islamabad’s entire attention has been riveted on Kabul and it has been pulling all strings to give time to the Taliban to adjust to the new situation to earn global recognition of its interim government, which includes at least 14 Cabinet members blacklisted by the UN. The Afghan situation stirred a positive development in the context of Pak-India ties. In December, Pakistan allowed India to send a humanitarian shipment of 50,000 tonnes of wheat and life-saving drugs to Afghanistan through the Wagah border crossing. Unlike the short-lived optimism after the permission for direct flights between Srinagar and Sharjah and allowing import of sugar and cotton from India, the decision to let India send wheat on its condition of using only the Afghan trucks for transit has not been reversed. But it is difficult to interpret it as a breakthrough in bilateral relations. In November, India reopened the Kartarpur Corridor that links Gurdwara Darbar Sahib in Pakistan, the final resting place of Guru Nanak Dev, to Dera Baba Nanak shrine in Punjab's Gurdaspur district. Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, along with about 30 persons, including his Cabinet ministers, visited the revered Gurdwara Darbar Sahib in Pakistan using the visa-free Kartarpur corridor on the second day of the reopening of the route which was suspended for some 20 months following the COVID-19 outbreak. Towards the end of the year, Prime Minister Khan, while addressing a seminar on December 9 in Islamabad, said peace with India is not possible until the resolution of the Kashmir dispute. But he also added another hurdle this time: the RSS ideology. For ties between India and Pakistan, things are back to square one as another year nears its end. The two sides also failed to agree how Indian prisoner Kulbhushan Jadhav on death row in Pakistan should be represented in his review appeal in Islamabad High Court against his conviction by a Pakistani military court. In October, Paris-based Financial Action task Force, a global money-laundering watchdog, decided to retain Pakistan on its 'grey list' until it further demonstrates that action is being taken against Jamaat-ud-Dawah chief Hafiz Saeed and Jaish-e-Mohammed founder Masood Azhar who are listed as global terrorists by the United Nations. The FATF had placed Pakistan on the grey list in June 2018 and asked Islamabad to implement a plan of action to curb money laundering and terror financing by the end of 2019 but the deadline was extended later on due to COVID-19 pandemic. On the domestic front, Prime Minister Khan faced a serious challenge from banned radical outfit Tehreek-i-Labbaik Pakistan (TLP) which marched towards Islamabad in October after the government failed to meet their demands to release party chief Saad Rizvi and expel the French envoy. After deadly clashes between TLP supporters and the security personnel, Prime Minister Khan-led government entered into a 'secret agreement' with the radical Islamist party and released its chief Saad Rizvi, who was languishing at Kot Lakhpat jail since his arrest on April 12 under terrorism charges. During the year, Pakistan also witnessed a series of deadly blasts in different cities and a massive protest by local residents in Gwadar which rattled the government and forced authorities to deploy thousands of additional police personnel in the region where China is building major projects linked to its multi-billion-dollar Belt and Road Initiative (BRI). The protests in Balochistan are part of growing discontent with China’s presence in Gwadar, whose port is an integral part of the USD 60 billion China-Pakistan Economic Corridor project (CPEC), the flagship project of BRI.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistan-india-ties-too-near-yet-far-apart-1063826.html
23-12-2021||National||India's 60% eligible population fully vaccinated against Covid-19: Centre||India on Thursday achieved a new milestone in the fight against Covid pandemic as over 60 per cent of the total eligible population is now vaccinated with both doses of vaccines, said the government. Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya lauded public health workers, medical professionals, and citizens from all across the country for making this feat possible. "Accomplishing more new feats! Congratulations India," tweeted Mandaviya. In the same tweet, he said, "Aided by public participation &amp; dedicated efforts of our health workers, over 60% of the eligible population fully vaccinated now." Accomplishing more new feats! Congratulations India 🇮🇳 Meanwhile, the country's Covid-19 vaccination coverage has exceeded 139.70 crore with the administration of 70,17,671 vaccine doses in the last 24 hours as per the health ministry provisional reports till 7 a.m. on Thursday. This has been achieved through 1,47,94,783 sessions. India on Thursday registered 7,495 fresh Covid cases and 434 deaths in a span of 24 hours. With the addition of the new deaths, the total death toll has climbed to 4,78,759. India's active caseload is presently at 78,291. The active caseload constitutes 0.23 per cent of the country's total positive cases, which is the lowest since March 2020. Meanwhile, the Omicron infection tally has climbed at 236 across the nation. However, out of total Omicron positives, 104 have been discharged. So far 16 states have reported Omicron infection, said the Union health ministry on Thursday. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-60-eligible-population-fully-vaccinated-against-covid-19-centre-1063842.html
23-12-2021||National||Delhi HC to hear Juhi Chawla's appeal against dismissal of lawsuit against 5G in January||The Delhi High Court on Thursday decided to examine an appeal filed by actor Juhi Chawla against a single judge's order dismissing her plea against roll out of 5G telecom technology with Rs 20 lakh cost. A division bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet posted the plea for consideration on January 25, saying there was no grave urgency in the matter. In her appeal, the actor-environmentalist, represented by senior advocate Salman Khurshid questioned the dismissal of her suit. Khurshid asked the court to post the matter after winter vacations. The court, however, asked why the petitioner filed the plea in December against the order passed on June 4.  On June 4, the High Court had dismissed her plea against the introduction of 5G technology with Rs 20 lakh for abusing the process of law. Justice J R Midha held that the suit filed by her and two others was also defective and not maintainable. "The suit was filed for publicity... also contained unnecessary, unverified and vexatious assertions," the court said, imposing Rs 20 lakh cost on Chawla and two others Veeresh Malik and Teena Vachani. The plea filed by Chawla and others claimed that 5G wireless technology can be a potential threat to provoke irreversible and serious effects on humans and it could also permanently damage the earth's ecosystems.  The plea contended that radiation would be 10 to 100 times greater than the existing levels, and no living species on the planet would be able to survive round the clock exposure. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-hc-to-hear-juhi-chawlas-appeal-against-dismissal-of-lawsuit-against-5g-in-january-1063847.html
23-12-2021||National||US Special Coordinator will contribute towards improving situation in Tibet: Dalai Lama||Tibetan spiritual leader the Dalai Lama has written to Uzra Zeya to congratulate her on being appointed the US' Special Coordinator for Tibetan Issues. He expressed the hope that she will be able to contribute significantly towards improving the situation of the Tibetan people. "As I have had the opportunity to express to successive American leaders," he wrote in the letter, "a continued and consistent American support has been a source of great encouragement to Tibetans in our peaceful struggle for freedom and dignity. Although I have handed over political authority to an elected Tibetan leadership, I remain concerned about the survival of the Tibetan identity, our distinctive culture and heritage and the protection of Tibet's fragile natural environment. I am pleased to see that in your first remarks, you mentioned that these will be your priorities. "As you are aware, there has been widespread international interest in and support for the peaceful struggle of the Tibetan people, whose rich culture of non-violence and compassion has so much potential to contribute to the world. I remain confident that in the long term, the power of truth will prevail. "I look forward to meeting you and exchanging views on issues that can benefit from your support and initiatives. I am sure you will be in close contact with our elected Tibetan leadership." His Holiness stated that he is encouraged to see that in addition to co-ordinating Tibetan issues, concern for democracy is also part of Zeya's portfolio and that the US recently held a democracy summit. He concluded, "I firmly believe the United States can play a leadership role in promoting awareness of the fundamental values of democracy, freedom, and human rights." The Biden administration has designated Under Secretary Uzra Zeya to serve concurrently as the US Special Coordinator for Tibetan issues. The Indian-American currently serves as Under Secretary of State for Civilian Security, Democracy and Human rights -- a position that has traditionally doubled as the special coordinator. The Tibetan Policy Act of 2002 mandates the appointment of the special coordinator. According to Secretary of State Antony Blinken, "I have designated Under Secretary for Civilian Security, Democracy, and Human Rights Uzra Zeya to serve concurrently as the United States Special Coordinator for Tibetan Issues, an important role she will take on effective immediately. "She will also continue to serve as Under Secretary for Civilian Security, Democracy, and Human Rights, a position for which she was sworn in on July 14, 2021." Zeya will coordinate the US government policies, programmes, and projects concerning Tibetan issues, consistent with the Tibetan Policy Act of 2002, as amended by the Tibetan Policy and Support Act of 2020, said Blinken in a statement. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-special-coordinator-will-contribute-towards-improving-situation-in-tibet-dalai-lama-1063862.html
23-12-2021||National||PM Modi says cows may be 'sin' for some but they are 'revered' by us||Sticking to his party's 'Hindutva' agenda, prime minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said that cows might be a 'sin' for some people but they were 'revered' by others. Addressing a public meeting after inaugurating a milk plant and some other developmental projects in his Lok Sabha constituency of Varanasi, Modi also took potshots at his rivals saying that they never took any interest in the development of Uttar Pradesh and instead only promoted 'mafiaraj'. ''Kuch logon ne aise halat paida kar diye hain ki hamare desh mein gaay ki baat karna, gobar dhan ki baat karna gunah ban gaya hai...gaay kuch logon ke liye gunah ho sakti hai par hamare liye woh mata hai, poojniya hai'' (some people have created a situation in the country as if talking about cows and dung is a sin....cows may be sin for some but for us it is our mother....it is revered) Modi said. Stating that India produced milk worth Rs 8.5 lakh crore, the prime minister said that more than eight-core families in the country were dependent for their livelihood on the dairy sector. Modi also attacked his rivals for what he said was not taking any interest in the development of the state. ''Some people become angry when the double engine government (centre and UP) takes measures for the development of the state.....such people will get angrier as we take more measures for the progress of the state,'' he added. ''The word development notes there in their (rivals) dictionary...for them development means mafiaraj, promoting nepotism and grabbing lands and houses of the people,'' Modi said. The prime minister also sought to paint his rivals as 'anti-Hindu' by saying that the latter did not like the renovation and grandeur of Kashi (the old name of Varanasi) Vishwanath Dham. At his earlier public meetings also, Modi had invoked Baba Vishwanath (Lord Shiva), Ganga and Ram Temple. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-says-cows-may-be-sin-for-some-but-they-are-revered-by-us-1063885.html
23-12-2021||National||Akali leader Bikram Majithia moves Mohali court for anticipatory bail||Akali leader Bikram Singh Majithia who has been booked under the NDPS Act moved a court in Mohali on Thursday for anticipatory bail. The bail application was filed by Majithia's counsel D S Sobti. On Monday, Majithia, 46, was booked under relevant sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act on the basis of a 2018 status report of probe into drug racket in the state. The report was filed by anti-drug special task force (STF) chief Harpreet Singh Sidhu in the Punjab and Haryana High Court in 2018. Majithia, is the brother-in-law of Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal and brother of former Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal. Majithia had earlier denied all charges against him. The Punjab police have been looking for Majithia to arrest him in this case. A lookout circular, which prevents a person from leaving the country, had also been issued against the former Punjab minister. The Shiromani Akali Dal had called the registration of FIR against Majithia as “political vendetta.” Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/akali-leader-bikram-majithia-moves-mohali-court-for-anticipatory-bail-1063894.html
23-12-2021||National||India provides 10 lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccines, 10,000 tonnes of rice and wheat to Myanmar||India has provided 10 lakh doses of ‘Made in India’ coronavirus vaccines and a grant of 10,000 tonnes of rice and wheat to Myanmar as part of its continued humanitarian support for the neighbouring country, the External Affairs Ministry said on Thursday. The assistance was announced during the visit of Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla, who is here on a two-day tour, the first such high-level outreach from India after Myanmar’s military deposed the democratically-elected government of Aung San Suu Kyi in a coup on February 1. Shringla handed over the vaccines to the Myanmar Red Cross Society on Wednesday. “Emphasising that India shares a long border with Myanmar, Foreign Secretary conveyed India’s continued humanitarian support for the people of Myanmar. In the context of Myanmar’s fight against the Covid-19 pandemic, he handed over one million doses of "Made in India” vaccines to the Myanmar Red Cross Society,” the ministry said in a statement. “A part of this consignment would be utilised for communities living along Myanmar’s border with India. A grant of 10,000 tonnes of rice and wheat to Myanmar was also announced,” it said. Shringla’s visit is the first such high-level outreach from India after Myanmar’s military deposed the democratically-elected government of Suu Kyi in a coup on February 1. During his two-day visit beginning on Wednesday, Shringla called on the Chairman, State Administrative Council General Min Aung Hlaing and other senior representatives and held meetings with members of civil society and political parties, including the National League for Democracy. Shringla expressed India's continued support for people-centric socio-economic developmental projects, including those along with the India-Myanmar border areas, as well as India’s commitment for expeditious implementation of ongoing connectivity initiatives such as the Kaladan Multimodal Transit Transport Project and the Trilateral Highway. The Foreign Secretary also reiterated India’s commitment to continue with the projects under the Rakhine State Development Programme and Border Area Development Programme for the benefit of the people of Myanmar. India shares an approximately 1700-km-long border with Myanmar. Any developments in that country have a direct impact on India’s bordering regions. Peace and stability in Myanmar remain of utmost importance to India, specifically to its North Eastern Region, the statement said.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-provides-10-lakh-doses-of-covid-19-vaccines-10000-tonnes-of-rice-and-wheat-to-myanmar-1063896.html
23-12-2021||National||FS Shringla emphasises India’s interest in seeing Myanmar’s return to democracy at earliest||India has called for the early return of democracy and release of political prisoners in Myanmar as Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla visited Nay Pyi Taw in New Delhi’s first outreach to the military junta in the neighbouring country after the February 1 military coup d'etat. Shringla also conveyed New Delhi’s concerns to the military regime in Nay Pyi Taw over insurgents operating in the northeastern region of India carrying out hit-and-run strikes from bases in Myanmar. He particularly referred to the attack that killed a commander of the Assam Rifles, his wife and his son as well as four other soldiers in Churachandpur in Manipur on November 13 last. The attack was carried out by the militants who had sneaked into India from Myanmar. The Foreign Secretary called on the chief of the Myanmar Army and the de facto ruler of the country, General Min Aung Hlaing, as well as the civil society leaders and the representatives of the political parties, including Aung San Suu Kyi’s National League for Democracy (NLD).  He “emphasised India’s interest in seeing Myanmar’s return to democracy at the earliest; release of detainees and prisoners; resolution of issues through dialogue; and complete cessation of all violence”, according to a press release issued by the Ministry of External Affairs in New Delhi. The Myanmar Army took over power on February 1 this year, detaining the country’s State Counsellor and de facto ruler Aung San Suu Kyi as well as many other leaders and activists of her National League of Democracy (NLD). Though the NLD was re-elected to power in the general elections held on November 8, the opposition Union Solidarity and Development Party (USDP), as well as its mentor – the Myanmar Army – alleged irregularities in the polling process. India has been cautious in its response to the military coup in Myanmar because it has been keen to avoid yielding space to China and allow it to take advantage of the situation to expand its geopolitical influence in the South-East Asian nation. A court on December 6 last sentenced Suu Kyi to four years in prison after pronouncing her guilty of inciting dissent and breaking rules framed for containing the Covid-19 pandemic. Her sentence was later reduced from four years to two years in prison. But since the military junta levelled altogether 11 charges against her and she would have to stand trial for all the charges against her, the 76-year-old democracy icon of Myanmar might have to spend a considerable part of the rest of her life behind bars. She had already spent 15 years under house arrest of a total of 21 years between 1989 and 2010. New Delhi maintained its cautious approach even while reacting to the sentence awarded to Suu Kyi. The Ministry of External Affairs in New Delhi issued a statement, stating that it was disturbed by the verdict of the court. The Foreign Secretary on Wednesday and Thursday reaffirmed New Delhi’s “strong and consistent support” to the initiative by the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN) and expressed hope that progress would be made in a pragmatic and constructive manner, based on the five-point consensus agreed upon by the South East Asian nations. Shringla handed over one million doses of "Made in India” vaccines to the Myanmar Red Cross Society. A part of the consignment would be utilized for inoculating the communities living along Myanmar’s border with India. India also announced a grant of 10,000 tons of rice and wheat to Myanmar, the MEA spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said. “As a democracy and close neighbour, India has been involved in the democratic transition process in Myanmar and in this context has worked with various stakeholders in developing capacities on democratic systems and practices,” the MEA stated in New Delhi on Thursday. “India proposes to renew these efforts for Myanmar to emerge as a stable, democratic, federal union in accordance with the wishes of the people of Myanmar.” Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fs-shringla-emphasises-india-s-interest-in-seeing-myanmar-s-return-to-democracy-at-earliest-1063897.html
23-12-2021||National||18 Indian referees selected in FIFA International list for 2022||As many as 18 Indian referees have been selected in the FIFA Refereeing International list for 2022, the All India Football Federation announced on Thursday. The extensive list includes officials who are qualified to be referees and assistant referees, the All India Football Federation said in a statement on their website. Members of the list are eligible to officiate at the international level and are also entitled to wear a FIFA badge on their uniform for the year they are enlisted. The selection for the annual list is made through the nominations sent by FIFA member countries and the officials are required to clear a fitness test. Out of the selected 18 Indians, four are women (two referees and two assistant referees), and 14 men (six referees and eight assistant referees). List of selected Indian officials: Men referees: Tejas Nagvenkar, Srikrishna Coimbatore Ramaswamy, Rowan Arumughan, Crystal John, Pranjal Banerjee, Venkatesh Ramachandran. Men assistant referees: Sumanta Dutta, Antony Abraham, Tony Joseph Louis, Vairamuthu Parasuraman, Samar Pal, Kennedy Sapam, Arun Sasidharan Pillai, Asit Kumar Sarkar. Women referees: Ranjita Devi Tekcham, Kanika Barman. Women assistant referees: Uvena Fernandes, Riiohlang Dhar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/18-indian-referees-selected-in-fifa-international-list-for-2022-1063904.html
23-12-2021||National||Friend of opposite sex isn't for satisfying sexual desires, says POCSO court: Report||While convicting a 20-year old man for raping his 13-year old friend, and distant relative, a POCSO court said that friends of the opposite sex do not exist for satisfying sexual desires. As per the court, the foundation of the future lies in the early days of the youth, regardless of the gender. Speaking about this case, the court stated that the future of both the accused and the survivor has come under a “shadow of darkness,” due to what the accused did.  The court, however, decided against maximum punishment for the accused stating that he understood the consequences of his actions. The court added that the girl was liable to compensation under schemes of the District legal Service Authority. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/friend-of-opposite-sex-isnt-for-satisfying-sexual-desires-says-pocso-court-report-1063924.html
23-12-2021||National||NIA files charge sheet against 3 accused in Jammu IED recovery case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Wednesday filed a charge-sheet against three accused persons in a case pertaining to recovery of an Improvised Explosive Device (IED) at Bhatindi in Jammu and having alleged links with The Resistance Front (TRF) militant outfit. On June 27, hours after two explosives-laden drones crashed into the Indian Air Force (IAF) station at Jammu airport, two people were arrested by J&K Police with an IED from the neighbouring Narwal area. The accused identified as Nadeem Ul Haq, Nadeem Ayub Rathar and Talib ur Rehman, according to the NIA probe, were under orders to carry out an IED blast at a major religious place of Jammu. The NIA filed a charge-sheet against three accused in case RC-04/2021/NIA/JMU under Section 120B, 121A and 122 of IPC, Section 18, 18B, 19, 20 & 23 of UA(P) Act 1967; Section 4 & 5 of Explosive Substances Act before NIA Special Court Jammu. The NIA said that the three accused were receiving instructions from TRF handlers via WhatsApp. All three are residents of Jammu and Kashmir. “Investigation has unearthed a larger conspiracy of recruitment and plans to activate a significant number of radicalized youth of the entire valley to target security personnel and public places to wage war against the government of India,” a spokesperson of the probe agency said in a statement. The case pertains to the recovery of IED by J&K police from Nadeem Ul Haq on June 27 near Madarsa Markaz Ul Haroof in Bhatindi, Jammu, he said. The case was initially registered by J&K Police as FIR no. 234/ 2021 at PS Bahu Fort, Jammu and was subsequently taken up for investigation by NIA on July 19. The NIA raided dozens of places in J&K in recent months to unearth the conspiracy. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nia-files-charge-sheet-against-3-accused-in-jammu-ied-recovery-case-1063929.html
23-12-2021||National||Need to get rid of description that 'farmer means poor': Union Minister Kailash Choudhary||Union Minister Kailash Choudhary on Thursday said there is a need to get rid of the description that "farmer means poor" as this kind of "misconception" is discouraging youth from pursuing agriculture as a profession. Addressing an event organised by the digital platform Rural Voice, the Minister of State for Agriculture expressed concern over youth getting disinterested in the farming activities and cited the misconception that "farmer is poor" created in books and media as one of the reasons for this situation. "There is a need to get rid of the description that farmer means poor," he said. Whenever there is a discussion on farmers in villages or other places, there is a general perception that 'farmers must be poor', he said. Even in any story (literary work) on farmers, it always starts with 'a poor farmer used to live in this village', he said, adding that the word 'poor' is always associated with farmers. "As a result, everyone has started thinking that farmers must be poor. Whenever I see a photo of a farmer in a magazine, a farmer is projected with torn clothes sitting in a parched land looking up to the sky," he said. This kind of description of a farmer has led to "misconception" in the minds of youth who do not want to pursue farming as a profession, he said. The youth think that if he gets into agriculture, his situation will be like it is described in books and media, he added. Highlighting steps being taken to boost the Agri sector, the minister said the government is working towards achieving the Prime Minister's vision of doubling farmers’ income even as he stressed the need to shift to crop diversification and high-value crops to get better returns. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/need-to-get-rid-of-description-that-farmer-means-poor-union-minister-kailash-choudhary-1063945.html
23-12-2021||National||Ramp up Covid vaccination exponentially: Centre to poll-bound states||The Centre on Thursday advised states slated to hold Assembly polls in the next few months to ramp up Covid vaccination exponentially to protect the vulnerable population given the steady rise in cases of the Omicron variant of coronavirus in India. Pockets with low vaccination coverage and those with low Covid-19 exposure may be more vulnerable to the new Omicron variant, it said and urged states to accord special attention to ramp up inoculation in these pockets. According to a statement from the Union Health Ministry, states and Union territories have been advised to be vigilant and monitor case positivity, doubling rate and cluster of new cases and consider imposing curbs and restrictions at the local level ahead of Christmas and New Year. Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan, reviewing the public health preparedness of states for fighting Covid-19 and the Omicron variant along with the progress of vaccination virtually, advised states to not let their guard down and maintain their preparedness for fighting the pandemic. He reiterated that local containment measures are to be put in place when either the test positivity increases beyond 10 per cent or occupancy of oxygenated beds increases beyond 40 per cent, the statement said. "However, based on the local situation and population characteristics such as density, and keeping in mind the higher transmissibility of Omicron, states and UTs can undertake containment measures and impose restrictions even before these thresholds are reached," Bhushan underlined. Any restriction must be enforced for a minimum of 14 days, the states were advised. As symptoms of infection caused by the Omicron variant closely mimic common cold with a higher rate of transmissibility and doubling time, a syndromic approach for Covid containment can be employed, the health secretary said. About vaccinations, the states were advised to ensure 100 per cent coverage of left out first and second dose eligible beneficiaries in an accelerated manner and give special focus to those districts where the first and second dose coverage is less than the national average. States going in for elections in the next few months need to exponentially ramp up vaccination, especially in the low coverage districts to protect the vulnerable population, Bhushan stressed in the meeting. On containment strategies, states were advised to impose night curfews, ensure strict regulation of large gatherings and promptly notify 'containment zones', 'buffer Zones' if new clusters of Covid cases emerge. They were asked to send all samples from clusters to INSACOG Labs for genome sequencing without delay. The states were also asked to ensure door-to-door case search in the containment areas, test all SARI/ILI and vulnerable/co-morbid people and ensure the right proportion of RT-PCR: RAT (at least 60:40) tests in total tests being conducted daily, the statement said. This ratio can be ramped up to 70:30. The Centre Asxked states to ensure contact tracing of all Covid positive persons and their timely testing, especially in clusters, and utilise the access to 'AIR SUVIDHA' portal to monitor international passengers, the statement said. About clinical management, the states were informed that the existing National Clinical Management Protocol remains unchanged for Omicron. As many states have decommissioned Covid facilities, they are required to keep an action plan ready for making these operational along with adequate availability of doctors and ambulance on call in case there is a rise in Covid cases, the Union health secretary highlighted in the meeting. The states were advised to ensure advance engagement and information so that there is no misinformation or panic.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ramp-up-covid-vaccination-exponentially-centre-to-poll-bound-states-1063952.html
23-12-2021||National||Rs 19,675 crore spent on Covid-19 vaccine procurement||The Centre has spent Rs 19,675 crore to procure Covid-19 vaccines for free of cost supply to states and Union territories, according to government data. The government had earmarked Rs 35,000 crore in the Union Budget 2021-2022 for Covid-19 vaccination. "It is informed that an expenditure of Rs 19,675.46 crore has been incurred for procurement of Covid-19 vaccines for free of cost supplies to states and Union territories by December 20," read a reply to an RTI application filed by social activist Amit Gupta. The Union health ministry’s Covid-19 Vaccine Administration Cell said that 117.56 crore i.e. 96.5 per cent doses have been administered at government Covid Vaccination Centres (CVCs) from May 1 to December 20. "About 4.18 crore doses have been administered at private CVCs, which include 3.55 crore doses of Covishield, 0.51 crore doses of Covaxin and 0.ll crore doses of Sputnik V vaccine," it said. Under the 'Revised Guidelines for Implementation of National Covid Vaccination Program' effective from June 21, domestic vaccine manufacturers have the option to provide up to 25 per cent of their monthly vaccine production directly to private hospitals and any leftover vaccine is also procured by the government of India. According to the CoWIN portal, over 140 crore doses have been administered in the country since the inoculation exercise started on January 16. As many as 56.79 crore people have received both the doses. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rs-19675-crore-spent-on-covid-19-vaccine-procurement-1063966.html
23-12-2021||National||DCGI seeks more data from SII over its application seeking emergency authorisation for Covovax||The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) has raised queries and sought more data from Serum Institute of India over its application seeking emergency authorisation for Covid vaccine Covovax, official sources said on Thursday. Serum Institute of India (SII) had sent an application to the DCGI in October for the grant of market authorisation of Covovax for restricted use in emergency situations. "Noting that the vaccine is technology transfer of Novavax vaccine, DCGI has sought to know the approval status of the application with regulatory authorities in the country of origin, that is the USA. "The apex drug regulator has also asked the SII to provide details on Matrix component used in the vaccine," an official source said. On November 27, the Subject Expert Committee on Covid-19 of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation had deliberated on SII's application and sought additional data from SII. Along with its application, the Pune-based firm had submitted interim safety and immunogenicity data of phase 2/3 bridging clinical trial conducted in the country as well as interim clinical trial data of safety and efficacy from phase-3 clinical trials conducted in the UK and the US. The government recently permitted the export of 2 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccine Covovax to Indonesia produced in India by SII, official sources had said. DCGI office had granted SII permission to manufacture and stock Covovax on May 17. Based on DCGI approval, till now, the Pune-based firm has manufactured and stockpiled vaccine doses. The World Health Organisation had last week issued emergency use listing for Covovax produced by SII under licence from Novavax, expanding the basket of jabs validated by the global health body against the viral disease. In August 2020, US-based vaccine maker Novavax, Inc had announced a licence agreement with SII for the development and commercialisation of NVX-CoV2373, its Covid-19 vaccine candidate, in low and middle-income countries and India.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dcgi-seeks-more-data-from-sii-over-its-application-seeking-emergency-authorisation-for-covovax-1063977.html
23-12-2021||National||VHP meet to begin in Junagadh on Dec 24, to discuss ‘liberation of temples’||A three-day Vishva Hindu Parishad (VHP) meeting scheduled to begin from Friday in Gujarat’s Junagadh will discuss ‘liberation of temples from government control’ besides delving into other issues of concern for the organisation. Milind Parande, VHP’s central secretary general, has said that “deep contemplation sessions will cover subjects such as protection of environment and ecology, liberation of temples from government control, strict central law against horizontal religious conversions, boosting up cultivation of sanskars (training in character formation) in society to prevent devaluation of humanity”.  “There are temples controlled by the (central) government. Our demand is that these temples be handed over to the followers,” Vijay Shankar Tiwari, VHP’s national prachar-prasar pramukh and spokesperson told DH. Tiwari, however, didn’t state how many such temples are with the government, including ones in south India. Tiwari said that there are charitable causes associated with temples that need funds. The issue was discussed in VHP’s managing committee meeting held mid-year this week. The current meeting is yearly in nature where the Parishad’s central board of trustees and managing committee, both, are present. Besides the top leaders, provincial, regional and central office-bearers from different parts of the country, office-bearers “ready with facts and figures about the work of the organisation going on in various countries outside Bharat” are also reaching Junagadh. The organisation is also to brainstorm on an expansion plan, as it’s to complete 60 years of its establishment in 2024. “The representatives of the organisation would seriously brainstorm on the activities of the organisation going on in various fields, the challenges being faced by the society and their solutions. In this, there will also be a discussion about the continuing attacks on the minority Hindu, Sikh community in Pakistan and Bangladesh,” the VHP statement adds. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vhp-meet-to-begin-in-junagadh-on-dec-24-to-discuss-liberation-of-temples-1063992.html
23-12-2021||National||Rajya Sabha member K Narayana elected Central Silk Board member||Rajya Sabha member K Narayana has been elected as a member of the Central Silk Board. Two members from Rajya Sabha were elected for the Board. Sampatiya Uikey from Madhya Pradesh was another member from Upper House elected as a member of the Board, said a Rajya Sabha statement. Rajya Sabha member K C Ramamurthy is elected as a member of the Council of the Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajya-sabha-member-k-narayana-elected-central-silk-board-member-1063996.html
23-12-2021||National||Prime Minister Modi holds Covid review meeting||Prime Minister Narendra Modi held a review meeting on the Covid-19 situation in the country on Thursday evening amid rising concerns over the spread of the Omicron variant of the Coronavirus. Official sources said Modi took stock of the pandemic situation across the country in a high-level meeting attended by senior officials and experts. India has recorded 236 cases of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus across 16 states and Union Territories (UTs) so far, out of which 104 people have recovered or migrated, according to the Union health ministry data updated on Thursday. In a communication to the states and UTs on Tuesday, the Centre said the Omicron variant of the Coronavirus is at least thrice more transmissible than its Delta variant and asked them to "activate" war rooms, keep analysing even small trends and surges and keep taking strict and prompt containment action at the district and local levels. There have been demands that the government allow booster doses of vaccines to be administered to those already fully inoculated against Covid-19, as has been done by many countries. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/prime-minister-modi-holds-covid-review-meeting-1064000.html
23-12-2021||National||CBI arrests 11 people in connection with Rs 60,000-crore investment scam linked to Pearls group||The CBI has arrested 11 people in connection with around Rs 60,000 crore investment scam allegedly run by the Pearls group, officials said on Thursday.  The arrests were made from Delhi, Chandigarh, Kolkata, Bhubaneswar among other places, the CBI said in a statement. According to the probe agency, the case pertains to the alleged collection of around Rs 60,000 crore from around 5.5 crore investors across the country by operating different investment schemes, without any statutory approval and with a motive of duping the investors. "It was alleged that the arrested accused were the co-conspirators in this scam, who aided the prime accused and others in illegally operating investment schemes for earning quick and easy money," CBI spokesperson R C Joshi said. They induced people to invest in such schemes which offered lucrative returns and thereafter aided the prime accused and others in the diversion of such funds through dubious means with the motive of misappropriation, he said. Those arrested include Pearls group executives Chander Bhushan Dhillon, Prem Seth, Manmohan Kamal Mahajan, Mohanlal Sehajpal and Kanwaljit Singh Toor, officials said. Businessmen Praveen Kumar Agarwal, Mannoj Kumar Jain, Akash Agarwal, Anil Kumar Khemka Subhash Agarwal and Rajesh Agarwal were also arrested from Delhi, Chandigarh, Kolkata, Bhubaneshwar etc, they said. They were produced before a special court on Thursday which sent eight of them to CBI custody while the remaining three were sent in judicial custody. The CBI had arrested Nirmal Singh Bhangoo, CMD of Pearls Golden Forest Ltd (PGF) and ex-chairman of Pearls Australasia Pty Limited, along with Sukhdev Singh, MD and Promoter-Director of Pearls Agrotech Corporation Ltd (PACL), Gurmeet Singh, Executive Director (Finance) and Subrata Bhattacharya, ED in the PGF/PACL on January 8, 2016. "To investigate the role of other accused/suspects in this multi-thousand crore financial scam, which had adversely affected the interests of millions of investors, further investigation of the case was continued," Joshi said. The investigation also revealed that the accused persons fraudulently diverted the alleged funds collected under the aegis of a Jaipur-based private company for purported investment in Australian companies. It has been alleged that around Australian Dollar 132.99 mn (approximately) was found to have been diverted to Australian companies, he said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbi-arrests-11-people-in-connection-with-rs-60000-crore-investment-scam-linked-to-pearls-group-1064015.html
23-12-2021||National||Health Ministry asks states to reactivate decommissioned Covid facilities, consider curbs amid Omicron scare||The Union Health Ministry on Thursday asked the states to get ready to activate the decommissioned Covid-19 facilities after Omicron cases were found in more than 300 individuals in India, many of whom neither have international travel history nor any link to such a passenger. The states have also been advised to impose restrictions and night curfews, if needed. “As many states have decommissioned Covid-19 facilities, they are required to keep an action plan ready for making these operational along with adequate availability of doctors and ambulances on call, in case there is a rise in Covid-19 cases,” Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said. Bhushan took stock of the Omicron situation with state officials hours before Prime Minister Narendra Modi chairs a high-level review on the new variant that has kept the officials on alert due to Omicron’s ability to spread three times faster than the Delta variant of SARS-CoV-2. The new variant, which is sweeping through Europe, has a doubling time of 1.5-3 days and is not sparing countries with high levels of population immunity. Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Goa, Punjab and Manipur – five states going in for elections in the near future have been told to exponentially ramp up vaccination, especially in the low coverage districts to protect the vulnerable population. Moreover, the poll-bound states were asked to ensure 100% coverage of left out first and second dose-eligible beneficiaries in an accelerated manner. The Health Secretary said the states were free to impose the curbs and restrictions even before reaching the threshold of 10% test positivity and 40% occupancy of oxygen beds, depending on an area’s population density and local conditions. “Based on the local situation and population density and keeping in mind the higher transmissibility of Omicron, the states and union territories can undertake containment measures and impose restrictions even before these thresholds are reached. Any restriction must be enforced for a minimum of 14 days,” he said. As syndromes of Omicron variant closely mimic common cold with a higher rate of transmissibility and doubling time, a syndromic approach for Covid containment can be employed. Sharing a five-point strategy to tackle the new Covid-19 threat, Bhushan directed the states to impose night curfews and ensure strict regulation of large gatherings, ahead of the forthcoming Christmas and New Year celebrations. The states are to notify “Containment Zones” and “Buffer Zones” in case of new clusters of Covid positive cases and maintain a strict perimeter control. States were asked to keep a close and strict watch on the number of Delta and Omicron cases in all districts; case positivity on a day-on-day and week-on-week basis; the doubling rate; and new emerging clusters and initiate containment in these areas. In clinical management, the advice is to check the operational readiness of the oxygen equipment and keep a buffer stock of the necessary medicines for 30 days. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/health-ministry-asks-states-to-reactivate-decommissioned-covid-facilities-consider-curbs-amid-omicron-scare-1064018.html
23-12-2021||National||NEET-PG counselling delay: IMA seeks PM's intervention in resolving issue||Expressing concern over the strike of resident doctors against the delay in NEET-PG 2021 counselling, the Indian Medical Association on Thursday sought Prime Minister Narendra Modi's intervention in resolving the crisis and augmenting manpower to face a possible third wave of Covid infections. The doctors' body warned that if the issue is not resolved at the earliest, the Indian Medical Association (IMA) will be "forced to adopt direct democratic participation along with the resident doctors". The NEET-PG exam was held in September. Due to legal impediments, the counselling is withheld resulting in a shortage of 45,000 doctors in the frontline, the IMA said. "As the NEET-PG exam was not held in January 2021, the aggressive second wave was handled by limited manpower of doctors and resulted in the loss of more than 2,000 noble professional souls in the Covid war. "At that time 1,60,000 doctors were appearing for the exams and waiting for the examination to be held relentlessly for the eight months, without involving in the Covid care," the IMA said in a statement. Now, in view of the impending third wave, if this PG counselling is not held, then with the limited manpower it will be too difficult to handle the third wave of Covid infections, it said. The IMA appealed to the prime minister to personally intervene in the matter. "The resident doctors are raising the genuine demands and till now it is not properly resolved. IMA demands the issues of reservation policy which is the prerogative of the government shall not be mixed with the schedule of the counselling and the larger decisions of that reservation shall be taken at an appropriate time on successive counselling. "On behalf of the 3.5 lakh doctors of this country, we express our moral support to the resident doctors who are fighting for the rights and herewith request the Health Ministry to resolve this matter quickly with the compassionate advice and intervention of the prime minister to restore normalcy, lest the IMA will be forced to adopt direct democratic participation along with the resident doctors." Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/neet-pg-counselling-delay-ima-seeks-pms-intervention-in-resolving-issue-1064064.html
23-12-2021||National||Omicron: PM stresses on Covid-appropriate behaviour, says fight against pandemic not over||Amidst rising concerns due to the Omicron variant, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said the Centre would dispatch teams to states with low Covid-19 vaccination, rising cases and insufficient health infrastructure in order to help them better manage the pandemic. Asking people to be on their guard, Modi directed the officials to accelerate the testing to ensure quick identification of cases for timely containment and treatment. “We should be Satark (vigilant) and Saavdhan (careful). The fight against the pandemic is not over. The need for continued adherence to Covid-safe behaviour is of paramount importance even today,” he said at a high level review meeting as the number of Omicron cases rises. Asking the officials to keep a close watch on emerging clusters and hotspots, the Prime Minister said a good number of positive samples should promptly be sent to the INSACOG laboratories for genome sequencing with a focus on timely containment and contact tracing. On sending teams to states with low vaccination, rising cases and insufficient health infrastructure, Modi said the central teams would work with the state administrations to boost availability of ambulances, review the institutional quarantine system and scrutinise the states’ efficacy of keeping the infected persons in home isolation besides with proper monitoring. The teams will also review the infrastructure and staff training. The officials briefed the Prime Minister on the emerging scenario globally driven by the new variant, with an overview of the surge in cases in countries having high vaccination coverage and presence of the Omicron variant. He was also apprised of the priority actions recommended by WHO. A snapshot of India's Covid-19 and Omicron status including details of the states reporting more cases and districts with higher positivity and more clusters were presented to the Prime Minister. The details of Omicron cases reported in India including their travel history, vaccination status and recovery status was also shared.    Officials briefed the prime minister about the emerging scenario globally driven by the new variant, with an overview of the surge in cases in countries having high vaccination coverage and presence of the Omicron variant, it said. He was also apprised of the technical brief and priority actions recommended by the WHO in the context of Omicron.  A snapshot of the status of Covid-19 and Omicron in the country, including states reporting a higher number of cases, districts reporting higher positivity, and higher number of clusters, was presented to the prime minister, the PMO said. The details of the Omicron cases reported in the country, including their travel history, vaccination status, and recovered status were also presented, it said. Modi was briefed on the various actions taken since November 25, when the first advisory of the Union Health Ministry was shared with the states.  Revised travel advisory for international passengers, review meetings with states/union territories on Covid-19 public health response measures, ramping up vaccination, installation of oxygen supply equipment, etc., was also briefed to Modi. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/omicron-pm-stresses-on-covid-appropriate-behaviour-says-fight-against-pandemic-not-over-1064071.html
23-12-2021||National||Govt seeks comments on proposed changes to insolvency law||The government on Thursday invited comments on various amendments proposed to the insolvency law, including provisions related to the time period for approval of resolution plans as well as avoidable transactions and wrongful trading. The amendments have been proposed by the Insolvency Law Committee (ILC). The comments have been sought till January 13, 2022. According to a public notice, changes have been proposed to enable a swift admission process, streamline provisions pertaining to avoidable transactions and wrongful trading and norms relating to the time period for approval of resolution plans. Besides, amendments have been suggested in connection with the closure of the voluntary liquidation process and the IBC Fund. The Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC) came into force in 2016 and has already undergone various amendments. The proposed amendments are for the Corporate Insolvency Resolution and Liquidation Framework under the Code, which is being administered by the corporate affairs ministry. To make the admission process for insolvency applications faster, it has been suggested that financial creditors should be asked to rely on Information Utility (IU) records to establish default. Then, the Adjudicating Authority (AA) would only be required to consider IU-authenticated records as evidence of default for Section 7 applications filed by such financial creditors as prescribed. "This will also dissuade AAs from taking time to determine ancillary matters such as the amount of default and allow them to speedily admit Section 7 CIRP applications on the basis of IU authenticated records evidencing the existence of default," the ministry said in the public notice. Under the Code, the provisions on avoidable transactions provide certain look-back periods. Currently, the threshold for such look-back periods is the date of admission of a CIRP (Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process) application. The proposed amendment is to change the threshold for the look-back period from the date of commencement of CIRP to the date of filing of the application for initiation of CIRP. The period between the date of filing and the date of commencement of CIRP may additionally be included in the suspect period for such transactions, as per the proposed changes. Another amendment is with respect to the approval of a resolution plan that has already been approved by the Committee of Creditors (CoC). "It is proposed that the Code should provide a fixed time period for approval or rejection of a resolution plan by the AA... where the resolution plan is not approved or rejected within this time period, the AA shall record reasons in writing for the same," the public notice said. Regarding the voluntary liquidation process, it has been proposed that the closure of the process may be carried out by the corporate person, subject to the same requirements as for initiation of the process and that AA might not be required. "If such approvals are made, the liquidator may be required to make a public announcement of the closure of the process and intimate concerned authorities such as the IBBI and the registrar," the public notice said. Another proposal for putting in place a detailed framework for contribution to and utilisation of the IBC Fund. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-seeks-comments-on-proposed-changes-to-insolvency-law-1064106.html
23-12-2021||National Politics||Goa & Manipur Polls: BJP minority morcha to celebrate Christmas||With an eye on the upcoming Assembly polls in Goa and Manipur, the BJP minority morcha has decided to celebrate Christmas across the country this year. Christians play an important and deciding role in Manipur and Goa. As per the plan, the BJP minority morcha will organise 'Christmas milan' at each block from Kashmir to Kanyakumari and Goa to Manipur. Through the celebrations, the BJP minority morcha will try to reach out to the community and win their support. BJP minority morcha national president Jamal Siddiqui told IANS that Christmas is celebrated across the country and by organising a Christmas celebration the party is practising the existing ethos of India where all the festivals are celebrated together. "Workers of minority morcha will organise Christmas celebrations at their respective blocks with community participation. We have started celebrating festivities with people's participation across the country. In future, the BJP minority morcha will continue to celebrate all the festivals of the country with people. Celebrating festivals is part of our Indian culture and we are just following it," Siddiqui said. Siddiqui also stated that while celebrating Christmas, the BJP minority morcha workers will also celebrate 'Good Governance Day' on the occasion of former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee's birth anniversary. All the state units have been asked to ensure Christmas celebration at block level and distribute gifts to children. In November, the BJP minority morcha had celebrated 'Diwali' on a large-scale across the country. It is learnt that the BJP central leadership has asked the minority morcha to celebrate the festivals across the country and with special focus in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Manipur, Goa and Uttarakhand. "We are celebrating all the festivals of all the religions and communities to send a strong message of social unity and Prime Minister Narendra Modi's motto of 'Sabka saath, sabka vikas, sabka vishwas and sabka prayas'," national media in-charge of BJP minority morcha, Syed Yasir Jilani said. The Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Goa and Manipur will be held in February-March next year. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/goa-manipur-polls-bjp-minority-morcha-to-celebrate-christmas-1063833.html
23-12-2021||National Politics||Lok Janshakti Party to contest UP Assembly polls alone||After Hindustani Awam Morcha (HAM), Lok Janshakti Party (Ram Vilas) has decided to contest Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections alone. The decision was taken at a high-level meeting headed by national president Chirag Paswan in New Delhi on Wednesday evening. "The LJP will contest the election without any alliance with other political parties. It will contest on all 403 seats," said Chandan Singh, Bihar state spokesperson of the party. "During the meeting, Mani Shankar Pandey, state president of UP along with members of all executive Committee at district level of Uttar Pradesh were present. They have unanimously decided to go it alone and challenge the ruling BJP and Samajwadi party," Singh said. In 2020 Bihar Assembly elections, LJP had contested on all 243 seats but managed to win only one. Following the dismal performance, other senior leaders, including current union minister Pashupati Kumar Paras, MP Prince Raj Paswan, Bahubali leader Surajbhan Singh and others criticised the policies of Chirag Paswan and later split the party. Though parties like LJP (Ram Vilas) or HAM are considered as parties of Dalit communities in Bihar, they would not have status more than "vote katwa" in Uttar Pradesh. The political experts believe that these parties are ideal for BJP which is considered as party of upper castes in Uttar Pradesh. The presence of LJP(Ram Vilas) and HAM will cut the votes of Samajwadi Party, Bahujan Samaj Party and Congress, which are dependent on Yadav, Muslim and Dalit voters. Chandan Singh claimed that the party has organisational structure and strength in every district of Uttar Pradesh and is capable of contesting the election on its own. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/lok-janshakti-party-to-contest-up-assembly-polls-alone-1063881.html
23-12-2021||National Politics||BJP, SP painting communal hues to garner votes: Mayawati||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati on Thursday accused the opposition parties of painting a communal colour to the upcoming elections and stressed on the necessity to warn people against such designs. She also urged the Supreme Court to take notice of the alleged illegal land deals near the upcoming Ram Temple in Ayodhya. "The opposition parties, including the BJP, Samajwadi Party and others, are busy painting a Hindu-Muslim colour to the elections to hide their shortcomings. The BSP people will have to go to every village and every house to warn the people. This task must begin now," Mayawati, who has convened a meeting of in-charges of all the 18 divisions and all 75 district presidents to review poll preparations, told reporters. Taking a dig at the BJP's claims of winning more than 300 seats, the former chief minister asked why in that case were the saffron party's senior leaders, ministers and the chief minister going all out making announcements, laying foundation stones and launching "half-baked" projects in the state, just before the elections. Mayawati said the SP, too, had been following a similar pattern and that the public was smart enough to realise this. To a question on newspaper reports about relatives of BJP leaders and government officials allegedly purchasing land illegally near the Ram Temple project in Ayodhya, the BSP supremo said the Supreme Court needs to take note and order a high-level inquiry into it. "It is a very serious matter. My party would want the Supreme Court to take notice and if the allegations are true, the state government needs to get the deals cancelled," she said. The Uttar Pradesh government has on Wednesday ordered a probe by the revenue department into the case. On the passage of the bill to link Aadhaar with the voter ID in Parliament, Mayawati said it was the Centre's responsibility to conduct an open debate in both Houses prior to passing it. "Our party does not agree to this," she said. Mayawati said the people had seen all prominent parties in power in the state and expressed confidence that they will choose the BSP in the upcoming elections, as her party had "delivered the best" at all levels of administration. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-sp-painting-communal-hues-to-garner-votes-mayawati-1063891.html
23-12-2021||National Politics||Opposition's shifting positions, lack of agreement led to RS stalemate: Secretariat||Rajya Sabha Secretariat on Thursday expressed regret over the stalemate in the Upper House over the suspension of 12 MPs during the Winter Session, blaming the “shifting positions” of the Opposition and the “lack of agreement” among parties. He added that it was wrong to say that Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu did not take the initiative to resolve it. Rajya Sabha Secretariat claimed it was wrong to accuse the Chairman of not allowing the Opposition to raise issues and adjourning the proceedings within minutes. They said Naidu had made it clear in 2017 while assuming the office that he would be left with no option but to adjourn the House if he felt that the intention of parties was to disrupt the proceedings. The comments came as Rajya Sabha Secretary General PC Mody held a meeting and reviewed media reports on Parliament’s Winter Session, which an official statement described as “factually incorrect narrative”. It also said Mody was of the view that it was “äppropriate and even necessary” to share these views with media in the wake of the “negative narrative” presented by “some sections of the House”. Responding to the statement, Congress Rajya Sabha Chief whip Jairam Ramesh said, “Instead of issuing misleading press releases, Venkaiah Naidu-garu would be well advised to hold regular meetings with all parties as Chairman and not as ex-President of the BJP and I hope I will not be suspended for the Budget session next month for saying so now.” Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge on Wednesday said that he was ready to “express regret” on behalf of 12 suspended MPs but the government was not in agreement. He also accused Naidu of adjourning the House and not even allowing him to speak under pressure from the government. On the suspension, a proposal had come before Naidu that Kharge would express regret on behalf of the suspended MPs on the floor of the House. But, they said, there was a question whether some parties whose MPs were among those suspended would disagree with the Leader of the Opposition after he did so. Naidu then suggested that the best course would be to talk to all parties before expressing regret. It was also suggested that if all parties were not on board, regret could be expressed on behalf of the parties willing to do so but nothing happened thereafter, an official statement said. Citing the precedent of the then Leader of Opposition Arun Jaitley expressing regret on behalf of 7 non-BJP MPs for unruly behaviour during the passage of the Women’s Reservation Bill in 2010, Naidu also suggested that the government should move a motion to terminate suspension in case regret is expressed. The Opposition also refused to nominate members to a committee to examine the suspension of MPs, sources said. Sources said all these showed that Naidu was “actively engaged in resolving” the stalemate. However, they said there was “no progress due to shifting positions of the concerned” and “perhaps, due to unwillingness” to express regret and “lack of agreement” among the Opposition. On Kharge’s charges on adjournment, the statement said that Naidu had made his views clear to leaders when the issue was brought before him. It is “factually incorrect and misleading to suggest” that the Chairman resorted to “frequent adjournments” during the Winter Session “under some pressure”. Casting such aspersions amounts to disrespecting and disregarding the institution of the Chairman of the House, it said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/oppositions-shifting-positions-lack-of-agreement-led-to-rs-stalemate-secretariat-1063909.html
23-12-2021||National Politics||'Learn from Lord Ram': Kejriwal tells Goa BJP Minister||Delhi Chief Minister and Aam Aadmi Party national convener Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday invoked Lord Ram and his devotion to his father to slam a ruling BJP Minister in Goa, Vishwajit Rane, who has warned his father and former CM Pratapsingh Rane of defeat in the upcoming 2022 state Assembly polls. "BJP Minister Vishwajit Rane has announced that he will contest elections against his father Pratapsingh Rane. He has announced that he will defeat his father in the elections. What is this happening in Goa? What is happening? Such is his craze for power that he has forgotten his father?" Kejriwal said in a video message on Thursday. "We are Hindus, who worship Lord Ram. Ram on his father's direction left politics, suffered 14 year vanvas. This BJP MInister who calls himself a Hindu Vishwajit Rane has dared to say he will defeat his father! What kind of a government is this in Goa," Kejriwal also said. On December 21, Health Minister Vishwajit Rane had warned his 83-year-old father Pratapsingh against contesting from the latter's bastion of Poriem Assembly constituency in North Goa, asking him to retire gracefully considering his advanced age. While Rane is a BJP MLA from the adjoining Valpoi Assembly constituency, his father, a Congress MLA has been undefeated from the Poriem assembly constituency for the last 50 years. Vishwajit Rane's attack on his father came on a day when the latter had announced his candidature for the Poriem seat on a Congress ticket. Viswajit, who incidentally was elected on a Congress ticket in the 2017 state Assembly polls before joining the BJP the same year, also said that he would take on his father in Poriem and win the election by a margin of at least 10,000 votes. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/learn-from-lord-ram-kejriwal-tells-goa-bjp-minister-1063912.html
23-12-2021||National Politics||UP govt probe into Ayodhya land 'scam' an eyewash, says Priyanka Gandhi||Congress on Thursday described the probe ordered by the Uttar Pradesh government into the Ayodhya land scam as an “eyewash” and demanded a probe by the Supreme Court, alleging that Ram Temple Trust’s money is being misused by leaders of RSS-BJP and government officials. Party General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said that the alleged corruption by Trust members, BJP and RSS leaders and officials in the buying of land for the temple was “loot” and “misuse” of donations, even as she questioned the silence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. She told a press conference that the buck does not stop just at the Chief Minister’s door but leads to the Prime Minister’s, as donations for the construction of the temple were received from across the country and they cannot escape “moral responsibility”. Priyanka cited an instance of alleged corruption and claimed that a part of a plot of land measuring 10,000 square metres was sold to the Trust for Rs 8 crore. The remaining 12,000 sq metres of the plot was first sold to Ravi Mohan Tewari for Rs two crore and within five minutes he sold it to the Trust for Rs 18.5 crore and Ayodhya Mayor Rishikesh Upadhyay and Trustee Anil Mishra were witnesses to the deal. She said that there was a 1,300% per cent rise in land price within five minutes while Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said the rise in land price was Rs 5.50 lakh per second. Priyanka also said that the land belonging to Dalits, which are not allowed to be sold, were bought by officials for further sale.  “Do you expect a district magistrate level officer can probe the Ayodhya Mayor?...No District Magistrate-level officer has the courage to probe this…This (probe) is an eyewash…The Temple Trust was set up on the orders of the Supreme Court and we expect the Supreme Court to intervene……We do not expect any inquiry to take place and the inquiry should be done by the Supreme Court….The Supreme Court should suo motu take it,” she said. She was referring to the investigation ordered by the Uttar Pradesh government following a media report about the alleged irregular land deals in and around Ayodhya. Claiming that the scam has hurt the faith of people who donated for the construction of the Ram Temple, Priyanka said the BJP leaders have "sold the sentiments, faith and religion" by indulging in “loot” and “misuse” of donations received for the Ram Temple. Asked whether Congress would approach the court, she said that a decision will be taken after consultations. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/up-govt-probe-into-ayodhya-land-scam-an-eyewash-says-priyanka-gandhi-1063951.html
23-12-2021||National Politics||Kharge was under pressure from one family to not let House function smoothly: Pralhad Joshi||Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi Thursday alleged Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge was "under pressure from one family" to not let the House function smoothly during the Winter Session, which concluded prematurely on Wednesday. Joshi said Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu tried to resolve the standoff between the government and the Opposition, but the Congress and the Trinamool Congress were adamant on not letting the House run smoothly. Rubbishing reports that Naidu didn't try to resolve the standoff between the two sides under government pressure, Joshi said it was Kharge rather who was "under pressure from one family to not letting the House function smoothly". According to some reports, Kharge has alleged that Naidu was under pressure from the government to not try to resolve the standoff between the government and the Opposition over the suspension of 12 Rajya Sabha MPs. "It is far from reality and very unfortunate that the Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha is blaming the Chair for their misconduct and unruly behaviour in the House during the Winter Session," Joshi said, taking strong exception to Kharge's reported remarks. The Chair suggested on multiple occasions that the government and the Opposition sit together to resolve the issues, he said, adding "we sought meeting with Opposition leaders several times but they never tuned up". "With all authority under his command, the Chair did his best to resolve the issues by bringing both sides on the table but due to the adamant nature of the Congress and the TMC no consensus could emerge," the minister said. He further said it is undemocratic and unfortunate that Opposition blame the Chair for its own "misdeeds". The House was adjourned sine die prematurely on Wednesday after days of frequent disruptions and Opposition protest.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/kharge-was-under-pressure-from-one-family-to-not-let-house-function-smoothly-pralhad-joshi-1063991.html
23-12-2021||National Politics||Political parties scramble over former PM Chaudhary Charan Singh's legacy||New Delhi, dhns: Political scramble was witnessed on Thursday to claim Chaudhary Charan Singh's legacy on his birth anniversary amid the spotlight on farmers in the election season with crucial agrarian states like Uttar Pradesh and Punjab going to polls in next three months. Charan Singh's birth anniversary, which is observed as Kisan Divas (December 23), led to a fierce competition among different political parties to claim allegiance to his politics. Akhilesh Yadav of Samajwadi Party, which has an alliance with RLD, demanded the highest civilian award of the country 'Bharat Ratna' for Charan Singh while Trinamool Congress' Mamata Banerjee, who is attempting to emerge as Opposition face against Modi, promised to stand by farmers and celebrate Kisan Divas as victory of farmers. Banerjee had become Chief Minister in 2007, latching on to Nandigram farm agitation. Yogi Adiyanth government in the poll-bound UP celebrated with gusto the 'Kisan Divas' in the memory of the former Prime Minister, whose grand son Jayant Chaudhary aka Jayant Singh has formed an alliance with Akhilesh Yadav-led Samajwadi Party and is threatening to turn the applecart of the BJP upside down in the Western UP, where the saffron party had won 109 of the 136 Assembly seats in the 2017 Assembly polls. After withdrawing the three farm laws, BJP has gone into an overdrive to reach to the community, having organised multiple events repeatedly highlighting how the government has been "driven by the Prime Minister's vision for farmer welfare”. Modi inaugurated the Saryu canal national project on December 11 in Eastern UP. Defence Minister and former UP CM Rajnath Singh, whom BJP has often fielded to counter the Opposition campaign against the government on farm issues, takes to social media to hail him as "top farmer leader" who throughout his life worked the weaker sections while Chief Minister Yogi Adityanth utilised the 'Kisan Divas" event organised in the memory of the former Prime Minister to target the alleged "anti-farmer approach" of the "earlier governments" led by non-BJP parties.. Battling a continuous campaign against his government and BJP at Centre from the Opposition parties on farm and farmer issues in the backdrop of the more than one year-long farmer agitation that was wound up this month after the government withdrew the three contentious farm laws, the UP Chief Minister chose to highlight how the BJP government worked for the welfare of farmers. "After the BJP was voted to power in Uttar Pradesh, we waived off their loans to the tune of Rs 36,000 crore," the chief minister said. Rajnath Singh tweeted "farmers are not only cultivating crops but happiness for the country and Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government is committed to their welfare." Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/political-parties-scramble-over-former-pm-chaudhary-charan-singhs-legacy-1064014.html
23-12-2021||National Politics||'Is India still a democracy': Opposition leaders slam 'hate speech conclave' in Haridwar||Several Opposition leaders, including those from the Congress and the TMC, on Thursday, condemned what they said was a "hate speech conclave" held in Haridwar recently and called for strict action against those involved. All-India Trinamool Congress national spokesman Saket Gokhale demanded immediate action against the organisers and speakers of the Dharma Sansad held recently in Haridwar, where "hate speeches" were allegedly made against Muslims. Gokhale lodged a complaint in this connection at the Jwalapur police station in Haridwar district, asking the Station House Officer to register an FIR within 24 hours. At the event, several speakers allegedly made inflammatory and provocative speeches, calling for the killing of people from the minority community. Held at Ved Niketan Dham in Haridwar from December 17-20, the Dharma Sansad was organised by Yati Narasimhanand Giri of the Juna Akhada, who is already under police scanner for making hate speeches and inciting violence against Muslims. Jamiat Ulema-e-Hind chief Maulana Mahmood Madani wrote a letter to Home Minister Amit Shah, Uttarakhand Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami, the National Human Rights Commission and the National Commission for Minorities, over the remarks made at the Haridwar meet, calling on them to take cognisance of the matter and prosecute the perpetrators. Madani said, "They have posed threat to the peace and communal harmony of the country".  "I demand strong actions must be taken against organizers and speakers,” he said. The All India Professionals Congress also condemned in the strongest possible terms the "genocidal statements made by Hindutva leaders" in the "hate speech conclave" organised in the holy city of Haridwar.  Will the Union of India and other institutions remain mute spectators, the Congress wing for professionals asked.  Reacting to the remarks at the Haridwar meet, senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor said, "This is bloodcurdling stuff. Is it too much to expect? @CMuttarakhand to take action under the existing hate-speech laws?" Congress MP Karti Chidambaram said on Twitter, "Narsinghanand Organises 3-Day Hate Speech Conclave in Haridwar... are the Faux Hindutva Nazis planning a holocaust? Will the Union of India & its institutions be a blind/mute spectator?" Congress spokesperson Shama Mohammed said Munawar Faruqui has been relentlessly punished for alleged jokes which he didn't even crack, but there is no action against the 'Dharm Sansad' members who openly called for "genocide against Muslims in Haridwar!". "Is India still a democracy!" she said. Kishenganj MP of the Congress Mohammad Jawaid tweeted, "Appalled by the nature of the assembly and hate speech propagated openly in Haridwar. Such events are destroying the secular ethos of India." He urged Home Minister Amit Shah to take serious and urgent action against the people who were involved in the "implied calls for genocide of Muslims". Chhattisgarh minister and senior party leader T S Singhdeo said India's traditional value is -- 'Vasudhaiv Kutumbhkam - World is a Family'. "Our Constitutional value is Secularism - Respect for all religions. Our primary Fundamental Right is Right to equality. Such bigoted thoughts & assemblies are against the foundation of India. This is criminal!" he said reacting to the remarks made at the meet. Gaurav Pandhi, a Congress functionary, said that in Prime Minister Narendra Modi's "'New India', sponsored by Ambani & Adani, Comedians are prevented from making people laugh but Hindutwavadis are allowed to give hate speeches, calling for genocide and armed revolt against the nation". "In Haridwar, a group of Hindutvawadis gathered giving a call for armed violence against Muslims, former PM Dr Manmohan Singh & armed revolt against India. They stressed on CREATING TERRORISTS. Meanwhile, the police, govt agencies, Modi, Amit Shah & Dalal media are fast asleep!" he said. Congress leader Salman Soz said, "Dear Supreme Court of India: #UmarKhalid is in jail for God knows why. Meanwhile, in Haridwar, Hindutva extremists call for Muslim genocide, record it on camera and throw it in our faces." "Is this the justice you are supposed to uphold? Act now," he said. CPI(M), from its official Twitter handle, said, "Munawar Faruqui has been relentlessly punished for alleged jokes which he didn't even crack, but there is no action against the 'Dharm Sansad' members who openly called for genocide against Muslims in Haridwar! Is India still a democracy!". Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/is-india-still-a-democracy-opposition-leaders-slam-hate-speech-conclave-in-haridwar-1064051.html
23-12-2021||North and Central||UP: Illegal arms factory busted, five men held||An illegal arms factory was busted with some weapons recovered there and five people have been arrested, police said on Wednesday. The five accused have been identified as Aman, Noor Hasan, Salman Qurushi, Suhail Malik and Yusuf Ranghad. Three others -- Abdul Salam, Haji Zulfikar and Chand Pahalwan -- managed to escape and are at large. The raid was conducted on Tuesday based on a tip-off at the basement of a house located on Raoli road in Muradnagar area of the district, Assistant Superintendent of Police Akash Patel said. Police have recovered 15 country-made pistols, 12 barrels of pistols, two barrels of .12 bore and five magazines of .32 bore pistols, ASP Patel said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-illegal-arms-factory-busted-five-men-held-1063764.html
23-12-2021||North and Central||Amit Shah to address series of meetings in Uttar Pradesh||Union Home Minister Amit Shah is embarking on a statewide tour of Uttar Pradesh from Friday to give momentum to the party's election campaign. Shah is expected to address public meetings at nearly 21 different locations and each public meeting will be attended by party workers and supporters from the surrounding seven Assembly constituencies. In this way, he will be covering around 140 Assembly seats in his tour. The BJP plans to put Shah on the forefront of organisational strategy even as Prime Minister Narendra Modi goes on a spree to lay foundation stones or launch developmental projects in the state. Sources said the party plans to bring supporters from Dalit and OBC dominated constituencies at the Shah's public meetings. The move attains political significance in the backdrop of BJP mobilising the non-Yadav OBC to counter an aggressive Samajwadi Party president, Akhilesh Yadav who has been emerging as the main challenger to the ruling BJP. During his campaign, Shah is also scheduled to hold special meetings with the party functionaries in different districts to assess the ground level political situation. This comes close on the heels of the recent booth level functions which the party had organised to set its organisational machinery into motion and reinforce its cadre strength. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/amit-shah-to-address-series-of-meetings-in-uttar-pradesh-1063795.html
23-12-2021||North and Central||PM Modi to launch multiple development initiatives in Varanasi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be in Varanasi on Thursday to lay the foundation stone of Banas Dairy Kashi Sankul at Karkhiyaon. He will also inaugurate and lay the foundation of 22 other projects. The Prime Minister was earlier in Varanasi on December 13 to unveil the Kashi Vishwanath Dham Corridor project. According to the official spokesman, Modi will also digitally transfer a bonus of about Rs 35 crore to the bank accounts of more than 1.7 lakh milk producers associated with the Banas Dairy. He will lay the foundation stone for a biogas-based electricity generation plant for a Milk Producers' Cooperative Union plant in Ramnagar. It will be a key step towards making the plant energy self-sufficient. Modi will also launch a portal and a logo dedicated to the Conformity Assessment Scheme of milk products, developed by the Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) with the help of the National Dairy Development Board (NDDB). The unified logo, featuring both the BIS logo and the NDDB quality mark, will simplify the certification process for the dairy sector and reassure the public about dairy product quality. In another effort to reduce the number of land ownership issues at the grassroots level, the Prime Minister will virtually distribute the rural residential rights record, "Gharauni", under the Swamitva scheme of the Union Ministry of Panchayati Raj to over 20 lakh residents of Uttar Pradesh. Projects in the education sector that will be inaugurated by the Prime Minister include the Union Education Ministry's Inter University Centre for Teachers Education, built at a cost of around Rs 107 crore, and a teachers' education centre at the Central Institute of Higher Tibetan Studies, built at a cost of over Rs 7 crore. Residential flats and staff quarters at the Banaras Hindu University (BHU) and the ITI, Karaundi will also be inaugurated by Modi. In the health sector, a project comprising a doctors' hostel, a nurses' hostel, and a shelter home, amounting to Rs 130 crore, at the Mahamana Pandit Madan Mohan Malviya Cancer Centre will be inaugurated by the Prime Minister. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-modi-to-launch-multiple-development-initiatives-in-varanasi-1063806.html
23-12-2021||North and Central||Drinking age lowered from 25 to 21 in Haryana||The Haryana government on Wednesday amended its Excise Act paving the way for lowering of the legal age for consumption of liquor, its purchase or sale from the existing 25 years to 21 in the state. In this regard, the Haryana Excise (Amendment) Bill, 2021 was passed by the State Assembly. The National Capital Territory of Delhi has also recently reduced the age limit to 21 years. Moreover, the socio economic conditions of the day have changed drastically from the time when the earlier provisions were incorporated in the Excise Act, as per the Bill, tabled by Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala, who also holds the Excise and Taxation portfolio. People now are more educated and participating in new endeavours and also can take rational decisions when it comes to responsible drinking, the Bill stated. It was highlighted that at the time of framing the Excise Policy for 2021-22, it was discussed that the drinking age might be lowered to 21 as several states, including Delhi, had recently reduced the age limit to the same age. In all, six bills including the one related to excise were passed in the Haryana Assembly on Wednesday. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/drinking-age-lowered-from-25-to-21-in-haryana-1063814.html
23-12-2021||North and Central||Trouble brewing in Uttarakhand Congress, leaders called to Delhi||After the Congress Campaign committee chief in Uttarakhand Harish Rawat targetted leaders for not giving him a free hand in the party affairs, the Congress is now trying to resolve issues amicably. Sources said that the state leaders have been called to Delhi on Thursday and possibly a meeting would be held at Rahul Gandhi's residence in a day or two in which Rawat will also be present. State President Ganesh Gondiyal will meet Devendra Yadav, the state in-charge to apprise him about the affairs of the party. Sources said that Harish Rawat is upset over the ticket distribution and that he wants more say in the party affairs. The Congress, which is going for the collective leadership into the polls, has not declared Rawat as the Chief Ministerial candidate, which is the prime demand of his supporters. In a series of tweets in Hindi on Wednesday, Rawat said: "It's time to rest, it has been enough. "Is this not strange? When we have to swim in the sea of election, the party organisation should extend a supporting hand, but has rather turned its face the other way and is playing a negative role. I have to swim in the sea where the ruling party has released many crocodiles and my hands and legs are tied. Sometimes it feels that I have worked too much and now it's time to rest. I am in a dilemma, the new year may show me a way, and Lord Kedarnath will show a path to me." The new barb from the former Chief Minister will create trouble for the party in the state as it doesn't have a face apart from Rawat who has a pan state presence, after the demise of Narayan Datt Tiwari and Indira Hridayesh. Rawat loyalists claim that he is upset with the party as the state in-charge is not listening to his suggestions. Rawat was Punjab in-charge when Amarinder Singh was removed from the state as the Chief Minister and now Rawat is facing the same problem in the state to adjust with the new team. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/trouble-brewing-in-uttarakhand-congress-leaders-called-to-delhi-1063823.html
23-12-2021||North and Central||One killed, five hurt in Ludhiana court blast, high alert in Punjab||A bomb went off in the district court complex here on Thursday, killing one person and injuring five others, prompting the Punjab government to declare a high alert in the state. Police suspect that the man killed in the blast in the second-floor bathroom was trying to set off the explosive device, or may even have been a suicide bomber. As forensic teams and specialised agencies were being summoned to the blast site, Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi expressed apprehension that the explosion might have been an attempt to create “anarchy” in the poll-bound state. The Union Home Ministry has sought a detailed report from the state government as early as possible. It also wanted to be informed about the findings of the initial investigations. The blast wrecked a wall of the bathroom, shattered window panes in adjoining rooms and broke windscreens of some cars parked below, triggering panic in the busy court complex. Officials said the five people, including two women, were injured in the explosion were out of danger. CM Channi, accompanied by Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu, visited a hospital in Ludhiana to meet the injured. He also summoned a meeting later in the day in Chandigarh. The blast comes days after the alleged sacrilege bids – at the Golden Temple in Amritsar and a gurdwara in Kapurthala – followed by the lynching of two men. Over the past onths there have also been cases of drones being spotted near the Pakistan border, with authorities suspecting that they could have dropped arms or explosives. Channi expressed fear that an attempt was being made to spread anarchy in Punjab ahead of the state assembly polls. “Our police is capable of maintaining law and order,” he said."But which agencies which are trying to disturb Punjab's peace will become clear as investigations are on," he said. Earlier, he told reporters in Chandigarh, “As elections near, some anti-national and anti-state forces are trying to commit such disgusting acts, and for this the government is alert and the people should also be alert,” he said. Deputy CM Randhawa, who is also the state’s home minister, said some “external forces” could be trying to destabilise Punjab, and alluded to Pakistan. Punjab has been put on high alert, he said. Several advocates complained of lax security arrangements at the complex, and Randhawa said more metal detectors will be installed there. Asked if it could be a human bomb or a fidayeen suicide attack, he minister nothing can be ruled out. A DNA test will be conducted on the unidentified man found dead at the blast site, he added. CCTV footage will also be examined, he said. Ludhiana Police Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said the area has been sealed and forensic teams will collect samples from the site. Initial reports said two people were killed, but police later clarified that only one man had died. Former chief minister Amarinder Singh said he was saddened after hearing that two people had died. “PunjabPoliceInd must get to the bottom of this,” he tweeted. Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal expressed shock. “Pb govt must focus on law & order instead of political vendetta to ensure peace & communal harmony in State,” he said in a tweet. The Aam Aadmi Party called it a “conspiracy” and said the Channi government had “completely failed” in maintaining law and order in the state. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/one-killed-five-hurt-in-ludhiana-court-blast-high-alert-in-punjab-1063832.html
23-12-2021||North and Central||UP police aspirant hides bluetooth in wig during exam, gets caught||In yet another cheating scandal for competitive exams, an aspirant for the Uttar Pradesh sub-Inspector post hid a hi-tech wireless bluetooth headset in his wig. The police discovered the device when a metal detector raised an alarm. The wireless headset was so miniscule that he had to struggle to take it out, even though he admitted having them in both the ears.  The video shared by IPS Rupin Sharma had some of the netizens in splits, while others raised concerns about how competitive it is to secure a government job and how 'creative' the aspirants become to crack the exams.  Netizens are sharing the video, saying how the youth is pushed to take desperate and extreme measures to secure a government job. Others are lauding his 'creativity'. If there was a Nobel prize for cheating, this guy would be amongst the front runners. Sirjee,Height of Unemployment and Desperateness To Get Job Somehow is Forcing these candidates for such action.I am sure this is merely TRAINING VIDEO as candidate seems of high age and quite calm and matured.Pls confirm my thoughts👍 Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-police-aspirant-hides-bluetooth-in-wig-during-exam-gets-caught-1063838.html
23-12-2021||North and Central||Fresh snowfall in higher reaches of Kashmir||The famous ski-resort of Gulmarg and many other parts in the higher reaches of Kashmir received fresh snowfall on Thursday, even as there was a significant improvement in the minimum temperature across the valley, officials said. Two to three inches of fresh snow accumulated at Gulmarg and its adjoining areas of Tangmarg and Babareshi, they said. The officials said other areas which received fresh snowfall include Gurez, Razdan Pass, Sadhna Pass, Furkain Gali, Z-Gali and Shopian, and Zojilla Pass. Some areas received rains, they said. This is the first snowfall of this season's 'Chilla-i-Kalan', the 40-day harshest winter period which began on Tuesday. Owing to the cloud cover, the minimum temperature improved across the valley on Wednesday night and settled above the freezing point at most places. Srinagar recorded a low of 2.6 degrees Celsius on Wednesday night, up from the previous night's minus 1.8 degrees Celsius. The officials said Pahalgam, which serves as the base camp for the annual Amarnath yatra, recorded a low of 0.3 degrees Celsius – up from minus 5.2 degrees Celsius the previous night. The minimum in Kupwara in north Kashmir settled at a low of 2.6 degrees Celsius. Qazigund, the gateway town to the valley, recorded 0.8 degrees Celsius, while Kokernag recorded a low of minus 0.7 degrees Celsius. Gulmarg was the only place recorded place in the valley where the minimum stayed below the freezing point as it registered a low of minus 3.7 degrees Celsius. The MET Office said there is possibility of light rain or snow at isolated places in J-K over the next 24 hours. “Another snow spell of greater intensity is most likely during December 26-27. Expect widespread light to moderate snow in plains of Kashmir, rain in Jammu and moderate snow at scattered places of Ladakh especially Kargil-Zanskar region," it said. The 'Chilla-i-Kalan', which began on Tuesday, is the 40-day harshest winter period when a cold wave grips the region and the temperature drops considerably leading to the freezing of water bodies including the famous Dal Lake here as well as the water supply lines in several parts of the valley. The chances of snowfall are the most frequent and maximum during this period and most areas, especially in the higher reaches, receive heavy snowfall. The 'Chilla-i-Kalan' will end on January 31, but the cold wave continues even after that in Kashmir with a 20-day-long 'Chillai-Khurd' (small cold) and a 10-day-long 'Chillai-Bachha' (baby cold).  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fresh-snowfall-in-higher-reaches-of-kashmir-1063839.html
23-12-2021||North and Central||CM Yogi holds previous govts responsible for farmer suicides in Uttar Pradesh||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday held the previous governments' policies responsible for farmers' suicides in the state. Speaking at the 'Farmers' Day' programme organised on the 119th birth anniversary of former prime minister Chaudhary Charan Singh, Adityanath said the BJP government had been upholding his belief that the way to India's prosperity was through its agricultural fields. "The earlier governments' anti-farmer approach and unscientific policies drove the farmers to commit suicide. A lot of them moved away from agriculture. After the BJP was voted to power in Uttar Pradesh, we waived off their loans to the tune of Rs 36,000 crore," the chief minister said. Adityanath also said the Narendra Modi government's policies for the farmers was for everyone to see. Remembering Charan Singh, Adityanath said the BJP government had been fulfilling the former farmer leader's dream with a slew of welfare measures, both at the state and central levels. The chief minister said though the central government in 1967 introduced minimum support price (MSP) in the country, it was implemented in its true spirit only by the Modi government. Adityanath also said his government eliminated the role of middlemen between the cultivators and the buyers as the government has been buying directly from the farmers. Expressing concern over the use of hazardous chemicals in agriculture, Adityanath seconded the prime minister's 'remedy' of practising cow-based agriculture. "This will also help in cow protection and promotion of faith. The productivity in farming will also increase relatively," he said.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cm-yogi-holds-previous-govts-responsible-for-farmer-suicides-in-uttar-pradesh-1063852.html
23-12-2021||North and Central||Land purchase in Ayodhya by bureaucrats, politicians triggers controversy; Priyanka says BJP is 'selling faith'||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi accused the BJP of "selling faith and trust'' of the people and sought a high-level probe into the same. Speaking to reporters on Thursday, Priyanka, accompanied by Congress spokesman Randeep Singh Surjewala, alleged large scale irregularities in the purchase of lands by the Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Khestra Trust, which was overseeing the construction of Ram Temple in Ayodhya. The UP government has ordered an inquiry into the alleged purchase of lands by the bureaucrats and politicians in and around Ayodhya prior to and after the start of construction of the Ram Temple, according to the official sources. ''People from across the country...poor women and others have given donations for the Ram Temple. A campaign was also launched to collect donations from the people. The money collected through the donations has been used to buy cheap lands for crores by the Trust. is this not a scam?'' she said. The Congress leader said that the Trust had bought a piece of land measuring 10,000 square metres for Rs 8 crore from some person in 2021. Another piece from the same block of land measuring 12,000 square metres was purchased by another person for only Rs 2 crore barely 19 minutes after the first deal. ''This land (12,000 metres) was then sold to the Ram Temple Trust for Rs 18 crore. Witnesses in the sale deed were an RSS functionary and the Mayor of Ayodhya,'' she claimed. Earlier the Aam Admi Party (AAP) had also levelled similar allegations, demanding a CBI probe into the matter. Trust secretary Champat Rai had rejected the allegations and said that the land was purchased below the market value.   The Trust has been on a land-buying spree ever since it was entrusted with the task of constructing the Ram Temple. The Centre had allotted 70 acres of land for the Temple which the Trust later decided to expand by purchasing several temples adjacent to the Ram Janambhoomi.  The state government has ordered a probe into the matter by a senior IAS officer and has asked him to submit his report within five days. According to sources, several bureaucrats including IAS and IPS officers, politicians and their relatives have bought large chunks of land in and around Ayodhya soon after the Ram Temple verdict was delivered by the Supreme Court apparently in anticipation that the land prices would shoot up once the Ram Temple construction started. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/land-purchase-in-ayodhya-by-bureaucrats-politicians-triggers-controversy-priyanka-says-bjp-is-selling-faith-1063861.html
23-12-2021||North and Central||PM Modi launches multiple development initiatives worth Rs 2,095 crore in Varanasi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday inaugurated or laid the foundation stones of 27 development projects worth Rs 2,095 crore in his Varanasi parliamentary constituency ahead of the Uttar Pradesh assembly elections. This is Modi's second visit to the holy city within 10 days. After arriving here in the morning Thursday, he laid the foundation stone of the ‘Banas Dairy Sankul’ at the Uttar Pradesh State Industrial Development Authority Food Park, Karkhiyaon. Spread across 30 acres, the dairy will be built at a cost of about Rs 475 crore and would process about 5 lakh litre milk per day, according to officials. This will strengthen the rural economy and help the farmers of the region by creating new opportunities for them, they said. The prime minister also digitally transferred a bonus of about Rs 35 crore to the bank accounts of more than 1.7 lakh milk producers associated with the Banas Dairy. He also laid the foundation stone for a biogas-based electricity generation plant for a Milk Producers' Cooperative Union plant in Varanasi's Ramnagar. Modi also launched a portal and a logo dedicated to the Conformity Assessment Scheme of milk products developed by the Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) with the help of the National Dairy Development Board (NDDB). The unified logo, featuring both the BIS logo and the NDDB quality mark, will simplify the certification process for the dairy sector and reassure the public about dairy product quality. In another effort to reduce the number of land ownership issues at the grassroots level, the prime minister virtually distributed the rural residential rights record, "Gharauni", under the Swamitva scheme of the Union Ministry of Panchayati Raj to over 20 lakh residents of the state. The prime minister also inaugurated multiple urban development projects, including six for the redevelopment of Old Kashi wards, a parking-and-surface park at Beniabag, beautification of two ponds, a sewage treatment plant in Ramna village and the provisioning of advanced surveillance cameras at 720 locations under the Smart City Mission. Projects in the education sector inaugurated by the prime minister include the Union Education Ministry's Inter University Centre for Teachers Education, built at a cost of around Rs 107 crore, and a teachers' education centre at the Central Institute of Higher Tibetan Studies, built at a cost of over Rs 7 crore. Further, residential flats and staff quarters at the Banaras Hindu University (BHU) and the ITI, Karaundi were also inaugurated by the prime minister. He also inaugurated a project comprising a doctors' hostel, a nurses' hostel and a shelter home, built at Rs 130 crore, at the Mahamana Pandit Madan Mohan Malviya Cancer Centre, a 50-bed Integrated Ayush Hospital at Bhadrasi. The prime minister laid the foundation stone of the Rs 49 crore Government Homeopathic Medical College in Pindra tehsil under the Ayush Mission. In the road sector, Modi laid the foundation stone for widening four-lane roads to six lanes for Prayagraj and Bhadohi. This will improve the connectivity of Varanasi and will be a step towards resolving the problem of the city's traffic congestion. To give a fillip to the tourism potential of the holy city, the prime minister inaugurated the first phase of the tourism development project related to the Shri Guru Ravidas Ji Temple, Seer Govardhan, Varanasi. Other projects inaugurated by the prime minister include a speed breeding facility at the International Rice Research Institute, the South Asia Regional Centre, Varanasi, a regional reference standards laboratory in Payakpur village and an advocate building in Pindra tehsil. The prime minister was here December 13 too when he inaugurated the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor. He had also attended the conclave of chief ministers the next day. The prime Minister inaugurated the All India Mayors' Conference held here on December 17 via video conferencing in the pilgrim city. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-modi-launches-multiple-development-initiatives-worth-rs-2095-crore-in-varanasi-1063873.html
23-12-2021||North and Central||In Madhya Pradesh, Mahakal temple proposes 'prasad' counter at Indore airport||The administration of the famous Mahakaleshwar temple here in Madhya Pradesh has proposed to make available its 'prasad' at the Indore airport and Ujjain railway station, an official said. The boxes of laddoos, prepared as 'prasad' (holy offering to God) at the temple's kitchen, are currently available for sale only in the religious complex here. It is proposed that a counter of this 'prasad' be opened at the Indore airport and the railway station here, the temple's administrator, Ganesh Dhakad, said on Wednesday. Letters in this regard have been written to the authorities concerned, he said. The temple management provides the laddoos at the rate of Rs 300 per kg, on no profit-no loss basis, he added. The Mahakaleshwar temple, dedicated to Lord Shiva, is one of the 12 'jyotirlingas' in the country.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/in-madhya-pradesh-mahakal-temple-proposes-prasad-counter-at-indore-airport-1063878.html
23-12-2021||North and Central||Uttarakhand Cong president says he has similar feelings as Rawat||A day after Congress campaign head accused the party organization of not co-operating with him, Uttarakhand Congress president Ganesh Godiyal on Thursday said he shares the senior leader's feelings but his dissatisfaction is an organisational matter which will be sorted out in a day or two in consultation with the party high command. The state Congress leaders will go to Delhi on Friday to meet central leaders, the PCC president said.   In a tweet in Hindi, Harish Rawat had said, "Isn't it strange that the organisational structure at most places, instead of extending a helping hand, is standing with its head turned away or playing a negative role at a time when I have to swim across the ocean of elections." Commenting on Rawat's tweet where he had charged elements within the party with not co-operating with him and standing with their heads turned away, Godiyal said he has also been having similar feelings. "I also feel this and not today but for quite some time. But my style is to give the person in question enough time to correct himself," he said endorsing the views expressed in Rawat's tweet. The organisation is aware of this and the process to address issues raised by us has also been underway. However,  if they were addressed earlier there would not have been a tweet like this, Godiyal said. "We will meet party general secretary KC Venugopal and also Rahul Gandhi if necessary and put things before them. I hope a solution will be found," he said. Describing Harish Rawat as the tallest Congress leader from the state who has a place in the hearts of people, he said the party cannot afford to displease him. On a question he said it would be foolish on part of anyone to even think of sidelining Rawat. "A leader like him who commands the love of people and is acceptable to all is not to be found in any party in Uttarakhand," he said. Godiyal denied there was any factionalism in the party. The entire Congress stands with Harish Rawat. There is no faction in the party,"  he said. When asked about Rawat's differences with Congress incharge of party affairs in Uttarakhand, Godiyal did not give a straight answer but said taking everyone along is the responsibility of the party incharge. Rawat and Yadav have not been on the same page on the issue of going to the polls under a collective leadership. Yadav has been saying the party will go to polls under a collective leadership as has been the party's tradition whereas Rawat has been in favour of Congress declaring its chief minister face ahead of polls. At a conclave held on Wednesday by a private news channel  Rawat had said that apart from seeing the ideology of a party voters also see the individual whose face represents it so that they can hold him accountable for promises made to people for five years. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-cong-president-says-he-has-similar-feelings-as-rawat-1063882.html
23-12-2021||North and Central||After family members test Covid positive, Akhilesh Yadav cancels rallies||With his family members testing positive for Covid-19, Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav on Thursday said he will keep away from public programmes for three days as a precautionary measure. Taking to Twitter, he wished the joint rally of alliance partners SP-Rashtriya Lok Dal in Iglas "immense success". "Due to family members testing positive for coronavirus, I will not attend public programmes for three days as a precaution. "Best wishes for the immense success of today's Iglas joint rally and appeal to all the workers to participate with full enthusiasm and energy," Yadav tweeted in Hindi. परिवार के लोगों के कोरोना पॉज़िटिव होने की वजह से हम तीन दिनों के लिए एहतियात बरतते हुए सार्वजनिक कार्यक्रमों में शामिल नहीं हो पाएँगे। He also attached his negative RT-PCR test certificate. The former chief minister's wife and former SP MP Dimple Yadav had tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. "I am fully vaccinated and not showing any symptoms yet. I have isolated myself... I request all those who met me recently to get themselves tested," she had said in a tweet. According to a government release, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath telephoned Yadav and inquired about the health of his "wife and daughter", besides wishing them a speedy recovery. The SP, however, has not officially confirmed whether Yadav's daughter has tested positive for the virus.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/after-family-members-test-covid-positive-akhilesh-yadav-cancels-rallies-1063892.html
23-12-2021||North and Central||Rahul Gandhi not a Hindu: Union minister targets Congress leader over remarks on Hindu, Hindutva||Targeting Rahul Gandhi over his recent remarks on Hindu and Hindutva, Union minister A Narayanaswamy has said the Congress leader is not a Hindu and makes such remarks whenever elections near. In remarks over the past few days, Gandhi has repeatedly sought to highlight the difference between Hindu and Hindutva and described Hindu as tolerant and Hindutva as power-seeking. "Whenever the election comes he (Rahul Gandhi) speaks like this only, but he is not a Hindu," the minister told reporters on the sidelines of a social empowerment camp organised in Phephna area of Ballia district in Uttar Pradesh on Wednesday. Assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh and some other states are due early next year. Dismissing Gandhi's attack on the government over incidents of lynching, the Union Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment said there is no such thing and the former Congress president does not know what is happening in the country. "Before 2014, the word 'lynching' was practically unheard of. #ThankYouModiJi," Rahul Gandhi tweeted on Tuesday, days after two cases of lynching in the Congress-ruled Punjab. The two men were lynched in separate incidents, and both of them were accused of sacrilege by Sikh religious leaders. Terming the incidents of sacrilege and subsequent lynching in Punjab "unfortunate", the minister said the matter is being probed. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rahul-gandhi-not-a-hindu-union-minister-targets-congress-leader-over-remarks-on-hindu-hindutva-1063910.html
23-12-2021||North and Central||Religious places in Delhi to remain open on Christmas, New Year's Eve for celebration, prayers||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Thursday clarified that religious places will remain open on Christmas and New Year's Eve for celebrations and prayers subject to strict compliance of Covid-19-appropriate behaviour. "Various communications are being received seeking clarifications about the status of permission for celebrating Christmas festival and New Year's Eve in the territory of Delhi in view of the DDMA order as well as instructions issued (on Wednesday),” the authority said in an order. "On this issue, it is to clarify that as per … DDMA order no. 492 dated December 15, all religious places (temples, mosques, churches, gurdwaras, etc.) are already permitted to open for visitors/devotees to offer prayers/devotion /celebrations within such places subject to strict compliance of related SoPs" and adherence of Covid-19-appropriate behaviour, it said. The DDMA, which devises Covid-19 management policies for the capital, said no separate permission is required for these activities. Amid a rise in coronavirus cases and the threat of the new variant of concern, Omicron, the DDMA had Wednesday directed district magistrates to ensure no Christmas and New Year gathering takes place in the national capital. However, restaurants and bars will continue to operate with up to 50 per cent of the seating capacity. Marriage-related gatherings are permitted with a maximum of 200 people in attendance. The DDMA also directed the district magistrates (DMs) to identify potential Covid-19 superspreader areas ahead of Christmas and New Year. "All social/political/cultural/religious/festival related gatherings are prohibited throughout NCT of Delhi... All district magistrates and DCPs shall ensure that no cultural event/gatherings/congregation takes place for celebrating Christmas or New Year in the NCT of Delhi," the DDMA order stated. The national capital logged 125 cases on Wednesday, the highest since June 22, when it had reported 134 cases of the infection. The district magistrates and deputy commissioners of police have also been directed to tighten the enforcement machinery to ensure people follow social-distancing norms and wear masks. According to the Union Health Ministry, Delhi has logged 64 cases of Omicron so far, of which 23 have been discharged. According to officials, most of the Omicron patients are fully vaccinated and have mild symptoms. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/religious-places-in-delhi-to-remain-open-on-christmas-new-years-eve-for-celebration-prayers-1063915.html
23-12-2021||North and Central||Ludhiana bomb blast dastardly act, says Punjab CM Channi||Terming the Ludhiana bomb blast incident that left one dead as the "most shocking and dastardly act", Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Channi on Thursday said that inimical forces seeking to vitiate the peaceful atmosphere in the state would never succeed in their nefarious designs. Condemning the incident, he said everybody knew the timing and the handiwork of those forces as the Assembly polls were drawing near and they were hell-bent upon hatching such conspiracies to disturb the hard-earned peace and harmony in the state. "It is the need of the hour to condemn such incidents in the harshest possible words by one and all." Directing police authorities to carry on a detailed investigation to get into the bottom of this cowardly and inhuman act, the Chief Minister reiterated his firm commitment to book the perpetrators of the heinous crime and give them exemplary punishment as a deterrent for others not to commit such crime in the future. Channi said any such attempt to disturb the law and order situation would be dealt with sternly. Connecting the sequence of unfortunate attempts of the recent incident of sacrilege at Sri Harmandir Sahib and now the bomb blast in the Ludhiana court complex, he said all this indicates several forces are actively involved to create disturbances in the border state for their vested interests. He said the people of Punjab must remain vigilant to curb the unholy designs of such forces threatening the very ethos of communal harmony, peace, brotherhood and amity. Channi said the state government would soon give a befitting reply to such anti-social forces, adding these would not be allowed to create a bogey of terror to traumatise the innocent people in wake of forthcoming Assembly elections. Police Commissioner Gurpreet Bhullar told the media that the explosion might have been executed by a human bomb. "Though not confirmed, the person whose body is inside and is yet to be identified was either carrying the bomb or was very close to the spot, we are investigating," Bhullar said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ludhiana-bomb-blast-dastardly-act-says-punjab-cm-channi-1063923.html
23-12-2021||North and Central||Made preparations to deal with up to 1 lakh cases daily: Kejriwal amid Omicron scare||In view of the rising Covid cases and Omicron threat, the Delhi government will increase daily test capacity to three lakh and strengthen home isolation module to handle one lakh positive cases each day, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Thursday. Earlier in the day, he reviewed the Covid situation and the Omicron threat in Delhi in a meeting with his ministers and senior officers. The chief minister said Omicron was characterised by a fast spread and mild infection and asked people not to panic as the Delhi government was prepared to deal with it if there was a surge in the number of infections. Since Omicron infection does not require hospitalisation in most cases, the home-isolation module is being strengthened and an agency was being hired for it, he said. The capacity to follow up patients in home isolation will be increased from the current 1,100 cases daily to one lakh each day. As soon someone tests positive, a phone call will be made to the person and the next day a medical team will visit the person to provide him with a kit containing medicines and other items, Kejriwal said. Also, patients in home isolation will be counselled by the doctors for 10 days, said the chief minister. The government will also increase daily Covid test capacity from around 60,000 to 70,000 at present to three lakh per day. A two-month stock of required medicines will also be maintained, he added. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/made-preparations-to-deal-with-up-to-1-lakh-cases-daily-kejriwal-amid-omicron-scare-1063930.html
23-12-2021||North and Central||Dalit cook sacked after upper caste students refuse to eat food prepared by her||A Dalit woman who served mid-day meal at a government secondary school in Uttarakhand's Champawat district was allegedly removed from her job after upper caste students refused to eat the meal cooked by her.             The incident occurred at a school in Sukhidhang in Champawat district.             A day after her appointment as the 'Bhojanmata' earlier this month, students stopped eating the meal cooked by her because of her caste and began bringing their food from home in tiffin boxes.  Reportedly, out of 66 students in the school 40 had refused to eat the meal prepared by her.             Even the parents of the students objected to her appointment as 'Bhojanmata' when an upper caste woman had also been interviewed for the job.                 However, Chief Education Officer of Champawat R C Purohit said her appointment had been canceled as it was found that the norms had not been followed in her appointment.               "Higher authorities had not cleared her appointment. Still she was given the job," he said.                 A temporary replacement for her has been found, he said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dalit-cook-sacked-after-upper-caste-students-refuse-to-eat-food-prepared-by-her-1063947.html
23-12-2021||North and Central||Anti-national forces trying to spread anarchy in Punjab: CM Channi||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Thursday said as the Assembly polls are drawing near, some anti-national forces are trying to spread anarchy in the state. He said this after a bomb blast in the Ludhiana district courts complex left one person dead and six injured. Meanwhile, Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, Union Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, former CM Amarinder Singh, Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal and Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal also condemned the attack. Talking to reporters in Chandigarh soon after the incident, Channi termed the alleged sacrilege bids and the Ludhiana blast a "big conspiracy". "As the elections are nearing, some anti-national and anti-state forces are trying to commit such disgusting acts and for this, the government is alert and people should also be alert," he said. Channi said earlier sacrilege attempts were made but they did not succeed. Now, this blast has been carried out, the CM said. Later in the day, Channi visited a hospital in Ludhiana and enquired about the health of those injured in the blast. Talking to reporters in Ludhiana, he said prima facie, it appears that the person who died in the incident was operating the bomb. He said the body has not been removed from the site so that the crime scene is not tempered with. He expressed fear that an attempt is being made to "spread anarchy" ahead of the state Assembly polls. Channi later at a public meeting in Ludhiana’s Mullanpura Dakha sought to draw a parallel between the registration of an FIR against Akali leader Bikram Singh Majithia, the blast and the recent alleged sacrilege bids. He questioned as to why such a horrendous incident took place only after Majithia was cornered by the law. Majithia (46) was on Monday booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act on the basis of a 2018 status report of a probe into the drug racket in the state. Asked if it appears to be a suicide bomber and why would have this particular day been chosen, Channi said, "Sometimes, it appears we are doing political talk. Ever since we started acting against the drug menace, such incidents are surfacing." Meanwhile, former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh condemned the blast and reiterated his concerns over the challenges to the state's peace and security. Hoping that the Punjab Police and other security agencies will closely coordinate with each other in investigating the blast, he regretted the "diversionary" tactics by the Punjab government, particularly Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi. "It is not only unfortunate but highly irresponsible on part of the chief minister to jump to conclusions by trying to construct a link between the blasts, the sacrilege incidents and the FIR against an Akali leader without any investigations," Amarinder said. He said the CM must speak with facts and not with political rhetoric. "There is a serious threat to the peace and security of Punjab and such incidents are an indication towards that which must be taken seriously and not brushed aside the way the government is trying to," he said. Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu also condemned the blast, saying "innocent people losing lives to vote bank politics and polarisation". "I condemn this cowardly act … Innocent people losing lives to vote bank politics and polarisation !! The politics of Hope and Unity must replace the politics of Fear and Division. Divisive force will be defeated by the indomitable spirit of Punjabiyat given to us by Great Gurus," Sidhu said in a tweet. He further said the blast in Ludhiana "left no shadow of doubt that a series of peace-disrupting activities have been planned by vested interests to create law and order problem in Punjab". He condoled the death and prayed for the speedy recovery of the injured. Union Minister and BJP leader Gajendra Singh Shekhawat blamed "anti-national" forces for the incident. He said Punjabis will never let the harmony and peace be disturbed in this border state. Senior Congress leader Sunil Jakhar said people of Punjab needed to be assured of the state government's ability to maintain peace and law and order. "People of Punjab can see through the evil designs behind today's bomb blast coming soon after attempts at desecrations. But they need to be assured of the commitment and ability of the govt to maintain peace & harmony. The CM can't afford to be seen floundering on this account," said Jakhar in a tweet. SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal expressed shock over the blast. He, however, alleged, "Police are being used to settle political vendetta. I want to say that the DGP has to maintain law and order, which they are not doing," said Badal. SAD leader Daljit Singh Cheema condemned Channi's statement, in which he alleged that "sacrilege" bids and the Ludhiana blast occurred after the government registered a case against Majithia. AAP leader and Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal in a tweet said,"First sacrilege, now blast. Some people want to disturb the peace of Punjab. Three crore people of Punjab will not allow their plans to succeed." Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/anti-national-forces-trying-to-spread-anarchy-in-punjab-cm-channi-1063971.html
23-12-2021||North and Central||CJI expresses shock at Ludhiana court complex blast||Chief Justice of India N V Ramana expressed deep shock at the blast that occurred in Ludhiana District Court Complex on Thursday afternoon.  Expressing grave concern at the lack of adequate security in court complexes, he hoped that the law enforcing agencies pay necessary attention to ensure protection for court complexes and all the stakeholders, official sources said.   Such incidents occurring in quick succession across the country is a worrisome trend, he observed.   Justice Ramana called up Chief Justice of Punjab and Haryana High Court Justice Ravi Shankar Jha and enquired about the development. He also offered condolences to the bereaved families and wished speedy recovery of those injured, they said. A man was killed and five others were reported to have sustained injuries during a blast at the Ludhiana court complex. Earlier this month, a low-intensity blast had rocked Rohini courts in Delhi. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cji-expresses-shock-at-ludhiana-court-complex-blast-1063982.html
23-12-2021||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh govt imposes night curfew from 11 pm to 5 am||Amid growing concern over the new coronavirus variant Omicron, the Madhya Pradesh government on Thursday imposed a night curfew in the state from 11 pm to 5 am as a precautionary measure and advised people to strictly follow Covid-19 protocols. The curfew comes into force from Thursday night. Madhya Pradesh has so far not reported any case of Omicron, classified as a 'variant of concern' by the WHO. “In view of the rapid spread of the Omicron virus in the world, it is the right time for all to remain alert on the issue. The Centre has also issued guidelines to follow social distancing, use face masks and avoid crowded places. “We have also decided to impose a night curfew from tonight (Thursday) in the entire state from 11 PM to 5 AM and will take some more measures if required to deal with the situation,” Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said in his address to the people of the state in the evening. Besides, the government has also decided that in case any coronavirus positive case is detected in the state, the patient will be kept in home isolation if there is enough space in his/her home, he said. However, if there is lack of space at home, then such person should be admitted in hospital for treatment for the safety of other family members, the CM said. On Thursday, the state reported 30 new cases of coronavirus, a daily figure not seen in the last several weeks. The continuous increase in the number of coronavirus cases in Maharashtra, Gujarat and Delhi in the last one week is a matter of concern, Chouhan said. "People keep coming from these states to Madhya Pradesh. Last time also cases started increasing in Maharashtra, then Gujarat and also in Madhya Pradesh. People can't forget the problems faced during the first and the second waves. Whether it was the first wave or the second, it had started from Indore-Bhopal," he said. The weekly cases in Indore and Bhopal have increased by three times in December as compared to November, the CM said. In view of this situation, it is better for people to take precautions now to avoid the arrival of a third wave and as a precautionary measure, a night curfew will come into force from tonight, Chouhan said. The chief minister said Omicron has already reached 16 states of the country and the possibility of the variant coming to Madhya Pradesh can not be ruled out. "In the UK, one lakh coronavirus cases are coming up every day, while in the US 2.5 lakh cases are being reported per day. In Europe also, it is spreading very fast and therefore, it is time to remain alert," he added. The state has so far reported 7,93,581 cases of coronavirus and 10,531 deaths linked to the infection.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-govt-imposes-night-curfew-from-11-pm-to-5-am-1064058.html
23-12-2021||North and Central||96% rise in Covid-19 cases over last two weeks in Delhi||Delhi has recorded over 96 per cent increase in Covid-19 cases in the last fortnight ending Wednesday, official data showed. The total number of cases was 362 in the week spanning December 9-15 that rose to 712 in the next seven days from December 16 to December 22, it showed. The number of average daily Covid cases jumped from 51 to 101 in the past two weeks ending December 22, with four districts contributing to over 66 per cent of the total caseload of the city, official data showed. In a high-level review meeting earlier in the day, the Chief Minister discussed the Covid situation and Omicron threat faced by Delhi along with his ministers and senior officials. Delhi government figures showed that New Delhi, South, Southeast and Southwest together contributed 66.7 per cent of the total case load in Delhi, in the December 16-22 period. It came down from 68 per cent in the previous seven day period of December 9-15. However, the districts having fewer numbers of cases during December 9-15 registered faster rise in cases in the next seven days (December 16-22). The total cases recorded during December 9-15 were 88 in New Delhi, 76 in South, 47 in South East and 35 in South West. These figures rose to 153 in New Delhi, 131 in South, 109 in South East and and 82 in South West districts during December 16-22. The total cases rose 362 to 712 between the two weeks and daily average cases increased from 51.7 per cent to 101.7 per cent, figures showed. The trans-Yamuna districts like Shahdara, East and North East districts defied the trend in rise in the number of cases. North East Delhi recorded a total of two cases in both weeks while the number rose from 15 to 16 in Shahdara district. The total cases rose from 15 to 20 in East between the two weeks, data showed. The rise in the number of cases in districts like New Delhi, South and South West districts was attributed to two reasons by the officials. "Most air passengers that flew into the city mostly stay in these parts of the city. Another reason is that the hotels and banquet halls in these districts witnessed many gatherings during the wedding season," said a senior government officer. The figures showed a trend of high rise in percentage of cases in districts that earlier had relatively fewer cases. The percentage rise in cases was 213 per cent in West, and 114 per cent in North districts during December 16-22 as compared to cases in December 9-15, figures showed. The positivity rate in Delhi was 0.09 percent in December 9-15 that increased to 0.17 percent in the next seven days, figures showed. The positivity rate increased by 95.5 percent in the two weeks. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/96-rise-in-covid-19-cases-over-last-two-weeks-in-delhi-1064060.html
23-12-2021||North and Central||Delhi court orders registration of FIR against cops for custodial torture of man||A Delhi court has issued directions for registration of FIR against several police officials for alleged custodial torture of a man arrested in a robbery case, molestation of his family members, and staging a dog fight in his house. Earlier this month, a judge had ordered initiation of inquiry against the officials of Begum Pur police station after he found bruises and multiple abrasions on Prince Gill's body and saw him trembling when he was produced before the court after his arrest.  Over a week later, the Deputy Commissioner of Police, in a report, exonerated the officials and submitted that there were no excesses on their part and that Gill received injuries during a quarrel with his brother. The accused's counsel, however, called the vigilance inquiry an eyewash and said that Gill was subjected to brutal custodial violence.  Gill was apprehended by the police and cash worth Rs 92,000 was recovered from his residence along with the bike, helmet, and fake number plates used during the commission of the robbery.  The robbery accused, along with his wife Gurpreet Kaur Gill, alleged that a group of policemen barged into their house on the night of December 8 and staged a dog fight. During the dog fight, their pet was severely wounded and succumbed to injuries. His wife and mother also claimed that the personnel molested them.   Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Babru Bhan allowed their plea for registration of FIR against the police officials, noting that their allegations were not completely baseless or bald and that there was some element of credibility in the same.  "If police resorts to violence to apprehend the accused and adopts custodial atrocities to gather evidence, it is accountable for the violation of fundamental rights as law nowhere permits custodial atrocities for purpose of collection of evidence during an investigation," he said in an order dated December 22.  He further noted that the police officials kept changing their versions on the timing of the arrest of the accused. The arrest memo stated that he was arrested at 6:30 PM on December 9.  However, when one Sub-Inspector was inquired about the timing, he, at first, said 3:30 am and then later changed it to 6:30 am. Another officer, an inspector, said that the time of arrest was 3:30 AM and later said that he was apprehended at 11:00 pm on December 8.  "It is possible that the accused was apprehended at 11:00 PM on December 8 but was detained in the police station till the morning of December 9," the judge said, adding that this amounts to the criminal offence of wrongful detention and manipulation of official records.  It is apparent that neither the accused was arrested at the time nor in the manner alleged by the police, the judge said, adding that the injuries are apparently the result of a "calculated assault after overpowering the accused".  Furthermore, the judge turned down the police's contentions that Gill received injuries during a scuffle with his brother and said that the bruises on his buttocks were serious and were possible only when someone is completely overpowered and blows with a blunt object are repeatedly given at the spot, which is not possible in a one-to-one fight.  "Accordingly, to find out the truth in the allegations of the complainant Gurpreet Kaur Gill and the accused, directions are issues to the DCP, Rohini District, Delhi to get an FIR registered against the SHO Inspector Arvind Kumar, SI Nimesh, ASI Neeraj Rana, Ct Sunny, Ct Arun and Ct Vineet and other erring officials," he ordered.  The court directed the FIR to be registered under sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 342 (wrongful confinement), 506 (criminal intimidation), 509 (insult the modesty of any woman), 354 (assault to any women), 429 (Mischief by killing or maiming cattle), 166 A (Public servant disobeying law) of the IPC.  The judge said that since the FIR is directed to be registered against the SHO, the Joint Commissioner of Police has to ensure that the investigation is conducted by such an officer that fairness can be ensured. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-court-orders-registration-of-fir-against-cops-for-custodial-torture-of-man-1064066.html
23-12-2021||Oasis||Kalpavriksha, the tree of life||Raghavendra Swamy of Mantralaya is described as Kalpavriksha in the famous shloka written by his disciple Appanacharya, as Rayaru has no bias towards caste, colour or creed in showering his blessings just like the Kalpavriksha . The wish-fulfilling tree, Kalpavriksha or Kalpatharu symbolises the source of eternal life and blessings not only in Hinduism but across the world culture. For example, the Baobao tree of Africa and Madagascar is known as the ‘Tree of Life’. It grows in arid regions and hence its water is a valuable resource. Animals chew on the Baobao tree’s branches to open them up and then use the branches like straws to drink the water from inside of the tree. Its fruit is rich in antioxidants and the tree serves as a life-saver during desperate times. The Fourfold Rules of Discipline, an early Buddhist work, describes a scene in which people take rest under a nyagrodha tree located near Kaushambi, India, wherein they also fit their elephants and horses and the carts drawn by them. Nyagrodha has been identified as the banyan tree in which branches root themselves like new trees and the latter give rise to more trunks and branches covering a large area and is considered immortal. Thus the banyan, besides being our national tree, has been venerated as Kalpavriksha in our legends. The parijata tree is compared to that of the divine tree Kalpavriksha in Ayurveda as the leaves are used to treat fevers, cough, arthritis, worm infestation and so on. Lord Krishna is believed to have brought palm trees from heaven to please his wife Satyabhama and it is considered as Kalpatharu in Tamilnadu as every part of the palmyra is useful. Similarly, the coconut tree is referred to as Kalpavriksha , as all the parts of coconut (the fibrous covering, hard-wood shell, kernel, coconut water and seed from which seedlings grow) are useful to mankind. Khejri, the state tree of Rajasthan is known as ‘Kalpatharu of Thar’. Besides stabilising sand dunes and offering shelter in the desert heat, it serves the community as food, fodder, wood and medicine. Though Kalpavriksha is symbolic and mythical, it is almost real as all the trees constantly bless us with their bounty.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/kalpavriksha-the-tree-of-life-1063674.html
23-12-2021||Oasis||A significant conversion||The Bible narratives after Jesus include letters written by the early teachers of ‘The Way’ (of life) that had opened the exclusive Jewish understanding of salvation to include all the people of the world. Followers of ‘The Way’ were only later called Christians. This ‘globalisation’ of the faith followed almost naturally from a ‘humanisation’ of God, that is from an understanding of God’s taking on human form as Jesus Christ. This incarnation is different from merely reimagining invisible God as a visible human or other icons, and may seem like blasphemy or impossibility to most people. But Christmas is quite simply about God becoming human and little else! As a practical consequence, if God could ‘convert’ Himself to live among humans — specifically, humans in poverty like Joseph and Mary — then no human-human barriers could ever be justifiable, whether horizontally in status or vertically between communities. A Biblical letter written to a Hebrew audience opens with the words, “In the past, God spoke to our ancestors through the prophets many times and in many different ways. But now in these last days, God has spoken to us through his Son.” Many lovers of Christ in India ponder over whether that passage could refer to their own ancestors since God surely speaks to all his children everywhere in various ways. While India’s spiritual heritage, including Dalit and tribal oral and other ‘performed’ traditions are diverse and have almost no boundaries, many people study with great interest the similarities between various traditions. While the Mundaka Upanishad says, ‘Fools are they who think that rituals and good works bring salvation to them’, one of the letters in the Bible says, ‘No one should boast in good works because salvation comes through grace and faith.’ Grace here refers to God’s sending His Son (Jesus) as a sacrifice for each person’s sin. Christmas, then, is also a time for us to reflect on what other forms of God’s grace, for our release from sin, our ancestors, as well as different faiths, may have explored!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/a-significant-conversion-1064050.html
23-12-2021||Opinion||Delimitation in J&K may not give Centre's Kashmir policy legitimacy||The primary purpose of the delimitation of assembly constituencies in the Union Territory (UT) of Jammu and Kashmir is, as Peoples' Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti has suggested, to ensure that the decisions taken by the Narendra Modi government on August 5, 2019, become irreversible. This would be achieved if they were rubber-stamped by a resolution of an elected legislative assembly. The Modi government's contentious decision to remove the special constitutional status of the erstwhile state of J&K and its bifurcation into two UTs could then be repackaged for international critics as the will of the people. The Delimitation Commission's draft recommendations fit well with the design of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) dispensation. It has increased the assembly constituencies in Jammu by six, taking them from 37 to 43 and allotting only one additional constituency to the Kashmir Valley, taking it from 46 to 47 in a proposed 90-member legislative assembly. Ostensibly, the Commission was necessitated by the J&K Reorganisation Act of 2019. This helped the government go against the Supreme Court judgement and its reiteration in 2010, mandating a freeze on the delimitation of assembly constituencies in J&K till 2026. That is the year when a nationwide delimitation exercise is also due based on the 2021 Census. Despite a Gazette notification for the Census on March 28, 2019, the 2021 Census exercise has been postponed indefinitely, citing the pandemic. However, that did not stop the government from holding a Kumbh Mela, inaugurating Ram Temple construction at Ayodhya and the Kashi Vishwanath Temple Corridor. Even more questionable is the fact that the J&K Delimitation Commission has not used even the 2011 Census figures for its exercise. The game was up for the Kashmiri population the day the Commission announced that it would "take into account constituencies' practicality, geographical compatibility, topography, physical features, means of communities and conveniences available." One way of increasing the Hindu majority seats, on which the ruling majoritarian Hindutva dispensation can hope to score over others, was to split some of the Hindu majority seats in Jammu into two. Another was to redraw the constituency boundaries to reduce the weight of Muslim voters in the population, where they were dominant. While details of the newly demarcated constituencies are not yet available, what is known is that one seat each has been increased in the districts of Kathua, Samba, Udhampur, Doda, Kishtwar and Rajauri in the Jammu region and Kupwara in Kashmir. The Hindu population of Kathua is 87.61 per cent, of Samba 86.33 per cent and Udhampur 88.12 per cent. Here splitting the existing constituency would produce two Hindu dominated ones. The delimitation exercise is less simple in districts where the Muslim population is dominant – i.e. in Kishtwar (Hindus 40.72 per cent, Muslims 57.75 per cent), Doda (Hindus 45.77 per cent, Muslims 53.82 per cent) and Rajouri (Hindus 34.45 per cent, Muslims 62.71 per cent). Further details alone will reveal whether, in the new constituencies, the Muslim population share has been reduced, a fear openly expressed by the mainstream Kashmiri parties ever since the delimitation exercise began. However, the best-laid plans of mice and men can go awry in politics. The Kashmir Valley still has a four-seat advantage over the Jammu region. There is also no guarantee that the BJP will win all of the 43 seats in Jammu. The Congress remains a formidable foe there. In the last J&K Assembly polls, a BJP sweep had resulted in the party winning 25 seats out of 37. Assuming that it repeats its performance in the next Assembly elections and wins in the six new constituencies as well, its tally will only increase to 31 – way off the majority mark of 46. While the delimitation exercise has ensured that the Muslims of not only the Kashmir Valley but even Jammu will be more than ever determined not to vote for the BJP, Jammu's Hindu population of the region is also unhappy with the party because of changes in domicile laws and land sale to outsiders. The Congress is likely to be the main adversary of the BJP in the region. The BJP bosses know this. While the BJP might hope disgruntled Congressman Ghulam Nabi Azad would form a new party, his aim as of now seems to be more to put pressure on the Congress to accommodate him. Should his strategy fail, and were he to form his own party, how would he fare? Out of the Congress, Azad does not have much of a standing in J&K. Prime Minister Modi has already diminished his career prospects by his fulsome praise in Parliament. If Azad is perceived as the BJP's Trojan horse, no Muslim in Jammu will vote for him or his party. Azad carries little purchase with Muslim voters of the Valley. The 2008 Amarnath Shrine agitation started after Azad, as the then chief minister, allotted forest land to the shrine board. He was forced to step down in the face of public protests – which resulted in six people being shot dead by the police in Srinagar and over 100 injured. His gains, therefore, are likely to be limited. The creation of nine reserved seats for Scheduled Tribes (STs) and seven for Scheduled Castes (SCs) may also not help the BJP much. The STs are mostly Gujjar Muslims. Given the polarisation that the BJP has created, attracting the Muslim vote is a far cry for it. The SC seats are likely to get divided between the parties in Jammu. How then will the BJP get a legislative assembly that is malleable? It seems that the Chankayas of the BJP will still have to indulge in what they do best – horse-trading, breaking other parties and using the government agencies to intimidate legislators and parties into submission. At the end of the day, pushing a legislative resolution to show that its Kashmir policy is acceptable to people may then turn out to be a hollow claim. (The writer is a journalist based in Delhi) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/delimitation-in-jk-may-not-give-centres-kashmir-policy-legitimacy-1063818.html
23-12-2021||Panorama||Challenges in dealing with tuberculosis||Despite being completely curable and largely preventable, millions of people are still suffering and dying from tuberculosis. India is struggling to control its spread. It has the highest TB burden as well — responsible for over one-fourth of the world’s cases and one-third of the deaths. India has set a target for complete elimination of Tuberculosis (TB) by 2025. Is it really possible, if not why and what are the challenges? What should be done to eradicate TB by 2025?  Inadequate diagnostics and treatment; multidrug-resistant tuberculosis (MDR TB); and HIV coinfection are some of the major challenges in controlling TB in India. Eliminating TB by 2025 in India is impossible in the absence of an effective vaccine. And moreover, India should invest more in R&D for TB. Most of the diagnostic tools used are outdated and ineffective. Sputum-smear microscopy sometimes failed to detect extrapulmonary or smear-negative TB. And, it is less effective in children and HIV positive patients whose smear results are often negative.  A new approach to treatment is needed. The introduction of DOTS program felicitates detection of the TB by sputum-smear microscopy, government commitment to control, regular supply of drugs, supervised treatment, and reports on the progress of the health system. It is one of the best methods to help control the spread of TB and eradicate the disease introduced by WHO in 1991. However, the treatment process takes time up to 6–9 months. Prolonged treatment often fails to adhere to long treatment courses resulting in resistant strains and relapse. Isoniazid INH in combination with rifampin, pyrazinamide and ethambutol are commonly used drugs for TB treatment. Two injectable drugs currently used in India are associated with the worst treatment outcomes, with increased risk of death. And, despite WHO recommending the use of Delaminid (another new drug) in India, most of the children in India are not accessible to this. People with HIV or AIDS suffer more severe complications. The relapse rates associated with the use of some anti-TB regimens are increased among HIV-positive people.Also, antiretroviral drugs patients may experience an immune reconstitution syndrome that mimics many aspects of TB infection, which makes the clinical picture in coinfected patients unclear. The need to provide most sensitive tools to diagnose drug resistant TB.  It is time to encourage new treatment initiatives that appear to be highly active against TB (including MDR TB) and require shorter periods of treatment. MDR TB (Multi drug resistant TB) accounts for about 1% of new TB cases. India needs to scale up Genexperts (tests to diagnose drug resistant TB). Though treatable, the treatment process takes up to 2 years and is considerably more expensive and toxic.  There is a lack of an honest assessment of the TB situation in India. Instead of sticking to the message of ending TB by 2025, the focus should be more on the progress made so far and keep a check on what is not working and come up with a plan and strategy. Without transparent accounting there is no way to make the improvements that are needed.  Could Covid-19 pandemic and its consequences derail India’s target of ending tuberculosis by 2025? As the coronavirus Covid-19 pandemic sweeps across India with cases and mortality increasing every day, we as a community working to mitigate tuberculosis (TB) are apprehensive what pandemic will do to tuberculosis (TB). No doubt, Covid-19 will adversely affect all routine health services everywhere, but TB services might be one of the biggest casualties. Firstly, with incidence of TB in India in 2019 accounting for 2.7 million cases and TB and HIV co-infection of 5.4%, we are looking at a significant impact to TB resources at various levels as resources are diverted to Covid-19 and the epidemic ramps up. So, TB diagnosis will be delayed. This can cause spike in TB incidence. Secondly, due to damage to their lungs by TB are they more susceptible to severe damage and negative effects of Covid 19 is again a very difficult question to answer as there is no data yet. So what do we do? Everyone working with TB has the window of opportunity to be proactive about mitigating the damage. Otherwise, we will end up seeing huge increases in TB mortality in the coming months. Focusing solely on Covid-19 can damage the very fragile gains we have in TB. So, we must ensure programs and care for people are not interrupted or affected. (The writer is a pediatric consultant)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/challenges-in-dealing-with-tuberculosis-1063678.html
23-12-2021||Panorama||A new round of Centre-state acrimony over the dam safety bill||Parliament recently passed the Dam Safety Bill 2019, after much resistance from the opposition parties. Though the bill was passed by the Lok Sabha in August 2019, it was approved only earlier this month in the Rajya Sabha during the just-ended winter session. With this, India, for the first time, has a law for the safety of its dams. Despite having the third-highest number of large dams in the world — after the United States and China — India did not have an exclusive law for their safety. Though the central government first initiated the process to make such a law way back in 1986, it faced several hurdles. The bill was first introduced in Parliament in 2010 and sent to a Parliamentary Standing Committee. The bill was modified and placed in the House, but it lapsed due to the dissolution of the 15th Lok Sabha. A fresh bill was introduced in the Lok Sabha in 2019. India has 5,745 large dams in the country, of which about 80% are over 25 years old. Some 227 dams that are over 100 years old are still functional. Though India's track record in dam safety is good, there have been instances of failure as well. According to Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, some 40 dams have collapsed since Independence. In 1979, the collapse of the Machchhu dam in Gujarat caused the death of thousands of people. The recent case of breach of the Annamayya dam (Andhra Pradesh) in November 2021 left some 20 people dead. The bill provides for surveillance, inspection, operation and maintenance of all the large dams in the country so as to prevent disasters related to dam failure. It has a provision for an institutional mechanism at both central and state levels to ensure the safe functioning of dams. A National Committee on Dam Safety (NCDS) will be constituted at the central level which will be headed by the Chairman, Central Water Commission, and will have representatives from both the central and state governments. A National Dam Safety Authority (NDSA) will be set up to ensure the nationwide implementation of dam safety policies and standards evolved by the NCDS. At the state level, it provides for State Dam Safety Organisations (SDSOs), whose functions include conducting perpetual surveillance, inspections and monitoring of dams. A State Committee on Dam Safety will supervise state dam rehabilitation programmes as well as review the work of the SDSOs. The bill applies to all dams constructed before or after the commencement of this Act that are more than 15 metres high, or between 10 metres to 15 metres. They should also satisfy any of the particular design conditions. The conditions are: 1) The length of the crest should not be less than 500 metres; 2) The capacity of the reservoir formed by the dam should not be less than one million cubic metres; 3) The maximum flood discharge dealt with by the dam should not be less than 2,000 cubic metres per second; 4) The dam should have difficult foundation problems; 5) The dam must be of unusual design. The bill also has a clause for punishment in case of violations. Anybody found obstructing any officer of the central or the state government, or a person authorised by the National Committee or the Authority or the State Committee in the discharge of their functions under this Act, or refuses to comply with any direction given by them, will face maximum two years in jail and a fine, or both. However, the opposition parties, including Congress, the TMC and the DMK, demanded that the bill be sent to a parliamentary select committee for further scrutiny. They argued that since water comes under the State List, it is an unconstitutional decision by the Centre to take control of the dams in the states. In Tamil Nadu, all political parties and the state government are opposed to the bill. According to them, the bill violates the rights of the state, especially in connection with the reservoirs constructed by it in neighbouring states. The southern state's main concerns are that once the Act comes into force, the state will lose its control on dams and ownership of assets. DMK leader Tiruchi Siva says the bill encroaches upon the states' rights as the states have the power to make laws with regard to water supply, drainage or embankment. Shaktisinh Gohil of the Congress, a Rajya Sabha MP, says, "the current bill does not guarantee any power to the states. It seeks to snatch the powers of the states." Union Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat counters the allegation by saying that the bill will ensure a proper dam safety institutional framework on many issues including pre- and post-monsoon inspections, and address shortcomings in design, construction, operation and maintenance of dams. Jal Shakti ministry officials said the Constitution allows Parliament to make laws on subjects in the State List if two or more states pass resolutions requiring such a law. Andhra Pradesh and West Bengal had passed resolutions in 2007 demanding a dam safety legislation, regulated by an Act of Parliament. The officials said the Centre will not take control of any dam. The national-level bodies like NCDS and NDSA will focus only on safety issues of dams owned by one state but situated in another state. The safety of dams inside an individual state will be addressed by the State Committee on Dam Safety (SCDS). Though 92% of the major dams are on inter-state rivers, most of them are built, owned and operated by the respective state governments. Whether the new law will lead to better maintenance of dams or open the flood gates of legal disputes remains to be seen. DHNS||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/a-new-round-of-centre-state-acrimony-over-the-dam-safety-bill-1063698.html
23-12-2021||Panorama||Elon Musk and chips in human brains||Time magazine made Tesla billionaire Elon Musk its person of the year for 2021, a decision widely criticised by several critics. There’s no denying that Musk has had a profound influence on the events of the year. He could make the cryptocurrencies dance to his tune, his SpaceX wants to land humans on Mars by 2026. And Neuralink, cofounded by Musk in 2016, is developing a chip that would be implanted in people’s to simultaneously record and stimulate brain activity. It is intended to restore full-body functionality to persons having serious spinal cord injuries and neurological disorders. “As users think about moving their arms or hands, we would decode those intentions, which would be sent over Bluetooth to the user’s computer,” Neuralink’s webpage says. In its first demonstration in August 2020 on a pig named Gertrude, Neuralink showcased a preliminary coin-sized device: “It’s like a Fitbit in your skull with tiny wires,” Musk said. In fact, Musk hyped up by saying Neuralink will “show neurons firing in real-time.” Then, in April 2021, Neuralink demonstrated a macaque monkey having two brain chips implanted in the motor cortex, to coordinate hand and arm movement. Eventually, the monkey was able to play a video game (move a cursor to where he wanted) solely with his mind – without touching the joystick! During a recent live-streamed interview at The Wall Street Journal CEO Council Summit, Musk said that Neuralink aims to begin testing brain chips in humans in 2022. It would involve “bridging signals between existing neurons,” Musk tweeted. Of course, the first challenge is to get the United States FDA’s (Food and Drug Administration) regulatory approval for conducting such a human trial. Neuralink’s ultimate goal is to create a brain-machine interface where human consciousness and machine intelligence converge into one. Musk thinks that the technology could develop into a full brain interface in just 25 years, which would enable ‘symbiosis’ between humans and artificial intelligence – one wouldn’t need to talk to command. Brain-chip-interfaces are hybrid entities where chips and nerve cells establish a close physical interaction allowing the transfer of information in one or both directions. While Elon Musk’s Neuralink got tremendous publicity in the media, interestingly enough, a 20-person biotech firm called Synchron has already obtained FDA approval in July to begin a human trial of its brain chips! Well, what’s the future of human beings? In the American science fiction TV series of the 1970s ‘The Six Million Dollar Man’, based on Martin Caidin’s 1972 novel ‘Cyborg’, the opening phrase by Oscar Goldman was: “Gentlemen, we can rebuild him. We have the technology. We have the capability to make the world’s first bionic man... Better than he was before. Better – stronger – faster.” Incidentally, ‘cyborg’ is a portmanteau of ‘cybernetic’ and ‘organism’ – in science fiction, it’s a being that is part human and part machine, or a machine that looks like a human being. And DS Halacy’s 1965 book ‘Cyborg: Evolution of the Superman’ spoke of a bridge... between mind and matter. Well, as one might anticipate, chip implants have already triggered big debates on privacy, legal, technical, professional, medical, security, political, and religious issues in different corners of the world. The title of a USA Today article in August 2017 was: “You will get chipped – eventually”. And it’s not only brain chips. A September 2018 article in The Atlantic focused on how microchip implants are going from tech-geek novelty to genuine health tool, and one might be running out of good reasons to say ‘no’. Its uses are likely to be expanded from storing medical information to families tracking relatives suffering from severe dementia. A lot of issues regarding cybersecurity and privacy would certainly keep us haunted. Still, “we are already a cyborg to some degree,” Elon Musk believes. And that may not be completely baseless! Whenever I think about chip implantation in the brain, ‘Data’, the anatomically fully functional android of Star Trek, set in the 24th century, peeps into my imagination. An emotion chip created for Data was mistakenly implanted in Lore – Data’s brother, instead. Data’s desire to achieve humanity, however, continues. After acquiring it from Lore, Data began using the emotion chip a few years later. And he would experience fear for the first time. Later Data even removed the chip completely in situations where emotions would be a hindrance. So, the possibilities are limitless! And new real-life sci-fi would keep on unfolding and mutating to create cyborgs of the day after tomorrow! (The writer is a professor at Indian Statistical Institute, Kolkata)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/elon-musk-and-chips-in-human-brains-1063995.html
23-12-2021||Right in the Middle||A prayer for our carols||As most Christians get busyin the final run-up to Christmas, my mind harks back to our first outdoor carol singing experience in the late 70s. One chilly, December evening, the idea was conceived and we teenagers jumped at it. Gerry was a guitarist, Ronny had a tambourine and the rest of us, knowing some of the traditional carols, decided to lend our voices. The stoutest in our gang, Monty, was coaxed to don the role of Santa Claus — red gown, artificial white beard et al. Without a single day’s practice but with immense enthusiasm, we decided to form a group and go singing house-to-house the next day. Nothing like taking the festive spirit of peace and cheer to people’s homes and being part of the spirit and frenzy. What’s more, we’d be rewarded.  We were eleven, six boys and five girls. The youngest carried the money box, she was delighted to do so. Our first port of call was a colonial bungalow in Richards Town. No sooner did we start singing than two Alsatians came bounding towards the gate. Their loud and incessant barks not only drowned our carols but drove us away. Undaunted by the unforeseen opening encounter, we went to the next house. When we began with “Silent Night, Holy Night” the house plunged into darkness. Perhaps, a ploy to send us away? A trifle annoyed, we continued singing in raised voices but when nobody came out, we moved on. It was cold but we received a heart-warming reception from the residents of some houses in the next street.  They not only welcomed us with a smile but expressed their gladness and joined us in singing, not forgetting to drop a few rupees generously in the money box. It was past 10 p.m. and since we had covered about a dozen houses, we decided to call it a night. The next evening was truly wonderful and rewarding. Much to our surprise, even the Hindu and Muslim families welcomed us warmly to listen to our carols. In fact, we were even cheered for an encore! Given our limited repertoire, we repeated some of the carols in an impromptu medley! A Parsi family didn’t want us to stand in the cold and invited us indoors, offering us cake at the end of our singing. Another family served us traditional Christmas goodies and wine in gratitude for regaling them with carols. But it was a septuagenarian couple that took the cake.  Regretting they were a bit under the weather and unable to offer us anything, they lit two candles and recited a little prayer: “Dear Jesus, shower your blessings on these young people and their families during this season and all through the coming year.  May they live in peace and happiness all their lives.” What better reward than a prayer! Our two-day carol singing couldn’t have ended on a better note.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/a-prayer-for-our-carols-1063671.html
23-12-2021||Right in the Middle||A change of heart amid celebrations||It was a freezing Christmas morning in 1967. The sexton was busy cleaning up our local church near Munnar in preparation for the 8 am mass. As he bustled around broom swishing, he noticed two fledglings flopping around helplessly on the ground. They had fallen out of a sparrow’s nest from a ledge above. Back then sparrows were a nuisance in the church. Constantly squeaking, they flitted around during services, disturbing the congregation and the priest, sometimes even strafing them with their droppings. The impudent birds also bespattered the statues and other holy articles with impunity. Indeed Father Peter, the amiable parish priest, had tried hard to drive the pests away — short of keeping the church doors shut all the time. Yet, the sparrows found the interior of the church an ideal nesting place, safe from predators and the elements, and had a free run of the premises. Now with the Xmas mass coming up soon, the dutiful sexton felt something must be done to keep out the intrusive pests — they had often soiled his own spotless white shirts. Why not string up the fledglings to scare away the other sparrows? It was an old farmers’ ploy to keep birds away from their crops. Even as the sexton mulled over this, doubt troubled him. Then he felt a hand on his shoulder. It was Father Peter who seemed to have read his thoughts. “Get a ladder and put those fledglings back in their nest,” he said softly but firmly. The sexton was bewildered but did as he was told. I was not aware of this when I attended the Christmas mass that morning. As a precaution, I carried two big hankies to mop myself with in case the sparrows targeted me — as they had in the past. However, I found them mysteriously subdued during the mass — far less exuberant than they usually were. Had the solemnity of the occasion somehow dawned on them, I wondered. Stopping by to wish Father Peter after the mass, I remarked about the surprising restraint shown by the sparrows. He then narrated what had happened before the mass, how he had sensed the sexton’s plan and nipped it in the bud. Obviously, the return of the fledglings, unharmed, had mellowed the sparrows. Then it struck me. The spirit of peace, goodwill and tolerance that Christmas symbolises had prevailed — on both sides.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/a-change-of-heart-amid-celebrations-1063994.html
23-12-2021||Second Edit||Central Asia, Iran key to helping Afghans||It is becoming increasingly evident that India’s outreach to Afghanistan will focus on a regional approach that includes Iran and the five Central Asian States of Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, and Uzbekistan. At the third India-Central Asia dialogue that New Delhi hosted on Sunday, the foreign ministers of India and the Central Asian States worked on forging a broad consensus on Afghan issues. Sunday’s meeting came just a little over a month after the national security advisers of the Central Asian States and Iran were hosted in Delhi for a regional security dialogue. As in November, at Sunday’s meeting, the foreign ministers stressed commitment to the formation of “a truly representative and inclusive government” in Afghanistan, and agreed that combating terrorism and drug trafficking, providing immediate humanitarian aid, and preserving the rights of women, children and minorities are priorities. All six countries are deeply concerned over terror groups operating out of Afghan soil. Importantly, the six countries are on the same page with regard to trade via Iran’s Chabahar port. With India’s aid to Afghanistan via Pakistan yet to overcome obstacles that Islamabad continues to raise, it is evident that goods whether headed to Afghanistan or beyond to the Central Asian States will have to take the overland route via Iran. India has done well to step up its engagement of Central Asia as part of its Afghan strategy. It cannot afford to wait endlessly for Pakistan to open the overland route. On Sunday, even as India met with the Central Asian foreign ministers, Islamabad hosted an extraordinary conference of member-states of the Organisation of Islamic Countries (OIC). Although the Islamabad meeting did not see any country pledging aid, the president of the Islamic Development Bank came up with several financing proposals, which should help countries extend support to Afghans without having to deal directly with the Taliban. Afghans are in urgent need of humanitarian assistance and any further delay in getting across food and medicines to the Afghan people could cost heavily in terms of human lives. India is thus frustrated at not being able to get across aid via the shortest overland route through Pakistan. But there is an option – the route via Iran, which India must use immediately. Four of the five Central Asian States are engaging the Taliban at the ministerial level. Delhi must leverage its connections with the Taliban regime to get food and medicines across to the Afghan people. Cooperating and coordinating strategies over Afghanistan with Iran and the Central Asian States will pave the way for a greater Indian presence in Central Asia.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/central-asia-iran-key-to-helping-afghans-1063668.html
23-12-2021||South||In a big jump, 33 more Omicron cases in Tamil Nadu||Tamil Nadu on Thursday reported a massive spike in the number of people infected with Omicron variant with genomic sequencing of samples of 33 patients, including those with no travel history, confirming that they have been infected with the “variant of concern.” With this, the number of Covid-19 patients detected with the Omicron variant has gone up to 34, making Tamil Nadu the third state with the highest number of cases following Delhi and Maharashtra. Of the 34 patients, 23 are admitted to the King Institute, four in Madurai, two in Tiruvannamalai, and one in Salem.  One person from Kerala has also tested positive for the Omicron variant, while three patients were discharged from the King Institute on Thursday after treatment. Briefing reporters about the fresh cases, Health Minister Ma Subramanian said that as many as 18,129 persons who returned from foreign countries, including 2,870 persons from “non-risk countries”, were tested on their arrival and the RT-PCR samples of 114 of them returned positive.  While those from “high-risk countries” are subjected to compulsory RT-PCR tests, 2 per cent random sampling is done among those returning from “mon-risk countries.” “The State Public Health Laboratory at the Directorate of Public Health (DPH) detected S-gene dropout in 57 samples and they were sent to the Union Government for genomic analysis. As per communication from NIV, Pune, 33 samples were found to be infected with Omicron variant,” Subramanian said.   Principal Secretary (Health) J Radhakrishnan said of the 33 fresh cases, 15 returned from foreign countries, 14 of their contacts, while the remaining four did not have any travel history. The samples of the four persons were sent for genomic sequencing as the SPHL detected S-gene dropout.  Subramanian and Radhakrishnan said that the Omicron patients are “either asymptomatic or have slight symptoms” and appealed to the people not to panic. “While there is no reason to panic, we should remember to wear a face mask and maintain physical distance. People who aren’t vaccinated yet should get jabbed immediately,” Radhakrishnan said.  With the state reporting a massive spike in Omicron cases, Chief Minister M K Stalin has called for a meeting of medical experts on Friday to discuss the situation. Chief Secretary V Irai Anbu held a video conferencing with district collectors on Thursday to assess the situation.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/in-a-big-jump-33-more-omicron-cases-in-tamil-nadu-1063801.html
23-12-2021||South||Omicron creates hurdle in lawyer couple's wedding, Kerala HC allows it online||The Kerala High Court has come to the aid of a lawyer couple, one of them in the UK, by permitting the online solemnisation of their marriage as the groom was unable to come here due to the Omicron related travel restrictions. When 25-year old lawyer Rintu Thomas and her fiance -- Anantha Krishnan Harikumaran Nair -- decided to get married more than a month ago, they never thought the latest Covid-19 variant Omicron could put a spanner in the works. Nair, who is in the UK for higher studies, had booked tickets to come to India on December 22 for the wedding scheduled on December 23, but due to the worldwide Omicron outbreak he was not in a position to travel. In these circumstances, Thomas moved the high court seeking a direction to the state of Kerala and the Marriage Officer, in the Sub-Registrar's office at Malayinkeezhu in Thiruvananthapuram, to permit them to conduct their marriage via virtual or online mode. According to her plea, they had given notice of the intended union on November 11 as per the requirements of the Special Marriage Act which mandates a 30-day notice period before the wedding. Providing relief to the couple, Justice N Nagaresh said that during the pandemic when parties to a marriage could not appear in person before the Marriage Officer, the high court had permitted online solemnisation of their weddings. "I find no reason to deny the benefit extended to other parties to the petitioner and her fiance," the judge said. The court directed the Marriage Officer to solemnise the couple's marriage or register the marriage, as the case may be, through online mode subject to the conditions that the witnesses will be physically present before the official and shall identify the parties who are online. It said that the Marriage Officer shall fix the date and time of the marriage as well as the online platform to be used and shall convey the same to the parties in advance. The court also directed the Marriage Officer to comply with its directions as expeditiously as possible on completion of the statutory formalities Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/omicron-creates-hurdle-in-lawyer-couples-wedding-kerala-hc-allows-it-online-1063890.html
23-12-2021||South||Five more cases of Omicron in Kerala; tally rises to 29||Five more persons were tested positive for Omicron variant of Covid-19 in Kerala on Thursday, taking the total number to 29. Among those tested positive on Thursday included a person who came from Bengaluru to Kozhikode. Kerala Health Minister Veena George said that among the 29 found infected so far, 17 persons came from high-risk countries and 10 from low-risk countries. Two got infected through contacts. Two persons, aged 28 and 24 who arrived from the United Kingdom, a 35-year-old person who came from Albania and another one from Nigeria were those found infected in Ernakulam, she said in a statement. Those confirmed with the virus infection in Ernakulam reached the state on December 15, 19 and 20.  While the Pathanamthitta native reached from Nigeria on December 14 and was found positive after four days during home quarantine, the man from Bengaluru airport reached Kerala on December 19. The new variant was confirmed in the examination of their samples conducted at Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology here after they turned Covid positive. All of the infected were under treatment in hospitals and their contact list is being prepared, she added. The state had detected its first Omicron case on December 12 in Ernakulam district when a person who had returned from the UK tested positive. The total active Covid cases in the state is now 26,605. (With inputs from PTI) Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/five-more-cases-of-omicron-in-kerala-tally-rises-to-29-1063919.html
23-12-2021||South||In Kerala, church and temple celebrate Christmas together||Kerala, which is known for communal harmony, has yet another story to tell - the temple offering reception to carol of a nearby church and the church offering reception to temple's festival procession. The rituals being carried out over the last several decades is indeed strengthening the communal bonding in the region. The Sreekrishna Swami Temple and St. George Orthodox church at Trikkannamangalam near Kottarakkara in the suburbs of Kollam district in south Kerala is sending the message of communal harmony. The temple and church are situated within a distance of around 500 metres. This year's carol service was on last Sunday. When the carol team reached in front of the temple, the temple authorities offered a reception by lighting traditional lamps. The carol party also offered prayers in front of the temple. A large number participated in the event. Similarly, during the temple's annual festival that happens in May, the church would offer a reception to the procession when it reaches near the church. The church also used to offer a floral umbrella for the temple festival. The temple committee president KK Jayamohan told DH that this practice has been there for many decades. Due to Covid last year's carol and last year's and this year's temple festival could not be conducted. Parish priest Father Spencer Koshy said that he took charge of the parish only a few months back. He came to know from the parish members about the practice of carol being offered reception at the temple. The people of the region were wholeheartedly taking part in the event.  In many parts of Kerala temples, churches and mosques are situated closely. People used to actively get involved in the festivals of all worship centres irrespective of their religion. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/in-kerala-church-and-temple-celebrate-christmas-together-1063931.html
23-12-2021||South||TN govt grants one month parole to Rajiv Gandhi assassination convict Nalini||The Tamil Nadu government on Thursday granted one-month parole to Nalini Sriharan, one of the seven convicts in the assassination case of former Prime Minister, Rajiv Gandhi. The parole came after repeated requests from her ailing mother Padma. State Special Public Prosecutor, Hassan Mohammed Jinnah informed the Madras High Court on Thursday that the state government has granted one month ordinary parole to Nalini who was lodged in Vellore Special Prison for Women. His response came as Padma's petition for parole of her daughter came up before a bench of Justices P.N. Prakash and R. Hemalatha. Recording the submission of the Special Public Prosecutor, the division bench closed the petition of Padma, according to her lawyer, M. Radhakrishnan. Nalini will be staying at a rented accommodation at Satuvachery in Vellore under tight police security with her mother Padma, her sister Kalyani and her brother Bakianathan just like she did while she got parole in 2019. The Tamil Nadu cabinet had in 2018 recommended the release of Nalini and her fellow convicts but the Governor did not clear the file. She and other convicts in Rajiv Gandhi assassination case have filed a petition in Madras High Court to release them without the consent of the Governor and it is also pending before the court. Nalini, along with her husband Sriharan, who is a Sri Lankan national, has been under imprisonment three weeks after the assassination of Rajiv Gandhi on May 21, 1991, at Sriperumbudur. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tn-govt-grants-one-month-parole-to-rajiv-gandhi-assassination-convict-nalini-1063933.html
23-12-2021||South||Social media for some is unrestrained playground of their wildest predilections: Kerala HC||Social media is good in the hands of the worthy but for some, it is "an unrestricted playground of their wildest predilections", the Kerala High Court said on Thursday and added that while freedom of speech and expression was a "valuable" right, some "misuse it to the extreme". The observations by Justice Devan Ramachandran came while referring to the social media posts of a former judicial officer who made "disrespectful" and "vitriolic" comments about the orders passed by the high court in relation to the investigation against self-styled antiques dealer Monson Mavunkal. The former judicial officer had also made personal attacks against the judge, the court noted. Justice Ramachandran said subsequently he asked the former judicial officer to appear before the court and inform it where it was going wrong, instead of immediately initiating action against him under the Contempt of Courts Act. However, the former judicial officer did not appear before the court, prompting it to say, during the hearing, that he was a "coward". "The tragedy with present days is that busy bodies feel that they can vitriolically say and comment about anything on social media under the impression that no accountability will come to them." "Social media is good in the hands of the good and worthy. But for some it is an unrestrained playground of their wildest predilections," the court said. The high court subsequently, in its order, noted that after the former judicial officer was asked to appear before it, he "responded" by again "ridiculing" the court and "calling it fascist". It also noted that the High Court Registry found that he had also put up posts projecting himself as a martyr and threatening to harm himself. "The scenario is, thus, clear. The mindset of this individual is nihilistic and I, therefore, close this opportunity of hearing to him, recognising that he will have nothing worthwhile to say," Justice Ramachandran said. He further said that free speech was a "key to the intellect" and the power of expression was "the most valuable and powerful facet of human existence", but a few "misuse the freedom to its extreme". The court said that it was the actions of such persons which "compels" even the right thinking citizens to seek regulation of the online space. Justice Ramachandran said the only punishment he can offer the former judicial officer for his "wanton utterances" was to treat the same as inconsequential and "deny him his 15 minutes of fame". With these observations, the court dismissed the summons it had issued to the former judicial officer and directed the High Court Registry to take requisite action as per law, on the compilation made by it of his posts, after obtaining necessary orders from the Chief Justice. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/social-media-for-some-is-unrestrained-playground-of-their-wildest-predilections-kerala-hc-1063950.html
23-12-2021||South||International tag to Madurai Airport: Scindia, MP slug it out on Twitter||The demand to declare Madurai Airport as an international terminal has triggered a war of words between Union Civil Aviation Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia and Su Venkatesan, the CPI (M) Lok Sabha MP from the temple city. Even though Madurai Airport caters to international travellers from over half-a-dozen districts in the southern region, people in southern Tamil Nadu have been demanding to make it function as an around-the-clock airport handling both domestic and international operations. Lawmakers from the region met Scindia with the demand. The war of words began on Wednesday after Venkatesan, an acclaimed writer and winner of the Sahitya Akademi award, took to Twitter to allege that Scindia opined that the demand for the fourth (international) airport in Madurai for Tamil Nadu is not justified since (many) north Indian states have only one international airport. “The GST paid by TN last year is higher than those collectively paid by 21 states and UTs. We are right and justified in demanding not just 4 but even 14 for our state,” Venkatesan wrote, triggering an instant outrage with several accusing the Centre of “giving too much” to northern states while ignoring their counterparts in the south.  Hours later, Scindia expressed shock at Venkatesan’s statement and termed it as a “misrepresentation of facts”. Explaining the issue in detail, Scindia said some states in both north and south India (like UP and Kerala) have more than one international airport. Shocked & disappointed by the gross misrepresentation of facts here. “Secondly, the decision to grant international status to an existing airport is dependent on several factors, including passenger demand and proximity to other international airports in the State. The Govt. is open to proposals for new airports in any part of the country. In fact, we aim at multiplying the current number of airports in India,” the minister said.  In fact, international flights are currently operational at Madurai airport. So, the MP’s insistence over according international status to the airport is incomprehensible, Scindia added.  In a statement issued on Thursday, Venkatesan sought to know from Scindia why he was refusing to attach the international tag to Madurai Airport.  “The problem lies therein. When we met him in person, the Minister asserted that there was no way of making Madurai an international airport because Tamil Nadu already has three international airports and several states in north India had only one. He said that at least five Chief Ministers were demanding second international airports and their demands were still not met,” Venkatesan said.  He also said one is at a loss in trying to understand his argument, why should name matter as the city of Madurai has international air connectivity. Venkatesan also said the number of passengers who flew aboard from Madurai last year was larger than the number of passengers who flew out from the two international airports in Uttar Pradesh — Varanasi and Kushinagar.  “Further, the number of passengers who flew out from Madurai to several international destinations are higher than those who flew out from 11 of the 21 international airports across the country. Madurai continues to rank first in the number of international passengers among the 10 customs airports announced by the Union Aviation Ministry,” Venkatesan added.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/international-tag-to-madurai-airport-scindia-mp-slug-it-out-on-twitter-1063973.html
23-12-2021||South||Stalin launches CM Dashboard for faster governance||Water storage levels in key reservoirs in the state, rainfall patterns, daily police report of major crimes, progress of housing for the urban and rural poor, and healthcare-related information. These are some of the crucial data that have been made available in the first batch on the Chief Minister’s Dashboard which was inaugurated on Thursday.  Chief Minister M K Stalin will be able to get details on the above-mentioned projects and departments from a giant digital screen installed at his office in Fort St. George as part of the efforts to cut down on delays and take prompt decisions.  In the first batch, real-time data of departments of finance, revenue, education, industries, public works, water resources, police, and social welfare has been added to the dashboard. Projects, allocation of funds, gender-wise data, region-based data, and information regarding whether projects have been completed within the stipulated time frame will be available for the Chief Minister and his office anytime for monitoring.  The dashboard will allow the Chief Minister to monitor the project in real-time and issue necessary instructions if there is a delay in the implementation of a scheme or project. Officials said this is only the first batch of dashboards and more such dashboards will be added to the list on a weekly basis to enable the Chief Minister to have “full knowledge and coordinative control of the functioning of all departments.”  “In order to give a transparent, capable and responsive governance to the people, I wanted accurate field reports on a daily basis for which I had discussed with many experts. The dashboard is the best way to access information on a real-time basis using technology. Through this, we can also find out where there is a delay between scheme announcement and implementation,” Stalin said in a video message.  Officials told DH that the CM Dashboard combines data informatics and artificial intelligence to bring about a massive change in the way things are monitored by those at the helm of the government.  Director-General of Police (DGP) Sylendra Babu said the dashboard will serve as a “great tool” to address the grievances of the people and correct them immediately and streamline the administration of the state.  Dr Darez Ahamed, Mission Director, National Health Mission, Tamil Nadu, said the dashboard on the health department covers maternal mortality, infant mortality, live births, abortions, teenage pregnancies, anaemia during pregnancies and immunization coverage. “When these important features are visualized through this dashboard, the different departments involved in maternal and child health will work towards a single goal of improving the service delivery of mother and child health care. The dashboard will also contain details of the insurance scheme like claims submitted and discharges,” Ahmed said. Senior bureaucrat Shilpa Prabhakar, Secretary, Chief Minister’s Address Department, said since the CM dashboard has been linked with the existing IPGCMS (CM Helpline) dashboard, the Chief Minister will be able to monitor the status of grievance redressal on a day-to-day basis.  “Through this dashboard, the Chief Minister can view details of district-wise and department-wise details of the disposal of petitions. The details will be convenient to analyse the changes that need to be made to policy and which region needs more importance,” Prabhakar said.  Stalin, who assumed office on May 7, has been stressing about using technology to infuse more transparency in government functioning. The government for the first time presented an e-budget and is now spending crores of rupees on setting up e-offices which will enable files to be checked and signed digitally.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/stalin-launches-cm-dashboard-for-faster-governance-1063981.html
23-12-2021||South||Andhra CM Jagan launches industrial projects in Kadapa district||Andhra Pradesh chief minister Jaganmohan Reddy inaugurated an industrial hub and an electronics manufacturing cluster at Kopparthi in his home district YSR Kadapa on Thursday. Reddy has also laid the foundation stone for Century Plyboards' new and “largest integrated wood panel manufacturing plant” at Gopavaram. The plant would be the company's “largest globally, for which an investment of Rs 956 crore is planned in three phases. The unit is expected to generate 2,226 direct jobs and “many more indirect jobs.” Century Ply would purchase the raw material directly from the local farmers. “I am confident that the project would help the backward Badvel region emerge as a hub for wood-based industries, ancillary units, and thereby growth of transportation and logistics services. These activities would generate employment for local youth and communities thereby improving their living standards,” Reddy said. The YSR EMC and YSR Jagananna Mega Industrial Hub projects were initiated in August 2019. Speaking at Kopparthi, the Chief Minister said, “Our government is highly committed to promoting industries and in the last one year alone, we have approved 14 megaprojects with investment intent of Rs 29,458 crore, and the potential to create 60 thousand jobs. Apart from this, 53 big projects are under active implementation with a total investment of Rs 33,162 crore and potential to create employment for 81,068 people.” Reddy is on a three-day visit to Kadapa to inaugurate a few industrial, welfare and development projects. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-cm-jagan-launches-industrial-projects-in-kadapa-district-1063986.html
23-12-2021||South||Tearful adieu to Congress MLA P T Thomas||Congress MLA in Kerala P T Thomas, who died on Wednesday due to cancer, was laid to rest. Thousands of people paid last respects to Thomas who was known for his bold stands and simplicity. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan were among those who paid homages. The three-time MLA and a Lok Sabha MP for one term, Thomas had faced protest even from church heads of his home district Idukki as he insisted on implementing the Madhav Gadgil panel report on Western Ghats protection. The agitators had even conducted a symbolic funeral of Thomas then. As per Thomas's wish, his funeral was held without any rituals or floral tributes and a popular Malayalam song was played though out the funeral procession. The body was cremated at public crematorium in Kochi with state honours. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tearful-adieu-to-congress-mla-p-t-thomas-1064034.html
23-12-2021||South||Fresh row erupts over demand to rename Hyderabad||A fresh row has erupted over the demand for renaming Hyderabad as 'Bhagyanagar' after a Central minister said that there should be no objection to the move. Union Minister of State for Railways, Raosaheb Danve, said on Wednesday that there should be no objection to rechristening Hyderabad as Bhagyanagar. He justified the demand after the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) referred Hyderabad as Bhagyanagar while announcing a three-day meeting here in the first week of January 2022. The meeting is planned to review the working of affiliated organisations and preparations for the upcoming Assembly elections scheduled to take place in five states early next year. "The Samanvay Baithak (coordination meeting) of the chief functionaries of various organisations inspired by the RSS working in different areas of social life will be held from January 5-7 at Bhagyanagar, Telangana," the RSS had tweeted on December 21. The tweet reignited the debate on the demand to rename Hyderabad. Several BJP leaders defended the demand and pointed out that they have been using Bhagyanagar for a long time. Ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) leaders alleged that the BJP wants to do divisive politics by demanding the change of name of Hyderabad. "Hyderabad has Ganga Jamuni Tehzeeb, but BJP wants to disturb this by raking up such issues," said TRS leader K. Krishan. He alleged that the BJP is not bothered about development and only talks of changing the name of cities, dress or eating habits to do politics. He recalled that BJP had also raised the demand during the elections to Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) last year. While campaigning for GHMC polls, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath had called for changing the name of Hyderabad. "Some people were asking me if Hyderabad can be renamed as Bhagyanagar. I said why not. I told them that we renamed Faizabad as Ayodhya and Allahabad as Prayagraj after the BJP came to power in Uttar Pradesh. Then why can't Hyderabad be renamed as Bhagyanagar," Yogi had asked. The All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM), a key political force in Hyderabad, is strongly opposed to the demand. AIMIM chief and Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi has said that the entire generation of those who want to rename Hyderabad will end, but even then the city's name will not change. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/fresh-row-erupts-over-demand-to-rename-hyderabad-1064057.html
23-12-2021||State||DH Toon | 'Let's raise a toast!': The (anti-conversion) bill is on us!||The controversial anti-conversion bill was introduced in the Karnataka Assembly on Tuesday, angering the Congress whose legislators went up in arms accusing the BJP government of bringing it slyly without any prior notice.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/dh-toon-lets-raise-a-toast-the-anti-conversion-bill-is-on-us-1063772.html
23-12-2021||State||Karnataka health dept faces toss up between staffing jail hospitals or taking them over||The health department and prison department officials recently met to work on submitting two proposals to the government: one, for the health department to staff hospitals in central prisons and district prisons, while the facilities remain under the prison department so as to avoid administrative hurdles; two, for the health department to take over the prison hospitals. There are nine central prisons (eight for men and one for women), and 21 district prisons (13 of them have hospitals). Out of the 114 sanctioned posts for medical staff, 74 posts are yet to be filled. Health department officials said while the High Court (HC) has ordered that these posts be filled immediately, the state human rights commission (SHRC) is in favour of the department taking over the prison hospitals. The final call has to be taken by the state government. Health commissioner D Randeep told DH, “A joint meeting of the health and the prison departments was held on December 1. The way ahead was discussed. A decision will be taken after the legislature session in Belagavi. We will seek the government’s advice on either fully staffing prison hospitals with doctors and staff from the health and family welfare department or completely taking over the prison hospitals.” An official said, “While the HC talks about filling up vacant posts, the SHRC favours the takeover of hospitals, which requires the government’s approval.” There are around 15,000 inmates in the state’s prisons. Deputy inspector general of prisons Anand Reddy, who was part of the meeting, did not respond to DH’s calls. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-health-dept-faces-toss-up-between-staffing-jail-hospitals-or-taking-them-over-1064082.html
23-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka HC reserves order on pleas against online gaming ban||The High Court has reserved orders on a batch of petitions challenging the validity of the Karnataka Police Amendment Act, which seeks to regulate/ban online gaming activities. Reserving judgment, a division bench comprising Chief Justice Ritu Raj Awasthi and Justice Krishna S Dixit permitted the parties to submit their written submissions. Several petitions were filed challenging the state enactment. The petitioners claimed that games such as poker, chess, rummy, fantasy sports (including fantasy cricket, football and basketball), casual games and e-sports, are all games of skill and have been determined thus by various courts. Though some games involve risking money, none involve wagering and gambling. They said that skill games did not fall foul of the Police Act, prior to the introduction of the amending Act. Appearing for Federation of Indian Fantasy Sports (FIFS) senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi argued that the fantasy games promoted by the petitioner can no way come under the purview of amended provisions of the Karnataka Police Act.  Advocate General Prabhuling K Navadgi argued that fantasy games allow betting on the skill of third parties and amount to a game of chance. He said that the amendment has been introduced keeping in mind large-scale money laundering in the guise of online gaming activities. He also said that there is a possibility of real players being influenced by the amount involved in the form of stakes. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-hc-reserves-order-on-pleas-against-online-gaming-ban-1063733.html
23-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports 321 new Covid cases, four deaths||Karnataka on Wednesday reported 321 new Covid cases and four deaths, taking the total positive cases reported so far to 30,03,265 and the toll to 38,299. Bengaluru accounted for 211 cases and reported no deaths. Dakshina Kannada and Kodagu reported 20 cases each, Mysuru reported 19 cases and Uttara Kannada 13. Belagavi, Kolar, Kodagu and Dakshina Kannada accounted for one death each. The positivity rate for the day was 0.32%. While the state reported 253 discharges, Bengaluru accounted for 162 of them. As many as 97,897 tests were done on Wednesday. The active case count stands at 7,138 in the state. A total of 5,40,453 vaccine doses administered on Wednesday took the vaccination tally in the state to 8,38,48,315. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-321-new-covid-cases-four-deaths-1063734.html
23-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||21 state-run firms are under loss, says Karnataka minister||At least 21 out of 60 state-run undertakings are incurring losses, Public Enterprises Minister M T B Nagaraj told the Legislative Council on Wednesday. The loss-making companies are from the transport, irrigation, electricity supply and infrastructure sectors. All the four road transport corporations of the State and two electricity supply companies have incurred losses. In addition, state PSUs that are under loss, include KNNL, KHDCL, KRDCL, KSTDC, KFDCL and Shri Kanteerava Studio Limited. In his written reply to the Council, Nagaraj stated that the concerned departments are taking several measures to revive the loss-making PSUs. Some PSUs are still in the process of finalising the audit, while the question of loss does not apply to some of those firms which are totally service-oriented, he said. The Karnataka Evaluation Authority conducts the evaluation of such enterprises and training programmes are organised to improve the efficiency of the staff of such firms, he said in his response to a question by Congress MLC Prakash K Rathod. These 60 public enterprises have 1.94 lakh employees, the minister noted. With MysorePaper Mills (MPM) having an estimated loss of Rs 1,244 crore, its production units were stopped in 2015 itself. The government has decided that the MPM, which started in 1936, cannot be revived, and the process is on to hand over its operations to private operators on a contract basis, Industries Minister Murugesh Nirani said. He also added that forest areas under the MPM would not be handed over to private firms. Land acquired, allotted Nirani also said 4,607 acres of land were acquired for industrial purposes in different districts by the Karnataka Industrial Area Development Board (KIADB) in the last year. The KIADB has allotted a total of 532.79 acres of land to 273 entrepreneurs in the last three months. For the industrial areas in Bengaluru city, the KIADB has allotted 191.07 acres of land to 67 entrepreneurs in the last two years, Nirani told the Council, in his written reply to a query by Congress MLC M Narayanaswamy. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/21-state-run-firms-are-under-loss-says-karnataka-minister-1063738.html
23-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Deadlock over Upper Krishna Project-III may end early next year: Karnataka CM||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai informed the Assembly on Wednesday that the deadlock over the Upper Krishna Project-III will "most likely" end early next year. The long-pending UKP-III will increase the height of the Almatti dam from 519 to 524 metres. This requires acquiring 1.34 lakh acres. The project will irrigate 14.6 lakh acres in Vijayapura, Kalaburagi, Raichur, Yadgir, Gadag and Koppal districts. However, the project has moved at a snail’s pace as the Centre has not notified the 2013 award of the Krishna water disputes tribunal-II giving 177 tmcft to Karnataka, which plans to use 130 tmcft for irrigation. "After the tribunal award, Andhra Pradesh went to the Supreme Court, which asked the Centre not to issue a notification until the matter is settled. This was Andhra Pradesh's dispute with Maharashtra. Then, the Andhra-Telangana bifurcation happened," Bommai, a former water resources minister, explained in the Assembly during a debate on irrigation projects of north Karnataka. "After I became the CM, an early hearing happened. The SC has asked the Centre to specify its stand. In the next hearing (on January 10), the Centre will spell out its stand. We’re following it up closely. It's in the final stages. Most likely, there’ll be an outcome," he said. Bommai said Karnataka argued in the court citing Section 15 of the States Reorganisation Act. "Any dispute between two states - an earlier state with a new state - needs a separate tribunal and it’ll have nothing to do with earlier disputes. Telangana has already withdrawn its petition after our clarification. This has made our way smooth," he said. On Mahadayi, Bommai said Karnataka awaited necessary clearances from the Centre for the detailed project report. "But, ultimately, it depends on the SC," he said, adding that all three states - Karnataka, Maharashtra and Goa - have challenged the award of the Mahadayi tribunal. Earlier, former Congress minister M B Patil and former JD(S) chief minister H D Kumaraswamy spoke at length on the irrigation sector, especially UKP-III. "From 2013 till now, only 22,309 acres have been acquired. Imagine how long it'll take to acquire all 1.34 lakh acres if the same speed continues,” Kumaraswamy said, urging the BJP to mount pressure on its own party’s government at the Centre. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/deadlock-over-upper-krishna-project-iii-may-end-early-next-year-karnataka-cm-1063744.html
23-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Muslim woman in Karnataka wins custody of minor kid after her husband remarries||The Karnataka High Court has imposed a cost of Rs 50,000 on a man seeking custody of the child from his first marriage. The petitioner had moved the high court challenging the dismissal of his application before the family court. Justice Krishna S Dixit quoted a recent judgment of the division bench of the High Court of Karnataka that held that the act of a Muslim in espousing a second wife during the subsistence of first marriage per se amounts to cruelty and that not only the first wife can stay away from the matrimonial home but seek divorce too on that ground. The couple was married in April 2009 and stayed in Arizona in the US for some time. They had a male child in August 2013, and meanwhile, the husband, an employee with a multinational company, married another woman. He moved the family court seeking for dissolution of marriage in 2016. The petitioner has been residing with his second wife and the child begotten from her. The family court rejected the application for the custody of the child from his first marriage, however, accorded him visitation rights. He contended before the high court that he is in a better position to take care of the child from a financial perspective and can also give a complete family environment. Justice Krishna S Dixit noted that the petitioner’s wife has been bringing up the child single-handedly facing all the cases filed by her husband. The court had long interactions with the parties and the child and found that the child is being well-groomed by the mother. The court also noted that the child too wished to continue in the custody of the mother. “If the wife can stay away from the matrimonial home on the grounds of a second marriage, it goes without saying that she can normally retain the exclusive custody of her minor child. An argument to the contrary would permit an unscrupulous husband who contracts another marriage, to pressure his first wife to continue in the matrimonial home, eventually retaining the child in his exclusive custody,” the court said. The court directed the husband to pay Rs 50,000 cost amount to his first wife within a month and added that failure to pay would result in the suspension of all visitation rights granted by the family court. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/muslim-woman-in-karnataka-wins-custody-of-minor-kid-after-her-husband-remarries-1063746.html
23-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||123 crore pages of Karnataka revenue records to be digitised||There is a reason why the Revenue Department is known as the “mother of all departments”. What else can explain 2.38 crore files and registers lying in its offices across the state? Now, the government is looking into a proposal costing Rs 124 crore to scan and digitise each one of these files and registers — most of them pertaining to land — in order to preserve them. They are in the offices of tahsildars and assistant commissioners. Approximately, 123 crore pages of these revenue records will be scanned in order to prevent their destruction, if the government approves the project. It is estimated that it would cost Re 1 to scan each page. “The government has received a proposal costing Rs 124 crore to computerise, scan and digitise title documents in various revenue department offices. The proposal is under examination,” Revenue Minister R Ashoka said in a written reply in the Assembly. The government has already computerised records of rights, tenancy and crops (RTC) or pahani from 2001 onwards, Ashoka added. Authorities say scanning the files is important not only to preserve them, but also prevent creation of fake documents, which is the most common form of fraud in land transactions. In his proposal to the government, Commissioner of Survey, Settlement & Land Records Munish Moudgil said most of the receipts in the revenue department are to do with farmers’ lands, making it “inevitable” for records to be digitised. DH has accessed the proposal. So far, authorities have finished cataloguing and indexing 1.91 crore files and 7.63 lakh registers. But many are not catalogued and indexed. “Scanning preserves records and makes them readily available. Also, citizens can get them online,” Moudgil told DH. Once approved, the Revenue Department will join the list of other departments that have taken up similar projects to preserve records. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/123-crore-pages-of-karnataka-revenue-records-to-be-digitised-1063753.html
23-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka caps size of agricultural lands for sale||Karnataka has ordered that no agricultural land measuring less than 5 guntas, or 5,445 sq ft, can get a survey number. This means such small parcels can neither be bought nor sold.  This, authorities say, will help regulate the rampant sale of very small extents of agricultural lands around urban areas that end up becoming residential plots or “revenue sites”.  This is a serious issue in Bengaluru and other cities where small residential layouts have come up on small agricultural lands without the required land-use conversion -- from agricultural to non-agricultural purposes. In his order, Commissioner for Survey, Settlement & Land Records Munish Moudgil has fixed the minimum extent at five guntas in all districts except Kodagu, Dakshina Kannada, Udupi and Uttara Kannada where it is three guntas. DH had earlier reported that the government is sitting on this proposal since January 2018 to fix a minimum extent for a survey number of agricultural land.  The minimum extent will be applicable prospectively; it will not impact existing survey numbers. Also, inherited lands that are smaller than 5 guntas will be allowed. Plus, existing titleholders for lands measuring less than the minimum extent will remain valid.  The order has been issued as per Section 108 of the Karnataka Land Revenue Act, 1964, which mandates that no survey number should be created below a minimum limit fixed from time to time. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-caps-size-of-agricultural-lands-for-sale-1063848.html
23-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||A day after 2 back-to-back tremors, another earthquake in Chikkaballapur||A day after witnessing back-to-back earthquakes, Chikkaballapur taluk reported yet another earthquake at 2.16 pm on Thursday, with a magnitude of 3.6 on the Richter scale. The National Centre for Seismology said the tremors were reported at a depth of 18 km with the epicentre at Settigere. Tremors were also felt in the adjoining villages of Sadenahalli and Beeraganahalli. While the district administration clarified that it was a mild earthquake, the intensity was more than the two tremors (3.1 and 3.3) recorded in the taluk on Wednesday. Caught off guard, hundreds of villagers ran out of their houses and refused to go back inside, fearing that they may collapse. The Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSNDMC) said there was neither any damage nor casualty. “The intensity was moderate and the tremors may have been felt up to a radius of 20 to 30 km from the epicentre. This type of earthquake does not create any harm to the local community, although there may be slight shaking observed locally as the region falls under hard rock granitoid and gneissic terrain of seismic zone II. The community need not panic,” Manoj Rajan, director of KSNDMC, said. Rajan said, “This is hydroseismicity caused due to the monsoon. Some settlements might have taken place. We cannot tell the exact reason. Similar tremors have been reported in Chittoor of Andhra Pradesh as well. A team of scientists will visit Chikkaballapur and we will recommend the National Geophysical Research Institute to take up studies in the region.” Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/a-day-after-2-back-to-back-tremors-another-earthquake-in-chikkaballapur-1063869.html
23-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports 12 fresh Omicron cases; state tally at 31||Karnataka reported 12 new cases of Omicron on Thursday that took the state's tally to 31. While Mangaluru reported its first Omicron case with international travel history (that was so far beset with six cases of local transmission, all recovered), Mysuru reported the state's youngest Omicron patient aged nine years, who is a returnee from Switzerland. Bengaluru, which had just one Omicron patient waiting to be discharged from the hospital on Friday, saw 10 new cases. The Mangaluru Omicron patient, a 27-year-old Indian male traveller from Ghana who went to Dubai on December 15 with a negative report, is from Bengaluru. He landed at the Mangalore International Airport from Dubai on December 16. Though he was vaccinated with a dose of the Moderna vaccine less than a month ago on November 19 before his arrival, he tested positive on the day of his arrival on December 16. 12 new cases of Omicron have been confirmed in Karnataka today taking the tally to 31: His genomic sequencing results were received on December 22, a day before the state made it public on Thursday. Dakshina Kannada district surveillance officer Dr Jagadeesha said he was shifted in an ambulance from the airport to the district Wenlock hospital on the same day. The patient is asymptomatic and his vitals are stable. Twenty-six of his primary contacts were identified, out of whom 17 are from Dakshina Kannada, five from Udupi, one from Shivamogga, one from Chikkamagaluru, one from Uttara Kannada, and one from Mysuru. All 17 cases from Dakshina Kannada have been identified and have tested negative. Another 31-year-old Omicron patient in Bengaluru arrived from the UK with a negative report on December 17. As soon as he tested positive at the city's airport, he was shifted in an ambulance from the airport to Bowring hospital. Later, on his request, he was shifted to a private hospital the same day. The patient is asymptomatic and his vitals are stable. He has six primary contacts.  Another 42-year-old Omicron patient from Kerala arrived from the UK on December 17. As soon as he tested positive at the city's airport, he was shifted in an ambulance from the airport to Bowring Hospital. Later, on his request, he was shifted to a private hospital on the same day. The patient is asymptomatic and his vitals are stable. He has six primary contacts. Surprisingly, he had taken a third dose of the AstraZeneca vaccine on December 11. A 21-year-old Indian man travelled from the UK on December 17. Fully vaccinated, he was shifted in an ambulance from the airport to Bowring Hospital as soon as he tested positive on arrival on the same day. He is currently isolated at a private hospital in Kerala. The patient is asymptomatic and his vitals are stable. He has six primary contacts.  A 49-year-old Indian woman travelled from Denmark on December 17. A city woman, she tested positive on arrival. She had been vaccinated with two doses of Pfizer and had also received a booster shot of Moderna.  She was shifted in an ambulance from the airport to Bowring Hospital on the same day and further on request shifted to a private hospital. The patient is asymptomatic and her vitals are stable. She has six primary contacts.  An 11-year-old young girl had travelled from the UK on December 18. She is unvaccinated as there are no Covid vaccines available for her age group in India yet. She tested positive on arrival and was shifted in an ambulance from the airport to Bowring Hospital on the same day and further on request shifted to a private hospital.  The patient is asymptomatic and her vitals are stable. She has six primary contacts. A 59-year-old Indian woman travelled from Nigeria on December 17. Her sample was collected and her positive result was declared the following day on December 18. Fully vaccinated, she was shifted in an ambulance from the airport to Bowring Hospital on the same day and further on request shifted to a private hospital. The patient is asymptomatic and her vitals are stable. She has six primary contacts.  The youngest Omicron patient to be declared in the state so far, a nine-year-old Indian girl travelled from Switzerland via Abu Dhabi on December 19. A Mysurean, her sample was collected at the Bengaluru International Airport on arrival. She tested positive on the same day and was unvaccinated as paediatric vaccines are not available for children in India. She was shifted in an ambulance from the airport to Bowring Hospital on the same day. She is currently under isolation in Mysuru. The patient is asymptomatic and her vitals are stable. She has six primary contacts. Mysuru District Health Officer Dr KH Prasad told DH, "She has been isolated with her parents though they're Covid negative. We cannot keep her alone here. She will be kept here till December 29 for observation and then tested as per protocol. Her six contacts include her parents, sibling, grandmother and household who are all Covid negative. Surprisingly though her parents accompanied her from Switzerland she is the only one who has tested Covid positive." Another three Bengaluru Omicron patients (a 20-year-old younger sister, a 56-year-old father, and a 54-year-old mother) are contacts of a 26-year-old UK returnee, their daughter. The 26-year-old's genomic sequencing results are still being processed and haven't officially been declared as Omicron, said a BBMP official.   An 18-year-old young city woman travelled from the UK on December 17. She had been partially vaccinated with Covishield on September 6. She tested positive on arrival and was shifted in an ambulance from the airport to Bowring hospital on the same day. She was shifted to a private hospital on her request. The patient is asymptomatic and her vitals are stable. She has six primary contacts. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-12-fresh-omicron-cases-state-tally-at-31-1063886.html
23-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||With Congress cornered, Karnataka Assembly passes anti-conversion bill||The Karnataka Assembly passed Thursday the controversial anti-conversion bill amid protests as the ruling BJP cornered the Congress with documents to show that the proposed law was first drafted when Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah was the chief minister in 2016.  The Karnataka Protection of Right to Freedom of Religion Bill will now go to the Council. Once passed there, Karnataka will become the 9th state to enact the anti-conversion law.  Siddaramaiah was caught on the backfoot when Law Minister JC Madhuswamy told the Assembly that the Bill is an improved version of the one that was drafted by the Law Commission and approved when the Congress was in power. Siddaramaiah had even signed the file approving the draft to be placed in the Cabinet. A counter came at the fag end of the debate when Siddaramaiah flashed a November 2009 petition signed by some “BJP-RSS” personalities to the then CM B S Yediyurappa seeking an anti-conversion law.  “I won't dispute the documents. It's true I signed the file. But, it was this [2009] petition that was sent to the Law Commission. It’s an RSS agenda,” Siddaramaiah said. “The Bill drafted in 2016 is a world apart from the one you've brought.” Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai asked Siddaramaiah why the Congress acted upon an RSS petition. “If it was an RSS demand - the RSS is open about its stand against religious conversion - why didn't you stop the drafting process? You wanted to go ahead because the then Virbhadra Singh government in Himachal Pradesh brought the law in 2016,” he said.  The Bill was passed on a voice vote when Congress MLAs were in the Well of the House. The JD(S) also opposed the Bill, but their MLAs were not in the Well.   Earlier, Siddaramaiah said the Bill is unnecessary as the IPC has provisions to punish forced religious conversion. He also attacked the Bill for placing the burden of proof on the accused. He then cited Census data to show that the Hindu population had not decreased as it was being propagated. On penalising "conversion by marriage", Siddaramaiah said any adult is free to marry a person of one's choice. This provision, which is also present in Gujarat's anti-conversion law, remains challenged in the Gujarat High Court, he pointed out. Terming it a "draconian and unconstitutional" law, Siddaramaiah accused the BJP of raking up emotional issues to divert attention from relevant problems. The Bill proposes imprisonment of 3 to 5 years with a fine of Rs 25,000 for 'forced' conversion. Converting a minor, woman or an SC/ST person will attract a jail term of 3-10 years, with a fine of Rs 50,000. Mass conversion will attract 3-10 years of jail time with a fine of up to Rs 1 lakh.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/with-congress-cornered-karnataka-assembly-passes-anti-conversion-bill-1063932.html
23-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Centre asks Karnataka to complete 2.02 crore rural houses by August, 2022||Centre has asked the Karnataka government to complete the construction of 2.02 crore houses under Pradhan Mantri Awaas Yojana- Gramin (PMAY-G), by August 15, 2022, Union Minister for Rural Development Sadhvi Niranjan Jyothi has said. The Rural Development Ministry also set the target to complete the entire 2.95 crore houses by March, 2024. The state is expected to meet the deadline, the Minister said. Under the PMAY-G, a total of 86,000 houses for the year 2019-20 and 1,51,715 houses for the year 2020-21 were allocated to Karnataka based on the number of available beneficiaries in the Permanent Wait List (PWL), the Minister said.   However, based on the request of the state for the surrender of targets due to the non-availability of eligible households in PWL, the Ministry approved the surrender of a target of 1.95 lakh allocated for the years 2019-20 and 2020-21. Against a revised target of 42,267 houses for Phase II, the state has sanctioned houses to 36,920 beneficiaries and 90 houses have been completed as of December 17, 2021 Against a target of 1,24,088 houses allocated to Karnataka for Phase-I (2016-17 to 2018-19) of PMAY-G, the state government has released the first installment ofassistance to 1,11,108 beneficiaries, Second installment to 1,01,218 beneficiaries.   Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/centre-asks-karnataka-to-complete-202-crore-rural-houses-by-august-2022-1063939.html
23-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||New employment policy on anvil in Karnataka: Bommai||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said that government will bring a new employment policy, the first-of-its-kind in the country wherein industries giving maximum employment will be eligible for incentives. Bommai was speaking after inaugurating the 'Job For All' job fair organised by the Karnataka Skills Development Department on the premises of KLS Gogte Institute of Technology here on Thursday. He said the state government has created infrastructure and ecosystem and industries need to provide employment to the maximum number of people. Industries should give weightage for different skills and provide employment at different levels based on the skills of job seekers, he added. The companies participating in the job fair should help create wealth by giving opportunities to job seekers to work, progress, achieve and create their own personalities. Employment will help the job seekers to create wealth and chiefs of companies should provide them opportunities that will help them to rise to their level, Bommai stated. Bommai said the government's thrust and focus will now be on enhancing the quality of education, skills and creation of employment opportunities. The New Education Policy lays stress on vocational courses and works closely with the industry and its demands, he said. The Chief Minister also said that there is a need to upgrade higher education and professional courses to global learning standards and hence the higher education and skills development departments are working in unison to this effect. Speaking on the occasion, Minister for IT-BT, Science and Technology, Higher Education and Skills Development, CN Aswath Narayan, said it is the responsibility of the government to ensure that students find jobs which are commensurate with their skills and level of education, which is the whole idea of launching the 'jobs for all' programme by the government. He said six universities in the state will be upgraded to the status of 'University of Eminence' and seven government-run engineering colleges will be developed further to the level of IITs in Karnataka. Narayan said the government will come up with an action plan within a month to develop the Vishweswaraiah Technical University, which is headquartered in Belagavi. With IANS inputs Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/new-employment-policy-on-anvil-in-karnataka-bommai-1063969.html
23-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||GST rates: Bommai-led GoM to submit report in Jan-Feb||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Thursday told the Karnataka Assembly that the group of ministers he heads on rationalising GST rates will submit its final report in January or February.  Bommai said this during a debate on the supplementary estimates worth Rs 3,577 crore that was passed in the Assembly. "I have held two meetings of the GoM so far and I'm happy to say that I've been able to take everybody along - CPI, Congress, BJP and others. We've been successful bringing everybody on the same platform," he said, adding that he expects GST revenues to go up after the rates are rationalised.  At present, there are four slabs - 5%, 12%, 18% and 28% - under the GST. The Bommai-led GoM is reportedly discussing reducing the number of slabs by merging the 5% and 12% slabs or the 18% and 28% slabs. The GoM may also consider reviewing the list of goods and services that are currently exempted.  Bommai, who is also the finance minister, said he is in the middle of multiple challenges. "There's the post-Covid recovery that we need to focus on, then there's the threat of a new wave, then the GST compensation regime is ending and our expenditure is rising. I'm in the middle of all this," he said, adding that he wants to focus on solutions.  Laying out statistics, Bommai said Karnataka had achieved 67% of the target own-tax revenue collection by the end of November. The achievement is 71% in commercial taxes, 68% in excise, 66% in stamps & registration and 54% in motor vehicles tax.  "Even during Covid-19, we haven't fallen behind revenue collection," he said. "There are goods that have a higher tax potential. For example, on areca nut, we got Rs 8 crore excess GST in just one week. Like that, there are products that have been neglected and we're concentrating on them," he said.  Former Congress minister Krishna Byre Gowda warned Bommai that Karnataka is headed towards "a big disaster" financially. "Our revenue sources are drying up while expenses are rising," he said.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/gst-rates-bommai-led-gom-to-submit-report-in-jan-feb-1064053.html
23-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Bengaluru Urban district 1st in Karnataka with 100% 2nd dose coverage||Bangalore Urban district (excluding the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP)) area became the first among the 31 districts in Karnataka to achieve 100% second dose vaccination coverage here on Thursday. The district had an adult target population (2021 projected population of individuals aged 18 and above) of 10,32,000 but the total beneficiaries vaccinated with the first dose (which include healthcare workers, frontline workers and citizens) are 13,26,255. The percentage of population vaccinated with the first dose is 129%. At 7.30 am, the total beneficiaries vaccinated with the second dose were 10,34,184. Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar, tweeted saying, "Karnataka has now vaccinated 3/4th (75%) of its adult population with both doses! Bengaluru Urban (excluding BBMP) has become the first district in Karnataka to achieve 100% second dose coverage! Congratulations to all the health workers and the district administration for this remarkable feat!" The state in comparison which has a target of 4,89,16,000 people has given the first dose to 4,72,87,089 (97%) people, and the second dose to 3,66,16,251 (75%) people. Bangalore Urban district Deputy Commissioner J Manjunath addressing a press conference on the vaccination milestone on Thursday said, "This was made possible not just because of health and frontline workers, ASHAs and ANMs but also a 24/7 Covid backroom team consisting of 10-12 members who create vaccination session sites, look into technical problems from the field staff, and check vaccine availability and its equitable distribution without taking leave and working on public holidays." "We will continue to administer the second dose to the extra 29% of the population that we administered the first dose to which includes the floating population and migrant workers who come to Bangalore Urban district for work. On an average we administer 8,000 to 10,000 doses everyday in the district. We also have a call centre calling people and asking them whether they have taken the second dose. We also send reminders on SMS. With the government mandating vaccination for entry to public places like theatres and malls, more people will come forward," he said. While making a presentation on the geography and demographics of the district, Manjunath said, there are five taluks in the district spread over an area of 2,189 sq km. While the BBMP covers 709 sq km, the two city municipal councils cover 35.81 sq kms. As many as seven town municipal councils cover 74.29 sq km. There are 86 gram panchayats and 864 revenue villages in which there are 1,038 habitations, all of which cover 1,369.90 sq kms. "The approximate population is 1.5 crore and excluding BBMP's 1.35 crore, it is 15 lakh to 16 lakh," he said. As far as public health facilities and district healthcare personnel are concerned, there are three taluk hospitals, three community health centres, 36 primary health centres, and 117 sub centres. There are 40 specialists, 39 doctors (general duty medical officers), 300 paramedical staff, 837 ASHA workers and 150 contractual staff that include AYUSH doctors and extra vaccine administrators who were hired. Timeline: -- Before the nation-wide rollout of the Covid vaccination drive on January 16, meta data on infrastructure and manpower in government and private hospitals was collected. -- Data on those aged 18 years and above was collected, apart from data on health workers and frontline workers, which was entered in the CoWIN portal. -- A dry run was conducted on January 9. -- January 16: Nationwide rollout of vaccination including in Bangalore Urban District in a phase wise manner for healthcare workers first. -- February 2: Vaccination for frontline workers, paramilitary forces, the police, and civic workers among others eligible for vaccine was rolled out. -- March 1: Vaccination rolled out for the elderly and those above 45 years of age with comorbidities. -- Pink vaccination booths were set up at CV Raman Hospital on International Women's Day on March 8 including in Bangalore Urban district. -- Vaccination was conducted for 5,400 inmates and staff of Bengaluru's central prison in Parappana Agrahara. -- April 12: Vaccination Utsav at Biocon's Syngene for its employees. -- Workplace paid vaccination (funded by various companies/employers) organised by Narayana Hrudayalaya in Electronic City, Jigani and Bommasandra industrial areas. -- Priority/mass vaccination held for 150 Mylan lab employees who manufacture Covid drug Remdesivir and for those who manufacture Dolo 650 painkiller tablets. -- May 1: Vaccination was rolled out for adults but only state government-identified 22 categories of construction workers, street vendors and garment factory workers. -- From June 21: Vaccination melas started across all districts when vaccines were available in abundance. Bangalore Urban district outperformed every district in every vaccination mela, especially on September 17, on PM Modi's birthday when over 77,000 were vaccinated (145% coverage as against 50,000 given target). -- August 29: Bangalore Urban district became the first district in the state and possibly in the country to achieve 100% vaccination coverage in the first dose. -- November 3: Har ghar dastak (door-to-door) campaign was started for Covid vaccination. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bengaluru-urban-district-1st-in-karnataka-with-100-2nd-dose-coverage-1064073.html
23-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Cannot use Covaxin vials for 28 days after opening: Karnataka government||Three days after Bharat Biotech issued a public statement in response to DH's queries on its 28-day open vial policy, the state government in a press release issued on Thursday clarified that opened Covaxin vials cannot be used for 28 days for the lack of vaccine vial monitors (VVM) on them. The VVM is a circular sticker with a small square inside it. It can be printed on a product label, attached to the cap of a vaccine vial or tube, or attached to the neck of an ampoule. The inner square of the VVM is made of heat-sensitive material that is light at the starting point and becomes darker with exposure to heat. DH on December 20 had reached out to Covaxin manufacturer Bharat Biotech seeking clarification on their 28-day open vial policy as no government or private vaccination centre had any knowledge of it. Bharat Biotech in response issued a public statement saying Covaxin vials once opened can be used for up to 28 days if stored between 2 and 8 degrees Celsius. In its public statement, it has also said that its vials can be used for up to one year as its shelf life has been extended. Bharat Biotech had not responded to DH's queries on taking back Covaxin vials, even for relabelling purposes. The state government said, "Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has clarified regarding open vial policy and shelf life of the Covaxin." In a press note issued on Thursday, the state government said, "Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (Immunisation division), Government of India, in its letter dated December 23 has clarified regarding open vial policy and shelf life of the Covaxin vaccine manufactured by Bharat Biotech under Covid-19 vaccination programme." "The open vial policy for Covaxin vaccine has not been allowed as it is not possible to ensure quality implementation of open vial in the absence of Vaccine Vial Monitor (VVM). Secondly, all vaccines including Covid-19 vaccine should not be utilised beyond the expiry date mentioned on the label of each vaccine vial," the press note added. Attached in the press note was also a copy of the letter conveying the same to the Mission Director, National Health Mission, Karnataka, written by Dr Pradeep Haldar, Advisor, Reproductive and Child Health, Immunisation Division, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.   Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cannot-use-covaxin-vials-for-28-days-after-opening-karnataka-government-1064074.html
23-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Three Omicron cases in Karnataka had only one dose, two had boosters||At least three of the state’s Omicron cases had taken only one dose of a vaccine, while two contracted the virus despite being protected by booster shots. Among the single-dosers is the 20-year-old sister and primary contact of a returnee from the United Kingdom, who landed in the city on December 12. She developed symptoms of the disease on December 15 and tested positive at a private lab on the same day. The BBMP found that the patient had taken only one dose of Covaxin on May 25. “Her clinical symptoms were nevertheless mild such as a sore throat,” said Dr Thrilok Chandra, special commissioner (BBMP). According to Dr Arundhathi Chandrashekar, director, National Health Mission, there are multiple reasons for why people only take one dose, such as experiencing an adverse effect after the first dose or having suffered a Covid-19 infection which would have interrupted the second dose. Health officers who checked the medical records of the case found no previous infection. “It is possible that she may have had a prior infection and not reported this to avoid stigma,” added another BBMP officer. Other single-dosers include a 27-year-old man who arrived in Mangaluru from Ghana on December 16. He had taken his first dose of the Moderna vaccine on November 19. The last case is an 18-year-old woman who had one dose of Covishield on September 6. Both were described as not having symptoms. Among two people who had booster doses is a 42-year-old man from Kerala who had finished two doses of Covishield by July 30. He subsequently took a booster shot on December 11. He arrived from the United Kingdom at Kempegowda International airport on December 17. He was also stated to be asymptomatic. A 49-year-old woman who travelled to Bengaluru from Denmark on December 17 was found to have had not only two doses of the Prizer vaccine, but also a booster dose of the Moderna vaccine. She was found to be positive on arrival, but without symptoms. “Boosters provide no guarantee that they will stop a person from contracting Covid-19. Vaccines ultimately reduce the effects of the disease rather than prevent infection,” said D Randeep, Commissioner, Department of Health and Family Welfare. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/three-omicron-cases-in-karnataka-had-only-one-dose-two-had-boosters-1064075.html
23-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Actor Aniruddha Jatkar's documentary 'Baale Bangara' enters multiple books of records||Kannada actor Aniruddha Jatkar has entered the India Book of Records, Asia Book of Records and Kalam Book of Records for his documentary 'Baale Bangara' on veteran actor and his mother-in-law Bharathi Vishnuvardhan. He bagged the honour for 'conceptualizing, researching, scripting, anchoring and directing the longest documentary on a living legendary actress in India'. Produced by Keerthi Innovations in Kannada with English Subtitles (run time of 141.49 minutes), the documentary captures the life of Padma Shri awardee and multilingual star Bharathi, who is also the wife of the late Kannada star Vishnuvardhan. The documentary will soon be available on a streaming platform. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/actor-aniruddha-jatkars-documentary-baale-bangara-enters-multiple-books-of-records-1064079.html
23-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Abatement does not annihilate abetment, rules Karnataka HC||The High Court of Karnataka has held that 'abatement does not annihilate abetment', and ordered the continuation of trial against the wife of a public servant in a case arising out of the Prevention of Corruption Act (PC Act). The CBI had registered a DN case against M Selvakumar, who worked as Deputy Director (Research) Training Centre, Central Coffee Research Institute at Balehonnur. Before the charge sheet could be filed and charges framed by the CBI special court, Selvakumar passed away on March 29, 2017. The prosecution case was that his wife V M Saraswathi had abetted her husband to commit the offence to purchase movable and immovable properties in her name. Saraswathi moved an application before the CBI special court seeking discharge from the case. She contended that though abetment is a standalone offence, it cannot be continued against her in the light of the principal offender having died and the proceedings against him having abated. By an order dated June 6, 2018, the CBI special court accepted that the charges of abetment cannot stand. However, it directed framing of charges under Section 13 (1) (e) of PC Act against Saraswathi. Saraswathi moved the high court challenging framing of additional charges. Meanwhile, the CBI also moved the high court stating that abetment charges could not have been quashed. The court partly allowed the petitions and quashed the orders of the CBI special court framing additional charges against Saraswathi. Citing several judgements, Justice M Nagaprasanna said that the death of the husband during trial before the charges are framed will not result in the closure of the trial against the co-accused. “The question that had arisen for consideration is answered in the peculiar facts of this case holding that abatement does not annihilate abetment". Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/abatement-does-not-annihilate-abetment-rules-karnataka-hc-1064086.html
23-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Fresh tenders for Bengaluru high-density corridor project: Karnataka CM Bommai||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Thursday told the Legislative Council that fresh tenders would be floated for the improvement and maintenance of 12 high traffic density corridors in Bengaluru. Admitting “errors” in the way the project was being taken up, Bommai said that the government had instructed the Karnataka Road Development Corporation Limited (KRDCL) to call short-term tenders afresh after the “errors” in the finalisation of four packages of works were discovered during the verification of financial bids. “An amount of Rs 780 crore was supposed to be the maintenance cost for five years when Rs 335 crore was the estimated cost for road development works. Why is maintenance cost needed for a 53 kilometre stretch of white-topped roads? A blacklisted contractor was also included in the tender process,” Bommai said, explaining the reasons for the decision to retender the project. The 12 corridors include Ballari Road, Old Madras Road, Old Airport Road, Sarjapur Road, Mysuru Road, Tumakuru Road and West of Chord Road. A total of Rs 1,120.48 crore was approved including Rs 335.17 crore for the initial development of 65.85 kilometre stretches. “As per the design finalised by the Directorate of Urban Land Transport (DULT), 1.50 kilometre stretch of Old Airport Road and 1.10 kilometre stretch of Magadi Road are being developed as demo reach,” Bommai said in response to a question by former mayor PR Ramesh of theCongress. Ramesh said that the quality of works was not good on demo reaches, while the corridors had become no man’s road as funds were not yet released even after the announcement was made in the 2020-21 budget. Bommai told the Council that 382.27 acres of Rajakaluves (stormwater drains) in Bengaluru were encroached upon in 2,626 cases. Of them, 1,912 encroachments were cleared as on December 24 last year. “Survey is on to properly identify remaining 714 encroachments and steps are being taken to clear them in a phased manner,” he said. “Works to remodel 128 km stormwater drains, especially on stretches having bottlenecks, will be taken up at a cost of Rs 1,200 crore this year itself,” Bommai said, adding that remaining stretches would be taken up in coming years. “The total length of stormwater drains in Bengaluru is 842 kilometres, and re-modelling has to be done on 414 kilometres for which Rs 4,670.48 crore is required. About 313.21 kilometres of stormwater drains were re-modelled since 2016-17 spending Rs 1,658.41 crore,” he noted. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/fresh-tenders-for-bengaluru-high-density-corridor-project-karnataka-cm-bommai-1064093.html
23-12-2021||West||Gujarat government postpones class 9 to 12 exams by a fortnight||The Gujarat government on Wednesday has postponed the prelims exam of class 9 to 12, board exams of class 10 and 12, practical exam and annual exam of class 9 and 11 to take place in the academic year 2021-22 for the students of the schools approved by Gujarat Secondary and Higher Secondary Education Board (GSEB). These exams have been postponed by a fortnight. The state government stated that the decision was taken to provide adequate time for the completion of the syllabus and to give more time for the preparation of the board exams to the students of class 10 and 12. According to the new schedule, the date of the prelims exam of class 9 to 12 will be February 10 to 18, instead of January 27 to February 4. Similarly, the date of the 'Prakharta Shodh' exam for class 9 will be February 22 instead of February 7. The dates for the practical exams for class 10 and 12 taken at the school level will be February 24 to 26 instead of February 9 to 11. The dates for the practical exams for class 12 science stream will be March 2 to 12 instead of February 14 to 23. Likewise, the board exams of class 10 and 12 will be from March 14 to 30 instead of March 28 to April 14. The annual exam of class 9 to 11 will be April 21 to 30 instead of 11 to 21. The summer vacation will be from May 9 to June 12 instead of May 2 to June 5. The next academic year 2022-23 will begin from June 13 instead of June 6. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-government-postpones-class-9-to-12-exams-by-a-fortnight-1063757.html
23-12-2021||West||Bengaluru youth arrested for sending threats to Aaditya Thackeray||In a swift operation, the Mumbai Police has arrested a Bengaluru-based youth for allegedly threatening Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray’s son and state Tourism Minister Aaditya Thackeray.  The threat to Thackeray Jr and other legislators and leaders over the past few months rocked the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly after which state Home Minister Dilip Walse-Patil assured a Special Investigation Team (SIT) probe.  “We will form a state-level SIT to investigate this matter,” he said referring to the threat to Aaditya. The Mumbai Police has identified the accused as Jaisingh Bajrangsingh Rajput, who is in his mid-thirties.  The accused -- arrested by the Cyber Cell of Mumbai Police -- was described as a fan of late Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput, who was found dead on June 14, 2020, at his rented duplex flat in Mount Blanc building at Bandra. Shiv Sena MLA Sunil Prabhu raised the issue of the death threat to Aaditya Thackeray in the Assembly.  Prabhu sought to connect the matter with neighbouring Karnataka from where the accused was caught. Minority Affairs Minister Nawab Malik of NCP claimed that he too received such threats in the past and suspects the same organisations that murdered Narendra Dabholkar and Govind Pansare are behind it. "The manner in which Aaditya Thackeray received a threat letter, we suspect if it's connected to the organisations that murdered Narendra Dabholkar, Govind Pansare, MM Kalburgi and Gauri Lankesh. I too have received such threats. We've written for an investigation into it," Malik said. Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis said that the threat is a serious issue and needs to be politicised. “I will extend all help... if need be I will travel to Karnataka and speak to Chief Minister (Basavraj Bommai),” he said.  “We condemn such a threat,” said state Congress President and MLA Nana Patole. Former Finance Minister Sudhir Mungantiwar of BJP said that threat to a member of legislature or anyone is a serious issue. “Let there be a committee of legislators to look into the issue,” he suggested.  Sushant (34) had acted in Bollywood films such as M.S. Dhoni: The Untold Story (2016), Kedarnath (2018) and Chhichhore (2019) and his death had sparked off a major political issue leading to a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). On December 8, the accused had called Aaditya, however, on non-receipt of call, he sent threatening WhatsApp messages.  Thereafter, an FIR under Sections 500 (defamation), 506 (2) (if threat be to cause death or grievous hurt) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 67 (punishment for publishing or transmitting obscene material in electronic form) of the Information Technology Act was registered and investigations started. One of the messages read, “You killed Sushant Singh Rajput…” Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bengaluru-youth-arrested-for-sending-threats-to-aaditya-thackeray-1063831.html
23-12-2021||West||Opposition walks out of Maharashtra Council over alleged 'power stealer' remark against farmers||Opposition members walked out of the Maharashtra Legislative Council on Thursday after claiming that a member from the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) allegedly referred to farmers as “power stealers”. Later, speaking to reporters in the Vidhan Bhavan premises, Leader of Opposition in the Council Pravin Darekar said they had raised the issue of farmers' electricity connections being disconnected by the state power utility. "We wanted a discussion on the plight of farmers and sought some relief for the farming community. However, a member from the MVA asked what about farmers who steal electricity. Such a question was completely irrelevant as farmers have been severely affected because of various restrictions imposed to curb the spread of coronavirus," the BJP leader said. He said the demand (for produce by cultivators) has gone down which also affected the income of farmers. "Unfortunately, we noticed such an insensitive attitude of a Council member towards farmers, hence we staged a walk out," Darekar said. The BJP leader claimed he did not remember the name of the MVA member who made those comments in the House. Darekar also expressed disappointment with Maharashtra Minister of State for Energy Prajakt Tanpure. “Our calling attention was regarding farmers' issues and how the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company can come up with policies that would be lenient towards agriculture sector. Tanpure preferred to point out at the Union government and its policies and tried to pass the blame,” the BJP leader said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/opposition-walks-out-of-maharashtra-council-over-alleged-power-stealer-remark-against-farmers-1063845.html
23-12-2021||West||Omicron is fastest spreading infectious disease known to man, says expert||Amid a rising number of Omicron cases, Maharashtra government’s Covid-19 Task Force member Dr Shashank Joshi said that it is the fastest-spreading infectious disease known to man. Dr Joshi said that with a rapid generation time (Rt) of approximately 5, Measles doubles 15 days while the same value for Omicron is less than 5, and its doubling time 1.5 to 3 days. However, he added that it is a mild disease and has lower mortality.  In a tweet, Dr Joshi, a diabetologist and endocrinologist, said, “In 60 days after 1 case: measles: 50,600 Omicron: 244,000,000.” Dr Ishwar Gilada, the Secretary General of Organised Medicine Academic Guild (OMAG), said Omicron "fortunately" doesn’t create more need for oxygen, bed and ICU among infected persons and thus is least virulent and least lethal. He said it can be labelled as a Variant of Support (VOS). Technical Advisory Group on SARS-COV-2 Virus Evolution (TAG-VE) of WHO named the B1.1.529 variant as Omicron, which is a 15th Greek alphabet, skipping Nu and Xi for particular reasons. Alpha, Beta, Gamma and Delta are other variants of concern, whereas Epsilon, Zeta, Theta, Eta, Iota, Kappa, Lambda and Mu remain Variants of Interest (VOI). Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/omicron-is-fastest-spreading-infectious-disease-known-to-man-says-expert-1063959.html
23-12-2021||West||Nationwide night lockdown likely, says Maharashtra Dy CM Ajit Pawar||Amid the spurt of Omicron cases, Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar on Thursday reprimanded legislators who were seen without face-masks even as he dropped indications of pan-India night restrictions to combat the spread of the new Covid-19 variant.  “We need to take things seriously. We do not want a lockdown again. We request everyone in the House also to please wear a mask,” Pawar told the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly.  “Prime Minister (Narendra Modi) is very serious on the issue (of following Covid-19 protocols and Covid-appropriate-behaviour)….countrywide night curfew is being thought of at the highest levels,” said Pawar, the nephew of NCP supremo Sharad Pawar.  During the intervention, Pawar drew the attention of Deputy Speaker Narhari Zirwal and pointed out that many of the members in Treasury and Opposition benches were not wearing masks.  “I request opposition leaders to speak responsibly on this issue,” he said.  “If some members are feeling uncomfortable while speaking by wearing masks, they can remove it and use it again after their speech is over,’’ he said. “The virus spread is quite serious. The number of cases abroad is doubling within one and half days’’ said Pawar, who is known to call a spade a spade.  “We do not want to impose a lockdown but people should also think,” he said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/nationwide-night-lockdown-likely-says-maharashtra-dy-cm-ajit-pawar-1063964.html
23-12-2021||West||Vedic mathematics to be introduced in Gujarat schools from next year||Vedic mathematics, claimed to be an easier and faster way to solve arithmetic problems, would be introduced in school curriculum in Gujarat from the next year, the state government has said. Education Minister Jitu Vaghani made the announcement on Wednesday on the birth anniversary of the renowned Indian mathematician Srinivasa Ramanujan. Ramanujan was born on December 22, 1887. "Great Indian mathematician Ramanujan's birthday is celebrated in India as National Mathematics Day. On this occasion, the state government has decided to introduce Vedic math in schools in a phase-wise manner," Vaghani tweeted late at night. The subject will be introduced from the academic year 2022-23 in standard 6th to 10th to "spread the Indian Knowledge System as envisioned in the National Education Policy," the minister said. "Vedic math will improve the students' command of the subject and also make the subject easier to understand. Vedic math will make students take interest in mathematics," he further said. Vedic mathematics is an ancient Indian method which simplifies mathematics by integrating arithmetic operations into 16 `sutras' or formulae. It is claimed by its proponents that Vedic mathematics cuts the time needed for solving complex problems by reducing the number of steps involved and offers multiple approaches to get the solution.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/vedic-mathematics-to-be-introduced-in-gujarat-schools-from-next-year-1064010.html
23-12-2021||West||Mumbai Police question Kangana on remarks about farmers' agitation||City police on Thursday recorded the statement of Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut for more than an hour in a case where she is accused of portraying the farmers' protest on Delhi borders as "Khalistani" movement. The actor arrived at the Khar police station around 11 AM and left in the afternoon, an official said. Police recorded an over one-page-long statement, he added. Ranaut's lawyer Rizwan Siddiquee said, "The next date before the High Court in our matter is January 25. We are confident that justice will be done." The members of a Sikh organization had filed a complaint alleging that Ranaut, in an Instagram post, portrayed the farmers' protest against (now repealed) farm laws as a Khalistani movement. An FIR was registered against her for `deliberately hurting a community's religious sentiments' under IPC section 295-A. Ranaut has moved the HC seeking to quash the FIR. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-police-question-kangana-on-remarks-about-farmers-agitation-1064011.html
23-12-2021||West||Mumbai cops get custody of gangster Lakdawala, aide in extortion case||The Mumbai police on Thursday took the custody of jailed gangster Ejaz Lakdawala and his aide Salim Maharaj in connection with an extortion case registered at D N Nagar in western suburbs, an official said. The Anti-Extortion Cell (AEC) of the crime branch took the custody of Lakdawala and Maharaj from the Taloja central prison in adjoining Navi Mumbai, where they were lodged, on a court order, he said. An FIR was registered against the duo at the D N Nagar Police Station on December 17 on a complaint of a businessman, the official said. According to the complaint, Lakdawala had allegedly called the businessman using an international phone number in 2019 and demanded Rs 5 crore from him, he said. Lakdawala (51) had threatened to kill the complainant and his family members if the extortion demand was not fulfilled, the official said. The custody of both the accused were given to the AEC on the order of a city court, where the police had submitted a remand application, he added. Lakdawala, a former aide of underworld don Dawood Ibrahim, faces multiples cases of extortion, attempt to murder and rioting. He was earlier arrested by the Mumbai police in January 2020.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-cops-get-custody-of-gangster-lakdawala-aide-in-extortion-case-1064012.html
23-12-2021||West||How to divert tourists from beaches to hinterland, Goa Tourism Board ponders||How to draw tourists away from the crowded beaches to the hinterland? This was the first deliberation conducted by the newly formed Goa Tourism Board, which has been tasked with promotion of the tourism sector in the coastal state. Tourism Minister Manohar Ajgaonkar also said that the Board is in the process of selecting a chief executive officer (CEO) who would be hands-on in running the functioning of the 19-member Board which was constituted earlier this month. "For the last several years, people were expecting the Board to be set up. The opposition was chastising us over the setting up of the Board. Now, the Tourism Board will take the decisions for promotion of tourism in Goa. We want to promote tourism without posing any risk to the environment," the Tourism Minister said. The Board, he said, would be using the state tourism policy and a master plan prepared by the Tourism Ministry to promote the sector.  Ajgaonkar also said, adding that the Board would now promote tourism in Goa using the state tourism policy and the master plan as the guiding documents to promote the sector. "We want to take the tourists from the beaches to the hinterland and the Board will follow this direction. It will look to promote, eco tourism, hinterland tourism, adventure tourism etc. There is no point in having crowded beaches alone," Ajgaonkar said, adding that there is a need to strike a balance between environment and tourism activity. Ajgaonkar also said that the Board also deliberated on the appointment of a Chief Executive Officer to take charge at the Board, which is co-chaired by Chief Minister Pramod Sawant and Tourism Minister Manohar Ajgaonkar and has several sector experts and stakeholders as members. "We need a good CEO to promote Goa tourism. We need a CEO who can generate the most income... If we spend Rs.200 crore on infrastructure (the CEO) will have to see how to recover Rs. 500 crore from it," the Tourism Minister said. "We need a CEO who is an expert. We could take a government officer too who could be taken on deputation. This is my proposal," he added. After facing a slump for nearly a year and a half, tourism activity in Goa is slowly picking up ahead of the Christmas and New Year festive season. At its peak, Goa witnessed more than eight lakh tourist footfalls in 2019. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/how-to-divert-tourists-from-beaches-to-hinterland-goa-tourism-board-ponders-1064022.html
23-12-2021||West||Maharashtra Assembly passes bill for stricter punishment for crimes against women, children||The Maharashtra Legislative Assembly on Thursday unanimously passed the Shakti Criminal Laws (Maharashtra Amendment) Bill that provides for stricter punishment including death penalty for crimes against women and children. The bill, which also provides for speedy trial in such cases, was tabled by Home Minister Dilip Walse-Patil. It will now be placed before the Legislative Council. The bill, modelled on the Disha Act of Andhra Pradesh, was first tabled in the Maharashtra legislature in the 2020 winter session, but the government then referred it to a joint committee for scrutiny. The committee held 13 meetings and submitted some recommendations which were presented in the legislature on Wednesday. The bill provides for capital punishment for certain crimes against women and children and prescribes a period of 30 days to complete probe once a complaint is lodged. It puts the onus on social media platforms and Internet service providers to provide data, if needed, for investigation's purposes. The joint committee had recommended that probe in such cases be completed within 30 days, and extension of 30 more days can be given by senior police officials if valid reasons are provided. If a probe officer demands data, it should be provided within seven days, the recommendations said, adding that failure to do so by social media platforms or internet/mobile data providers may attract imprisonment of up to three months or/and fine up to Rs 25 lakh. Walse-Patil said the bill also provides for punishment of one to three years in prison and a fine of Rs 1 lakh for lodging a false complaint of sexual assault. All stakeholders were taken on board, the minister said. For instance, the committee also met police officials to know their perspective regarding the probe of such cases, he said. The bill proposes addition of a new section, `354E', to the Indian Penal Code to deal with `outraging modesty of women, men and transgender persons through electronic or digital means'. During the debate on the Bill, Devendra Fadnavis, Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly, said while the bill has a provision for designated courts to deal with such offenses, there is a need for dedicated courts for women to make the law more effective. Earlier in the day, Revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat also introduced the Maharashtra Stamp Amendment Bill in the Assembly. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-assembly-passes-bill-for-stricter-punishment-for-crimes-against-women-children-1064030.html
23-12-2021||West||Maharashtra Covid cases cross 1,000 for 2nd straight day, 23 new Omicron patients ||With Maharashtra recording over 1,000 Covid-19 cases for two days in a row and 23 new Omicron patients being detected, the Maha Vikas Aghadi government went into a huddle on Thursday.  In the last 24 hours, 1,179 cases and 17 deaths were reported, taking the progressive total to 66,53,345 and 1,41,392, respectively.  The total cases in Mumbai and the larger Mumbai metropolitan region crossed the 800-mark. During the day, 23 fresh cases of the Omicron variant were reported, taking the total to 88 in the state. To discuss the situation, Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray chaired a Cabinet meeting.  He is also scheduled to meet the Covid-19 Task Force members and discuss the emerging scenarios. The developments in the state took place as PM Narendra Modi discussed the Omicron measures in a meeting in New Delhi. In Maharashtra, the government has announced guidelines for the Christmas festivities which include avoiding crowding and maintaining social distancing at all times. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-covid-cases-cross-1000-for-2nd-straight-day-23-new-omicron-patients-1064048.html
23-12-2021||West||'India be declared a Hindu nation', says controversial ex-IPS officer Vanzara in Gujarat||Claiming that "Hindus are in danger", the controversial ex-IPS officer in a provocative speech in Gandhinagar in front of thousands of people on Thursday demanded: "India be declared a Hindu rashtra by establishing dharma satta (reign of religion)."  Claiming that "next 25 years are very dangerous", the ex-IPS officer said that "till India remains a secular state, Hindus will never be able to become owner of this country like Christians and Muslims, who have their own countries, which are ruled according to their religion. Hindus are in great difficulties even today. Take example of Kashmir from where they were chased away and West Bengal and Assam, where Hindus are not safe. Even in a state like Gujarat, Hindus are not safe." Vanzara, who spent nearly eight years in jail in Sohrabuddin Sheikh and Ishrat Jahan encounter cases before being discharged by the trial court, made these statements while speaking at a religious function. The function named "Dharmasatta Mahakumbh" was organised by an organization called "Guru Vandana Manch" in sector 28 in state capital Gandhinagar. There were dozens of saints from different Hindu sects who had come along with thousands of people from different parts of the state. Vanzara said that Rashtra Vandana Manch has held numerous meetings in the past two years, bringing the religious leaders together for "establishing dharma satta in the country." In his speech, Vanzara claimed, "What 1,200 years of rule of outsiders like Turkish, Mughals and Britishers couldn't do, last 75 years of independence has done to harm the Hindus." He said, "At the time of Independence, three states - Nagaland, Mizoram and Meghalaya - had 100 per cent Hindu population but after the independence, they turned into Christian-dominated states." The controversial officer, who was promoted to Inspector General of Police rank in 2020, six years after his retirement while languishing in jail, "clarified" that what he was saying shouldn't be read as "communal" or "hatred" for anyone. "In 1947, India's population was 48 crore, of which 8 crore were Muslims. The 8 crore weighed heavily on 40 crore. Of them, five crore went to Pakistan and three crore remained here. Today, they are 23 crore. It is noteworthy to think what will happen now...next 25 years is dangerous." He blamed the leaders of that time for the partition but said that the current "raj satta is power." "But", he said, "1 billion Hindus can't bank on only raj satta. It is not a Hindu regime... it is secular and doesn't belong to Hindus...in secular raj satta, Hindus can't have their own nation...therefore, we have to strive for a Hindu Rashtra, a Hindu Gantantra (republic)..." Vanzara also said that there are over "100 Christian countries, over 50 Muslim countries and even a handful of Jews have their own nation, Israel. But, 100 crore Hindus don't have a single country of their own." Vanzara's event was supposed to be held at Umiya Dham, opposite Vaishnodevi circle, in Ahmedabad but was cancelled at the last moment for "unknown reasons." Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/india-be-declared-a-hindu-nation-says-controversial-ex-ips-officer-vanzara-in-gujarat-1064072.html
