24-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Three die in bike accident in Davangere||Three persons died in a head-on-collision between two bikes at Takkanahalli in Honnali taluk of Davangere district on Thursday night. Maheshappa (50), his son Sanju (19) of Kotehal village, Channagiri taluk and Prashanth of Didaguru Haralahalli are the deceased.  Another person, Anand sustained severe injuries and is undergoing treatment at District McGann General Teaching Hospital in Shivamogga city.  Honnali police registered a case in this regard.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/three-die-in-bike-accident-in-davangere-1064222.html
24-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||KCCI proposes Mangaluru-Bengaluru Industrial Corridor||Kanara Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KCCI) has appealed to Minister of Commerce and Industry Piyush Goyal to develop Mangaluru-Bengaluru Industrial Corridor (MBIC) on the lines of development of other industrial corridors in the country. In a memorandum submitted to the minister, KCCI president Shashidhar Pai Maroor said that the KCCI is happy to note that the government has approved the development of 11 Industrial Corridors with 32 projects to be developed in four phases in the country as part of the National Industrial Corridor Programme (NICP) which are under various stages of conceptualization/development /implementation.  “Due to its strategic location and being a powerhouse of economic activities, Bengaluru is part of the Chennai-Bengaluru Industrial Corridor (CBIC - now extended to Kochi via Coimbatore), Hyderabad-Bengaluru Industrial Corridor (HBIC), and Bengaluru-Mumbai Industrial Corridor (BMIC). We also note that in Karnataka, at present, Tumakuru Industrial Area (on CBIC) and Dharwad Node (on BMIC) have project development activities under way. Hence, the KCCI has decided to propose a Mangaluru-Bengaluru Industrial Corridor (MBIC). The proposed MBIC can connect the state's only all-weather Port (New Mangalore Port) with the state’s capital Bengaluru passing to the hinterland areas of Dakshina Kannada, Hassan, and Bengaluru Rural districts through National Highway 75,” said the memorandum.   In a few years, the distance between Mangaluru and Bengaluru is expected to be covered within 5-6 hours. The presence of New Mangalore Port, an all-weather deep-draft seaport with capability and experience to handle cargo of volume and diversity on this corridor will further boost the EXIM trade in this region. Further, the Mangaluru International Airport which is having direct flights to the Gulf countries has not reached its full potential in export cargo. Perishable goods from the hinterland can be exported via Mangaluru International Airport, the KCCI said in its representation. "The proposed MBIC has a huge potential for the unparalleled economic development of the state, creating large employment opportunities and helping towards overall socio-economic development. Development of this corridor would give a boost to our Prime Minister's vision to boost exports from every district. The development of the Corridor would give a boost to small-scale industrial activities in these districts and boost Karnataka's share of exports," he said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/kcci-proposes-mangaluru-bengaluru-industrial-corridor-1064228.html
24-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Implement anti-conversion law effectively, seers demand govt||Tavarekere Shila Mutt Seer Abhinava Siddalinga Shivacharya Swamiji warned that seers of various mutts in the state will launch agitation against the government if anti-conversion law is not implemented in Karnataka effectively.  Speaking to media persons, here on Friday, he said seers would welcome the government's decision to implement anti-conversion law. "We oppose religious conversion by force." Siddalinga Shivacharya Swamiji said though the government implemented The Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Act 2020, the result is poor. The slaughtering of cows has continued across the state. So, the government must implement an anti-conversion bill without fail effectively. Channagiri-based Halaswamy Virakta Mutt Seer Basava Jayachandra Swami said,  "we oppose religious conversion by force. Anti-conversion law must not remain only on papers. The pros and cons of the law must be discussed before the implementation." Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/implement-anti-conversion-law-effectively-seers-demand-govt-1064394.html
24-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Shivamogga veterinary college in soup over Schedule 1 animal remains||The Veterinary College in Shivamogga has landed in soup after forest department officials seized the remains of Schedule 1 species (of Wildlife Protection Act), including a tiger foetus, from its premises. The officials said a team of personnel from the forest department inspected the remains and booked a case for possession of parts of animals. "The tiger foetus and leopard skin were among several articles seized. As per the Wild Life Protection Act, keeping such articles, especially schedule 1 species, is against the law. However, prima facie, it seems more of a procedural lapse," an official in the department said. An officer said a mahajar has been conducted and a report has been sent to the higher-ups. "Most of the jars contained parts of wild animals like livers, pancreas and stomach preserved in formalin solution. The college authorities said the articles were collected legally and have written to the department seeking permission to keep them," an official said. College Dean N Prakash, however, said all such articles in the college were collected in the presence of forest officials. "The forest authorities take help of professors and expert doctors in our college in both poaching and natural death cases. We have worked with the department for years towards conservation. We have all the necessary documents to explain the possession of the animals. If there are any procedural lapses, I will look into it," he said. Prakash noted that the animal parts and remains will further help learning and conservation. "It gives insight into such issues, like tumours and other health issues of animals. We will sort this out," he added. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/shivamogga-veterinary-college-in-soup-over-schedule-1-animal-remains-1064404.html
24-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Three students injured in accident in Mysuru; one critical||Three college students were injured when a speeding car hit them from behind on Mysuru Road in Malavalli on Thursday evening. Sharath, 19, son of Shivakumar of Ragibommanhalli is seriously injured and battling for life in a hospital in Mysuru. Shashank and Sudarshan sustained minor injuries and are being treated at the district hospital. All three are BCom students at Shanthi College in the town. It was Sharath’s birthday on Thursday and the trio were returning home when a speeding car hit them from behind near a poultry farm on Mysuru Road. The seriously injured Sharath was provided first aid and shifted to a hospital in Mysuru for further treatment. He has sustained serious head injuries and is said to be critical. It is said that a Bengaluru-based police personnel was driving the car. He abandoned the car and fled from the spot. The town police have taken the car into their custody and registered a case. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/three-students-injured-in-accident-in-mysuru-one-critical-1064406.html
24-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka HC grants conditional permission for prayers at home||The High Court of Karnataka has passed a conditional ad-interim order granting permission to a resident of Devalkanda village in Kundapur taluk of Udupi district to offer prayers at her house. Justice Krishna S Dixit said the interim order would stand automatically rescinded if the conditions are violated and also said it is open to the police to video/audio record the activities of the congregation or celebration, without unnecessarily interfering with the prayers. The petition was filed by Esthela Louis challenging the October 26, 2021, notice issued by the Station House Officer (SHO) of Kundapur police station, claiming that it violates her fundamental rights guaranteed under the constitution. The police had claimed they have information that she has been calling people from outside for the purpose of prayers and preaching. The notice further said that it was found that she has been continuing such activities without a license from the police authorities, which is a violation of law. The police also asked her to submit relevant documents regarding the events. In her petition, Esthela stated that she does not require police permission for conducting prayers in her house as the same comes under her religious rights. She claimed that pursuant to the police notice, she is not being allowed to offer prayers at home and the police warned of arresting her friends and relatives if they come visiting her. Esthela claimed that she had been holding prayers at her house for the past 11 years, between 11 am and 1 pm on Sundays and 10.30 am and 1 pm on every Fridays. The court passed the interim order with conditions that there shall be no much congregation of the persons offering the prayer, so that the possible risk of spreading Covid-19 or Omicron is avoided, no disturbance or nuisance shall be caused to the neighbours and others due to such congregation nor any scope shall be given for the allegations of conversion activities. "The above conditions are imposed to dispel the vehement submission of Additional Government Advocate that the area being communally sensitive, the congregation is likely to endanger peace and harmony and endanger law and order problem," Justice Krishna Dixit has observed in his order. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-hc-grants-conditional-permission-for-prayers-at-home-1064410.html
24-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Indian Pitta spotted in H D Kote||Indian Pitta, a rare bird, was spotted at a farm in Tumbasoge village in H D Kote taluk on Friday evening. The Indian Pitta is a variety that is native to the Indian subcontinent. It breeds in the forests of the Himalayas, hills of central and western India and migrates to other parts of the peninsula in winter. With winter setting in North India (during the months of November and December), a large number of birds migrate towards the South for breeding purposes. They stay for a couple of months and return in the month of April. It is a small colourful bird with a variety of colours like green, blue, black and red on its body. If the bird leaves the nest it returns only in the evening (at around 6 pm). Hence, it is popularly known as ‘6 O’clock Bird’. The bird builds nest in the branches of trees and lays four to five eggs. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/indian-pitta-spotted-in-h-d-kote-1064445.html
24-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Entry to Bandipur restricted from Dec 30-Jan 1||The Forest department has restricted tourists' entry to the home stays and resorts near Bandipur forest in Gundlupet taluk from December 30 to January 1. Every year, a large number of people visit home stays and resorts near Bandipur forest to celebrate and welcome the New Year. The resorts organise programmes with DJ, using loud speakers and lighting as part of the celebrations, disturbing the wild animals. To prevent disturbance to animals, the department has been banning new year celebrations in these places for the last few years. It is being implemented this year also. The Forest department has issued strict guidelines to the resorts and home stays in the region. Around 12 resorts around Bandipur Tiger Reserve have been directed not to use loud speakers and organise music programmes. Using floodlights and focus lights are banned. Fire camp is not allowed. All measures are being taken to protect the animals. Those violating the norms would be strictly dealt with, it is warned. However, all the resorts, home stays and hotels in the region have already been booked in advance. The restrictions have now come as a problem to the resort owners. Learning about the restrictions many have resorted to cancel the bookings, said a resort owner. The Forest department, which has issued restrictions for the home stays and resorts, has decided to continue with the safari. As the year begins with a weekend, the officials are expecting a large number of people to visit Bandipur safari. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/entry-to-bandipur-restricted-from-dec-30-jan-1-1064447.html
24-12-2021||Karnataka Politics||Congress's plan to target Bommai govt goes sine die||The Winter Session of the Karnataka legislature that was adjourned sine die on Friday had enough ingredients for fireworks but the Basvaraj Bommai administration seems to have been let off easy by the Siddaramaiah-led Congress.  The sensational Bitcoin scam and the ‘40 per cent commission’ charge — issues handed to the Opposition on a platter — did not make any noise. There is disappointment within the Congress camp and party legislators blame it on “bad floor management”.  Congress, the principal opposition party, had built some momentum in the run-up to the Legislature session. On December 12, a day before the session started, senior officials got into a huddle to chalk out a plan to defend the government on the kickbacks allegation. The Opposition’s plan was to attack the government on its handling of farmers’ issues due to floods, followed by the development of north Karnataka and then corruption issues. The plan went haywire, one MLA said, blaming the eruption of the Kannada-Marathi issue that ate into legislative business hours.  The Congress started off on a promising note by raising corruption allegations against Urban Development Minister Byrathi Basavaraj. “When the border issue came up and the state needed a united voice, we had to reprioritise,” the MLA, who is a former minister, said.  Congress was also under pressure to ensure there was a discussion on the floods and north Karnataka. At the same time, a section of MLAs told the party leadership that “some political messaging” should be delivered through the session by attacking the government. “Very cleverly, the BJP introduced the Anti-conversion Bill that we had to oppose. Unfortunately, the session wasn’t long enough to cover all issues,” the Congress leader said.  Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah wrote to Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri last week, asking him to extend the session by one more week.  Even on the Anti-conversion Bill, Congress could not put the government on the mat. In fact, Karnataka Congress president DK Shivakumar, who tore the supplementary agenda the day the Bill was tabled, skipped the Assembly the next day when it was passed. “For Shivakumar, the upcoming padayatra on the Mekedatu is more important, politically,” a source close to Shivakumar said.  The only time the ‘40 per cent kickbacks’ issue came up was when senior Congress MLC CM Ibrahim raised it in the upper house. His demand for a house committee probe was rejected by the government.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/congresss-plan-to-target-bommai-govt-goes-sine-die-1064320.html
24-12-2021||Karnataka Politics||I’m good: Karnataka CM Bommai clarifies on health rumours||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Friday said that his health is good, a clarification that came at a time when speculation was rife that he would fly overseas to find a fix for a knee ailment. "My health is good. There's no problem. You can see how active I am. My health and the state's health is good," Bommai told reporters. Meanwhile, Revenue Minister R Ashoka also denied speculation surrounding Bommai's health and his possible exit, which has been brewing in the rumour mill these past few weeks.  "Someone is spreading this mischievous rumour. He's not going overseas 1,000%," Ashoka, who is Bommai's senior Cabinet colleague, said.  According to Ashoka, Bommai has been advised by the doctors that he does not need surgery. "It will cure without an operation. Orthopaedic and Ayurveda doctors have said this. He is improving and in a week's time he'll be alright," he said.  Political circles are abuzz with rumours of a possible change in leadership. Bommai's emotional speech in his home constituency of Shiggaon earlier this week added to this buzz, coupled with RDPR Minister K S Eshwarappa's projection of Industries Minister Murugesh Nirani as a future chief minister. And, senior BJP MLA Basanagouda Patil Yatnal has been cryptically targeting a BJP leader who is said to be going to town saying he'll become the CM.  Alternatively, there is speculation that Bommai's Cabinet will be rejigged keeping the 2023 Assembly elections in mind.  Ashoka dismissed talk of Bommai's exit. "We're all with Bommai. Our support is for Bommai. We will fight the next election under his leadership," he said.  Ashoka pointed out Union Home Minister Amit Shah's statement in early September that Bommai will lead the BJP into the 2023 election. "If people still have a doubt after Shah's statement, then they should be sent to a mental hospital," he said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/i-m-good-karnataka-cm-bommai-clarifies-on-health-rumours-1064328.html
24-12-2021||Karnataka Politics||Anti-conversion Bill: Speaker denies Congress charge||Karnataka Assembly Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri on Friday denied allegations that the controversial Anti-conversion Bill was introduced in a hush-rush manner. Responding to a question on why the Bill was not mentioned in the agenda circulated the day before its introduction in the Assembly, Kageri said that the Bill copy was not ready by then. "I cannot anticipate that a Bill will be introduced and put it on the agenda," he said. After the Bill was printed the next morning (Tuesday), a supplementary agenda was circulated among legislators. "There is a provision to introduce a supplementary agenda. As soon as there was a quorum, once the Assembly resumed at noon, the Bill was tabled," he said. Kageri said that he informed the Opposition whips about the introduction of the Bill post noon on Tuesday. "Opposition legislators entered the Assembly hall late and blamed me of tabling the Bill in a hushed manner," he said. The Karnataka Protection of Right to Freedom of Religion Bill was passed on a voice vote in the Assembly amid protests on Thursday.  During the debate, Siddaramaiah said the Bill is unnecessary as the IPC has provisions to punish forced religious conversion. He also attacked the Bill for placing the burden of proof on the accused and cited Census data to show that the Hindu population had not decreased as it was being propagated. On penalising "conversion by marriage", Siddaramaiah said any adult is free to marry a person of one's choice. This provision, which is also present in Gujarat's anti-conversion law, remains challenged in the Gujarat High Court, he pointed out. Terming the law "draconian and unconstitutional", Siddaramaiah accused the BJP of raking up emotional matters issues to divert attention from relevant issues. 73% attendance Kageri said the winter Assembly session had an average of 73% attendance and only eight of the 225 members were absent with permission. During the 10-day session, the Assembly cleared 10 Bills and also passed a censure motion against the burning of the Kannada flag and defacement of Sangolli Rayanna and Shivaji statues. As many as 2,426 questions were received from MLAs. The flood relief debate lasted for over eight hours whereas north Karnataka was discussed for over five hours. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/anti-conversion-bill-speaker-denies-congress-charge-1064349.html
24-12-2021||Karnataka Politics||Council drama: Karnataka BJP defers anti-conversion bill||The ruling BJP's plan to somehow get the anti-conversion bill passed in the Legislative Council, where it does not have a majority, fell flat and the government ended up withdrawing its decision to table it in the upper house.  What led to the withdrawal is nothing short of a drama that saw the BJP make a desperate attempt to have just the right number on the floor to ensure passage of the Bill. It was passed in the Assembly on Thursday.  After the first half, the Council was adjourned for lunch. The session was to meet at 3 pm. But, it was not until 4 pm that the House resumed. In the meantime, the BJP chalked out a strategy.  Several BJP members, including Council deputy chairperson MK Pranesh, had left Belagavi. The ruling party summoned them to return, and the Council was kept waiting. Several Congress MLCs, too, had left Belagavi and the BJP stood a chance to get the Bill passed with whatever numbers they had on the floor.  At around 3.45 pm, BJP's floor leader Kota Srinivas Poojary and other party leaders went to Council chairperson Basavaraj Horatti's chamber for a discussion.  Realising the plot, Congress MLCs rushed into Horatti's chamber and questioned the delay in resuming the House. That is when the quorum bell started ringing.  “They knew they lacked a majority. They wanted to get the Bill passed when the Opposition had fewer members on the floor. Earlier, they had said the Bill will not be tabled. They deliberately delayed the tabling of the Bill since morning so that their members can return to Belagavi,” Opposition chief whip M Narayanaswamy said. After the House reassembled, Horatti said that the delay in the proceedings was unintentional. Opposition members urged Horatti to give them time to recall their members, or adjourn the session. Apparently, some Congress MLCs had booked their flights in the anticipation that the Council will be adjourned sine die.  Horatti adjourned the House for five minutes to hold parleys between the ruling and the opposition sides.  Thereafter, Poojary told the Council that the Bill will not be tabled. It will be taken up in the next session.  Later, Deputy Chairman Pranesh adjourned the House sine die. According to sources, the episode embarrassed Horatti to the extent that he considered resigning. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/council-drama-karnataka-bjp-defers-anti-conversion-bill-1064361.html
24-12-2021||Karnataka Politics||BJP, Congress spar over North Karnataka; Assembly adjourned sine die||The winter session of the Assembly was adjourned sine die on Friday amidst a demonstration during the government’s reply on development of the north Karnataka region. Ahead of adjournment, the Congress accused the BJP government of ignoring the interests of the region. The claim was disputed by the BJP, with Water Resources Minister Govind Karjol accusing Congress of running away from real issues. Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah sought the government to extend the session post-noon to discuss irrigation projects and other problems of the north Karnataka region. However, Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri refused to allow Siddaramaiah to continue, leading to a protest in the well of the House by Congress legislators. Karjol, who rose to respond on behalf of the government, said that Congress was responsible for the injustice meted out to the north Karnataka region. He also disputed Siddaramaiah’s claims about funds he had allocated to north Karnataka for irrigation. Congress members, meanwhile, resorted to sloganeering in the well of the House contending that the minister was resorting to lies and the government was a puppet of RSS. Earlier, Siddaramaiah said that Congress had allocated Rs 51,217 crore during their 5-year rule for irrigation projects. “During the previous election, you had promised Rs 1.5 lakh crore for irrigation and drinking water projects... What is the amount spent in the last two-and-a-half years for the purpose? It is just Rs 17,734 crore,” he said. Discussion on north Karnataka had resumed after the Question Hour on Friday morning, during which MLAs from the ruling camp sought time to discuss problems of the region. Muddebihal MLA A S Patil Nadahalli demanded a North Karnataka Development Board. The recommendations of the Nanjundappa Committee report should also be implemented in full, he demanded. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bjp-congress-spar-over-north-karnataka-assembly-adjourned-sine-die-1064400.html
24-12-2021||Karnataka Politics||J P Nadda to attend Karnataka BJP meet on Dec 29||BJP national president J P Nadda will preside over the party’s state executive committee meeting scheduled to be held on December 28 and 29 at a private hotel in Hubballi. Giving details about the meeting here on Friday, BJP state general secretary Mahesh Tenginkai said, party state in-charge Arun Singh, co-in-charge D K Aruna, Union ministers Nirmala Sitharaman, Pralhad Joshi, Shobha Karandlaje, A Narayanswamy, Bhagwanth Khuba and Rajeev Chandrashekar, BJP state president Nalin Kumar Kateel, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, senior party leader B S Yediyurappa and other senior leaders of the party will attend the meeting. Special sessions will be held on December 28. Nadda will participate on the concluding day. Divisional-level leaders and office-bearers of various units will participate in the programme, he said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/j-p-nadda-to-attend-karnataka-bjp-meet-on-dec-29-1064402.html
24-12-2021||Karnataka Politics||Mekedatu: Congress to hold padayatra from Jan 9||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D K Shivakumar said Congress will hold a padayatra from Mekedatu to Bengaluru from January 9 to 19 demanding the implementation of the Mekedatu Project. He was speaking after holding a puja at Talakaveri, the birthplace of River Kaveri for the success of the padayatra. “It is a political movement. The members of various organisations will take part in this movement. The padayatra will traverse 15-km daily. The Mekedatu project is our right. There is no question of leaving it,” he said. He said the Mekedatu project requires no objection from the environment ministry. There is no writ application of Tamil Nadu pending before the court. If the project is implemented, then it will ease water woes, he said. “During the last monsoon, 64 tmcft of water had joined the sea. If water is stored at Mekedatu, then it would have benefited seven districts. Even Bengaluru is facing an acute water crisis,” said Shivakumar. ‘’The Mekedatu project has received technical approval. A major portion of the farmland will not be inundated in the project. Only the forest land will be submerged following the project. Even the water usage issue has been decided. Hence, the project should be expedited,’’ he demanded. As Shivakumar’s relative had passed away recently, he did not visit the Theertha Kundike at Talakaveri. He also offered prayers. KPCC working president Dhruvanarayana, former minister H M Revanna, KPCC legal cell president A S Ponnanna and others were present. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/mekedatu-congress-to-hold-padayatra-from-jan-9-1064403.html
24-12-2021||National||Allahabad HC urges Centre to postpone polls amid Omicron scare||The Allahabad High Court on Thursday urged the central government to stop political rallies from being held in election-bound states amid rising cases of the new Omicron variant of Covid-19. A Bench of Justice Shekhar Kumar Yadav, while allowing the bail application of a petitioner in a case, said the number of patients infected with Omicron are increasing and there is a possibility of a third wave. The court said countries like China, Netherlands, and Germany have imposed complete or partial lockdowns due to the rising cases. During the second wave, the country saw lakhs of people getting infected by coronavirus and many people had died contracting the disease, the HC said. The gram panchayat elections in Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal Assembly polls also contributed to a rise in infections that led to many deaths due to Covid-19, it stated. As the Uttar Pradesh assembly elections are nearing, all the political parties are mobilising lakhs of people by holding rallies and meetings where it is not possible to follow Covid protocols, including social distancing, in any way, the HC observed. If this is not stopped in time, the consequences could be more dire than the second wave of the pandemic, it warned. The court requested the Election Commission of India to immediately stop such rallies and gatherings and also order political parties to campaign through TV channels and newspapers. The court said, if possible, the elections that are expected to be held in February next year could be postponed by a couple of months because only if there is life, then the election rallies and meetings can take place and the right to life has also been given under Article 21 of the Indian Constitution. Appreciating Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the Covid-19 vaccination campaign, the court requested him to consider stopping rallies, gatherings and postponing the upcoming state elections, taking strong measures in view of the pandemic situation. The court made the remarks while allowing the bail plea of a person named Sanjay Yadav. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/allahabad-hc-urges-centre-to-postpone-polls-amid-omicron-scare-1064129.html
24-12-2021||National||DH Toon | Booster dose for Yogi amid Omicron threat||The Centre on Thursday advised states slated to hold Assembly polls in the next few months to ramp up Covid vaccination exponentially to protect the vulnerable population given the steady rise in cases of the Omicron variant of coronavirus in India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-booster-dose-for-yogi-amid-omicron-threat-1064149.html
24-12-2021||National||Arrests, beatings and secret prayers: Inside the persecution of India’s Christians||The Christians were mid-hymn when the mob kicked in the door. A swarm of men dressed in saffron poured inside. They jumped onstage and shouted Hindu supremacist slogans. They punched pastors in the head. They threw women to the ground, sending terrified children scuttling under their chairs. “They kept beating us, pulling out hair,” said Manish David, one of the pastors who was assaulted. “They yelled, ‘What are you doing here? What songs are you singing? What are you trying to do?’” The attack unfolded on the morning of Jan. 26 at the Satprakashan Sanchar Kendra Christian centre in the city of Indore. The police soon arrived, but the officers did not touch the aggressors. Instead, they arrested and jailed the pastors and other church elders. The Christians were charged with breaking a newly enforced law that targets religious conversions, one that mirrors at least a dozen other measures across the country that have prompted a surge in mob violence against Indian Christians. David was not converting anyone, he said. But the organised assault against his church was propelled by a growing anti-Christian hysteria that is spreading across this vast nation, home to one of Asia’s oldest and largest Christian communities, with more than 30 million adherents. Anti-Christian vigilantes are sweeping through villages, storming churches, burning Christian literature, attacking schools and assaulting worshippers. In many cases, the police and members of India’s governing party are helping them, government documents and dozens of interviews revealed. In church after church, the very act of worship has become dangerous despite constitutional protections for freedom of religion. To many Hindu extremists, the attacks are justified — a means of preventing religious conversions. To them, the possibility that some Indians, even a relatively small number, would reject Hinduism for Christianity is a threat to their dream of turning India into a pure Hindu nation. Many Christians have become so frightened that they try to pass as Hindu to protect themselves. “I just don’t get it,” said Abhishek Ninama, a Christian farmer, who stared dejectedly at a rural church stomped apart this year. “What is it that we do that makes them hate us so much?” The pressure is greatest in central and northern India, where the governing party of Prime Minister Narendra Modi is firmly in control and where evangelical Christian groups are making inroads among lower-caste Hindus, albeit quietly. Pastors hold clandestine ceremonies at night. They conduct secret baptisms. They pass out audio Bibles that look like little transistor radios so that illiterate farmers can surreptitiously listen to the Scripture as they plow their fields. Since its independence in 1947, India has been the world’s largest experiment in democracy. At times, communal violence, often between Hindus and Muslims, has tested its commitment to religious pluralism, but usually the authorities try, albeit sometimes too slowly, to tamp it down. The issue of conversions to Christianity from Hinduism is an especially touchy subject, one that has vexed the country for years and even drew in Jawaharlal Nehru, India’s first prime minister, who fiercely guarded India’s secular ideals. In the past few years, Modi and his Hindu nationalist party have tugged India far to the right, away from what many Indians see as the multicultural foundation Nehru built. The rising attacks on Christians, who make up about 2% of the population, are part of a broader shift in India in which minorities feel less safe. Modi is facing increasing international pressure to rein in his supporters and stop the persecution of Muslims and Christians. The United States Commission on International Religious Freedom, a government body, recommended that India be put on its red list for “severe violations of religious freedom” — a charge the Modi administration strongly denied. But across India, the anti-Christian forces are growing stronger by the day, and they have many faces, including a white-collar army of lawyers and clerks who file legal complaints against Christian organisations. They also devise devastating social boycotts against isolated Christians in remote villages. According to extensive interviews, Hindu nationalists have blocked Christians from community wells, barred them from visiting Hindu homes and ostracised villagers for believing in Jesus. Last year, in one town, they stopped people from gathering on Christmas. “Christians are being suppressed, discriminated against and persecuted at rising levels like never before in India,” said Matias Perttula, the advocacy director at International Christian Concern, a leading anti-persecution group. “And the attackers run free, every time.” For Dilip Chouhan, part of a growing network of anti-Christian muscle, just the mention of Christians makes his face pucker, as if he licked a lemon. “These ‘believers,’” he said, using the term derisively, “they promise all kinds of stuff — motorcycles, TVs, fridges. They work off superstition. They mislead people.” Chouhan lives in the central state of Madhya Pradesh, which this year passed an anti-conversion law that carries prison sentences of up to 10 years for any person found guilty of leading illegal conversions, which are vaguely defined. Energised by this law, Chouhan, 35, and scores of other young Hindu nationalists have stormed a string of churches. Some of the raids were broadcast on the news, including footage of Chouhan barging into one church with a shotgun on his back. Chouhan said his group, which uses WhatsApp to plan its raids on upcoming church services, has 5,000 members. It is part of a constellation of Hindu nationalist organisations across the country, including the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, or RSS, as well as many members of Modi’s Bharatiya Janata Party, or the BJP. Christians in states such as Kerala and Goa, which have large historic Christian communities, face much less persecution, if any at all. But in tradition-bound rural areas where Christians are a tiny minority and community means everything, the pressure is intense. Village elders in Bilawar Kalan, in Madhya Pradesh, recently instituted the equivalent of a $130 fine for any family that allows Christians in their home. At the same time, they are trying to force the few Christian families to convert to Hinduism, warning that otherwise no one will marry their children, attend their funerals or sell them anything at the market. “They want to remove us from society,” said Sukh Lal Kumre, a threadbare farmer and a Christian, who sat on a dry log in a field just outside the village. When asked about the social boycott, elders in Bilawar Kalan were not evasive or apologetic. “We are doing this to coerce them back to society,” explained Mesh Lal Chanchal, who is also one of the village’s top BJP members. “If we didn’t intervene, they would have converted this whole area by now.” After India’s independence from Britain, Christian leaders helped persuade the framers of India’s Constitution to include protections for religious freedom, even as Hindu nationalists kept trying to pass anti-conversion laws. When the debate landed in Parliament in 1955, Nehru, India’s iconic prime minister, argued against such anti-conversion laws, presciently predicting that they “might very well be the cause of great harassment.” In the decades that followed, Hindu nationalists tried to restrict conversions. Secularists within Nehru’s Congress Party tried to check them. A few states, including Madhya Pradesh, where Hindu nationalists have long enjoyed broad support, passed their own anti-conversion laws, but enforcement was limited and desultory. In 2014, all that changed. Modi swept into power. Part of his appeal were his promises of economic reform and a more powerful India on the global stage. But many Indians were also attracted to Modi’s deep roots in Hindu nationalist groups such as the RSS. A few years ago, after Catholic churches in New Delhi, the capital, had been vandalised, Christian leaders pleaded with Modi for help. He was disinterested, mocking them and never addressing the attacks, according to three clergymen who attended an important meeting at the prime minister’s residence in December 2014. “He acted like a don,” said the Rev. Dominic Emmanuel, a former official with the Delhi Catholic Church who now lives in Vienna. When asked about the meeting, a spokesperson for Modi said these were “unsubstantiated allegations” and pointed to a speech in which Modi said he would “not allow any religious group, belonging to the majority or the minority, to incite hatred against others” and that his government would be one “that gives equal respect to all religions.” In October, Modi met Pope Francis at the Vatican and invited him to visit India. Some analysts saw that as progress. Others dismissed it as a cynical ploy for Catholic votes. Emmanuel does not believe a papal visit will change much. Attacks have shot up over the past few months and have spread to the southern state of Karnataka. The extremists say they are acting to stop illegal conversions. Christian leaders say that is just an excuse to stir up a mob. “Just like they have terrorism to beat the Muslims with,” Emmanuel said, “they have conversions to beat the Christians with.” He added, “I’m worried and very sad that in this beautiful country, with a lovely culture, where we have lived together for centuries, majoritarianism is gaining the upper hand, and people are being put against one another based on religion.” Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/arrests-beatings-and-secret-prayers-inside-the-persecution-of-india-s-christians-1064158.html
24-12-2021||National||'No place to pray' for Muslim worshippers in Gurugram||Dinesh Bharti drives around with other activists on Fridays heckling and harassing Muslims praying outside in Gurugram, the latest flashpoint of sectarian tensions under India's Hindu nationalist government. Muslims praying in the open "create problems in the country and the entire world," the thickset Hindu man in his 40s said, a red tilak on his forehead marking him out as a devout member of India's majority religion. Prime Minister Narendra Modi's election in 2014 emboldened hardline groups who see India as a Hindu nation and its 200 million-strong Muslim minority as potentially dangerous outsiders. Gurugram is a modern satellite city of the capital New Delhi. Around 500,000 Muslims either live there, have migrated to the area for work or labour there during the day. The city has 15 mosques for them, but the local government has refused permission to build more -- even as the number of Hindu temples has grown. This has forced the community to hold Friday afternoon prayers -- the most important of the week for Muslims -- in open spaces. In recent years, Hindu groups have sprayed cow dung at Islamic prayer sites and called worshippers terrorists and Pakistanis -- referencing India's Muslim-majority neighbour and arch-rival. The local government, meanwhile, has steadily cut the number of approved outdoor worship sites. Earlier this month, the Haryana state chief minister, a member of Modi's Bharatiya Janata Party, declared that outdoor prayers in Gurugram "will no longer be tolerated". Undermining their argument that religion can be practised only indoors, Hindu groups celebrated last Friday by setting up a makeshift temple and community kitchen to feed hundreds as devotional music blared. Across town, hundreds of Muslims queued to take turns to worship at one of only six remaining prayer venues still available. At another site, Muslims were heckled and forced to chant slogans such as "Hail Lord Ram" -- a Hindu deity -- that have proliferated under Modi among his supporters. "If the government doesn't find a solution to the issue... it will become more complicated and serious," Sabir Qasmi, a Muslim cleric at the prayer meeting, told AFP. Modi is a lifelong member of the hardline Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) Hindu nationalist group. He was briefly barred from the United States over religious riots in Gujarat in 2002 when he was state chief minister. Since his coming to power, a string of lynchings of Muslims by Hindu mobs for so-called cow protection -- a sacred animal for many Hindus -- and other hate crimes has sown fear and despair in the community. Several states have brought in legislation criminalising conversion to Christianity and Islam, including through marriage -- or "love jihad" as Hindu hardliners call it. This week, a video emerged from a recent gathering of right-wing Hindu groups in which some delegates called for Muslims to be killed, reports said. Hindu protesters in Gurugram say outdoor prayers pose a "security" risk, cause traffic problems and prevent children from playing cricket. But critics say the real reason is simply that Muslims have no place in Modi's new intolerant India, where Hindu zealots are dictating government policy. Arati R. Jerath, a political commentator, said there is an agenda to convert India from a pluralistic and secular nation into a "Hindu country". "Whether it is economic spaces or spaces for worship, or spaces for the food and customs or anything with a Muslim identity, that is going to be part of the project," Jerath told AFP. "It is not necessarily a government-sponsored project, but certainly a project by the supporters of this government, who... get tacit support from the government." On Sunday, the head of a Hindu umbrella group proposed a solution: Muslims should convert. "They will have their temples to pray and this (prayer) issue will end," said Mahaveer Bhardwaj, chairman of the Sanyukt Sangharsh Samiti.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-place-to-pray-for-muslim-worshippers-in-gurugram-1064166.html
24-12-2021||National||India reports 6,650 new coronavirus cases, 374 deaths||India on Friday recorded 6,650 new coronavirus infections taking the total tally of cases to 3,47,72,626. The death toll climbed to 4,79,133 with 374 fresh fatalities. Active cases declined to 77,516, data by the Union Health Ministry showed. There were 7,051 recoveries in the last 24 hours. The total number of Omicron cases in the country has reached 358. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.  India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-6650-new-coronavirus-cases-374-deaths-1064171.html
24-12-2021||National||Four-day workweek, new salary structure likely to be implemented in India under new labour codes||The four labour codes on wages, social security, industrial relations and occupation safety, health and working conditions are likely to be implemented by the next fiscal year as at least 13 states have pre-published draft rules on these laws, a senior official said. The Centre has already finalised the rules under these codes and now states are required to frame regulations on their part as labour is a concurrent subject. A senior official said that the four labour codes are likely to be implemented by the next fiscal year. "The four labour codes are likely to be implemented in the next financial year of 2022-23 as a large number of states have finalised draft rules on these. The Centre has completed the process of finalising the draft rules on these codes in February 2021. But since labour is a concurrent subject, the Centre wants the states to implement these as well in one go," the official said. Union Labour Minister Bhupender Yadav in a reply to the Rajya Sabha earlier this week had said that the Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions Code is the only code on which the least number of 13 states have pre-published the draft rules. The highest number of draft notifications are pre-published on The Code on Wages by 24 states/UTs followed by The Industrial Relations Code (by 20 states) and The Code on Social Security (18) states. In his reply to the Upper House, the minister explained that labour is in the Concurrent List of the Constitution and under the Labour Codes, rules are required to be framed by the central government as well as by the state governments. The central government and some of the States/UTs have pre-published rules under the four labour codes. The central government is pursuing with the remaining state governments to frame the rules under all four Codes, he had said. The central government has notified four labour codes, namely, the Code on Wages, 2019, on August 8, 2019, and the Industrial Relations Code, 2020, the Code on Social Security, 2020, and the Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions Code, 2020 on September 29, 2020. However, the Centre as well as states are required to notify rules under the four codes to enforce these laws in respective jurisdictions. Under the Codes, the power to make rules has been entrusted to the Central Government, State Government and appropriate Government and there is a requirement of publication of Rules in their official Gazette for a period of 30 or 45 days for public consultation. As per the minister's reply, draft rules are pre-published by 24 states on The Code on Wages. These states are Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, Uttarakhand, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Odisha, Punjab, Chhattisgarh, Tripura, Rajasthan, Jharkhand, Arunachal Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Maharashtra, Goa, Mizoram, Telangana, Assam, Manipur, UTs of Jammu and Kashmir, Puducherry and GNCT of Delhi. Similarly, the 20 states which have pre-published draft rules on The Industrial Relations Code are Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Odisha, Punjab, Chhattisgarh, Tripura, Karnataka, Jharkhand, Arunachal Pradesh, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Telangana, Manipur, Assam, Goa, UTs of Jammu and Kashmir and Puducherry. As many as 18 states have pre-published draft rules on The Code on Social Security. These states are Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Chhattisgarh, Odisha, Jharkhand, Arunachal Pradesh, Haryana, Maharashtra, Tripura, Himachal Pradesh, Manipur, Assam, Gujarat, Goa and UT of Jammu and Kashmir. As many as 13 states have pre-published draft rules on The Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions Code. These are Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Odisha, Arunachal Pradesh, Haryana, Jharkhand, Punjab, Manipur, Bihar, Himachal Pradesh and UT of Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/four-day-workweek-new-salary-structure-likely-to-be-implemented-in-india-under-new-labour-codes-1064177.html
24-12-2021||National||Haridwar hate speech: FIR filed after 6 days, no arrests so far||Six days after several speakers allegedly made inflammatory and provocative speeches, calling for the killing of Muslims at a recent conclave held in Haridwar, a case has been registered against Jitendra Narain Tyagi alias Waseem Rizvi, the former chairman of Shia Waqf Board, who recently embraced Hinduism. Several videos containing "hate speeches" by saints, seers and others at the 'Dharm Sansad' (religious gathering) went viral on social media. A senior police official said in Haridwar on Friday that a case was registered against Tyagi and some others under section 153 A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence and language) and the investigation was on. "A complaint was lodged by one Gul Bahar Khan in Kotwali police station in this regard... we are investigating the matter," said the official. No arrest has been so far in connection with the case, he added. According to the complainant, a three-day 'Dharm Sansad' was organised between December 17-19 at Ved Niketan Ashram at Haridwar by one Yati Narsmhananda, a local seer, in which saints and seers and some BJP leaders had taken part. In one of the videos, Maa Annapurna, a seer and an office-bearer of the Hindu Mahasabha is heard saying that she will not hesitate to take up arms to protect the Hindu religion. "I will not think for a minute and take up arms if I feel that Hinduism is in danger even if I am branded a supporter of Nathuram Godse," she is heard saying in the video. In another video, a seer, identified as Dharmdas Maharaji is heard saying that he would have followed Godse and "pumped six bullets in the chest of Manmohan Singh (former prime minister) when he had said that the minorities had the first right over national resources". Another seer Anand Swaroopji Maharaj is heard saying in another video that the Hindus will wage a battle more severe than the 1857 war of independence if they are not given 'Hindu Rashtra'. He also purportedly threatened the hotel owners in Haridwar with serious consequences if they allowed Christmas celebrations in their premises. The district police have drawn flak from the rights groups and opposition leaders for not taking swift action against the participants in the 'Dharm Sansad'. "Only one person has been named in the FIR... the names of others are not known... no arrest has been made," said a local rights activist in Haridwar. All-India Trinamool Congress national spokesman and RTI activist Saket Gokhale had lodged a complaint in this connection at the Jwalapur police station in Haridwar district, asking the Station House Officer to register an FIR within 24 hours. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/haridwar-hate-speech-fir-filed-after-6-days-no-arrests-so-far-1064182.html
24-12-2021||National||India's Omicron tally rises to 358||India recorded 122 cases of the Omicron variant of coronavirus in a span of 24 hours, the highest so far, pushing its tally in the country to 358, 114 of which have recovered or migrated, according to Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. The 358 Omicron Covid variant cases have been detected across 17 states and union territories so far, it showed. Maharashtra has recorded the highest number of 88 cases of the Omicron variant, followed by Delhi with 67, Telangana 38, Tamil Nadu 34, Karnataka 31 and Gujarat 30. The ministry data updated at 8 am also showed that India recorded 6,650 new coronavirus infections, taking its tally of cases to 3,47,72,626, while the count of active cases has declined to 77,516. The death toll due to the disease has climbed to 4,79,133, with 374 daily fatalities being recorded, it showed. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been recorded below 15,000 for the last 57 days. The tally of active cases has declined to 77,516, which comprises 0.22 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020. The national Covid-19 recovery rate has further improved to 98.40 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. A decrease of 775 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours, as per the data. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 0.57 per cent. It has been less than two per cent for 81 days now. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 0.59 per cent. This has been below one per cent for 40 days now, according to the health ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease has surged to 3,42,15,977, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.38 per cent. The cumulative number of doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 140.31 crore. India's Covid-19 infection tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5, 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and the one-crore mark on December 19. The country crossed the grim milestones of two crore cases on May 4 and three crore on June 23.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-omicron-tally-rises-to-358-1064183.html
24-12-2021||National||Govt mandates telcos to keep call data, internet usage record for minimum 2 years||Department of Telecom (DoT) has extended the duration of archiving call data and internet usage records of subscribers to two years from one year due to security reasons. The amendments in the licences were issued on December 21 and extended to other forms of telecom permits on December 22. "The licensee shall maintain all commercial records/call detail record/exchange detail record/IP detail record with record to the communications exchanged on the network. Such records shall be archived for at least two years for scrutiny by the licensor for security reasons...," the DoT circular said. Telecom companies may destroy the data stored thereafter if there is no direction from the DoT thereafter. The circular said that the amendment is necessary in "public interest or in the interest of the security of the state or for the proper conduct of the telegraphs". The amendment mandates telecom companies to maintain internet data records of subscribers including login and logout details of all subscribers for services provided such as internet access, e-mail, internet telephony services like calls made from mobile applications or wifi calling for at least two years. Earlier the rules mandated the archive call data and internet usage records for at least 1 year.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-mandates-telcos-to-keep-call-data-internet-usage-record-for-minimum-2-years-1064197.html
24-12-2021||National||Nagaland peace talks, AFSPA: Is the ball finally in Modi's court?||Close on the heels of Foreign Secretary Harsh V Shringla taking up with Myanmar's military rulers on the now infamous Churachandpur ambush in Manipur, Union Home Minister Amit Shah held a crucial late night meeting with Chief Ministers of Assam and Nagaland Himanta Biswa Sarma and Neiphiu Rio, respectively. Home Minister Shah is likely to brief Prime Minister Narendra Modi on his talks with the northeastern leaders especially in the context of security implications in taking any decision on AFSPA. Assam Chief Minister Sarma has favoured continuing with the enforcement of AFSPA in his state. Recently, RSS leader Indresh Kumar told reporters that even in Kashmir the deployment of forces were automatically minimised once situation improved and the Article 370 was abrogated. Sources close to the NNPGs, an umbrella of 7 militant groups, leadership have said only a final peace pact can bring a 'natural end' to all controversies pertaining to AFSPA and deployment of security forces in Nagaland and other Naga inhabited areas. Tangkhul Nagas of NSCN (IM) leader Thuingaleng Muivah have substantial presence in Manipur, which again goes to the polls by February-March along with Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Uttarakhand and Goa. BJP floor leader in Nagaland and Deputy Chief Minister Y Patton and a former Chief Minister T.R. Zeliang (of NPF) were also present in the meeting with Shah. Patton is also the state Home Minister and a section of BJP leaders in Delhi were not impressed with his performance especially in the context of Oting shooting down. The deliberations between Shah and northeastern leaders were vital as these took place days after the Nagaland assembly adopted a resolution for repeal of the Armed Forces Special Power Act (AFSPA). The summoning of the leaders from Nagaland especially on the eve of Christmas and their arrival in the capital along with Assam Chief Minister and NEDA convener Himanta Biswa Sarma signified that talks were sensitive and essential. The meeting between Mr Shah and the northeastern leaders took place within hours India's Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla on a two-day visit to Myanmar raised matters relating to India's security with Myanmar military rulers especially in the light of the "recent incident in Churachandpur" district in southern Manipur. The ambush on November 13 claimed the lives of Col Viplab Tripathi, his wife and nine-year-old boy and four jawans. Subsequently, the killing of Naga civilians by security forces in Mon district in a botched up anti insurgency operation has now led to demand for the withdrawal of the AFSPA from Nagaland. "Entire Naga society has been calling for repeal of AFSPA and that voice is at its loudest today," said Nagaland Chief Minister Neiphiu Rio on December 20 while piloting forcefully an official resolution in the Assembly seeking immediate repeal of the controversial law that gives some impunity to armed forces. Assam Chief Minister Sarma for his part, however, said AFSPA will continue in his state. The argument being the withdrawal of AFSPA cannot be a call of the government alone. It has to depend on the overall situation, law and order situation of the state. "Now suppose I withdraw, will that be reciprocated by the militant organisations?" he said in Guwahati a few days back. The Oting killing of Konyak Naga civilians and subsequent violence in Mon town on December 5 have led to the demand for withdrawal of the AFSPA, considered an essential piece of legislation for army operations in north east and in Jammu and Kashmir. In the Churachandpur ambush on November 13, one colonel Viplab Tripathi, his wife and nine-year boy were killed along with four jawans. Six others were injured when PLA and little known Manipur Naga People's Front militants attacked the forces at Behiang in Churachandpur district. Apprehensions were expressed in certain quarters that Oting killing and subsequent developments could even lead to derailment or stalling of the hard-owned Naga peace talks that had begun in August 1997. The Oting killing of Konyak Naga civilians and subsequent violence in Mon town on December 5 have led to the demand for withdrawal of the AFSPA, considered an essential piece of legislation for army operations in north east and in Jammu and Kashmir. In the Churachandpur ambush on November 13, one colonel Viplab Tripathi, his wife and nine-year boy were killed along with four jawans. Six others were injured when PLA and little known Manipur Naga People's Front militants attacked the forces at Behiang in Churachandpur district. Apprehensions were expressed in certain quarters that Oting killing and subsequent developments could even lead to derailment or stalling of the hard-owned Naga peace talks that had begun in August 1997. As it is the NSCN (IM) has stuck to its demand for Flag and a Separate Constitution that has only lingered the peace talks. In 2019, the then Nagaland Governor R N Ravi had said the peace talks were over and final pact was to be inked. However, the NSCN (IM)'s twin demands have posed hurdles although NNPGs, a conglomeration of 7 Naga groups operating in Nagaland, were keen for an early signing of the peace agreement. Meanwhile, a four-member panel of party leaders Gaurav Gogoi, Jitendra Singh, Ajoy Kumar and Anto Antony submitted a report on Nagaland situation to Congress president Sonia Gandhi. Notably, K. Therie, the president of the Nagaland Pradesh Congress Committee, has blamed Chief Minister Rio for the recent Oting incident. "It is a game plan to derail the peace process," Therie has alleged. "Nothing can happen in the state without the knowledge of the Chief Minister and state Home Minister as the law and order is a state subject," he said and maintained the movement of 21 para troopers from Assam in Nagaland on the fateful day, December 4, was not possible without the knowledge of authorities in Nagaland. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nagaland-peace-talks-afspa-is-the-ball-finally-in-modis-court-1064198.html
24-12-2021||National||2021: A year of record trade amid frozen India-China ties over Ladakh chill||India and China achieved a major milestone this year when their bilateral trade crossed the landmark figure of $100 billion but it did not generate any fanfare in both capitals as the two Asian giants are going through a "particularly bad patch" in their relations due to a set of actions by Beijing in violation of agreements that led to the military standoff in eastern Ladakh. Starting with a modest $1.83 billion in 2001, the bilateral trade crossed $100 billion-mark in the first 11 months this year, a significant milestone for which the two countries carried out campaigns to boost trade and build it as a major stakeholder to improve the relations between two nations, whose ties otherwise remained frosty over the festering boundary dispute and strategic rivalry. According to last month’s data from China’s General Administration of Customs (GAC), the India-China bilateral trade totalled $114.263 billion, up 46.4 per cent year-on-year from January to November 2021. India's exports to China reached $26.358 billion, up 38.5 per cent year-on-year and India's imports from China amounted to $87.905 billion, up 49.00 per cent. However, while the bilateral trade crossed the $100 billion mark, the trade deficit for the 11 months, which is of India’s major concern all along, stood at $61.547 billion, up 53.49 per cent year on year. India’s concerns over the trade deficit notwithstanding, the landmark record virtually went without any fanfare as the bilateral relations remained frosty over the lingering military standoff in eastern Ladakh. The border standoff between the armies of India and China erupted on May 5 last year following a violent clash in the Pangong lake areas and both sides gradually enhanced their deployment by rushing in tens of thousands of soldiers as well as heavy weaponry. As a result of a series of military and diplomatic talks, the two sides completed the disengagement process in the Gogra area in August and in the north and south banks of the Pangong lake in February. The two sides held the 12th round of talks on July 31. Days later, the two armies completed the disengagement process in Gogra, which was seen as a significant forward movement towards the restoration of peace and tranquillity in the region. Each side currently has around 50,000 to 60,000 troops along the LAC in the mountainous sector. What was stated to be a silver lining in this conflict, both sides remained engaged at the Foreign Ministers level to the top military commanders besides through the WMCC (Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination) to keep the tensions under control. The Ladakh standoff completely stalled the relations on all fronts except trade. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar during a panel discussion in Singapore in November said that India and China are going through a "particularly bad patch" in their ties because Beijing has taken a set of actions in violation of agreements for which it still doesn't have a "credible explanation". "We are going through a particularly bad patch in our relationship because they have taken a set of actions in violation of agreements for which they still don’t have a credible explanation and that indicates some rethink about where they want to take our relationship, but that’s for them to answer," he said, in an apparent reference to the eastern Ladakh border standoff. Also, former Indian Ambassador to China Vikram Misri, who in his virtual farewell call on Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi on December 6 said challenges had overpowered vast opportunities in Sino-India ties. "Our relations comprised both opportunities and challenges, and even though certain challenges since last year had overpowered the vast opportunities in the relationship,” Misri told Wang, apparently referring to the Ladakh standoff which posed a major obstacle for the ties. For Misri, who took charge as India’s envoy to Beijing in January in 2019, the posting turned out to be the toughest diplomatic challenge as the two countries came out of the Doklam standoff in 2017 with first informal summit between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chinese President Xi Jinping in Wuhan in 2018 followed by the second one in Chennai in 2019 with a wide development agenda. However, bilateral ties suffered with the eastern Ladakh standoff. In his informal chat with the media before he left for New Delhi, Misri recalled how the Chennai summit held high hopes and highlighted two significant initiatives Modi and Xi had agreed to implement. The two countries had decided to establish a High-Level Economic and Trade Dialogue (HETD) mechanism which was to be headed by the Vice Premier of China and Finance Minister of India. It was expected to look into all issues related to bilateral trade and business cooperation including India’s concerns related to the trade deficit. China had set up such a high-level mechanism only with the US to improve trade ties. Also, the two leaders decided to designate 2020 as the Year of India-China Cultural and People to People Exchanges and the two countries chalked out an elaborate schedule of 70 events to deepen exchanges at all levels including between their legislatures, political parties, cultural and youth organisations and militaries. Sadly, due to the chill in bilateral ties following the eastern Ladakh standoff, both the initiatives failed to take off. While the HETD has not met so far, the two countries have not held a single programme of the 70 events planned. Highlighting China’s stand on the current state of ties, Wang in his meeting with Misri said that without mutual trust, it is difficult to bring the two sides together, even if there are no mountains in the way. "China and India should become partners and friends” and should not be a threat to each other, he said. Observers say the Doklam and Ladakh standoffs warrant a fundamental reset of the India-China relations with a new paradigm and strategic framework to rebuild the ties. On the domestic front, the high-profile conclave of the ruling Communist Party of China (CPC) in November adopted a “landmark resolution” of the party’s major achievements in the last 100 years besides clearing the decks for a record third term for President Xi next year and perhaps beyond. The "landmark resolution" - the only third of its kind in the party's 100-year history after one issued under party founder Mao Zedong and his successor Deng Xiaoping - was reviewed and adopted at the sixth plenary session of the 19th CPC Central Committee.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/2021-a-year-of-record-trade-amid-frozen-india-china-ties-over-ladakh-chill-1064199.html
24-12-2021||National||PM Modi to address Gurpurab celebrations of Guru Nanak Dev in Gujarat's Kutch||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the Gurpurab celebrations of Guru Nanak Dev, the founder of Sikhism, at Lakhpat Sahib gurdwara in Kutch, Gujarat on Saturday via video conferencing, his office said. Every year from December 23 to December 25, Sikhs in Gujarat celebrate the Gurpurab of Guru Nanak Dev Ji at Lakhpat Sahib gurdwara, it said, noting that the first Sikh guru had stayed at Lakhpat during the course of his travels. Lakhpat Sahib gurdwara has his relics, including wooden footwear and palkhi (cradle) as well as manuscripts and markings scripts of Gurmukhi. The PMO noted that the gurudwara had suffered damage during the 2001 earthquake, and Modi, the then chief minister, had undertaken urgent measures to ensure its repair. "This step showed the deep reverence of the Prime Minister for the faith, as also reflected in multiple recent endeavours, including the celebrations of 550th Parkash Purab of Guru Nanak Dev Ji, 350th Parkash Purab of Guru Gobind Singh Ji, and 400th Parkash Purab of Guru Tegh Bahadur," the PMO said.  Check oo||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-address-gurpurab-celebrations-of-guru-nanak-dev-in-gujarats-kutch-1064203.html
24-12-2021||National||Owaisi alleges part of his speech being quoted out of context 'to trigger controversy'||All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) president, Asaduddin Owaisi, said on Friday that a clipped video footage of his speech was being circulated on social media to trigger controversy. The speech he made was in reference to the alleged provocative and communal statements made against minority communities during a three-day 'Dharma Sansad' in Haridwar. "A clipped one-min video is being circulated from a 45 min speech I gave in Kanpur. I have shared my entire speech on Twitter now. The context to my speech is amply clear. I was talking about cops who torture 80-year-old men. I was talking about cops who watch silently as mobs thrash a rickshaw driver in front of his daughter. Also, cops who rained lathi blows on a man as held his child in his arms," Owaisi said. He further said: "I said we will remember these police atrocities. Is this objectionable? Why is it offensive to remember how police have treated Muslims in UP? We cannot forget the oppression that was meted out to Anas, Suleiman, Asif, Faisal, Altaf, Akhlaq, Qasim, and hundreds of others," he asked in another series of tweets. 2. As you can see in the above video & the one here, I was talking about POLICE ATROCITIES in Kanpur & addressing such cops who think they have immunity to violate people’s liberties because of Modi-Yogi Owaisi clarified: "I did not incite violence or make threats. I talked about police atrocities." The event in Haridwar that Asaduddin Owaisi was referring to in his speech was attended by several Hindu religious leaders, who allegedly called upon the community to take up arms against Muslims as they gave a clarion call for a 'Hindu nation'. The three-day religious assembly was organised by Yati Narsinghanand, a controversial Hindutva figure known to make communal statements. Yati Narsinghanand reportedly said that "arming the Hindu brigade with bigger and better weapons" would be the "solution" against the "threat of Muslims."        Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/owaisi-alleges-part-of-his-speech-being-quoted-out-of-context-to-trigger-controversy-1064207.html
24-12-2021||National||Priyanka Gandhi slams 'hate speeches' at Haridwar event, demands strict action||Reacting sharply to hate speeches allegedly made at a 'Dharma Sansad' held recently in Haridwar, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Friday demanded the strictest action against those who incite violence, saying such acts violate the Constitution and the law. All-India Trinamool Congress national spokesperson Saket Gokhale has also demanded action against the organisers and the speakers of the 'Dharma Sansad' held in Haridwar, where "hate speeches" were allegedly made against Muslims. He has lodged a complaint against it at the Jwalapur police station in Haridwar district. Hitting out at the remarks made at the Haridwar conclave, Priyanka Gandhi said, "Strictest action should be taken against those who incite hatred and violence of this kind." "It is despicable that they should get away with making an open call to murder our respected ex-PM and unleash violence against people of different communities," she tweeted. Such acts violate our Constitution and the law of our land, the Congress general secretary added. Several opposition leaders, including those from the Congress and the TMC, had on Thursday condemned what they said was a "hate speech conclave" held in Haridwar and called for strict action against those involved. Held at Ved Niketan Dham in Haridwar, the Dharma Sansad was organised by Yati Narasimhanand Giri of the Juna Akhada, who is already under police scanner for making hate speeches and inciting violence against Muslims Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/priyanka-gandhi-slams-hate-speeches-at-haridwar-event-demands-strict-action-1064209.html
24-12-2021||National||TikTok rival Chingari app crosses 107 million downloads on Play Store||Short video app Chingari, one of the few TikTok rivals, on Friday announced that it has crossed 107 million downloads on Google Play Store. Chingari had recently tied up with multiple platforms for unique entertainment and engagement collaborations, which includes association with celeb-based apps, digital content providers and video-sharing platforms in Indian languages. 'We launched Chingari with a concept of being unique in terms of a short-video sharing platform. It has constantly pushed us to go beyond the best. Chingari as a brand has now truly arrived with this present success on the charts. For us, this is just the beginning of bigger achievements,' Sumit Ghosh, Co-founder & CEO of Chingari App, said in a statement. Chingari has also worked heavily with the music industry. It includes associations with music labels in Indian languages like Punjabi, Marathi, Bengali and Bhojpuri to offer users options in regional language. The app has collaborated with artists like Nucleya for successful concerts. To keep its users hooked, Chingari has also added first-of-its-kind AR (Augmented Reality) filters on its platform to give content creators more advanced front and rear camera tools to work with. Further, a content creator on this platform not only earns recognition and sponsorships but is also given points (based on how viral the video is) that can be redeemed for money. The company earlier revealed that the app witnessed around 100,000 downloads per hour at one point. Chingari app also registered 500,000 downloads within just 72 hours. With 107 million downloads, Chingari has risen on popularity charts with its unique myriad offerings that meet the changing user demands, the company claims. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tiktok-rival-chingari-app-crosses-107-million-downloads-on-play-store-1064236.html
24-12-2021||National||Mother-daughter among 4 killed in boiler blast in Vadodara factory||A four-year-old girl and three others were killed in a powerful blast of a boiler at a chemical factory located in Vadodara GIDC area of Gujarat on Friday, which also left 11 people injured, a police official said. A 65-year-old man, a teenager and a 30-year-old woman are among the deceased, he said. "A powerful blast ripped through the area around 9.30 am. Fifteen persons were found injured and they were rushed to nearby hospitals. Four of them were either declared brought dead or died during treatment," inspector of Makarpura police station, Sajid Baloch, said. The persons who lost their lives in the incident and the injured ones included workers and people who were passing by from the area when the blast occurred, he added. "The four persons died either due to burn injuries or after getting hit by some flying objects. A forensic team has reached the spot to investigate the cause of the blast," Baloch said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mother-daughter-among-4-killed-in-boiler-blast-in-vadodara-factory-1064237.html
24-12-2021||National||Amid Omicron scare, Centre launches study to determine need for booster dose of Covid-19 vaccine||The Centre has initiated a study of 3,000 individuals who received their both doses of Covid vaccines to determine the need for booster dose amid the looming scare of Omicron. The study will be conducted by the Translational Health Science and Technology Institute (THSTI) under the Department of Biotechnology. The participants who have already received their both doses of Covid vaccines will be given booster doses to determine the impact on their immunity level. The study is expected to cover all three vaccines used in India -- Covishield, Covaxin and Sputnik V. According to a source, the study will include people above 40 years of age, below 40 years of age, people infected with Covid-19 prior to vaccination, and people with co-morbid conditions. The hospitals involved in the study will be submitting the report on blood samples along with the analysis on the requirement of booster doses in India, said the source. Amid the everyday rise of Omicron cases in India, the need for booster dose has been voiced by many institutions. Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya had earlier said that the decision on booster dose in India will be taken based on scientific data and analysis. The National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI) is expected to meet in the first week of January to take a call on the same. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amid-omicron-scare-centre-launches-study-to-determine-need-for-booster-dose-of-covid-19-vaccine-1064238.html
24-12-2021||National||Amid rising Covid cases, Centre cautions people against lowering guard during festive season||Noting that the world is witnessing the fourth surge in Covid-19 cases, the government on Friday cautioned people against lowering the guard, particularly during year-end festivities. It urged people to avoid crowding and unnecessary travel and stressed Covid-19-appropriate behaviour and expedited vaccination. Addressing a joint press conference on the pandemic, a senior official said that the predominant strain in India continued to be Delta, including in recently identified clusters. India has so far reported 358 cases of the Omicron variant, of which 183 were analysed and 121 of them were found to have foreign travel history. Of the 183 Omicron cases analysed so far, 91 per cent were fully vaccinated with three having booster shots, 70 per cent were asymptomatic, and 61 per cent were males, the government said. Citing the World Health Organisation's findings, the government said Omicron has a significant growth advantage over Delta and is spreading fast through communities with a doubling time of 1.5 to 3 days. The world is witnessing the fourth surge in Covid-19 cases and has an overall positivity rate of 6.1 per cent. The government said the Covid-19 case positivity rate in Kerala and Mizoram is much higher than the national average and a cause for concern. It said 20 districts across the country were reporting a weekly positivity rate between 5 and 10 per cent and two districts over 10 per cent. The government cautioned people against lowering the guard, particularly during Christmas and New Year festivities. It said about 61 per cent of India's adults are fully vaccinated against Covid-19 and 89 per cent have been administered the first dose. In view of the emergence of the Omicron variant, the government appealed to the private health sector to be ready as it has to play an important role in managing the pandemic. According to the Union Health Ministry data updated at 8 am, India recorded 6,650 new coronavirus infections, taking its tally of cases to 3,47,72,626, while the count of active cases has declined to 77,516. The death toll due to the disease has climbed to 4,79,133, with 374 daily fatalities being recorded. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amid-rising-covid-cases-centre-cautions-people-against-lowering-guard-during-festive-season-1064260.html
24-12-2021||National||Pressure mounts on India to begin boosters as Omicron spreads||India's government faces a growing clamor from business leaders and public health experts to launch a Covid-19 booster drive and begin vaccinating children as the nation braces for a surge of Omicron-fueled infections. With ample vaccine supplies, India could begin inoculating those under 18 as well as administer third doses to front-line health care workers, the elderly and those at high risk since they got their first shots in early 2021, Kiran Mazumdar Shaw, the founder and chair of Biocon Ltd. -- one of India’s largest drugmakers -- told Bloomberg on Thursday. “We need a booster policy for sure,” she said. “I really don’t know what’s holding it up -- it’s got nothing to do with vaccine availability.” The heavily mutated and highly transmissible variant, which was discovered within India’s borders earlier this month, has already led to 358 infections. Now many, including Shaw, are asking that the country follow others’ lead by offering third doses to its population of almost 1.4 billion, as well as include children in the immunization program as schools reopen.  Elsewhere, Japan has announced plans to accelerate the rollout of boosters and the UK has set a year-end deadline to offer all adults a third dose. Israel is even experimenting with a fourth Covid shot. Recent studies show a third dose of AstraZeneca's Covid-19 vaccine or Covishield-- which accounts for nearly 90 per cent of doses administered in India -- significantly boosted neutralizing antibodies against Omicron while immunity from two shots started waning after three months. The Indian Medical Association, which represents physicians, has urged the government to provide additional doses to front-line workers and individuals with compromised immune systems.  While India has deployed more than 1.4 billion or 140 crore shots, only 41 per cent of its population has been fully inoculated, according to Bloomberg’s Vaccine Tracker. That shortfall has been partly pinned on some remaining hesitancy, along with the fact that India has yet to start vaccinating people under 18. As some cities, including New Delhi and Mumbai, begin to register a rising numbers of infections, many Indian states are also moving to reimpose restrictions on Christmas and New Year’s Eve celebrations and gatherings. Anil Rajput, the head of corporate affairs at Kolkata-based conglomerate ITC Ltd., said on a panel in early December that there were “growing concerns on the need for a booster dose especially in the light of the new variant.” It was also crucial to limit vaccine wastage with many doses close to expiry, Rajput said. Danger Reduced India’s network of government-funded Covid genome sequencing labs said in late November that boosters should be considered for over-40s and those at high risk, as the danger of severe disease will likely be reduced. India’s drug regulator has so far been reluctant to authorize third doses or childhood vaccinations until local trial data has been produced. Government officials have been reiterating targets to fully inoculating the country’s adult population first. India’s health ministry didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment. While the head of the Serum Institute of India Ltd. -- which is locally producing the AstraZeneca shots -- warned of a production drop two weeks ago due to lack of orders, Shaw expects demand to remain robust into 2022, especially if booster shots are deployed “every six months or whatever.” Biocon inked a deal earlier this year with Serum for access to 100 million vaccine doses annually.  Shaw knows from personal experience that protection offered by vaccines averts worst outcomes. Three weeks ago, 12 people in her household -- including her husband and domestic staff -- tested positive for Covid. But, being fully inoculated, they all had only mild symptoms and no one needed to go to a hospital. “The vaccine did protect them against severe diseases,” she said. But as time goes by, “you will have waning antibodies -- I do believe you need boosters.” Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pressure-mounts-on-india-to-begin-boosters-as-omicron-spreads-1064262.html
24-12-2021||National||Rs 150 cr recovered as CGST raids Shikhar pan Masala manufacturers in Kanpur||The Directorate General of GST on Friday said that they have launched searches in Kanpur following a tip-off against the manufacturers of Shikhar Pan Masala and tobacco products. A senior official said that the search operations covered the factory premises of Ms Trimurti Fragrance Pvt Ltd, the manufacturers of Shikhar brand Pan Masala and tobacco products and the office, godowns of Ms Ganpati Road Carriers, Transport Nagar, involved in the transportation of the goods. "They were busy in clandestine supplying goods without making payments of applicable tax. The transporter reportedly used to generate multiple invoices in the name of non-existent firms, all below Rs 50,000/- for one full truckload, to avoid the generation of E way Bills while moving the goods. The transporter was also collecting the sale proceeds of such clandestine supply in cash and handing it over to the manufacturer, after deducting his commission," said a GST official. Based on the information, the GST officers were able to intercept and seize four such trucks outside the factory premises, cleared from the factory without invoices and E-way Bills. The official said that during physical stock-taking, a shortage of raw materials and finished products was noticed as the finished products had been cleared clandestinely. During the questioning, the authorised signatory of the company admitted to having cleared the goods without GST. The official said that at the premises of the transporter, Ms Ganpati Road Carriers, more than 200 fake invoices used in the past for transportation of goods without payment of GST were recovered. The transporter also admitted that goods were being transported without e-way bills under the cover of fake invoices and also the sale proceeds was being collected in cash. "We have seized Rs 1.1 crores from the possession of transporter," the official said. Later, the GST official conducted searches on the premises of partners of Ms Odochem Industries, who were supplying perfumery compound, mostly in cash, to the said company. During the search proceedings at the residential premises, a huge amount of cash, wrapped in papers were found. "We had to call officials of Bank of India to count the cash. The total amount till the counting was around 150 crore. The whole amount will be seized," the official said, adding that further probe was on. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rs-150-cr-recovered-as-cgst-raids-shikhar-pan-masala-manufacturers-in-kanpur-1064263.html
24-12-2021||National||Kapurthala lynching: Gurdwara caretaker arrested for murder||The Punjab Police on Friday arrested the caretaker of a Kapurthala gurdwara for the lynching of a man and he has been charged with murder, a senior official said on Friday. The incident had taken place at Nizampur village in Kapurthala on Sunday, a day after a similar case at the Golden Temple in Amritsar, where a man was lynched over an alleged sacrilege bid. Gurdwara caretaker Amarjit Singh had earlier claimed that he saw the victim "disrespecting" a Sikh religious flag. Earlier on Friday, Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi told reporters in Chandigarh that the government was mulling over registering a murder case as no evidence was found backing the desecration charge. Jalandhar Range Inspector General of Police Gurinder Singh Dhillon told PTI over the phone that Amarjit Singh has been arrested for murder. "There is no visible sign of sacrilege till now," said Dhillon. "We have modified the already registered FIR in the incident and added offences of Sections 302 (murder) and 307 (attempt to murder), and arrested main accused Amarjit Singh for murder," he said. Police have registered a case against around 100 people, of which 25 to 30 were armed, he said. "There is videography and there are photographs (of the day of the incident). Since an SHO was present (police had reached the gurdwara when the victim was being beaten up), he will be able to identify them during investigation and due course of law will follow," said Dhillon. Asked if there was any update on the victim's identity, he said a medical board has taken samples for DNA testing. As far as physical identification is concerned, based on videography and photography, so far it has not been possible, the police officer added. Earlier in the day when asked on the desecration row, Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi had told reporters that the government was mulling over registering a murder case. "We did not find any sacrilege attempt or any evidence to back it. One person ran the gurdwara. This thing has moved to murder and inquiry is on," Channi had said, adding that the FIR will be amended. About 30 injuries, mostly sharp cuts likely to have been inflicted by swords, were found on the man's body, according to the post-mortem report. A case under Section 295 A (acts intended to outrage religious feelings) had been registered on the complaint of the gurdwara manager, who had claimed that he saw the man trying to disrespect the 'Nishan Sahib' (religious flag). Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kapurthala-lynching-gurdwara-caretaker-arrested-for-murder-1064281.html
24-12-2021||National||Perform in Delhi before promising moon to Punjab people: Channi tells Kejriwal||Terming that his government is implementing the common man's agenda, Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Channi on Friday dared Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) convenor Arvind Kejriwal to perform in Delhi before promising a moon to people in Punjab. Addressing a gathering after dedicating a bridge from Talwara Jatta to Simbli Gujran to the people, the Chief Minister said his Delhi counterpart is eyeing the wealth of Punjab due to which he is building castles in the air to attract people. He dared Kejriwal that before rolling out bundles of lies before the people of Punjab, he should have the courage to announce cheap power and petrol to the residents of Delhi on the line of what the Punjab government has done. Channi said the AAP leadership should understand one simple thing that 'proud Punjabis' will not allow any outsider to rule them. The Chief Minister reminded Kejriwal that the state government is providing cheapest petrol and diesel in the entire northern region and likewise, rates of power are cheapest in the entire country. "Will Kejriwal implement this in Delhi before coming in Punjab and making slew of fake announcements to woo people?" Listing the several pro-people initiatives taken by his government, he said that the power bill arrears of Rs 1,500 crore have been waived, power rates for domestic consumers have been reduced by Rs 3 per unit, bills to the tune of Rs 1,200 crore have been waived off in rural areas, water charges brought down to Rs 50 and rates for sand have been reduced a lot. Making a scathing attack on the Badals and Captain Amarinder Singh, the Chief Minister said now he has booked Bikram Singh Majithia (Akali leader) for his misdeeds due to which he is running pillar to post for evading arrest. He said that every person involved in the drugs trade will be nailed for committing sin against the state and its people. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/perform-in-delhi-before-promising-moon-to-punjab-people-channi-tells-kejriwal-1064289.html
24-12-2021||National||INS Khukri decommissioned after 32 years of service||Indian Navy Ship (INS) Khukri, the first of the indigenously-built missile corvettes, has been decommissioned after 32 years of service, the Defence Ministry said on Friday. A solemn ceremony was held at Visakhapatnam on Thursday wherein the national flag, naval ensign, and the decommissioning pennant were lowered at sunset, the ministry's statement mentioned.  Vice Admiral Biswajit Dasgupta, the Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief of Eastern Naval Command, and some serving and retired commanding officers of the ship were also present at the ceremony, it noted. "The ship was affiliated with the Gorkha Brigade of the Indian Army and Lt General PN Ananthanarayan, SM, President Gorkha Brigade, attended the solemn ceremony," it mentioned. The corvette was built by the Mazagaon Dock Shipbuilders on August 23, 1989, and had the distinction of being part of both the western and eastern fleets, it noted.  During her service, the ship was commanded by 28 officers and traversed a distance of over 6,44,897 nautical miles, which is equivalent to navigating around the world 30 times or three times the distance between the earth and the moon, the statement said.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ins-khukri-decommissioned-after-32-years-of-service-1064291.html
24-12-2021||National||Centre asks telecom cos to preserve call data, internet usage record for minimum 2 years||Citing security reasons, the Department of Telecom (DoT) has extended the duration of archiving call data and internet usage records of subscribers to two years from one year.   "The licensee shall maintain all commercial records/call detail record/exchange detail record/IP detail record with record to the communications exchanged on the network. Such records shall be archived for at least two years for scrutiny by the licensor for security reasons...," the DoT circular said. The government also said the telecom companies may destroy the data stored thereafter if there is no direction from the DoT. The decision to extend the duration of archiving call data and internet usage is taken in the public interest or in the interest of the security of the state or for the proper conduct of the telegraphs, the government said. Internet data records of subscribers including login and logout details of all subscribers for services provided such as internet access, email, internet telephone services like calls made from mobile applications or wifi calling have to be preserved for at least two years, said the circular. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-asks-telecom-cos-to-preserve-call-data-internet-usage-record-for-minimum-2-years-1064305.html
24-12-2021||National||Maharashtra NGO to adopt CDS Gen Rawat's ancestral village||A Maharashtra-based NGO is in the process of adopting the ancestral village of Gen Bipin Rawat, India's first Chief of Defence Staff who was killed in a helicopter crash in Tamil Nadu earlier this month. The Latur-based Dr. Harivanshrai Bachchan Prabodhan Pratishthan (HBPP) has been granted permission by the Pauri Garhwal district authorities to carry out development activities in Saina village, which lacks proper road connectivity. HBPP founder Nivrutti Yadav said he would visit Saina village next week to get an understanding of the terrain and plan development activities there. Yadav told PTI that HBPP will use its own resources and seek help from the government in setting up health and education facilities, build roads and also reach out to farmers. Former Uttarakhand Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat told PTI that the process of adopting the village by HBPP has been set in motion. Representatives of the NGO will visit the Saina village and draft a plan on the development activities to be carried out there, he said. Rawat said he had written to the District Magistrate to apprise him of HBPP’s intention to carry out development work in the village. In a letter to the HBPP founder, District Magistrate Vijay Kumar Jogdande said, "...you have been granted permission to undertake development activities, as per rules, in Saina in Pauri Garhwal, the ancestral village of the brave son of the nation General Bipin Rawat." According to Yadav, HBPP has been carrying out social activities for the past 18 years and had also sent relief material to Uttarakhand during the 2013 Kedarnath floods Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-ngo-to-adopt-cds-gen-rawats-ancestral-village-1064309.html
24-12-2021||National||Green hydrogen is the future, tap the huge opportunity, Gadkari tells farmers||Green hydrogen is the future of alternate fuel and farmers must get involved in its production "to tap the huge opportunity", Union Minister Nitin Gadkari said here on Friday. The minister was speaking at the inauguration event of an exhibition organised by 'Agrovision', of which he is the chief patron. Green hydrogen can be made from bio-mass, bio-organic waste and dirty water, and can be a substitute for coal import, he said. "Steel plants, tractors, buses, railways and all other industries will run on green hydrogen. This is the future and now farmers should not only produce ethanol, bio-LNG but also green hydrogen and tap the huge opportunity," Gadkari said. He told the gathering the Agrovision exhibition, where over 40 workshops are held, had been taking place for 13 years now and more than three lakh farmers attend it annually. Green hydrogen is the term given when the gas is generated entirely by renewable energy, while the other variety, that is produced by steam reforming of natural gas, is called grey hydrogen.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/green-hydrogen-is-the-future-tap-the-huge-opportunity-gadkari-tells-farmers-1064322.html
24-12-2021||National||Nepal Prime Minister Deuba to visit India early next month||Nepal's Prime Minister Sher Bahadur Deuba is leaving for India on January 10 to participate in the Vibrant Gujarat Global Summit, according to local media reports. Vibrant Gujarat Global Summit is a biennial event launched in 2003, and the 2022 event on January 10-12 is the 10th edition. A detailed itinerary was not immediately available but sources at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs said a bilateral meeting between Prime Minister Deuba and his Indian counterpart Narendra Modi is very much likely. Besides Modi, Deuba will be meeting some other senior Indian politicians and leaders when he will be in New Delhi and Gujarat. His first foreign trip after he was appointed Prime Minister - for the fifth time - in July, was to the UK's Glasgow to participate in the climate change conference in November. Deuba's visit to Gujarat comes at a time when talks about his state visit to India were being talked about. The visit to the southern neighbour also comes on the heels of Deuba's comeback as a strong President of his party, the Nepali Congress, at its recently-concluded general convention. Deuba was appointed Prime Minister on July 13 following a Supreme Court order a day before in which the bench also overturned then Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli's May 21 decision to dissolve the House. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nepal-prime-minister-deuba-to-visit-india-early-next-month-1064334.html
24-12-2021||National||Poll panel will visit UP next week, take appropriate decision: CEC on HC’s suggestion to defer poll amid Omicron scare||A day after the Allahabad High Court suggested deferring the Uttar Pradesh assembly elections due to a possible Omicron-led third Covid wave, Chief Election Commissioner Sushil Chandra on Friday said an appropriate decision will be taken on the issue after his UP visit next week. A bench of Justice Shekhar Yadav had on Thursday urged the government and the poll panel to consider postponing the UP assembly elections for a month or two and banning all political rallies amid the fears of an impending third wave of Covid. "I will be visiting UP next week. An appropriate decision as required by the situation will be taken after we review it," CEC Chandra told reporters here in reply to a question on the high court’s observation. The CEC was asked whether deferment of polls was possible as the Allahabad High Court had expressed concern over the rising cases of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus. On Uttarakhand situation, Chandra said he had asked Chief Secretary SS Sandhu about Omicron cases in the state and was told that there was only one case of the latest variant of COVID-19 in the state. The CEC also spoke of various safeguards taken by the commission due to Covid but sought to assure that whatever is required will be done as per the "Constitutional position" to check the spread of the virus. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/poll-panel-will-visit-up-next-week-take-appropriate-decision-cec-on-hc-s-suggestion-to-defer-poll-amid-omicron-scare-1064335.html
24-12-2021||National||Harbhajan Singh to join politics? He says 'will figure it out'||After bringing the curtains down on his cricket career, veteran off-spinner Harbhajan Singh on Friday said he is not averse to joining politics but would like to put in a lot of thought before taking a final decision on such a move. Recently, the chief of Congress' Punjab unit and Harbhajan's former India teammate Navjot Singh Sidhu posted a picture with him on Twitter and captioned it "picture loaded with possibilities". This led to speculation of him joining the party. The cricketer said that he hasn't yet taken a call on the matter. "Frankly speaking, I don't know what's in store for me. I just want a couple of days to figure out in which direction I would like to move. Yes, I want to give back to society," Harbhajan told PTI in an interview when asked about his future plans. "If I join politics, how and in what form, I need to figure those things out as main aim is to help people if I at all take the plunge," he added. While he didn't want to speak about it openly, but people in the know said that there is very little chance that he will be fighting the Punjab state assembly elections because of some cricketing and media commitments that would keep him busy. The feisty former player said he would not want his association with the game to end completely with retirement. "As far as cricket is concerned, I will remain associated with the game. I am open to coaching, mentoring IPL sides may be playing a bit of veteran's cricket," he said. There is a high possibility that Harbhajan might work as a mentor with Kolkata Knight Riders or Mumbai Indians, where he had 10 eventful years as a cricketer. He is also working on his autobiography which will be hitting the stands in the next six months. "Oh yes, I have nearly completed my autobiography. It would be out in the next six months and it's my tell-all story as to how I have seen Indian cricket as an insider. Hope people love that book as much as they loved me."  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/harbhajan-singh-to-join-politics-he-says-will-figure-it-out-1064351.html
24-12-2021||National||Only God can possibly give corruption-free govt: Former Goa CM||A political party cannot promise a corruption-free government, and only God can deliver corruption-free governance, Congress MP and former Goa Chief Minister Francisco Sardinha said on Friday. "There are many parties in the fray this time. Keep your eyes open. Anyone can make promises. (Delhi Chief Minister) Arvind Kejriwal has announced a corruption-free government," Sardinha said at a press conference in South Goa. Kejriwal has made a series of pre-poll assurances to the people of Goa which includes free water, free electricity, unemployment doles, allowances for women, apart from promising corruption-free governance. "Only God can possibly give the corruption-free government," Sardinha said, adding that at the most political parties can promise minimised corruption in governance. Sardinha's comment comes at a time when the state is heading for the 2022 state assembly polls, which are scheduled for early February. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/only-god-can-possibly-give-corruption-free-govt-former-goa-cm-1064353.html
24-12-2021||National||Indians flood markets, tourist spots despite Omicron concerns||Indians are crowding markets and taking packed flights to holiday destinations again despite calls from authorities urging restraint and caution amid rising cases of the rapidly-spreading Omicron variant of the coronavirus. In the coastal state of Goa, hugely popular as a tourist destination for its beaches and offshore casinos, hotels are running at nearly 90 per cent occupancy, with some 90 flights landing in the western state daily, pushing air traffic volumes back to pre-pandemic levels. "For a year people haven't celebrated anything. This year we have holiday-makers as well as people celebrating their milestone birthdays and weddings. In terms of occupancy, we are back to pre-Covid levels," Nilesh Shah, who heads a top travel body in the state, told Reuters. Shah estimated that more than a million tourists had entered Goa in December alone as Covid-related restrictions eased in most of India and coronavirus cases hit a year-and a half low. But Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government has warned states not to let their guard down as cases of the Omicron variant jumped to 358, although no deaths have been reported so far. Trouble Ahead? "There are festivals, there is the New Year and we are seeing that there could be trouble because of that," Vinod Kumar Paul, a senior government official who advises Modi on the pandemic, told a news conference on Friday. On Friday the eastern state of Orissa announced fresh restrictions, banning all social gatherings till Jan. 2 and limiting the number of people allowed into a church for Christmas. This follows similar curbs announced by the Indian capital territory of New Delhi this week. On Thursday, an Indian court urged Modi's government to suspend political rallies in states facing elections due to the rise in Omicron infections. Elections to the state assembly in Uttar Pradesh, home to over 220 million people, are scheduled for early 2022 but final dates are yet to be announced. Three other states are also scheduled to hold local elections at the same time. In all, India has recorded 34.8 million Covid cases and nearly 480,000 deaths during the pandemic so far. Modi's government has raced to inoculate all of the country's 944 million adults and has given at least one dose to 88 per cent of those.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indians-flood-markets-tourist-spots-despite-omicron-concerns-1064357.html
24-12-2021||National||Of 183 Omicron cases analysed, 87 were fully vaccinated with 3 having booster shots, says Centre||Of the 358 cases of the Omicron variant of coronavirus reported in India so far, 183 were analysed and it was found that 87 of them were fully vaccinated with three having received booster doses and 121 had travel history to foreign countries, the government said on Friday. Two were partially vaccinated, seven people were unvaccinated while 16 were ineligible to receive vaccine doses in the country's national vaccination programme. The vaccination status of 73 is still unknown, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said at a press conference. "Of the 183 Omicron cases analysed so far, 91 per cent (87 cases) were fully vaccinated with three -- two in Delhi and one in Mumbai -- having received booster shots, 70 per cent were asymptomatic and 61 per cent were males," he said. Bhushan said 121 cases had foreign travel history, while in 44 cases the infected had come in contact with foreign travellers and information about 18 people were still not available. ICMR Director-General Dr Balram Bhargava said, "The predominant strain in India continues to be Delta, including the recently identified clusters. Therefore, we need to continue with the same strategy of following Covid-appropriate behaviour and ramping up vaccination." Infection due to Omicron variant "does not necessarily lead to severe symptomatic clinical disease". In India, about a third of all the detected cases were mildly symptomatic and the rest were asymptomatic, he underlined. "Therefore, I want to emphasise that the treatment for Omicron infected symptomatic individuals remains the same. It does not change from that for Delta, Alpha or the Beta variant."  Of the 358 cases of Omicron variant detected so far in 17 states and Union Territories, 114 have recovered or migrated, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated at 8 am. Maharashtra has recorded the maximum of 88 cases of the Omicron variant followed by Delhi at 67, Telangana 38, Tamil Nadu 34, Karnataka 31 and Gujarat 30. Bhushan said that 1,51,368 cases of the Omicron variant and 26 confirmed deaths have been detected across 108 countries, Bhushan said. The 10 countries classified on basis of the highest Omicron cases are the UK, Denmark, Canada, Norway, Germany, the US, South Africa, France, Australia and Estonia, he added.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/of-183-omicron-cases-analysed-87-were-fully-vaccinated-with-3-having-booster-shots-says-centre-1064364.html
24-12-2021||National||Hydroxyurea approved for Sickle Cell Anemia treatment||An expert committee constituted by the Central Drug Standard Control Organisation has approved the marketing of hydroxyurea for the treatment of Sickle Cell Anemia (SCA). The approval, researchers said, legalizes the drug usage in standard doses for SCA treatment, while allowing the designing of various formulations of smaller dose sizes that promise higher compliance rates in SCA children and may even lead to syrup-based formulations. SCA is a common genetic disorder among Indians affecting red blood cells. It is transmitted by parents who carry a defective beta-globin gene without suffering themselves. Close to 0.4 per cent of the population suffers from the disease while 10 per cent people act as carriers leading to birth of new SCA patients. The disease is well-known in tribal populations and also prevalent in general populations in states like Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Odisha. Like most genetic disorders, SCA has no cure but has symptomatic treatments for pain, anemia and Vaso-occlusive crisis. One of the rather inexpensive drugs, hydroxyurea, largely used as an anti-cancer agent, is also used in SCA treatment without any formal approval. But the commercially available hydroxyurea formulations are made with its anti-cancer role in mind, and so, are of big quantity (minimum 500 mg). Since SCA children are typically of low weight, their dosage size needs to be much smaller. Given the fixed, larger size of commercially available hydroxyurea capsules, it is difficult to provide the correct dosage to SCA patients. Although there is robust response to hydroxyurea therapy, the complexity and cumbersome nature of disbursing the right dose often leads to low compliance and sometimes unpredictable response. The Central Scientific and Industrial Research's Sickle Cell Anaemia Mission involving six CSIR labs and three government hospitals located in Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra is trying to address these lacunae in SCA diagnosis and disease management in the country. The mission focus is on identifying the patients through population-based screening in states with high disease prevalence and helping the family with proper treatment and preventing the disease in the next generation. One of the mission objectives has been obtaining approval for hydroxyurea use in SCA treatment. The CSIR-SCA Mission, coordinated by the Hyderabad-based CSIR-Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CSIR-CCMB), with help of Cipla, a Hydroxyurea manufacturer, had approached the Drugs Controller General of India for approval. On December 9, the expert committee of CDSCO evaluated the proposal and approved the marketing of hydroxyurea for SCA treatment, subject to post-marketing surveillance. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hydroxyurea-approved-for-sickle-cell-anemia-treatment-1064375.html
24-12-2021||National||Ashamed that Modi did not mention Nehru during Goa Liberation day function: Congress MP||South Goa Congress MP and former Chief Minister Francisco Sardinha on Friday claimed that he was ashamed when Prime Minister Narendra Modi did not even make a mention of former Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru in his speech on the occasion of the 60th anniversary of Goa's Liberation from Portuguese rule.  Sardinha also said that even if the Prime Minister is upset with Nehru or the Nehru-Gandhi clan, he should not "hide history" from the people, while also underlining Nehru's contribution to the Liberation of Goa on December 19, 1961, when the Indian armed forces marched into Goa liberated the state from 451 years of Portuguese colonial rule.  "And I felt even more ashamed when the Prime Minister did not mention Jawaharlal Nehru's name. Many of our freedom fighters fought, died (during the freedom struggle) If Jawaharlal Nehru had not sent troops to liberate Goa, we would not have completed sixty years of Liberation on December 19 this year," Sardinha said. "No one can change history. In the future, if other governments come to power no one can deny that we had a PM called Modi. What Modi has done or has not done is in history (does not matter). I want to tell Modi, if you are upset with the Congress or the Nehru family, you are entitled to, but do not hide history," Sardinha also said. While Modi did not mention Nehru in his speech on December 19 in Panaji on the occasion of the state's 60th year of Liberation, the Prime Minister did claim that had then Union Home Minister Vallabhbhai Patel lived longer, Goa would have got its freedom from Portuguese much sooner.  Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant has also on repeated occasions slighted Nehru, saying because of the then Prime Minister the liberation of Goa from Portuguese rule was delayed by 14 years.  Sardinha also said that the PM's official function was reduced to a Bharatiya Janata Party affair, saying he as a sitting MP was not even invited to the dais.  "This was not meant to be a BJP function. It was a function for Goans. I felt ashamed. They were on the stage on top. I was given a prominent seat below. But I was not invited on stage," Sardinha also said.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ashamed-that-modi-did-not-mention-nehru-during-goa-liberation-day-function-congress-mp-1064376.html
24-12-2021||National||IAF fighter plane crashes in Rajasthan's Jaisalmer, pilot killed||A MiG-21 plane of the Indian Air Force crashed in Rajasthan's Jaisalmer Friday night during a training sortie and the pilot was killed. The pilot killed in action was Wing Commander Harshit Sinha, the Indian Air Force (IAF) said. The plane crashed in the Desert National Park area under the Sam police station, Jaisalmer SP Ajay Singh told PTI. The SP said local police reached the spot and he is on the way to the crash site. The IAF said on Twitter, “This evening, around 8.30 pm, a MiG-21 aircraft of IAF met with a flying accident in the western sector during a training sortie.” It added that an inquiry “is being ordered”. “With deep sorrow, IAF conveys the sad demise of Wing Commander Harshit Sinha in the flying accident this evening and stands firmly with the family of the braveheart,” it stated. Sam police station SHO Dalpat Singh said the plane crashed in sand dunes near Sudasari. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iaf-fighter-plane-crashes-in-rajasthans-jaisalmer-pilot-killed-1064380.html
24-12-2021||National||Remdesivir to be used in patients with moderate to severe Covid-19: Health ministry||The Centre on Friday said Remdesivir drug should only be used in patients with ‘moderate to severe’ Covid-19 and those with no renal or hepatic dysfunction within 10 days of the onset of any symptom. It also warned against use of the drug in patients who are not on oxygen support or in home settings. According to the clinical guidance issued by the Union health ministry for management of the infection in adult patients, Remdesivir has been asked to be “used in patients with moderate to severe Covid-19 and those with no renal or hepatic dysfunction within 10 days of onset of any symptom”. The Tocilizumab drug may be considered for use in the presence of severe disease (preferably within 24 to 48 hours of onset of severe disease/ICU admission), according to the guidelines. Tocilizumab can be used in case of significantly raised inflammatory markers (CRP &/or IL-6), condition not improving despite use of steroids and no active bacterial/fungal/tubercular infection. The ministry also said that those above 60 years of age, with cardiovascular disease, hypertension, diabetes and other immunocompromised states are at high risk for severe disease and mortality. According to the guidelines, coronavirus patients have been classified into those affected by mild, moderate and severe disease. For mild disease, home isolation and care is recommended, while admission in a ward is recommended for those battling moderate disease and ICU has been recommended for patients with severe Covid-19, they added. Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/remdesivir-to-be-used-in-patients-with-moderate-to-severe-covid-19-health-ministry-1064390.html
24-12-2021||National||Mathura priests cry foul against Sunny Leone's dance video on ‘Madhuban mein Radhika naache’||Mathura-based priests have demanded a ban on Sunny Leone’s latest video album, accusing the Bollywood actress of hurting their religious sentiments by performing an “obscene” dance on the iconic “Madhuban mein Radhika naache” song. The song had originally been sung by Mohammed Rafi for the 1960 film Kohinoor. “We will go to court if the government does not act against the actress and ban her video album,” said Sant Naval Giri Maharaj of Vrindaban. Unless she withdraws the scene and tenders a public apology, she should not be allowed to remain in India, he said. Akhil Bhartiya Tirth Purohit Mahasabha’s national president Mahesh Pathak too has taken exception to Leone’s dance video, saying she has maligned the prestige of Brijbhumi by presenting the song in a “derogatory manner”. Saregama Music on Wednesday released its latest music video titled Madhuban which features Sunny Leone in the party number sung by Kanika Kapoor and Arindam Chakraborty. As the song is on the subject of love between Krishna and Radha, netizens have slammed it for hurting Hindu sentiments due to "sensual" moves by the actor in her dance.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mathura-priests-cry-foul-against-sunny-leones-dance-video-on-madhuban-mein-radhika-naache-1064391.html
24-12-2021||National||Centre accuses Opposition of creating negative narrative about Naidu||Centre on Friday accused the Opposition of creating a negative narrative about Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu over the stalemate on suspension of 12 MPs, alleging that such acts do a "disfavour not only to the truth but to democracy itself". The statement issued by Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi singled out Congress Chief Whip Jairam Ramesh and charged him along with the Opposition for casting aspersions on the functioning of the Chairman.  Ramesh hit back and said he hoped the mention of his name in Joshi's "statement defending an unconstitutional and illegal suspension" of 12 MPs was not a prelude" to his suspension in the Budget Session.  "This regime is capable of anything and most of all is simply not interested in any meaningful discussion on pressing national issues. And as far as Shri Joshi's accusation is concerned I have always believed respect has to be commanded, not demanded," Ramesh said.  The war of words came a day after Rajya Sabha Secretariat responded to Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge's charge that enough actions were not taken by government to resolve the stalemate and that the Chairman did not allow him to raise issues, saying shifting positions of Opposition resulted in the continuation of the stalemate. Ramesh responded to the Rajya Sabha statement saying that Naidu should call meetings like the Chairman and not as former BJP president.  In the latest statement, Joshi said that it was "both astonishing and saddening" that that senior Opposition leaders "deviated from the well-known truth about what transpired".   "The Opposition appeared committed to hampering the running of the house. The public of our country and even history is witness to the level of noise and indiscipline the Opposition has made a kind of practice to bring to the sittings of the House," Joshi said. "In fact, the Opposition appears to use every means to not let the house proceedings carry on. It was painful when some members of the Opposition reduced the temple of democracy to a theatre of street fight," he said.  The minister said the Chairman was "deeply pained" and reached out to the Opposition to break the logjam but the Opposition "came back in multiple voices which were unclear and contradictory at the same time".  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-accuses-opposition-of-creating-negative-narrative-about-naidu-1064407.html
24-12-2021||National||Drugs racket case: Grounds on which Bikram Singh Majithia was seeking bail||A Mohali court on Friday dismissed the anticipatory bail plea of Shiromani Akali Dal leader and former Punjab minister Bikram Singh Majithia, who has been booked in a drug case. Majithia had moved a court on Thursday after the case was registered and a lookout circular issued against him. The bail application was filed by Majithia's counsel D S Sobti, who told reporters outside the court that the additional sessions judge "dismissed the plea". Here are grounds on which Majithia was seeking bail Majithia in his plea had submitted that the Congress government in the state had "left no stone unturned to misuse its powers and position for wreaking vengeance upon its political opponents". "In this case, though, from the facts, the applicant has tried to make out a case of political vendetta but applicant himself was one of the powerful persons in the state politics till the year 2017 and delay in lodging the FIR cannot be a ground to presume that whole case against the applicant is false," the court order said. The court said that the question of the legality of the FIR also cannot be a ground for the grant of anticipatory bail. Majithia, is the brother-in-law of Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal and brother of former Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal. Majithia had earlier denied all charges against him. The Shiromani Akali Dal had called the registration of the FIR against Majithia a "political vendetta". "To target, the applicant/petitioner is one of the major election planks of the current government. To fulfil its election stunt, the Congress government of the State of Punjab has been day and night browbeating officers to register false cases against the senior leadership of the Shiromani Akali Dal, including the applicant/petitioner," the bail plea had contended. The petitioner had also pleaded that three DGPs and three Directors of the Bureau of Investigation were changed and police officers coerced to falsely implicate the applicant. (With PTI inputs) Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/drugs-racket-case-grounds-on-which-bikram-singh-majithia-was-seeking-bail-1064414.html
24-12-2021||National||Amid Omicron scare, health infra scaled up to combat future Covid waves in India||More than 7 lakh hospital beds and enhanced daily medical oxygen capacity – 80% more than the peak demand during the second Covid-19 wave – were readied to tackle any new Covid-19 wave, a top health official said here on Friday with experts anticipating a new surge driven by the Omicron variant of SARS-CoV-2. “The world is witnessing the fourth surge with 9.64 lakh cases being reported on Dec 23. We can’t afford to lose our guard. We have to be fully cautious and vigilant,” Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said at a press conference. Though the Covid-19 epidemic is shrinking in India, the number of infections caused by Omicron is on a slow rise with the Union Health Ministry confirming 358 such cases till early morning Friday. Maharashtra, Delhi, Telangana, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka account for nearly 250 of these cases. Worryingly, there seems to be a rise in new Covid-19 cases in Mumbai and Delhi with the former reporting over 1000 fresh Covid-19 cases for three consecutive days after two months and the national capital reporting 180 fresh cases in the last 24 hours – a six months high. An analysis of 183 Omicron cases show 87 fully vaccinated persons were infected by the new variant of concerns whereas 70% were asymptomatic. Out of 183, there are 18 persons who were neither foreign travelers nor local contacts, indicating the possibility of local transmission. Earlier this week, the ministry alerted the states on Omicron’s three times more ability to spread than the Delta variant that drove the second wave. The early evidence from South Africa and UK, however, point out a milder disease with no signs of the hospitals getting overwhelmed yet. Bhushan said 4.94 lakh oxygen supported beds and 1.39 lakh ICU beds were available and another 1.2 lakh such beds were sanctioned under a government funded programme. Also the medical oxygen capacity has been raised to more than 18,000 tons per day, which is 80% more than the peak demand of around 10,000 tons seen during the ferocious second wave. In addition there are 65,000 paediatric beds and 24,000 paediatric ICU beds. "There is a huge scale up in oxygen availability. I also request the private healthcare sector to be ready with proper training and deployment plans for their manpower,” said NITI Ayog member VK Paul, the government’s principal advisor on Covid-19. Poor vaccination coverage in some of the biggest states, however, remains a cause of worry. As against the national average of 61% of adults getting two doses of Covid-19 shot, the corresponding figures in poll bound Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Manipur are 46%, 40% and 42% respectively. Other big states with low full vaccination coverage are Maharashtra (56%), Tamil Nadu (55%), Bihar (52%) and Jharkhand (42%). Meanwhile, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Haryana have imposed night curfews to stop New Year celebrations. The states took the decision after Prime Minister Narendra Modi reviewed the Omicron situation and asked everyone to be Satark (vigilant) and Saavdhan (careful) as the fight against the pandemic was not over. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amid-omicron-scare-health-infra-scaled-up-to-combat-future-covid-waves-in-india-1064421.html
24-12-2021||National Politics||Many challenges for Madhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan will be facing a tough time ahead as he will have to maintain his people-friendly image and tackle discontent brewing in the party in the run-up to the urban bodies and Panchayat polls which will set the tone for the Assembly elections in 2023. Chouhan is known among the masses as paon paon wale bhaiya (foot soldier) and betiyon ke mama (maternal uncle), but with the passage of time, it is not easy for any political leader to keep his/her image intact, and so is the case with Shivraj. Chouhan, who is the state's longest serving Chief Minister and has been elected to the position thrice, has implemented many welfare schemes such as Ladli Lashmi Yojana, Kanyadan Vivah Yojana, due to which he became the face of more than half the population of the state. His Sambal Yojana which aims to strengthen the lives of the poor and the SC and ST communities by providing them social security cover, right from birth to death, gave him an opportunity to reach out to the poor and backward classes. The main challenge before Chouhan is reservation for Other Backward Classes (OBC). Former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Kamal Nath had increased the reservation for OBCs to 27 per cent during his tenure, but as the matter is in court, the community is unable to reap its benefit. On the one hand, the OBCs are unable to get the benefit of increased reservation in jobs, while on the other hand Panchayat polls have prompted a new debate. On the directions of the Supreme Court, the State Election Commission has postponed the polls for the OBC community in the reserved Panchayat areas. The Congress is holding the government responsible for this. Experts are of the view that Chouhan is standing at the crossroads where his party can benefit or suffer a loss. The Madhya Pradesh government along with the Centre on Wednesday filed a review petition in the Supreme Court against the latter's December 17 order staying polling for all OBC-reserved seats. If OBC reservation continues in the Panchayat polls, then the BJP will benefit. BJP spokesperson Durgesh Kesvani said the BJP governments at the Centre and the state are working for public welfare. Welfare schemes are being run for every strata of society. Chouhan's popularity is intact. The Congress had pushed the state back in its 15-month rule. Kamal Nath's priorities changed after the Assembly polls. People have come to know the true face of the Congress, Kesvani added. The priority of Shivraj Singh Chouhan and the BJP has been public welfare and that is the reason the people rejected the Congress in the bypolls and showed them a mirror, he claimed. Though the BJP doesn't see any big challenge for the Chief Minister, the Congress is raising questions about Chouhan. Congress spokesperson Abbas Hafeez said Chouhan's image took a beating in 2018 Assembly elections itself. Hafeez said under Chouhan, who dubs himself as Mama (maternal uncle), crime against women has increased, farmers were promised that their income will be doubled but many of them committed suicide. Madhya Pradesh topped the country in such matters, that is the reason people voted Chouhan out of power in the 2018 polls, Hafeez claimed. "Shivraj, who again formed the government after horse-trading of MLAs, carried forward the schemes which were introduced by the Congress-led Kamal Nath government." Voices of dissent are rising within the BJP. It is being said that the BJP does not want to enter the poll fray with Chouhan as the party's face, he added. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/many-challenges-for-madhya-pradesh-cm-shivraj-singh-chouhan-1064224.html
24-12-2021||National Politics||Ex-Goa MLA Lavoo Mamlatdar quits Trinamool Congress 3 months after joining it||Nearly three months after joining the Trinamool Congress (TMC), former Goa legislator Lavoo Mamlatdar on Friday resigned from the party, accusing it of being communal and trying to create a divide between Hindus and Christians for votes ahead of the state Assembly polls. The former Ponda MLA had joined the Mamata Banerjee-led party in the last week of September. He was among the first few local leaders in the state to join the TMC, which has decided to contest all 40 seats in the Goa Assembly polls, due in February 2022. He also alleged that the TMC was collecting the data of people in the name of rolling out a welfare scheme for women in the state if it is voted to power after the elections. Talking to reporters after resigning from the party, Mamlatdar said, "I had joined the TMC because I was fully impressed with Mamata Banerjee-led party's performance in West Bengal (Assembly polls held earlier this year)." "I was under the impression that TMC is a very secular party. But from whatever I have noticed in the last 15-20 days, I came to know that it is worse than the BJP," he alleged. The TMC has forged a pre-poll alliance with the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP), of which Mamlatdar was an MLA between 2012 and 2017. He alleged that the TMC was trying to divide Hindu and Christian votes. "As part of their pre-poll alliance, they want that the Christian votes should go to the TMC and Hindu votes to the MGP...The TMC is a communal party, which is trying to disturb the secular fabric," he alleged. He accused the TMC of trying to collect the data of people in the name of its Griha Laxmi scheme. "We have found that under its Laxmi Bhandar scheme introduced in West Bengal, only Rs 500 are given, while here they are promising Rs 5,000 to women under the Griha Laxmi scheme, which is next to impossible. The promise of the scheme is entirely to collect data from Goa," he said.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ex-goa-mla-lavoo-mamlatdar-quits-trinamool-congress-3-months-after-joining-it-1064242.html
24-12-2021||National Politics||Akhilesh Yadav rebrands himself as 'Lord Ram' in Uttar Pradesh||The BJP leaders have been raking up the incident of firing on the 'karsevaks' at Ayodhya in 1990 when Samajwadi Party (SP) patron Mulayam Singh Yadav was the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh, and calling SP president Akhilesh Yadav 'anti-Hindu' in their speeches ahead of the assembly polls in the state. However, some recent public meetings of SP and the SP-RLD joint rallies witnessed an attempt to change the perception about Akhilesh as was being projected by the saffron party. At Thursday's joint rally of SP and RLD at Iglas in Aligarh district, Akhilesh and RLD president Jayant Chaudhary appeared on the posters as 'Ram-Laxman', who would 'finish' the 'demons' (read BJP) and none, including the leaders of the two parties, objected to the same. These posters were also distributed among the supporters at the rally. Even the local folk singers, who recited songs in the local dialect, referred to the two leaders as 'Ram-Laxman' and the crowd, which consisted of SP and RLD supporters, cheered whenever the reference was made.  In another recent SP rally at Raebareli, Akhlesh was likened to Lord Krishna.  Leaders of the SP and RLD said that Akhilesh and Jayant were like brothers just as Lord Rama and Laxman. ''There is nothing wrong in portraying them as such....they have joined hands to defeat the BJP, whose government is a symbol of misrule just as Rama and Luxman had finished the demons, who terrorised the people,'' said an SP leader in Aligarh. Sources in the SP said that the party was prepared to counter the BJP's attempts to portray Akhilesh as 'anti-Hindu' and 'pro-Muslim'. ''BJP wants to polarise the polls and therefore it is trying to project itself as the messiah of Hindus.....we have to thwart its plans,'' the SP leader added. BJP leaders, including union home minister Amit Shah and UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath, at all their rallies, alleged that the previous regime of Akhilesh had favoured the Muslims. ''Hindus were not allowed to celebrate their festivals nor were they allowed to undertake the kanwar yatra....our government has changed all that...now Hindus can celebrate their festivals,'' Adityanath had recently said at a public meeting at Sonebhadra. He had also said that during Akhilesh's regime Muslims used to get more rations from the fair price shops. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/akhilesh-yadav-rebrands-himself-as-lord-ram-in-uttar-pradesh-1064244.html
24-12-2021||National Politics||Opposition demands strict action against Haridwar 'hate speeches'||Opposition on Friday demanded the strictest action against those involved in three days of hate speeches inciting armed violence against minorities and former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, saying such acts violate the Constitution and the law. Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi tweeted with hashtags #IndiaAgainstHindutva and #HaridwarHateAssembly, "Hindutva always spread hatred and violence. Hindu-Muslim-Sikh-Christian pay the price. But not anymore!" हिंदुत्ववादी हमेशा नफ़रत व हिंसा फैलाते हैं। हिंदू-मुसलमान-सिख-ईसाई इसकी क़ीमत चुकाते हैं। Congress General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi demanded "strictest action" against those who incite "hatred and violence of this kind" and said it was "despicable that they should get away with making an open call to murder our respected ex-Prime Minister (Singh) and unleash violence against people of different communities." CPI(M) General Secretary Sitaram Yechury said that three days of hate speeches inciting armed violence against minorities was a "flagrant violation" of the Constitution and universal human rights. "Such impunity by hate mongers is the hallmark under BJP governments. Arrest the perpetrators immediately," he tweeted. In a statement, CPI(M) Polit Bureau said that the "extreme" hate speeches and "incitement to violence against Muslims" at the "so-called dharam sansad" in Haridwar was a "flagrant violation" of the Constitution, the legal framework.  "The speeches are akin to supporting terrorist acts including against former Prime Minister Dr Manmohan Singh. It could continue without hindrance for three days because of the impunity such people enjoy under the BJP-led governments. Shamefully, the delayed FIR is a mockery of the law as it does not name the main perpetrators of this assault on the Constitution even as videos of the proceedings clearly show the identities of those guilty," it said. The CPI(M) demanded that the FIR should include the names and called for their immediate arrest "for the promotion not just of hate speech but of incitement to violence". Congress Rajya Sabha Chief Whip Jairam Ramesh questioned the silence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and others and said the slogan "Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas, Sabka Vishwas is total bakwaas (nonsense) as far as the Prime Minister and his drumbeaters are concerned. It's only an empty slogan! Why the thundering silence on the atrocious hate speech made in Haridwar? Why the paralysis from the Home Minister and Uttarakhand Chief Minister?" Trinamool Congress national spokesperson Saket Gokhale has also demanded action against the organisers and the speakers and lodged a complaint at the Jwalapur police station in Haridwar district. Gokhale also urged the Election Commission to issue orders for transfer of all police officers from Superintendent of Police (Hardwar) to Inspector General (Garhwal) if speakers and organisers of the event were not arrested by date of notification of Assembly elections. "Initiate externment proceedings against the organisers and speakers at the #HaridwarHateAssembly and prevent them from entering Uttarakhand and all bordering states for the duration of Uttarakhand Elections. If ECI doesn't act, court orders will have to be sought," he added. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/opposition-demands-strict-action-against-haridwar-hate-speeches-1064255.html
24-12-2021||National Politics||Pradhan slams Odisha govt over OBC quota; BJD hits back||Senior BJP leader and Union Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan slammed the Odisha government for not taking necessary steps for the reservation of seats for OBC communities in the upcoming panchayat elections. Citing recent Supreme Court orders, the Orissa high court had directed that there must be no reservation for backward classes in the forthcoming three-tier panchayat elections in the state. Following this, the BJD said that it would give preference to the OBC candidates for the rural poll. Against this backdrop, Pradhan said the BJD's announcement of giving preference to OBC candidates in the upcoming panchayat polls is all but tokenism. "The anti-OBC face of the Odisha government is evident from its lack of iron will in implementing the reservation quota for OBCs in local body elections," Pradhan said in a tweet. He criticised the Odisha government for not showing any intent to pursue this matter logically. The state government could also have approached the Supreme Court against the recent order of the high court, especially when its own SLP for reservation beyond 50 per cent limit is pending with the Supreme Court, he pointed out. The government of Odisha must answer the people why it is against OBC reservations, he said. Replying to Pradhan on Twitter, BJD leader Pranab Prakash Das said, "Bhai, you are union minister, elected to Rajya Sabha from Madhya Pradesh. For how many years was your party in power there? Why did you fail to ensure OBC reservation in MP? More so now, with the Supreme Court striking down MP's OBC reservation policy for polls." Targeting the BJP government, which has been at the Centre for the past 7.5 years, Das asked, has the Centre ever given priority to OBC reservation? "Why are you not bringing Central legislation for ensuring OBC reservation in India &amp; filing a petition for this in the Supreme Court? Where is your commitment for OBCs?", the BJD leader asked. Stating that the BJD is committed to giving 40 per cent OBC reservation in the panchayat poll tickets, Das said, "We might even go up to 50 per cent reservation. We will also publicly publish the list of these OBC candidates who have been provided reservations in BJD tickets. I appeal to you to do the same for BJP." Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pradhan-slams-odisha-govt-over-obc-quota-bjd-hits-back-1064272.html
24-12-2021||National Politics||VHP demands apology from Pope Francis for 'crimes' committed by Christians||Barely a month after prime minister Narendra Modi invited Pope Francis to visit India, the Vishwa Hindu Parishad has demanded that he apologise for 'crimes' committed by Christians.  During the second day of the saffron outfit’s three-day meet of the Board of Trustees, International Working President of the VHP Alok Kumar said that the Pope should address the issue of religious conversions.  “Christians have persecuted, conducted genocides and mass executions for 350 years. So, when the Pope comes visiting, he should apologise for all this, and showing respect for all religions should declare to stop horizontal religious conversions,” Kumar said. Kumar compared Christian conversions to the “sacrifice” of Sikh religious leader Guru Tegh Bahadur, who he said that protected Hindus from Mughals. “To propagate his teachings, we will organise programmes and conferences across the country,” Kumar said.  The VHP’s stand is in contrast to PM Modi’s meeting with the Pope during the G20 Summit in Rome on November 30, when Modi shared pictures of the meeting and said that he had invited the Pope to India.  During the last papal visit in 1999, of Pope John Paul II, the VHP had demanded that the Pope “proclaim the validity of Gods other than the Christian Lord of the Bible”. The VHP has been demanding a national anti-conversion law, like the one implemented in Uttar Pradesh, and mooted in Karnataka.   The outfit’s stand might dampen the Bharatiya Janata Party’s chances in the election-going states of Goa and Manipur, where Christians are a majority.  The VHP’s three-day meet of Trustees and Governing Council started Friday at Gujarat’s Junagadh. Apart from discussing events to commemorate the outfit’s 60th anniversary in 2024, the meet will also tackle subjects such as protection of the environment and ecology, the liberation of temples from government control, central law against religious conversions, to name a few. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/vhp-demands-apology-from-pope-francis-for-crimes-committed-by-christians-1064415.html
24-12-2021||National Politics||Lack of decorum in Parliament, assemblies a matter of concern: Om Birla||Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla on Friday said disruption of proceedings and lack of decorum in Parliament and state assemblies is a matter of concern, adding pre-planned disruptions are more disturbing. The Speaker said that obstacles in proceedings in both the Parliament and the state assemblies are ethically and constitutionally wrong. Stressing on debates and dialogue, Birla while addressing the Assam Assembly, said that democracy would be further strengthened on the basis of debates and discussion. "Continuous disruption of proceedings in the House and lack of decorum is a matter of concern," he said, adding that it is usual that the treasury and opposition benches would disagree on various issues and matters, but dissidence should not create a stalemate. Urging the political parties to hold discussions on important and critical issues, Birla said that to keep the hopes and aspirations of the people, every one must ensure that the House functions in a smooth manner to achieve the desired goal. "Elected representatives must focus on the discussion, debate and exchange of ideas to further boost the democratic values. "India's democratic traditions do not support the disruption and adjournment of proceedings in the houses and urged the legislators to keep in mind the hopes and aspirations of the people," he said. Birla said India is a diverse country and parliamentary democracy is very essential in India and as the country celebrates 75 years of Independence, it is utmost important to revisit how the House functions as Parliament and state legislative assemblies are integral part of the entire system. The Lok Sabha Speaker, who also launched the Assam Legislative Assembly Digital TV, underlined that Assam and the remaining part of the northeastern region connects the rest of India with richly diverse life and culture as diversity in India further strengthen the democracy. "People always gave importance to the electoral system. Our elections are free, fair and transparent and the country has seen as many as 17 general generals and over 300 elections to state assemblies. However, the transition of the rule has always been smooth and hassle free," the Lok Sabha Speaker pointed out. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/lack-of-decorum-in-parliament-assemblies-a-matter-of-concern-om-birla-1064439.html
24-12-2021||North and Central||Hizbul militant killed in Kashmir’s Anantnag||A Hizb-ul-Mujahideen militant, who was involved in the killings of civilians and policemen, was neutralised in an encounter with security forces in south Kashmir's Anantnag district on Friday. The police said that the encounter broke out during wee hours after security forces launched a cordon-and-search-operation (CASO) in the Mumanhal area of Arwani in Anantnag, 50 km from here, following specific inputs about the presence of a militant in the area. A police official said that the trapped militant was given ample opportunities to surrender. However, the militant denied and instead fired indiscriminately upon the search party which retaliated leading to an encounter in which he was killed. The slain militant was identified as Shahzad Ahmad She, a resident of neighbouring Kulgam district, who was affiliated with the Hizbul and active since September last year. Incriminating materials, arms and ammunition including one AK 47 rifle, were recovered from the possession of the slain militant, police said. As per the police records, he was a categorized militant and was involved in the killings of police Inspector Mohammad Ashraf Bhat on October 10, three BJP workers at Kulgam on October 29 last year, BJP sarpanch and his wife at Lal-Chowk Anantnag in September this year. Besides, police added that he was also involved in the attack on DDC candidate Anees ul Islam Ganie and in snatching a weapon from a constable at Shamispora crossing in the Khudwani area of Kulgam on July 25. 161 militants have been killed in the Valley so far this year, of which 138 were locals and 23 Pakistanis. In 2020, the number of militants killed in the Valley stood at 195. According to official estimates over 200 militants were still active in the Valley. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hizbul-militant-killed-in-kashmir-s-anantnag-1064169.html
24-12-2021||North and Central||Income Tax dept raids premises of two UP businessmen||Tax evasion worth crores of rupees has been detected during Income Tax raids on two businessmen in the city. The I-T raid was underway at the house, factory, office, cold store and petrol pump of perfume trader Piyush Jain in Kanpur, Kannauj, Mumbai and Gujarat. Along with the I-T raid, on specific intelligence inputs, officers of the Directorate General of GST Intelligence (DGGI), Ahmedabad initiated searches in Kanpur on Thursday at the factory premises and the premises belonging to a pan masala manufacturer and a transporter (whose identity has not been shared so far) who was involved in transportation of goods under the cover of fake invoices, without generating e-way bills. The Income Tax team first reached the Anandpuri residence of Piyush Jain in the city along with the currency counting machine. Similar raids were underway at Jain's establishments in Mumbai and Gujarat. According to officials, a case of tax evasion of about Rs 150 crore has come to the fore. This tax evasion was mainly done through shell companies. Piyush Jain, a resident of Anandpuri, basically belongs to Chhipatti in Kannauj. He also owns a house, perfume factory, cold store, petrol pump in Kannauj. Piyush Jain also owns a house, head office and showroom in Mumbai. His companies are also registered in Mumbai itself. The raids began on Thursday morning simultaneously in Kanpur, Mumbai and Gujarat and ended late in the night. Cash worth Rs 150 crore was reportedly found during the raids. A Mumbai team led the raid and under its supervision, the team of Income Tax officials of Kanpur also conducted the raids. According to officials, Piyush Jain has around 40 companies, including two in the Middle East. "He is mainly into the perfumery business with its base in Kannauj, while the group owns a showroom in Mumbai from where perfumes are sold all over the country and abroad," the officials said. During the raid, it also came to fore that the company took loans in the name of shell companies. The company's foreign transactions are also huge. An I-T official, meanwhile, said, "Documents related to income and tax are being scrutinised. The process of counting currency notes is still going on with the help of SBI officials. It may get concluded by Friday. It is proposed to seize it for further in-depth investigations." Similarly, raids were also conducted at the factory premises and the premises belonging to the pan masala manufacturer and a transporter involved in transportation of goods under the cover of fake invoices, without generating e-way bills. The transporter used to generate multiple invoices in the name of non-existent firms, all below Rs 50,000 for one truck load, to avoid generation of e-way bills. The officers successfully intercepted and seized four such trucks outside the factory premises. More than 200 fake invoices used in the past for transportation without payment of GST have been recovered from the warehouse of the transporter. Further, physical stock taking in the factory has resulted in detection of shortage of raw materials/finished goods. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/income-tax-dept-raids-premises-of-two-up-businessmen-1064174.html
24-12-2021||North and Central||UP girl gang-raped in moving car by Insta friend||An 18-year-old girl from Firozabad was allegedly raped by two men in a moving car in the Sikandra area in Agra. The incident took place on Sunday, but the complaint was lodged on Thursday. According to the police, the girl had made friends with 24-year-old Krishna Baghel, one of the two accused, on Instagram six months ago. Baghel asked the girl to meet him and when she agreed, Baghel came with one Hemant Kumar, and both allegedly raped her in the car. She also alleged that they 'forced her to consume beer and when she refused, they hit her head against the car door, forcefully putting beer in her mouth.' She later narrated the incident to her younger sister, after which they approached the police. In her complaint, the girl stated that the two men recorded a video of the assault and threatened to make it viral if she tried sharing the incident with anyone. The girl's brother said that his sister tried killing herself by consuming sleeping pills, but luckily, was saved. According to circle officer Lakhan Singh, the incident took place in the afternoon, as per the girl's complaint. The two have been taken into custody for further interrogation, and an FIR has been registered under IPC section 376 D (gang rape). The police are scanning CCTV footage for evidence. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-girl-gang-raped-in-moving-car-by-insta-friend-1064175.html
24-12-2021||North and Central||Man gets life term for raping autistic woman||A special court has sentenced a man to life imprisonment and imposed a penalty of Rs 50,000 after declaring him guilty of sexually assaulting an autistic woman. The incident took place three years ago when the man was 37 years old, and the woman was around 24 years old. Ashutosh Pandey, Additional Director General (ADG), prosecution, said, "The DNA sampling of the rape survivor's 19-week foetus at that time and regular monitoring of the case by the prosecution helped in taking action against the accused. The case was a bit different as the survivor had neurodevelopmental disorder and was unable to express herself or identify the person." The convict, Khushal Singh, was the survivor's trainer and he outraged her modesty at the training centre near Ram Ram Bank crossing in Madiaon, taking advantage of her disorder. The incident was reported to the police on November 26, 2018, after the survivor's parents found her 19 weeks pregnant, said the ADG. Initially, investigators did not have any proper evidence against the accused as the survivor was unable to narrate the incident. The man was arrested on February 16, 2019, after his DNA sample was matched with the foetus, which was preserved after the victim's pregnancy was terminated due to medical complications, said Pandey. He said Khushal Singh, along with his wife, runs Samarpan Day Care Foundation, in Madiaon, Lucknow. Earlier, the couple worked at different training centres for special children. The rape survivor was kept at a special children's centre in Dehradun for 11 years as she was unable to speak and identify anyone because of her neuro-development disorder. The woman's parents, who worked in Lucknow, brought her to the city during the summer vacation. She had been kept her in the day care centre run by Khushal Singh for 10 days. After the incident, the woman, who has speech disability, could not tell her parents about it. The police first zeroed in on three suspects at the day care centre and collected blood samples to match them with the DNA sample of the foetus. "DNA sampling was done in two months' time, and it matched with that of Khushal Singh. He later confessed to the crime when he was questioned. He said he raped the woman when his wife was not present at the day care centre," the ADG said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-gets-life-term-for-raping-autistic-woman-1064181.html
24-12-2021||North and Central||Skinniest elephant rescued in MP will be shifted to UP rehabilitation centre||India's skinniest female elephant, Laxmi, that was rescued in an emaciated condition from Madhya Pradesh's Chhatarpur district, will be shifted to Wildlife (Elephant) Conservation and Care Centre in Uttar Pradesh's Mathura. The elephant is currently sheltered and recovering at the forest department's premises in Bada Malhera under the observation of veterinarians and People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) India. An order in this regard was issued by a sessions court on Tuesday. Principal Chief Conservator in Madhya Pradesh, Alok Kumar told IANS on Friday that the elephant is recovering under the protection of the forest department. "The female elephant would be shifted to the Mathura rehabilitation centre. The order has been issued and further process for shifting will be initiated," Kumar added. In the first week of December, following complaints by PETA India and local activists, the forest department registered a preliminary offence report under Section 42 of the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972, against Laxmi's custodian for illegally keeping her and abusing her for begging. Upon hearing from PETA India, the Animal Welfare Board of India and the Project Elephant division of the Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change had asked the forest department to take immediate steps to rehabilitate the elephant. "After a life of suffering, Laxmi will now be on her way to safety," said Chief Advocacy Officer Khushboo Gupta after the court's decision. "Laxmi has known only cruelty, misery, and neglect. Through this order, the court has made clear that cruelty to elephants will not be tolerated." After being rescued on December 1, Laxmi was found to be suffering from chronic arthritis and joint deformities, with abscesses on her hips. She was in agonising pain and was debilitated because of long-term deprivation of food and water. Gupta further said that during interim care of the elephant, the group's veterinary team created a sandpit to alleviate the pain in her arthritic and deformed legs and provided a pile of mud to help her rest and sleep comfortably. The team also provided a bamboo stand so that she could rest her head and trunk, a customised jacket to fight the cold weather at night, and offered her daily grooming and massages to encourage blood flow. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/skinniest-elephant-rescued-in-mp-will-be-shifted-to-up-rehabilitation-centre-1064186.html
24-12-2021||North and Central||RTI activist brutally assaulted in Rajasthan, four held||Four persons have been arrested in connection with a brutal attack on an RTI activist in Rajasthan, police officials said on Friday. A car used for the crime has also been confiscated, they added. On Tuesday, some people had abducted Amra Ram (30) and assaulted brutally. They had also hammered nails into his legs. The victim is undergoing treatment at a Joghpur hospital and is stated to be out of danger. Bhupendra Singh (20), Ramesh Kumar (20), Khartha Ram (28) and Adesh Jat have been arrested. They are being interrogated to know the names of others involved in the case, said Barmer SP Deepak Bhargava. Bhargava further said that on Tuesday, RTI activist Amra Ram was kidnapped and taken to a secluded place by unknown accused in the Halka area of police station Gida. After registering a case in Gida, police have started an in-depth probe. Sensing the seriousness of the incident, SP Bhargava himself reached the spot the next day and formed five police teams. Raids were conducted at the possible places in search of the unknown accused which led to the arrest of the four accused on Thursday. A Scorpio vehicle used in the incident was seized from them, said Bhargav. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rti-activist-brutally-assaulted-in-rajasthan-four-held-1064190.html
24-12-2021||North and Central||Ceasefire violations by Pakistan along J&K border declined sharply in 2021||After witnessing over 5,100 incidents of ceasefire violations in 2020, the violations and killings at the border in Jammu and Kashmir this year was all-time low in the last more than a decade. The year 2020 saw over 5,100 incidents of ceasefire violations which were the highest since 2003 when the armies of India and Pakistan signed a ceasefire agreement. Last year, at least 36 civilians were killed and over 130 injured on the Indian side of Line of Control (LoC) and International Border (IB) due to ceasefire violations by Pakistan. The year 2019 also saw a huge number of ceasefire violations with 3,289 violations reported along the LoC and the IB. In 2018 nearly 3,000 ceasefire violations were reported along the LoC and the IB while the number was 971 cases in 2017. India shares a 3,323-km-long border with Pakistan, of which 221 km of the IB and 740 km of the LoC fall in Jammu and Kashmir. Before the government of India led by then Prime Minister late Atal Bihari Vajpayee entered into a border ceasefire agreement with Pakistan in 2003, almost 5,800 ceasefire violations were reported in 2002. After the 2003 bilateral agreement, for the next three years -- 2004, 2005 and 2006 -- not a single ceasefire violation was reported on the border in J&K. However, in 2007, Pakistan started to violate the bilateral agreement and 21 ceasefire violations were reported followed by 77 in 2008. There was a gradual increase in ceasefire violations by Pakistan between 2009 and 2013. The corresponding figures for 2013, 2012, 2011, 2010 and 2009 were 347, 114, 62, 44, and 28 respectively. However, the ceasefire violations dropped to 664 in the first six months of 2021 after armies of India and Pakistan recommitted themselves to ceasefire across the LoC and the IB. Of the 664 violations reported in 2021, January and February accounted for more than 99% of the incidents. While 380 incidents of ceasefire violations and cross-border firing by Pakistan were reported in January, in February, it dropped to 278. As per official figures, not a single civilian was killed in cross border gunfire in 2021. According to a joint statement released on February 25, “both sides agreed for strict observance of all agreements, understandings and cease firing along the Line of Control and all other sectors with effect from midnight 24/25 Feb 2021''. This statement followed a call between senior Indian and Pakistani military officers. Notably, border shelling has killed hundreds of people in Kashmir and Jammu region since 1990 and left scores handicapped. Besides, houses and livestock worth billions of rupees have also been damaged as well due to the cross LoC shelling in J&K in the last more than three decades. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ceasefire-violations-by-pakistan-along-jk-border-declined-sharply-in-2021-1064192.html
24-12-2021||North and Central||Restaurant in Delhi's Mehrauli sealed for violating DDMA guidelines||Amid rising Covid cases in the national capital, the Delhi Police has sealed a restaurant in Mehrauli for allegedly violating DDMA guidelines, officials said on Friday. As part of a series of inspections conducted in view of latest DDMA orders for prohibiting large congregations, a flying squad team went for a surprise inspection at Diablo restaurant in Mehrauli, District Magistrate Sonalika Jivani said. There were around 600 people at the restaurant around 10.45 pm on Thursday. The restaurant had organised an event in complete violation of prevalent Covid protocols, she said. "Immediately, the crowd was dispersed by the tehsildar (Mehrauli) and the premises were sealed on spot for gross violation of DDMA guidelines, especially in wake of the emerging Omicron variant of Covid," Jivani said. Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (south) M Harsha Vardhan said an FIR under sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease danger­ous to life) of the IPC has been registered against Diablo restaurant at Mehrauli police station. In view of the rising coronavirus cases, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) had directed district magistrates to ensure that no gatherings to celebrate Christmas and New Year take place in the city. Restaurants and bars will continue to operate with up to 50 per cent of the seating capacity. Marriage-related gatherings are permitted with a maximum of 200 people in attendance.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/restaurant-in-delhis-mehrauli-sealed-for-violating-ddma-guidelines-1064193.html
24-12-2021||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh to impose Covid night curfew from December 25||The Uttar Pradesh government will impose a statewide night curfew in view of rising Covid cases from Saturday. A government spokesman said on Friday that night curfew would remain in force from 11 PM to 5 am in the morning. A maximum of 200 people could attend social functions. The government has asked the administration to make sure that every person who arrived in the state from any foreign country is tested for Omicron. Wearing a mask had been made mandatory. According to sources, as many as 49 cases of Covid-19 were reported in the state in the past 24-hours while new cases stood at 31 on Thursday. Over 1.91 lakh samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The number of active cases in the state was 266 and as many as 6.73 crore were fully vaccinated. The Allahabad High Court had urged the Centre and the Election Commission (EC) to defer the forthcoming assembly polls in view of rising Covid-19 cases. CM Yogi Adityanath also asked the officials to ensure all traders follow the "no mask, no goods" policy at their establishments. He asked for a close watch to be kept on the health of those coming from outside the state after testing them, and if required, they should be admitted to hospitals or be quarantined, the senior official said. Monitoring committees did a commendable job in coronavirus management in the past, and directives have been issued to reactivate them in villages and urban wards, he said. The chief minister said that in view of the possibility of a third wave of Covid-19, the state made systematic preparations in the past which needed to be re-examined. Facilities available at all government and private medical institutions of the state should be examined closely, and the Covid help desk and the day care centre in industrial units should be activated, he said. (With PTI inputs) Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-to-impose-covid-night-curfew-from-december-25-1064196.html
24-12-2021||North and Central||Multi-vitamins, paracetamol – only treatment given to 40 Omicron patients at Delhi hospital||Multi-vitamins and paracetamol were the only treatment provided to Omicron patients at Delhi's Lok Nayak hospital so far, doctors said on Friday. The LNJP Hospital, which is the Delhi government's largest healthcare facility, has reported 40 cases of the new coronavirus variant of concern till now. Nineteen of these patients have already been discharged. A senior doctor at the hospital said around 90 per cent of the patients are "asymptotic" and the rest showed mild symptoms like "sore throat, low-grade fever and body ache". "The treatment included only multi-vitamins and paracetamol tablets. We didn't feel the need to give them any other medicine," he said. The doctor said most of the patients are those who tested Covid-19 positive at the airport upon arrival from foreign countries. Most of them are fully vaccinated and "three-four have even taken booster shots", he added. The patients included an MP of an African country, a member of a royal family from a north Indian state, and family members of bureaucrats, a source said. According to data from the Union Health Ministry, Delhi has logged 67 Omicron cases so far, of which 23 have been discharged. Besides the LNJP Hospital, Sir Ganga Ram City Hospital, Max Hospital Saket, Fortis Hospital in Vasant Kunj and Batra Hospital in Tughlakabad have also set up facilities for treating and isolating suspected cases of Omicron following orders from the city government. Genome sequencing of samples of all Covid-19-infected people in Delhi is being conducted since Wednesday (December 22) to ascertain if the new Omicron variant has spread in the community. The Delhi government-run labs at the Lok Nayak hospital and the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences can sequence 100 samples each day. Two Centre-run labs in Delhi can sequence 200-300 samples a day, according to city Health Minister Satyendar Jain. Anticipating a surge in Covid cases due to the fast-spreading Omicron variant, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday said his government has made preparations to handle one lakh patients and conduct three lakh tests daily, and to ensure availability of enough manpower, medicines and oxygen. Kejriwal stressed that the latest variant of the coronavirus spreads rapidly and claimed that it causes "very mild" infection, fewer hospitalisations and deaths. Therefore, the government has been focusing on strengthening its home-isolation module, and directions have been issued to hire agencies for treating patients at their homes, he said.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/multi-vitamins-paracetamol-only-treatment-given-to-40-omicron-patients-at-delhi-hospital-1064201.html
24-12-2021||North and Central||UP parties race past people's issues for 2022 polls||As 2022 dawns and Uttar Pradesh prepares for elections, the battle is becoming less political and even less issue-based. A new political vocabulary is emerging with slander, laced with communalism, dominating the election campaign which, at present, seems to have narrowed down to a straight fight between the BJP and the Samajwadi Party. The BJP which has been claiming it will return to power with 300 plus seats in Uttar Pradesh, is undoubtedly becoming increasingly nervous as the countdown to the polls begins. The party's nervousness is evident from the fact that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has made multiple visits to the state and all top party leaders and ministers have been tasked with ensuring victory in UP. Uttar Pradesh, apparently, is crucial for the BJP which is also looking to repeat its government in the 2024 Lok Sabha elections. The state, with 80 Lok Sabha seats, will be the key to the next government at the Centre. The BJP ranks high when it comes to preparedness for the assembly polls. While the party has its cadres working overtime at the booth level, party leaders are closely monitoring their progress. The BJP has also launched a massive publicity campaign on all genres of media -- TV, newspaper and digital -- with Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath as the focal point. Slogans, songs, short films and even cartoons project Yogi Adityanath as an unparalleled and undisputed leader. His credentials as a Hindu leader are used to highlight the change he has brought in the state by cracking down on various mafias. The BJP campaign, interestingly, has now shifted focus from development to attacking the Samajwadi Party. A new set of short films titled 'Farq Saaf Hai' targets the Samajwadi Party on every issue. With Yogi Adityanath dominating the campaign and Prime Minister Narendra Modi supporting him, the scenario for the BJP in UP could not be better. However, one problem that the BJP is likely to face is regarding selection of candidates. Party sources say that about 50 per cent of the sitting BJP MLAs may not get tickets because a survey shows them in poor light and non-performance in their constituencies is a major issue. The BJP wants to neutralize the anti-incumbency factor by replacing the sitting MLAs with new faces. Changing candidates on a large scale - almost 150, if sources are to be believed - could lead to internal sabotage during the elections by those who are denied tickets. Two party MLAs -- Rakesh Rathore from Sitapur and Digvijay Narain Chaubey from Sant Kabir Nagar -- have already switched loyalties to the Samajwadi Party. The BJP also faces the onerous task of accommodating the leaders who have come from other parties. "It is obvious that those who have joined the party in recent months are expecting tickets for the assembly polls. The leadership will have to decide how to deal with the situation because not all of them can get tickets," admitted a senior party functionary. The Samajwadi Party, which has emerged as the main challenger to the ruling BJP, has swiftly moved ahead of other parties in the race. Its leader Akhilesh Yadav has cleverly stitched together an alliance of smaller caste groups - mostly from the OBC category - and is highlighting the failures of the Yogi Adityanath government in his election yatras. The SP president has finally sunk his differences with his estranged uncle, Shivpal Singh Yadav, and announced an alliance, thereby preventing any division in Yadav votes. Akhilesh is, in fact, using the same strategy which the BJP used in 2017 to gain power. The cornerstone of the Samajwadi campaign is inflation and price hike of essential commodities which has affected every section of society. Akhilesh speaks of the price of mustard oil, petrol, diesel, unemployment, farmers' issues, students' problems and reminds people of the Covid mismanagement that included shortage of oxygen, floating dead bodies and, of course, the travails faced by migrant workers. To remind people of the horrors of demonetisation, he flaunts a five-year-old boy named Khazanchi, who was born outside a bank where his mother was waiting in a queue to exchange money. His Vijay Yatras are drawing unexpectedly huge crowds and the mood in the Samajwadi Party is very upbeat. Party spokesman Anurag Bhadauria said, "The thousands that throng Akhilesh Yadav's rath during his yatras, have not been ferried in government buses. They are staying on the roads till well past midnight to greet the leader. If the BJP wants to bury its head in the sand, we can do nothing about it." The Samajwadi Party, however, faces the same problem as the BJP when it comes to accommodating the new entrants and pacifying its candidates on seats that the SP will have to give to its allies. "Our partymen have been working relentlessly since the past five years in their constituencies for the 2022 elections. They will, without doubt, be disappointed if their seat is given to an ally. However, the party leadership is assuring them that they will be suitably compensated when the party comes to power," said a senior party functionary. The Bahujan Samaj Party and the Congress, meanwhile, have been reduced to the status of non-players in the UP polls -- at least for now. BSP president Mayawati is conspicuous by her absence and leading the party campaign is Satish Chandra Mishra, a Brahmin. Mayawati's presence is limited to a tweet a day. The BSP's focus on wooing Brahmins is irking its base vote of Dalits. The party has expelled the majority of its Dalit leaders and there is no second rung leadership, except Satish Mishra. Mayawati's inaccessibility is another factor that is now a talking point among her cadres. Her display of her newfound love for Hindutva -- she recently marched on to the stage at a party meeting with a 'trishul' in her hand -- is making Muslims in the party uncomfortable. Besides, BSP supporters are also confused at Mayawati's political posture which is decidedly soft on the BJP and offensive towards the SP and the Congress. The Congress, on the other hand, is living in utopia, generated by Priyanka Gandhi Vadra's dedicated team. The team, comprising leaders having origins in Left outfits, is going full steam ahead on slogans, posters and songs on 'Ladki hoon, Lad sakti hoon' while the party is slowly imploding. Priyanka's team has ensured that senior leaders take the exit route from the Congress. The party has lost a record number of leaders in the past two months but Priyanka seems to be blissfully ignorant about the situation within the party. "The problem is that Priyanka gets a very good response when she visits a district in UP but after she leaves, there is not a single leader who works on the ground. She is drawing crowds but the party workers refuse to help in translating that into votes." Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee president Ajay Kumar Lallu claims that the Congress will form the government in UP while analysts doubt if the party will cross the double-digit mark. A party that is slowly but steadily making inroads in UP politics is the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP). The AAP is shrewdly targeting the middle-class voters that have been virtually abandoned by the BJP. "We are not talking about caste and community because that is not our agenda at all. We are promising jobs, free electricity, and good governance. We are promoting the Kejriwal model of governance and people are listening to us," said AAP spokesman Vaibhav Maheshwari. The AAP may or may not win seats in UP, but the party will prove that it is here to stay. The saddest part of the UP assembly elections is that though various political parties are announcing sops by the dozen, no one seems to be talking about basic issues that concern the people -- roads, electricity, inflation and unemployment. The parties are happily playing the blame game and racing past the people with sops that will most probably be never delivered. The people are being left behind in this race for power. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/parties-race-past-peoples-issues-for-2022-up-polls-1064204.html
24-12-2021||North and Central||All is well in Uttarakhand Congress: CLP leader||Ahead of Congress Uttarakhand leaders meet with central leadership here, the party is putting up a united front and saying all is well. Congress Legislature party leader Pritam Singh said: "There is no dispute in the party" but refused to comment on the attack by former chief minister Harish Rawat. Rawat is scheduled to meet former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Friday and has reached the national capital but is refraining from speaking to the media before the meet. Uttarakhand campaign committee chief Harish Rawat had targeted the Congress for not giving him a "free hand". General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Thursday spoke to the former Union Minister in a bid to pacify him, sources said. On Wednesday, in a series of tweets, Rawat had said that "it's time to rest, it has been enough." "Is this not strange? When we have to swim in the sea of election, the party organisation should extend supporting hand, but has rather turned its face the other way and is playing a negative role. I have to swim in the sea where the ruling party has released many crocodiles and my hands and legs are tied. "Sometimes it feels that I have worked too much and now it's time to rest. I am in dilemma, the new year may show me a way, and Lord Kedarnath will show a path to me," the former Uttarakhand Chief Minister said. According to sources in the know of things, Rawat is upset over the ticket distribution and that he wants more say in the party affairs. The Congress has not declared Rawat as the chief ministerial candidate, the prime demand of his supporters. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/all-is-well-in-uttarakhand-congress-clp-leader-1064240.html
24-12-2021||North and Central||Uncertainty over panchayat elections in Madhya Pradesh; CM calls meeting||As Covid-19 cases rise across the country, Madhya Pradesh Home Minister Narottam Mishra on Friday sought postponement of the panchayat elections in the state. During the last day of the Assembly session, Mishra told media persons that "elections are not more important than lives of people". "It is my personal opinion that panchayat elections should be postponed as it is very clear that Covid cases are increasing in many states and Madhya Pradesh also. In my personal capacity, I would urge the chief minister to postpone panchayat elections," Mishra added. However, the final decision on the panchayat elections is likely to be taken in a meeting called by Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan later on Friday. Uncertainty is looming over the panchayat elections after the Madhya Pradesh Assembly unanimously passed a resolution for 'no panchayat elections without OBC reservation' on Thursday. The Supreme Court while hearing a petition related to OBC reservation in Maharashtra on December 17 had put a stay on it, instructing the Madhya Pradesh State Election Commission to follow the same. After the Supreme Court's verdict, the ruling BJP and the opposition Congress accused each other of being anti-OBC. The Congress raised the issue from the very first day of the winter session of the Assembly and sought a clear stance from the government. Subsequently, the ruling BJP said it has filed a review petition before the Supreme Court over its decision related to OBC reservation. The panchayat elections in Madhya Pradesh are slated to be held in three phases on January 6, January 28 and February 16, 2022. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uncertainty-over-panchayat-elections-in-madhya-pradesh-cm-calls-meeting-1064243.html
24-12-2021||North and Central||Sulking Rawat to lead Congress’ Uttarakhand campaign, decision on CM face after polls||Congress on Friday brought peace in its Uttarakhand unit ahead of Assembly elections by assigning sulking Harish Rawat the leader of the poll campaign even as it stopped short of announcing him as the Chief Minister face. However, it has been made clear that Rawat may not have a free-run in the ticket distribution, a crucial area where the party leadership fears a free hand to one leader could create trouble. The decision to make Rawat the Chairman of the party’s campaign committee came during a meeting held by former party president Rahul Gandhi with senior leaders of the state, two days after the former Chief Minister created a flutter by tweeting that he was contemplating retirement from politics as the party organisation was not helping him. Soon after Rawat’s tweets, Congress General Secretary Randeep Surjewala spoke to him over the phone followed by Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, with whom the Congress veteran shared his concerns. Congress General Secretary (Organisation) K C Venugopal later spoke to him and invited him for a meeting in Delhi on Friday with Rahul, who was in his constituency for the past two days. Sources said the immediate response from the top leadership was reassuring for Rawat, as the party was known for dilly-dallying on its response to the emerging inner-party crisis. “All of us are together,” Rawat told reporters after the nearly two-and-half-hour meeting at Rahul’s residence, attended by party in-charge Devender Yadav, Uttarakhand Congress president Ganesh Godhiyal and Legislature Party leader Pritam Singh among others. Yadav said Rawat is a senior and experienced leader and he has been given an important responsibility. “There are no differences within the party though there could be some opinion about the style of functioning of people,” he said. Godhiyal said all issues raised by Rawat have been resolved and the Congress High Command has asked us to ensure that all cooperation is extended to him for a “free campaign”. Some changes are also suggested and will be carried out, he said. While the party leadership is aware of the hold Rawat has in the state, sources said it is wary of giving Rawat a free hand in ticket distribution, as it could alienate several others in the party.  Rawat was not enthusiastic with the Screening Committee touring the state to zero in on potential candidates, as usually these panels sit in Delhi and decide on the panel of candidates to be submitted to the Central Election Committee headed by party president Sonia Gandhi.  Sources said the message from the meeting to Rawat was to not go public with his grievances and not aggravate the crisis at a time party’s internal survey has shown an “edge” for the party in the upcoming elections with the ruling BJP facing “immense” anti-incumbency. However, they said that the party has given enough indications that it acknowledges Rawat has the claim to the seat of Chief Minister. Rawat should be returning to Dehradun with such an assurance, a senior leader said.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sulking-rawat-to-lead-congress-uttarakhand-campaign-decision-on-cm-face-after-polls-1064245.html
24-12-2021||North and Central||Five arrested over extortion call to minister Ajay Kumar Mishra||The Delhi Police has arrested five people in connection with an extortion call made to Union Minister of State for Home Affairs Ajay Kumar Mishra, officials said on Friday. A senior police officer said a case was registered in the matter and five accused have been arrested. Further details are awaited. The minister has been in the news recently after his son was arrested in connection with the Lakhimpur Kheri violence of October 3, in which eight people, including four farmers and a journalist, were killed. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/five-arrested-over-extortion-call-to-minister-ajay-kumar-mishra-1064246.html
24-12-2021||North and Central||Channi seeks Centre's help in blast investigation||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Channi on Friday said he spoke to Union Home Minister Amit Shah and apprised him about the blast in the district court complex in Ludhiana and sought help in the investigation. A person was killed and five others were injured in the suspected IED blast on Thursday. "We need the Centre's help as Punjab does not have the equipment to check the kind of RDX used in the blast," Channi told the media. He said investigations indicated that the only person who died in the blast was the one trying to set up a bomb. "No one has taken responsibility for the blast yet. Even we don't have any indication (about the outfit behind it)," he said. Regarding investigations into the killing of a youth at a gurdwara in Kapurthala, the Chief Minister said there was no evidence of desecration. "The investigation is pointing towards a murder. We will modify the FIR (first information report) accordingly, he added. The youth was killed a day after the killing of a man at the Golden Temple in Amritsar after an alleged act of "sacrilege". Channi, who reached the blast spot to assess the situation along with Home Minister Sukhjinder Randhawa and other Cabinet colleagues on Thursday, told the media that such incidents have seen a rise after the government tightened its noose against the drug traffickers. Channi, who smelt a plot before the Assembly elections slated early next year, also called it a 'conspiracy' by those trying to polarise the voters. The blast took place at around 12:22 p.m. in a washroom on the second floor of the court complex when the court was functioning. The court is located close to the district commissioner's office. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/channi-seeks-centres-help-in-blast-investigation-1064250.html
24-12-2021||North and Central||'We are very sorry': Thieves from Uttar Pradesh return stolen goods with apology||Dinesh Tewari, who had taken loan to start a welding shop near his village in Uttar Pradesh's Banda district had the shock of his life, when he reached his shop on Tuesday morning. The locks were broken and almost everything-welding machine, cutter and glander-was gone. Tewari, a resident of Chandrayak village in the district, informed the cops and was told that the SHO would be visiting the spot soon. Tewari kept looking for the cops to inspect the shop and launch a search for the stolen goods but neither happened. He had lost all hopes of finding the stolen goods. On Thursday morning a resident of his village informed him that some articles which looked like welding machines and other items were lying in the nearby fields. Tewari rushed to the fields and found everything that was stolen from his shop. ''All the articles were neatly packed and tied with ropes,'' he said. There was a letter also attached to the articles. It was purportedly written by the thieves. They had apologised to Tewari for stealing the goods and said that they would not have done so had they known that he was a poor man. ''We were wrongly informed about your shop....we broke into your shop as we were told that the owner was a rich man and that we would get many valuable goods there...we are very sorry,'' said the letter. The local police said that they had information about the incident. ''It doesn't happen usually.....its good if it has happened,'' said a local cop. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/we-are-very-sorry-thieves-from-uttar-pradesh-return-stolen-goods-with-apology-1064252.html
24-12-2021||North and Central||Kejriwal hails Covid warriors as Delhi administers first vaccine dose to 100% eligible people||First dose of Covid vaccine has been administered to all people eligible for inoculation, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Friday while hailing the healthcare and frontline workers who have been at the forefront of the fight against the pandemic. Taking to Twitter, he shared data on the vaccination drive underway in the city.  👏👏Delhi completes first dose to 100% eligible people - 148.33 lakh Salute to Doctors, ANMs, Teachers, ASHAs, CDVs and all other Frontline workers. Congratulations to DMs, CDMOs, DIOs and all district functionaries "Delhi completes first dose to 100 per cent eligible people -- 148.33 lakh. Salute to doctors, ANMs, teachers, ASHAs, CDVs and all other frontline workers. Congratulations to DMs, CDMOs, DIOs and all district functionaries," Kejriwal tweeted. Delhi on Thursday had achieved the milestone of administering at least one dose of Covid vaccine to all above 18, government data showed. According to the CoWIN dashboard, 1,48,27,546 people in Delhi have taken at least one shot of Covid-19 vaccine by 8 PM on Thursday. As per the draft roll published on November 1, 2021, the total number of electors in Delhi stands at 1,47,95,949. Over 2,53,37,557 doses have been administered in the city since the inoculation exercise started on January 16. As many as 1,05,10,011 people have received both doses. Over 1.22 lakh people were vaccinated against coronavirus in Delhi on Thursday Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kejriwal-hails-covid-warriors-as-delhi-administers-first-vaccine-dose-to-100-eligible-people-1064253.html
24-12-2021||North and Central||How political parties plan to charge their campaigns with free electricity||When Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav on Friday rained power promises on Uttar Pradesh electorates, he was following a set pattern that politicians have followed across the country as a potent method to acquire power in elections. Akhilesh Yadav promised more relief than anticipated and regular cheap electricity to agriculture, households, industries and businesses, making SP the third political party in UP to hand out power doles to people in the run-up to the polls. Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), which is fighting state polls in Punjab in alliance with the BSP, has already promised 400 power units of electricity free of cost to residential consumers across all categories. Of its nine key promises, Priyanka Gandhi-led Congress has promised to reduce electricity bills to half and waive off pending bills of the Covid-19 period. The Power-to-Politics route was most successfully followed by the Arvind Kejriwal-led Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), first in the 2013 Delhi Assembly polls and it has repeated it since then. Congress, which had refused to fall for it then, had revised its poll strategy in 2015 Delhi polls, making promises on the power front but the move came late and AAP romped home again. This election season, AAP has again sought to hard-sell its Delhi power prescription to electrify its supporters in Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Uttarakhand and Goa.   While in UP, Delhi Deputy CM Manish Sisodia exhorted people to vote AAP in 2022 polls to "end the era of darkness", promising to provide 300 units of free electricity to all domestic consumers "within 24 hours" after forming the government; its promise in Uttarakhand also included waiving of old bills and giving free electricity to farmers. Sisodia also compared power supply in the two-BJP ruled states with that of in AAP-ruled Delhi. The ruling BJP government in Uttarakhand was also forced to announce that it will give free electricity up to 100 units to domestic consumers. In UP, CM Yogi Adityanath this month made an ambitious promise of providing 24x7 power to residents including in rural areas where electricity supply is currently pegged at 18 hours a day. In Punjab, where AAP is trying hard to revive its 2014 Lok Sabha poll fortune, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has been repeatedly assuring that power will be free, regular and there will be no cuts, reminding voters how power cuts are now a passe in Delhi. In the 2019 Maharashtra Assembly polls, promises for cheap power had found a mention in the manifesto of both Shiv Sena and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP). "Electricity affects the most significant chunks of voters — the farmers and the common man. After drinking water, the second most important item in people's day-to-day life is power and hence, any delivery on it is bound to benefit, whichever party makes any credible move. Kejriwal having already done it in Delhi, gives him the first-mover benefit more than any other party but any party with no organisation basis can't ride to power simply on power promise," says political analyst Rasheed Kidwai. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/how-political-parties-plan-to-charge-their-campaigns-with-free-electricity-1064269.html
24-12-2021||North and Central||Rohini court shootout charge sheet reveals how rival gang executed plan to kill Gangster Gogi||From the execution of the plan to kill gangster Jitender Gogi from jail, roping in a law graduate with the know-how of working of courts, conducting recce of the security arrangements, a voluminous charge sheet filed in the Rohini courtroom shootout case revealed how the murder was carefully planned and carried out.   Two assailants dressed as lawyers opened fire at gangster Jitender Gogi inside the courtroom where an attempt to murder case was being heard against him on September 24. The duo, who were from a rival gang, was then killed in a swift police counter-fire.  The 122-page-long chargesheet, filed by the Delhi Police against seven accused including two dead assailants, revealed that the plan to kill Gogi allegedly began in August 2021 and various people were roped in to execute it.  The police have named Sunil Baliyan alias Tillu, Naveen Dabas alias Balli, Umang Yadav, Vinay Yadav, Ashish Kumar as accused in the case. Abated charge sheet has also been filed against deceased assailants Rahul and Jaideep. In the chargesheet filed on December 17, the Delhi Police stated that Gogi was killed by deceased assailants under a "pre-planned deep-rooted criminal conspiracy" hatched by accused Tillu from Mandoli Jail and his associates.  According to the final report, Tillu, who is the main conspirator in the case, executed the alleged murder plan over WhatsApp calls and saw the news of Gogi's death on a TV installed in the prison cell.   As per a disclosure statement of Tillu, he planned to kill Gogi due to an old rivalry. He said that Gogi had killed one of his old friends and many gang members.  "Due to growing enmity, he decided to kill Gogi. In the end of August 2021, after second phase of Covid-19, hybrid system of hearing in courts had started and accused persons started getting produced in courts. He hatched a plan to kill Gogi in court,” Tillu stated during the police interrogation.  Tillu then came in touch with co-accused Umang Yadav through an undertrial prisoner lodged in Rohini jail. Yadav had studied LLB and was acquainted with the practice of courts and advocates. Tillu asked Yadav to help him kill Gogi, to which he had agreed, as per the disclosure. Two shooters Rahul and Jaideep were also roped in. Tillu asked them to go to Panipat court or Rohini court dressed as advocates and kill Gogi whenever he is produced from the judicial custody. “After killing Gogi inside court, both Rahul and Jaideep would surrender before the Judge in the court,” the chargesheet stated quoting Tillu's disclosure statement. Both the assailants then met Yadav in August 2021 and started preparations. Yadav briefed them about the working of the court and the practice of advocates. Jaideep and Umang also arranged the lawyer's attire.  The disclosure statement further read, “When he came to know that Gogi would be produced in Panipat court on September 13, he sent Umang and Jaideep to Panipat court to recee the court and assess the security of Gogi. They informed that Gogi was produced in court under high security.” On being informed about Gogi's production before the Rohini court on September 24, Tillu directed Yadav, Rahul, and Jaideep to go to Murthal to collect firearms from one of his associates. On the morning of the shootout, he was in regular touch with the trio. “Yadav had also joined his cousin brother Vinay to help them in the execution of plan. Thereafter, they went to Rohini court, where his absconding associate Naveen Dabas @ Bhanja also reached with a shooter, who looked like a 'Nepali'. However, he sent the boy away as his appearance as an advocate was not proper,” the statement further read.  Tillu further claimed that he received a call at 1:30 PM from one of his contacts informing him that Gogi was shot in Rohini court.  “He became very happy with the news. However, shortly he came to know from TV installed in their cell that both assailants, who had fired upon Gogi were shot dead in court, he became very sad and he immediately gave his mobile phone and dongle to his jail inmate Ashish Kumar and asked him to destroy the mobile and dongle,” the statement added.  Meanwhile, Umang Yadav, in his disclosure statement, said that he took Rahul and Jaideep to the Rohini court, and before reaching there, they changed into lawyer's attire at a mall. He along with one “Nepali” came out of court in a car, while Rahul and Jagga remained in court to execute the plan.  "Thereafter, he came to know on Facebook that Gogi was killed and both shooters shot dead by the police. He became afraid and called Tillu's number but his phone was switched off,” Yadav said in the statement to the police.  After the shoot-out, when Yadav “removed the DVR of CCTV cameras fitted inside his house. He disclosed that he had hidden the DVR inside the “chimney” in his kitchen,” the police said. Considering the gravity of the incident of the shootout, various operational teams of Delhi Police were activated by the supervisory officers to develop intelligence behind the conspiracy to kill Gogi inside the courtroom, the police stated in the chargesheet. The incident had happened inside courtroom number 207 presided by Additional Sessions Judge Gagandeep Singh. The police filed the final report for offences under sections 302 (murder), 201 (destruction of evidence), 353 (assault), 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 120B (conspiracy) of IPC, and various sections under the Arms Act. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rohini-court-shootout-charge-sheet-reveals-how-rival-gang-executed-plan-to-kill-gangster-gogi-1064285.html
24-12-2021||North and Central||Amit Shah to inaugurate 'Bharat Darshan Park' in Delhi on Saturday||Union Home Minister Amit Shah will inaugurate on Saturday the 'Bharat Darshan Park' in Delhi which showcases attractive replicas of several iconic monuments of India built with scrap and waste material, officials said on Friday. The recreational garden, built by the South Delhi Municipal Corporation on 'waste-to-wealth' model, is being opened after some delay and ahead of the civic polls in Delhi due early next year. Spread over eight acres, the park will have replicas of several monuments, including Qutab Minar, Taj Mahal, Charminar, Gateway of India, Konark Temple, Nalanda ruins, Mysore Palace, Meenakshi Temple, Hampi, Victoria Memorial Hall, Sanchi Stupa, Gol Gumbaz, Ajanta and Ellora Caves, and Hawa Mahal. "A total of 22 replicas have been put up in the park which is scheduled to be inaugurated by Union Home Minister Amit Shah tomorrow evening. These include replicas of 21 monuments and a tree," a senior official of SDMC told PTI. The sprawling park, which was earlier expected to be opened by October-end, was originally planned to include a replica of the Golden Temple in Amritsar too. "The park, opening tomorrow, does not have the replica of the Golden Temple," South Delhi Mayor Mukesh Suryan said. A controversy had erupted in June over the construction of the planned replica of the revered Sikh shrine in the park, located in Punjabi Bagh area in south Delhi, following which it was removed. Suryan had said early October that talks were on with senior Sikh leaders to ensure the replica of the Golden Temple was also installed after reaching an agreement.  Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) president Manjinder Singh Sirsa late June had claimed that the replica of the temple being built at the park had been "dismantled" as it was against "Sikh decorum". He had also tweeted about it and shared pictures of the site. Suryan, however, had said later that the replica was just "removed" from its planned spot at the park, and efforts were on to have it installed after due consensus. "The theme of the park is 'Unity and Diversity' and these artworks show utmost respect to our monuments and cultural heritage," he said, adding the expenditure on this project is about Rs 16 crore. These replicas have been built with scrap and waste material such as dumped old vehicles, fans, iron rods, nuts and bolts, lying unused or abandoned at SDMC stores, officials said. Work on building replicas of 'Char Dham' shrines was underway, SDMC officials had said in October, adding, there would also be a 1.5-km track for walking, specified kids zone, stalls to organise cultural programmes, a food court, besided audio tour and photography facility. "Diverse culture and rich heritage of India will be reflected through smaller versions of these monuments. Like 'Waste to Wonder Park', 'Bharat Darshan Park' will also become a popular tourist spot of Delhi, where people will be able to see 'mini India' in one place," Suryan said. 'Waste-to-Wonder Park' in Sarai Kale Khan area was opened in February 2019. It has replicas of seven world famous monuments, including Taj Mahal and Eiffel Tower, fashioned out of mechanical waste. Delhi Lt Governor Anil Baijal in a February 2020 event had said that the 'Waste to Wonder Park' was a shining example of "waste-to-wealth" concept and the SDMC should develop such more parks which are self-sustained and based on this concept. Suryan had said earlier that the work on the 'Bharat Darshan Park' project was delayed for some time due to the Covid-19 pandemic and ensuing lockdowns. This park is also an amazing concept of 'waste-to-wealth' concept where replicas of historical monuments are being made out of scrap material, he said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/amit-shah-to-inaugurate-bharat-darshan-park-in-delhi-on-saturday-1064286.html
24-12-2021||North and Central||Enough evidence against Majithia; won't spare those involved in drug racket: Channi||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Friday said SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia has been booked in a drug case as there is enough evidence against him and an STF report points to it. The CM also vowed to catch the "big fish" involved in the drug racket and slammed his predecessor Amarinder Singh, saying he did not make the STF report on it public. Majithia, 46, was booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act on Monday on the basis of a 2018 status report of a probe into a drug racket in the state. The Union Home Ministry has issued against the former Punjab minister a lookout circular, which prevents him from leaving the country. Majithia has moved a Mohali court for an anticipatory bail. Channi told reporters here that the drug racket had come to the fore in 2013, when the SAD-BJP government was in power in the state. He said the Enforcement Directorate has been investigating the case since 2013, when now dismissed policeman Jagdish Singh Bhola, alleged kingpin in the synthetic drugs case, was arrested by the Punjab Police. It was Bhola who had taken Majithia's name in front of the media after his arrest in January 2014, said Channi. "The STF report mentioned that there is enough evidence against Bikram Majithia. Later, we converted that report into an FIR," he told reporters here ruling out any political vendetta. Channi held his predecessor Amarinder Singh and the then advocate general responsible for not making the STF report public and initiating any action on it. Channi said after he became the CM, the matter was pursued. The CM said the case was lodged against Majithia after he was convinced of it. "First of all, I convinced myself and asked my officers that what we are doing has to be right. First, I found out what the reality is and when I was convinced…then we took up the issue and moved forward. First, I listened to my conscience," he said. "This fight (against drug menace) is nation's fight, this is Punjab's fight, this is the fight to secure future of our youth. We will not spare those who spread the drug menace and take this case to its logical conclusion," Channi said. He said the property and businesses of the "big fish" whose involvement is found in the drug racket will also be under the scanner now. "Till the time you do not catch big fish, it does not send out a message below," Channi said. Channi also slammed AAP leader Arvind Kejriwal and former CM Amarinder Singh over their comments on registration of the case, saying the cat is out of the bag now.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/enough-evidence-against-majithia-wont-spare-those-involved-in-drug-racket-channi-1064294.html
24-12-2021||North and Central||'Not easy to live with partner having mental issues': Delhi HC terms couple's marriage invalid||The Delhi High Court on Friday annulled the 16-year-old marriage of a man with a woman for playing fraud with him as she failed to disclose that she suffered from acute schizophrenia and declined to subject herself to a medical examination. A bench of Justices Jasmeet Singh and Vipin Sanghi said that it was not easy to live with a partner who has mental health issues, and such ailments come with their own challenges for the person facing the problem, and even more so for the spouse.  "Marriage is not made of only happy memories and good times, and two people in a marriage have to face challenges and weather the storm together. There needs to be an understanding of the problems in a marriage, and communication between the partners– especially when one of the two partners in a marriage is facing challenges of their own. Treatment of any mental ailment requires acceptance of the same, not only by the family members but, most importantly, by the person suffering therefrom," the court added. The bench also awarded a token cost of Rs 10,000 to the man, saying "unfortunately, the life of the appellant has been ruined and he has remained stuck in this relationship for 16 years without any resolution." In the most important years of his life, when the appellant would have, otherwise, enjoyed marital and conjugal bliss and satisfaction, he has had to suffer due to the obstinacy displayed by not only the wife but even her father (also her counsel), who appears to have been calling the shots in relation to the matrimonial dispute, the bench added. The court drew an adverse inference of the woman's outright refusal to go through the medical examination by an expert board. The court also noted that the man has significantly discharged the onus by leading cogent evidence, and raised a preponderance of probability, that she is suffering from schizophrenia. It pointed out the family court fell in error in rejecting the man's application for her medical examination, saying he could not have been left to gather evidence of his wife's mental condition on his own. The High Court also noted the man had shown his wife to several specialists, and the medications prescribed showed that they were relevant for the treatment of schizophrenia. Besides, he also produced the medical doctors and specialists and exhibited their prescriptions.  "The parties lived together for hardly any period, as his wife was taken away by her father after about nine weeks of marriage from the matrimonial home," the court said.  The woman, who claimed to have met with the man a few times before the marriage in 2005, also could not establish that he was made aware of the mental disorder suffered by her, which was passed off by her as mere “headaches”. "Headaches–by themselves are not a disease. They are only symptoms of a disease. The woman does not state what caused her such serious and frequent headaches, which debilitated her from completing her studies," the court pointed out. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/not-easy-to-live-with-partner-having-mental-issues-delhi-hc-terms-couples-marriage-invalid-1064307.html
24-12-2021||North and Central||Top Punjab Police official had warned about possible terror strike by LeT||A day after the Ludhiana court blast, IANS has accessed a letter written by a top Punjab Punjab Police official, alerting police and security agencies about a possible strike by Lashkar-e-Taiba terrorists on key defence and other installations. This alert, sent on November 30 by the Deputy Inspector General, Internal Security, "had indicated the possible target of the terrorists could be defence, Central armed police force, police establishments and courts," a source said. "According to a fresh input shared by a central agency, ISI has tasked Lashkar-e-Taiba to infiltrate five terrorists under the garb of Sikh individuals through Kartarpur Corridor into India after two weeks of commando training in Shakargarh (Pakistan) with directions to move to either Pathankot or Gurdaspur for further tasking," read the input. Revealing the identity of two ultras as Mohd Gulzar Maghre and Mohd Sahjada Bande, the letter had mentioned the planning of a grenade attack against the security forces camp in Jammu and Kashmir by Islamic terrorist outfit, Muslim Janbaaz Force. A highly-placed source, citing the letter, said that the police was advised to immediately take robust round-the-clock countermeasures and suitable preventive and precautionary steps. "The agencies are asked to review the second line of defence along the India-Pakistan border in coordination with the BSF, and constantly monitor the routes, gaps on the international border.... having been used in earlier possible infiltrations by Pakistan-based terrorists," the letter said. The DIG, Internal Security had suggested in the letter to ensure deployment of Special 24x7 armed 'nakas' on all roads, routes leading to the border area to cover any ingress from vulnerable and riverine gaps on the international border. One person was killed and several others were reportedly injured in the blast. The NIA and other agencies are probing the incident. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/top-punjab-police-official-had-warned-about-possible-terror-strike-by-let-1064310.html
24-12-2021||North and Central||State of affairs frightening; people flowing like river in Sarojini Nagar market, could lead to stampede: Delhi HC||The state of affairs, be it Covid or non-Covid, is "frightening" as people are "flowing like a river" which could lead to stampede and death of hundreds, the Delhi High Court said on Friday while taking note of overcrowding in Sarojini Nagar market which had witnessed a bomb blast in the past. The court said whether there is Covid or not, people have to remain alert and made it clear that if there is any death because of Covid-19 infection or stampede in the Sarojini Nagar market, then the officials of the authorities concerned, NDMC and Delhi Police, will be personally held liable for it. The court also issued contempt notice against officials of New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) for not complying with its earlier orders on removal of encroachment from the market, including illegal vendors and their goods. It also asked the Delhi Police and Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) to work out a movement plan for the public in the market and asked the NDMC and other authorities to ensure there is no overcrowding. It further directed the DDMA to make a visit to the market forthwith and assess the situation in view of the prevailing situation of the pandemic. "These pictures show that at night time all goods are lying there and covered with blue sheets. The state of affairs is such that, Covid or non-Covid, we see is frightening. There could be a stampede; there could be hundreds of deaths. If there is a bomb blast in that area, even if there is a single bomber just think how many people are going to die because of the blast and stampede," a bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh said. It said Sarojini Nagar market has already witnessed bomb blast in the past and God forbid if any such incident occurs, what will happen. After seeing various photos and videos of the crowded market, the bench said if the authorities are not allowing then how these encroachments are taking place and added, "don't tell us that this is stage managed. Hundreds of people are pushing each other and hundreds of people are flowing like a river." When the counsel for NDMC said due to Christmas festival, there are 70,000 to 80,000 people in the market daily and they need to control the head count and urged the court to pass an order for removal of encroachment, the bench said it had already directed the authorities not to allow anybody to encroach upon, be it shopkeepers or others. "If some shopkeeper is encroaching upon public land, do you need our order to remove him? You will not remove him on your own? That is the mandate of the law. Do we have to give direction that if somebody is encroaching upon public land, the authorities should remove him... we fail to understand what is happening," an annoyed Justice Singh said and added, "you are saying that to perform your functions you need an order from the court." To this, the NDMC counsel said they have been regularly removing encroachment and also illegal vendors but they again return and that they are also issuing challans and performing their duties. The bench said it cannot shut eyes by seeing the situation and asked the authorities to daily take steps for removing encroachments. "We are not saying they (shopkeepers) are holy cows and are not encroaching upon. You have to take action against everyone encroaching upon. If you think you can brazenly violate the high court's orders, we will show you what will happen... we are not going to allow violation of our orders," it said. The bench said the authorities have ample power under the statute to take action against the violators and they also have backing of court orders, still there is no improvement in the situation on the ground. It also said directed that whatever goods are seized from vendors and shopkeepers, who are found vending and selling goods illegally, should not be released to them without court's orders. Additional standing counsel Naushad Ahmad Khan, representing the Delhi Police, contended that the market's boundary wall height is very low, which poses security risk as people jump and enter the market and there are many entries and exits to the market which should be regulated. The court asked the NDMC to do proper fencing of the market’s wall so that people do not jump and cross it to enter the area. The high court was hearing a plea relating to illegal encroachments in Sarojini Nagar market and presence of unauthorised vendors and squatters there.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/state-of-affairs-frightening-people-flowing-like-river-in-sarojini-nagar-market-could-lead-to-stampede-delhi-hc-1064321.html
24-12-2021||North and Central||CSCs prepare for ITR filing as deadline approaches||With the Income Tax Return (ITR) filing deadline of December 31 fast approaching, citizens can visit their nearest Common Services Centers (CSC) to e-file their returns seamlessly. CSC, a Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) under the Ministry of Electronics & IT, has readied 75,000 centres mainly in urban and semi-urban areas, which are currently providing this facility across the country. "This year we have made this facility available at more than 75,000 CSCs across the country. CSC has been engaged in assisting citizens file their e-returns since 2015 with the help of companies Tax2Win and TaxGenius," said CSC Managing Director Dinesh Tyagi. "For the financial year 2020-21, around 10 lakh citizens have so far availed the ITR filing service from CSCs across the country. We are giving special emphasis this year and hope to see 25 lakh citizens filing their ITR through CSCs," Dr Tyagi added. For e-filing the returns, citizens can visit the CSC with their PAN Card, Aadhaar, Residential Address proof, details of the source of income, and Bank Account Number. Once the details are uploaded by the Village Level Entrepreneur managing the CSC, the citizen receives a call from the companies asking for additional details, said a statement from CSC. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cscs-prepare-for-itr-filing-as-deadline-approaches-1064332.html
24-12-2021||North and Central||NEP makes mockery of education system: Section of academicians||A section of academicians on Friday stressed the need for a movement like the one spearheaded by farmers against three agriculture laws to demand a rollback of the National Education Policy (NEP), which they said is a "mockery of the education system". The Left-affiliated All India Students' Association (AISA) organised a public meeting on Friday on the NEP and to announce its campaign against it. At the meeting, professor Syed Irfan Habib said, "This government and this NEP seek to saffronise our whole culture and our daily lives." He said there needs to be a huge movement, similar to the one spearheaded by the farmers against the three contentious farm laws, to demand that the NEP be rolled back. Rajya Sabha MP Manoj Jha also sought inspiration from the farmers movement. "This draft (NEP) is your farm bill. (Prime Minister Narendra) Modi too fears the streets and people's movements," the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader said. Jawaharlal Nehru University Teachers' Association (JNUTA) president Moushumi Basu said education has to be made a political issue and the students and teachers have to start a movement like the farmers did. Delhi University (DU) professor Ratan Lal said the NEP contains "high-sounding phrases" and makes a "mockery" of education. "In the Jawaharlal Nehru University and the Delhi University, some portions of the policy are being implemented. If some professors raise their voice, they face disciplinary action," he said. Another DU professor, Nandita Narain, concurred with Lal, saying the policy is all rhetoric. Speaking of the ills of online education, she said the NEP enforces it. The AISA announced the start of a 50-day campaign against the NEP, culminating in a "Parliament gherao" programme during the budget session from all over the country. "The movement will take up different activities all over the country, including collecting signatures and protests on all campuses," the students' body said.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nep-makes-mockery-of-education-system-section-of-academicians-1064333.html
24-12-2021||North and Central||Rs 160 crore in cash seized from Kanpur businessman||Tax officials unearthed unaccounted cash worth a whopping Rs 160 crore from the residence of a perfume manufacturer in Kanpur, Uttar Pradesh, on Friday. The cash was recovered from the house of Piyush Jain, who owns Odochem Industries, Kannauj, Uttar Pradesh, during joint raids carried out by the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC), and the Directorate General of Goods and Services Tax Intelligence (DGGI), Ahmedabad Zonal Unit. The seizure is said to be largest in the raiding agencies' history. Officials said they were "expecting old papers" when they decided to search a cupboard in a particular part of the bungalow. "This particular place inside the bungalow was quite unused. Our officers had not noticed anything suspicious. But, when they saw a relative of the manufacturer coming out from that place, they went and found two cupboards," said an officer part of the raid. "After opening them, they saw boxes wrapped in papers and thought they could be containing old papers."  To their surprise, they opened one one box and "found cash stuffed in them". "The officers opened the second box and again there were wads of cash", he said. And it didn't stop, as officers eventually found "six such cupboards" full of boxes containing cash. "We called SBI officials to count the money, who came with 5-6 money counting machines. Till Friday evening, we had counted Rs 160 crore, which is likely to go up as the process is still on," said the officer. The spectacular discovery happened after officials received specific intelligence while they were searching Trimurti Fragrance, which manufactures "Shikhar" brand of pan masala, and their transporter Ganpati Road Carriers in Kanpur.  "Based on intelligence inputs, the residential premises of partners of M/s Odochem Industries, Kannauj, UP, located at 143, Anandpuri in Kanpur, who were supplying perfumery compounds, mostly in cash, to the said (Trimurti) company was also searched. It was suspected that the sale proceeds in cash were secreted in the premises," officials said in a press note issued from the Ahmedabad office. Officials said the operation was launched over "clandestine supply of goods by the manufacturer without payment of applicable tax". "The transporter reportedly used to generate multiple invoices in the name of non-existent firms, all below Rs 50,000, for one full truckload to avoid generation of E-way Bills while moving the goods. The transporter was also collecting the sale proceeds of such clandestine supply in cash and handing it over to the manufacturer, after deducting his commission," the note said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rs-160-crore-in-cash-seized-from-kanpur-businessman-1064416.html
24-12-2021||Opinion||Delimitation double standards: One rule for J&K, another for South India||For some years now, many South Indian states have been flagging the issue of distribution of the central pool of tax revenue in the Finance Commission. The grounds for concern have been that the southern states collect more taxes and have brought down their populations, but the larger shares of revenue go to the poorer states with bigger and expanding populations. In other words, the South Indian states have been arguing that they are "penalised" for controlling the pace of population growth. To extend this argument a step further, it means that tax income collected from better-performing states is used to underwrite policies and schemes in poorly performing states such as Uttar Pradesh. Currently, schemes and infrastructure projects are being inaugurated at a frenzied pace in election-bound Uttar Pradesh, all on public money before the Election Commission notification for the state polls is announced. By extension, therefore, tax-paying residents of south India have every right to be concerned about public spending in Varanasi or Gorakhpur. This issue of distribution of taxes cannot be delinked from delimitation, the act of redrawing boundaries and increasing the number of seats in state assemblies and the Lok Sabha to reflect the changes in population. The issue is a ticking time bomb since that can potentially recast the federation of India as we know it. Currently, there is a freeze on this exercise till 2026. But in the future, there is a clear and present danger confronting states in the south that they would be outnumbered to a larger extent than they currently are. Should the BJP win the 2024 Lok Sabha elections as well, it would certainly be in the party's interest to see that the number of seats in Hindi belt states, where the party has its bases, should increase while those in the south could potentially decrease. After all, the pet project of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the Central Vista in New Delhi, aims to build a Parliament building that will accommodate many more members both in the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha. In an affidavit filed in the Supreme Court, the CPWD (Central Public Works Department) said that the new Lok Sabha chamber could accommodate 876 members and 1224 during joint sessions as it would be three times the size of the current chamber in Parliament. In the same affidavit filed in the context of suits against the Central Vista project, the CPWD stated that the current strength of the Lok Sabha has remained at 545 as per the delimitation carried out after the 1971 Census, but "it is likely to increase substantially as the freeze on the total number of seats is only till 2026." Imagine, therefore, the future: more seats for Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Rajasthan and less for performing states such as Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Punjab that have done well on population control? Indeed, Congress MP Shashi Tharoor has publicly stated that the Modi government might advance the delimitation of Lok Sabha constituencies from the mandated timetable of 2026 if it feels unsure of winning the 2024 elections. Speaking from the perspective of being an MP from the South, he said that the delimitation is a very real threat because "as a percentage of Parliament in terms of total seats we will no longer form an effective block from the southern states." It is in this backdrop that the controversial delimitation for Jammu & Kashmir can also be viewed. Here the reverse is happening, and the critique by Kashmiri stakeholders is that the principle of population has been ignored in the draft proposal of the Delimitation Commission. The Commission has proposed adding six seats to Jammu's tally and one to Kashmir's. The charge by political parties in the Valley is that the idea is to "increase the Hindu footprint through enhancing the numbers of Jammu." Former chief minister Omar Abdullah has said the Commission is promoting the political agenda of the BJP. He quotes the 2011 Census to state that the share of the population is 56.2 per cent in the Kashmir division and 43.8 per cent in Jammu. He then elaborates on the current seat share ratio: 55.4 per cent for Kashmir and 44.6 per cent for Jammu and says it would fall to 52.2 per cent in Kashmir and 47.8 per cent in Jammu if the delimitation recommendations made public last week were to be accepted. They have now been rejected by politicians from the Valley who say that the idea behind the proposal is also to end the possibility of a Kashmiri Muslim chief minister in the future. Frankly, the BJP does not care about hearts and minds in the Valley as Muslim majority Kashmir is viewed through the prism of ideology. The Jammu & Kashmir delimitation follows a different set of rules and has been necessitated by the entire structure of special status being taken away on August 5, 2019, and the state being downgraded into a union territory. It's also clear that the nation's pre-eminent ruling party places political expediency and ideological underpinnings over propriety and precedent. The Valley remains utterly alienated, but the BJP does not really care, although it does give importance to holding its bases in Jammu. It is noteworthy that the principle of population has been ignored in the draft proposal for Jammu & Kashmir, but when it comes to the national delimitation exercise, this is precisely the argument the BJP ecosystem would use to increase seats from states where the party has a presence. For when it comes to public policy, the BJP appears to have decided that heads they win and tails the Opposition loses. But this over-centralised approach of the BJP can, in the long run, trigger strong anti-New Delhi emotions in some southern states and lead to Balkanisation of the mind in parts outside Kashmir. (Saba Naqvi is a journalist and an author) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/delimitation-double-standards-one-rule-for-jk-another-for-south-india-1064017.html
24-12-2021||Second Edit||UPI on feature phones a welcome plan||The Reserve Bank of India’s recent proposals on Unified Payments Interface (UPI) and digital payments are welcome as they are expected to deepen the digital economy and increase financial inclusiveness. The RBI has announced a plan to extend the facility of UPI payments to feature phones and to release a discussion paper on digital payment charges (including cards, wallets, and fin-tech, as well as the UPI). It will be technically challenging to incorporate UPI on feature phones but it will be very rewarding. At present only about half of the country’s 960 million mobile subscribers have access to the UPI facility, which is available on smartphones. Most of those who use feature phones are in rural areas or belong to lower-income groups. The introduction of the UPI facility on their phones would bring them into the digital payments ecosystem and expand the footprint of UPI as such. The UPI has contributed much to India’s digital payments revolution. The pandemic-induced mobility restrictions ensured its increased usage. The value of monthly transactions increased from Rs 1.8 lakh crore in November 2019 to Rs 7.6 lakh crore in November 2021. The RBI is trying to further build on it. In comparison, the growth of transactions through traditional banking channels was much less. A large number of transactions in the country are below the Rs 500 threshold and widening the UPI ambit would help to make a part of those transactions digital. This can lead to reduced use of cash in the form of coins and low denomination currency notes in the informal economy. The tracking of online transactions will help to better study the behaviour of these important sectors. The RBI has also proposed to enhance the transaction limit for payments through UPI for retail buying of government securities and for other market activities like IPO applications from Rs 2 lakh to Rs 5 lakh. This will help to encourage greater participation of retail customers in financial markets. This will widen the market and give it more stability. It will also have implications for household savings. It is believed that markets, including global markets, can be better integrated with seamless payments and better safeguards. The more important part of the RBI plan is the facilitation of small payments through digital transactions through feature phones. Despite the growth in digital transactions, cash circulation in the economy has grown 17% over the pre-demonetisation levels of October 2016. Even if the RBI implements its proposals early, it will take some time for it to spread among the target population. Once that happens, the impact is likely to be remarkable.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/upi-on-feature-phones-a-welcome-plan-1063998.html
24-12-2021||South||Shatabdi between Bengaluru, Chennai cancelled on Friday||Southern Railway on Thursday night announced that the Shatabdi Express train that originates from Bengaluru to Chennai on Friday morning has been cancelled due to suspension of train traffic on a bridge between Arakkonam and Katpadi. The Shatabdi Express that originates from Chennai to Bengaluru on Friday evening has also been cancelled. However, it is understood that the Chennai-Mysuru and Mysuru-Chennai Shatabdi trains will run as per schedule. In a late-night press release, the Southern Railway said several trains are being cancelled due to suspension of traffic on Bridge no. 299 as a safety measure between Mukundarayapuram and Tiruvalam stations in Arakkonam –Katpadi section of Chennai Division. “Train No. 12028 – KSR Bengaluru - Chennai Shatabdi Express leaving KSR Bengaluru at 06:00 hrs on 24th December 2021 is Fully Cancelled. Train No. 12027 – Chennai - KSR Bengaluru Shatabdi Express leaving Chennai Central at 17:30 hrs on 24th December 2021 is Fully Cancelled,” the press release said. It also said train No. 12607 Dr MGR Chennai Central – KSR Bengaluru Lalbagh Express leaving at 15:30 hrs on December 24, 2021, will short-originate from Katpadi at 17.35 hrs instead of Dr MGR Chennai Central. The press release added that train No.11065 Mysore-Renigunta Express scheduled to leave at 22.55 hrs on December 24 and December are also fully cancelled. It also cancelled nearly two dozen express trains, MEMU, and EMU services originating from Chennai, Arakkonam to various cities like Tiruvananthapuram, Allepey, Mangaluru, and Coimbatore on December 24 and 25. It said train No. 12610 Mysore – Chennai Superfast Express scheduled to leave Mysore at 05:00 hrs on December 24 will be short terminated at Katpadi, while train No.12680 Coimbatore – Dr MGR Chennai Central Intercity Express leaving Coimbatore at 06.15 hrs on December 24will be short terminated at Katpadi. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/shatabdi-between-bengaluru-chennai-cancelled-on-friday-1064121.html
24-12-2021||South||New washroom for Kerala Minister costs more than house under govt scheme||The Kerala government has sparked off controversy for sanctioning Rs 4.10 lakh for a new washroom in a minister's office when it grants only Rs 4 lakh to build a house for the poor under its "Life Mission project". The order from the General Administration Department came out on December 21 sparking discussions all around. State Fisheries Minister Saji Cherian, for whom the amount has been sanctioned, is a two-time legislator of the CPI-M and was a surprise choice for a Cabinet Minister post in the second Pinarayi Vijayan government. There were several seasoned legislators more experienced in race for ther post. Cherian, 56, won his first Assembly election when he was fielded by the party in the Chenganoor Assembly seat in Alappuzha district after sitting party legislator K K Ramachandran Nair passed away in 2018. In the April 6 Assembly polls, he retained his sitting seat and was made a State Minister. This expensive bathroom for Cherian is being built at a time when the state is passing through one of its worst financial crisis. A political observer said this is a recurring phenomenon. "Such things happen irrespective of the political party in power. The general norm not long ago was that the Left does not indulge in all this but the belief is now history and they are also no different from others," the observer said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/new-washroom-for-kerala-minister-costs-more-than-house-under-govt-scheme-1064256.html
24-12-2021||South||Kerala's law and order in shambles with political murders, goonda attacks||From back to back political murders to attack on common people by goonda gangs, from police inaction in genuine complaints to public trial of a minor girl with a false accusation of mobile phone theft, all is not well on the law and order front in Kerala for quite some time. With the political leadership hardly initiating any visible steps to put things in order, resentment is brewing among the people. In a damage control bid the police launched drives to nab anti-social elements and in Thiruvananthapuram city alone over 200 wanted criminals were nabbed during the last 24 hours. Anti-social elements are literally going on a rampage even in the state capital with innocent people also coming under attack, the latest being the attack on a father and daughter at a busy junction on the suburbs of the city on Wednesday evening. The same locality had just witnessed a goonda gang murdering a rival gang member and throwing his chopped off leg on the streets. While political murders are not unfamiliar to the state over the last several decades, the recent murders at Alappuzha exposed serious lapses of the police as it failed to prevent a second murder, indeed an act of retaliation, in a gap of hardly ten hours. The state also witnessed a series of instances of police inaction on genuine grievances mainly domestic violence and dowry harassment complaints of women leading to the victims ending life or being killed at husbands' houses. Even last month a 22-year old woman ended life in Ernakulam after accusing the police of mentally harassing her after she lodged a domestic violence complaint against her husband and in-laws. The other day the Kerala High Court ordered compensation of Rs. 1.5 lakh to an eight-year-old girl who was harassed by a woman police personnel in the public by accusing her of stealing a mobile phone from a police vehicle. While Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan who heads the home portfolio, often maintains silence, in some instances the left-front government even justified the police. Even in the mental torture of the minor girl the errant woman police officer was strongly backed by the government even in the High Court, which invited the court's criticism. CPM politburo member M A Baby told DH that the recent political murders involving SDPI and BJP-RSS and the subsequent hate campaign over the social media were part of deliberate attempts to create unrest in the left-front ruling state as the left-front was only taking a stern stand against communal politics. He also said that the instances of lapses of policing were caused by a section in the police force and the Chief Minister had conveyed stern messages to such officers. The left-front would also ensure functional freedom to the police. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/keralas-law-and-order-in-shambles-with-political-murders-goonda-attacks-1064280.html
24-12-2021||South||IIT-M institutes 'Surendra and Dorothie Shah Chair'||The prestigious Indian Institute of Technology-Madras (IIT-M) is establishing the ‘Surendra and Dorothie Shah Chair’ in a bid to further cutting-edge research in the field of Civil Engineering materials. The Chair Professorship is being established with support from Prof. Surendra P. Shah, an expert in engineering materials, whose work has set world standards in the field.  The institute said the establishment of the chair assumes huge significance due to the immense amount of construction work undertaken every year in India, with the volumes and expenditures continually increasing. Prof Shah, who is an expert in engineering materials, particularly concrete and other cement-based construction, has chosen the IIT-M to set up the Institute Chair. He has led the development of new advanced materials, which have become world standards in these fields, and his work revolutionized the way modern concretes are used worldwide. Prof. Shah currently serves as the Presidential Distinguished Professor, University of Texas, and Walter P. Murphy Emeritus Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering, North-western University. Mrs Dorothie Shah is the founding President of the Indo American Museum, now called the National Indo American Museum, in Chicago. “The decision to choose IIT-M was very easy. As is well known, IIT-M is one of the top institutions in India. The construction materials group is not only one of the best in India but very highly recognized internationally in the field. My association with IIT Madras has been quite long and fruitful,” Prof. Shah said.  The professor appreciated the IIT-M for its nationally known is 3D Printing with concrete, which is the result of collaboration among materials, automation and construction management faculty. “I am looking forward to continuing involvement with the IIT Madras Research Group. It is rightly poised for facing challenges of not only India and the US but global problems. The Group has already started to work on reducing carbon footprint, which affects the whole world,” he added.  Prof. Surendra P. Shah is responsible for developing high-performance concrete, fibre reinforced concrete, self-consolidating concrete, shrinkage reducing admixtures, carbon nano-tube reinforced cement-based composites and extrusion processing of concrete, the IIT-M said, adding that these have revolutionized the way modern concretes are used worldwide.  The Key Areas of Research that would be undertaken under the ‘Surendra and Dorothie Shah Chair’ include materials, structural design and/or technologies for construction and/or infrastructure. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/iit-m-institutes-surendra-and-dorothie-shah-chair-1064290.html
24-12-2021||South||All students failed in Class 11 declared passed in Telangana||The Telangana government on Friday decided to pass all students who failed in the intermediate first year (11th class) examinations. Education Minister P Sabitha Indra Reddy announced that keeping in view the students' future, the government decided to pass all the failed students with minimum passing marks. The decision will benefit over 2.35 lakh students who had failed in the exams, results of which were declared last week. The decision came amid the continuing protests by student groups and opposition parties over the alleged irregularities in evaluation of answer sheets and suicide of at least six students over their failure in the examination. The Telangana State Board of Intermediate Education (TSBIE) had conducted the exams for the first year from October 25 to November 3. A total of 4,59,242 students had appeared in the exams (both general and vocational courses) and only 49 per cent (2,24,012) students passed the exams. Student groups, backed by opposition parties, had been staging protests at the TSBIE office for the past week, demanding that the government declare all students pass. They alleged that the bungling by the TSBIE led to suicide of students. Congress leader T Jagga Reddy had threatened to lay siege to the TSBIE office with 10,000 students on December 28. The Education Minister, however, dismissed the allegation that there were irregularities in conducting the exams or in evaluation of answer sheets. She pointed out that over 4.5 lakh students had written the exams and out of 49 per cent students who passed the exams, 10,000 had scored 95 per cent marks. Sabitha Indra Reddy termed the protests at TSBIE office as unfortunate. She said the opposition parties should keep the politics aside and think about the future of students. She said the exams were conducted for the betterment of students and in the interest of their future as intermediate first year is very crucial for further studies. The minister said the students were given one month's time and online classes were conducted for them through T-SAT and Doordarshan. She advised students to work hard and score good marks in the intermediate second year. She asked them not to think that if they protest, they will be declared passed in the second year too. The annual intermediate examinations could not be conducted in March-April this year due to Covid-19 situation and all the students of first year were promoted to second year. However, the government decided to conduct the exams in October-November. The students had opposed the move and questioned the rationale behind as they were already promoted to the second year. The government, however, had defended its decision. It pointed out that these students had not written the Class 10 exams as the same could not be conducted last year due to the pandemic. It argued that in case the exams are not conducted for second year due to the same situation, there will be no method to evaluate them and this will affect their academic future. Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/all-students-failed-in-class-11-declared-passed-in-telangana-1064363.html
24-12-2021||South||Southern Railway cancels nearly 2 dozen trains; thousands inconvenienced||Travel plans of thousands of people were jeopardized on Friday after Southern Railway cancelled nearly two dozen trains originating from Chennai to various parts of Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, and Kerala and vice versa due to the closure of a river bridge between Arakkonam and Katpadi following a crack in the structure. With the repair work on the river bridge still continuing, the Southern Railway cancelled 23 trains, including the Shatabdi services connecting Chennai with Bengaluru, Mysuru, and Coimbatore, on December 25 and 26. Express trains that are cancelled include those with destination to Erode, Ernakulam, Tiruvananthapuram, Mangaluru, Coimbatore, and Bengaluru, among others.  The cancellation of trains on Friday, Saturday, and Sunday has caused severe inconvenience to thousands of people, including those who had planned their travel coinciding with Christmas.  The trains were cancelled following a crack on the river bridge which prompted the Southern Railway to close a 10 km stretch between Mukundarayapuram and Tiruvalam stations. Sources explained that the Chennai-Katpadi section has two river bridges at the said site which are known as the up and down bridges.  “While the up bridge (from Chennai) has some issue, the down bridge (from Katpadi) is absolutely fine. We had to cancel trains because we cannot exert additional pressure on the down bridge by operating all trains from Chennai. Some trains are running on the down bridge, but we cannot run all trains,” a senior official told DH. Though the problematic area is just a 10-km stretch, the official said, cancellation of several trains was the “only option” as “safety of passengers” cannot be compromised. A senior engineering team is at the spot to fix the damage and ensure that normal services are restored as early as possible. “We hope to get the issue sorted in two days. Once the damage is fixed, we can run trains at a very low speed in the 10-km stretch. But the repair has to be completed and services should resume,” he said, adding that cancellation is high because of a variety of factors including pairing trains.  While 23 trains were cancelled on Saturday and Sunday, several other trains were either diverted through other routes or short-terminated at various stations.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/southern-railway-cancels-nearly-2-dozen-trains-thousands-inconvenienced-1064392.html
24-12-2021||South||8 more Omicron cases in Kerala, tally at 37||Kerala on Friday reported eight more cases of Omicron taking the case tally of the new variant of the Covid-19 in the state to 37.   Health Minister Veena George said that the fresh cases included a three-year-old girl who arrived from the UK along with her parents. The state currently has 25,586 active cases of coronavirus. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/8-more-omicron-cases-in-kerala-tally-at-37-1064413.html
24-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka sees 'triple talaq' cases over dowry, birth of girl child||Bengaluru resident Mumtaz (name changed) underwent domestic abuse by her husband who kept pestering her for dowry. When she resisted, she was physically assaulted and the husband later "divorced" her through triple talaq. The incident took place even as Parliament enacted the Muslim Women (Protection of Rights on Marriage) Act, 2019, which prohibits Triple Talaq. There have been at least 51 cases of triple talaq reported until now in the state since 2019 and they are under various stages of hearing in courts. This year alone, fifteen cases have been reported, according to data furnished by the government in the ongoing legislature session, with the majority of them being reported in Bengaluru Urban. Details of the cases also show that the majority of the cases are related to dowry. In some instances, triple talaq has been resorted to when the women gave birth to girl children. In one case in Bengaluru Urban, a woman was divorced through triple talaq and her marriage of 19 years ended. The couple have five daughters. According to the complaint, the husband "divorced" her for giving birth to girl children. Domestic violence and dowry-related cases have become more pronounced during the pandemic. Geeta Menon, secretary, Sthree Jagriti Samithi, said Muslim and Dalit women are especially vulnerable as outside of patriarchy they also have to deal with caste hierarchies and poverty as well. "Domestic violence cases have risen in general across all communities during the pandemic. Lockdown primarily forced couples and children to be at home, increasing the severity of pent up frustration that was there before," she said. As for the prohibition of triple talaq, Geeta said the legislation was good but it does not translate into better lives for women unless there are mechanisms of support, including support from within the community. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-sees-triple-talaq-cases-over-dowry-birth-of-girl-child-1064125.html
24-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||At Mangaluru International Airport coordinated efforts help passenger get back his wallet||Coordinated efforts by the staff of Mangaluru International Airport (MIA), Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA), Mumbai and the Air Support Group (ASG) of CISF at the two airports helped a passenger, David Cordhero, get back his wallet which he lost at the Mangaluru International Airport.  David Cordhero was headed for Mumbai from Mangaluru International Airport with his family when his wallet was mistakenly taken by another passenger at the security hold area (SHA). The other passenger, bound for Amritsar via Mumbai, realising that he had picked up the wrong wallet, deposited it immediately with the ASG personnel at CSMIA, Mumbai. The ASG personnel handed it over to the lost and found department there.  Mangaluru International Airport service quality department in the interim contacted the lost and found department at CSMIA through their counterparts. After getting confirmation from the department there that they indeed had the wallet, Mangaluru International Airport informed David about the same. David who realised that his wallet was missing on reaching Mumbai had contacted MIA on email as well as the terminal manager over phone. He had placed the wallet in a separate tray during the frisking. As there was no entry of a lost wallet being deposited with the lost and found department at MIA, the department informed him accordingly.  Based on this feedback, MIA with the help of ASG personnel of CISF reviewed the security footage of the SHA for the date and time of the reported incident. The footage gave the ASG personnel a clue that another passenger had mistakenly picked up David’s wallet from the scanner machine tray. Mangaluru International Airport and CISF authorities with the help of the airline tracked down this passenger headed for Amritsar via Mumbai. The persistence shown by the various stakeholders at the two airports resulted in David getting back his wallet with all the documents within 48 hours of him losing possession of it. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/at-mangaluru-international-airport-coordinated-efforts-help-passenger-get-back-his-wallet-1064212.html
24-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka CM's 'statement' raised in Maharashtra Assembly||A Congress MLA on Friday said the Maharashtra government should take seriously a reported remark by Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai that 40 villages from Jat tehsil were welcome to join the southern state. Vikramsinh Sawant, MLA from Jat in the border district of Sangli, was speaking in the Maharashtra Assembly. Bommai made the comment in the Karnataka Assembly earlier this week, he claimed. "Bommai said Karnataka will not cede even an inch of Belgaum (Belagavi) and if the 40 gram panchayats in Jat tehsil pass a resolution that they wish to be part of Karnataka, they will be incorporated," the MLA said. The remark should be taken seriously, Sawant said. NCP leader Chhagan Bhujbal, who is coordination minister for the Marathi-dominated border areas in Karnataka, maintained that what Bommai said would never happen. Sawant said these 40 villages had launched an agitation in 2011-12, threatening to join Karnataka if they did not get basic amenities including drinking water. But the gram panchayats had not passed any resolution, the MLA said. NCP MLA Rohit Pawar said a delegation from Belagavi told him that several youths were picked up from their homes and detained by the Karnataka police recently. The Maharashtra government should look into the issue, he demanded. Maharashtra and Karnataka are locked in a border dispute for several decades and the matter is pending before the Supreme Court. Maharashtra stakes claim to Belagavi, Karwar and surrounding areas which have a sizable Marathi-speaking population and are part of the southern state. Recently, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and other leaders from the ruling alliance had condemned alleged desecration of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj's statue in Bengaluru.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cms-statement-raised-in-maharashtra-assembly-1064266.html
24-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Hold two sessions in Belagavi every year, says Basavaraj Horatti||Legislative Council chairperson Basavaraj Horatti on Friday said that he has suggested Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai to take steps to hold two legislature sessions, including a joint session, at the Suvarna Vidhana Soudha in Belagavi every year. “I have also asked the CM to take measures to construct a legislators’ home and secretariat offices here. If two sessions cannot be conducted, one session with more duration should be held in Belagavi,” he said. A ‘best legislator’ award for MLCs will be given. Training programmes will be organised for all the MLCs on active participation in the session, Horatti told reporters. “Most of the Council members participated in the session this time. Different issues related to North Karnataka region were discussed for 11 hours, in which over 23 members took part. A discussion for nine hours was held specifically on burning problems in the region,” Horatti said. The Council passed nine bills in this session. Among 1,384 questions received, 134 questions were answered on the floor, while written replies were given to 792 questions, he said. On deterioration of the sanctity of the Council, Horatti said steps are being taken to improve the quality of debates whose results will be seen in the next session. “I suggest political parties to nominate experts from different fields, as there is a feeling that those defeated in the Assembly polls are being sent to the Council,” he added. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/hold-two-sessions-in-belagavi-every-year-says-basavaraj-horatti-1064398.html
24-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Aerospace incubation centre launched at NAL||A new technology accelerator and incubation centre was launched at the CSIR-NAL campus in the city to nurture aerospace start-ups. The announcement was made by Social Alpha, a venture development platform for science and technology start-ups. Dubbed mach33.aero, the centre was described as the first public-private partnership in India. The centre is housed on the CSIR-NAL campus and will focus on aviation, defence, space exploration, agriculture and climate action. In a statement, NAL said the centre’s ‘lab-to-market’ model will act as a catalyst to accelerate innovations and entrepreneurship while promoting start-ups and SME’s in sectors of national strategic importance. “Mach33.aero will leverage innovations to build solutions for some of our toughest challenges with the help of advanced systems and frontier technologies like Robotics, AI/ML/Data Science, Nanotech, Material Science, Advanced Manufacturing, Cryogenics etc,” the statement said. “The idea is to catalyse, incubate and accelerate start-ups and SMEs for Atmanirbhar Bharat in these sectors of national strategic importance,” said Dr Shekhar C Mande, director general of CSIR. Social Alpha is backed by Tata Trusts, the National Research Development Corporation (NRDC) and NAL. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/aerospace-incubation-centre-launched-at-nal-1064408.html
24-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports 405 new Covid cases, four deaths||Karnataka on Friday reported 405 new Covid cases and four deaths taking the total positive cases reported so far to 30,03,969 and the death toll to 38,305. The active cases in the state stand at 7,251. Bengaluru accounted for 254 Covid cases, Uttara Kannada 32, Dakshina Kannada 20, Kolar 18 and Tumakuru 16. While Bengaluru accounted for two deaths, Belagavi and Mysuru reported one death each. The positivity rate for the day stands at 0.35% and the case fatality rate at 0.98%. As many as 1,14,559 samples were tested on Friday, taking the total samples tested so far to 5,58,26,704. As many as 267 discharges took the recovery numbers to 29,58,384 on Friday. As many as 2,74,094 Covid vaccine doses were administered on Friday, taking the total vaccination doses given so far to 8,44,24,371. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-405-new-covid-cases-four-deaths-1064409.html
24-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka: Experts fear surge in Covid cases in children amid Omicron scare||Less than a quarter of all known Omicron cases in the state are children. While the preliminary data indicates that the cases have survived Covid-19 without complications, experts are worried about an "inevitable" surge that could drive up child infections, owing to their lack of access to vaccinations. In an August action plan report, government experts had projected that there could be between 3,270 and 4,861 pediatric hospital admissions in the third wave. These projections were made before the emergence of Omicron which has a higher reproduction number than the Delta. Already, data from South Africa shows that while adults infected with Omicron have a lower propensity for hospitalisation, it is the reverse for children, where the rate of hospital admission is up 20%. This is said to have implications for schools. "Case numbers due to Omicron will increase, that is inevitable, but what we expect is the rate of infection of children roughly on par with the first and especially the second wave," paediatrician Dr Vishwanath Kamoji of Columbia Asia Hospital, also a member of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) pediatric panel, said. Between April and May 2021, 1,56,733 cases aged under 18 years were found positive for Covid-19 in Karnataka, out of which around 3% had required hospital admissions. However, the current situation is complicated by the fact that schools have reopened, unlike in previous waves. Dr R Vishal, Commissioner for Public Instruction, said that a reconsideration of schools was pending recommendations by the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC). "We are aware that many schools are adhering to 50% physical attendance in classes but many schools are also still continuing virtual learning. Any change to physical attendance will be recommended by the TAC," he said. "At the same time, we are cognizant of the fact that even if children are infected, the disease will be mild. This is not a virulent variant as per the existing scientific evidence," he added. According to Dr Kamoji, the initial numbers of Omicron cases have already compelled schools not to increase their physical attendance numbers. "People must nevertheless take all precautions to safeguard their children. Children under the age of 12 are generally safe but older children face a risk," he said. In Karnataka, six out of the 31 known Omicron cases to date are aged between 9 and 14, including two new cases disclosed on Thursday. All are girls. They constitute 18.7% of the state’s total. Nationwide, 25 out of the 310 cases recorded as of Thursday evening are children. However, discounting 189 cases for which ages are not yet known, the nationwide prevalence rate is 20.6%. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-experts-fear-surge-in-covid-cases-in-children-amid-omicron-scare-1064411.html
24-12-2021||West||Fresh Covid curbs likely in Maharashtra amid Omicron scare||The Maharashtra government has decided to impose fresh restrictions in the state to avoid crowding in view of the rising cases of Covid-19, and it will issue guidelines regarding these curbs, an official said on Friday. The Chief Minister's Office (CMO) said in a statement late night on Thursday that the guidelines will be issued on Friday. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray held talks with the members of the state Covid-19 task force. They discussed the ways to avoid crowding during the Christmas and New Year celebrations, weddings and parties at hotels and restaurants, it said. The statement said the meeting also discussed the restrictions imposed in other states and the spike in Covid-19 in USA and Europe. The daily coronavirus case count in Maharashtra has been rising over the past few days. The state on Thursday reported 1,179 new coronavirus cases, a day after it saw 1,201 new infections. On Monday, the state had added 544 cases, while the next day it had logged 825 cases. On Thursday, Maharashtra reported 23 cases of the Omicron variant of coronavirus, highest in a single day so far, which took the state's tally of such cases to 88. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fresh-covid-curbs-likely-in-maharashtra-amid-omicron-scare-1064178.html
24-12-2021||West||Pune shocked as wrestler shot dead inside vehicle in public view||In a shocking case, a wrestler was shot multiple times leading to his death as he was preparing to sit in his vehicle, police said here on Friday. The incident happened around 10.40 p.m. on Thursday in Chakan on the outskirts of the city when the victim Nagesh S. Karale was getting into his SUV to go somewhere. Suddenly, his vehicle was surrounded by a gang of at least four and they started firing bullets at him, hitting him several times, before disappearing from the crime spot. The entire incident was captured on local CCTV cameras in which the assailants are also clearly seen shooting the 37-year old well-built wrestler. Several people are said to have witnessed the chilling crime near the road with Karale lying in a pool of blood in the vehicle, and someone later called up the police who rushed there. The wrestler was immediately taken to a nearby hospital where he was pronounced dead by the doctors. The Pune Police have formed four special squads to apprehend Karale's killers who may have fled the city or are hiding in the district. As per initial investigations, Karale's killing may have resulted out of some old business rivalry, but police have collected some clues and are probing from all angles. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pune-shocked-as-wrestler-shot-dead-inside-vehicle-in-public-view-1064214.html
24-12-2021||West||Almost half the complaints of crime against women in Rajasthan are fake: Gehlot||Almost half the complaints of crime against women in Rajasthan are fake, said Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot in an email interview to IANS. As per the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) data, Rajasthan recorded the highest number of rape cases in the country last year followed by Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh. The crime data for 2020 released by the NCRB showed Rajasthan reported the highest number of rape cases among the states. A total of 5,310 rape cases were registered in various police stations across the state. However, the CM in an exclusive interview with IANS, said, "It is a matter of concern that a lot of people are maligning this policy. 45.88 per cent of the FIRs lodged for crimes against women in 2019, 45.23 per cent in 2020 and 47.56 per cent in 2021, till June, were found to be fake. This means that almost half the complaints received for crimes against women are fake. The state is being maligned due to people misusing the law in this manner. And you already know how FIRs are lodged in other states." He further said, "It is written at the beginning of the NCRB report that crime is a result of various circumstances prevailing in the society. We should avoid comparing states solely on the basis of these figures due to various state specific policies and procedures. Some people make a mistake by assuming that increase in crime and increase in registration of crime are the same thing. The media and the Opposition are also making the same mistake. "Our government implemented the policy of mandatory registration of FIRs in 2019. Earlier, the police used to write a report on a blank paper and lodged an FIR when they found any evidence. But the women and the marginalised communities used to face trouble a lot of times due to this and they weren't heard. Now everyone's FIR is registered due to which every case is taken to its logical end. This has provided much relief to the common man. "Earlier, 33 per cent FIRs in rape cases were lodged through courts under CrPC section 156(3). Due to a policy of free registration, this figure is now just 15 per cent. Not just this, in 2019, our government set up a special unit for investigation of crimes against women under an officer of Deputy SP rank in every district -- this was promoted to Additional SP. Due to this, the investigation in heinous cases such as rape has decreased from 274 days in 2017-18 to 73 days. We have also appointed legal officers in courts and have made such an arrangement that the culprit isn't let off by the courts either. This is the reason why you keep reading in newspapers now that the accused is getting punishment in ten days or that a decision is being made within a month," he added. According to the NCRB data, the year 2020 was the second consecutive year when the state registered the highest number of rape cases. In 2019, around 5,997 rape cases were registered in various police stations of the state. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/almost-half-the-complaints-of-crime-against-women-in-rajasthan-are-fake-gehlot-1064230.html
24-12-2021||West||Names of living persons found in list of Covid-19 deceased in Maharashtra district||In a goof-up, the names of two persons, who are still alive, have figured in the list of those who died due to Covid-19 infection in Ambejogai tehsil of Maharashtra's Beed district, an official said on Friday. The list of the deceased has been prepared by revenue department based on the information given by the district health department, the official said. The Maharashtra government had recently announced that a financial assistance of Rs 50,000 would be provided to the families of each of those who succumbed to the coronavirus infection. "It has come to light that the names of a social activist and one more person, both of whom are still alive, have figured in the list of the deceased. So far, two such names have been found and work is on to check whether any more such people are included in the list," an official of Ambejogai Municipal Council said. The list mentions the names of 532 deceased, he said. Tehsildar Vipin Patil said the work of making the list of Covid-19 victims has been going on. "We have sent the list to the municipal council and the gram panchayat for verification. The final list will be prepared after correcting the mistakes," he said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/names-of-living-persons-found-in-list-of-covid-19-deceased-in-maharashtra-district-1064267.html
24-12-2021||West||Maharashtra prohibits gathering of more than 5 persons from 9 pm-6 am, imposes other curbs||With the cases of new Covid-19 variant Omicron jumping, the Maharashtra government on Friday issued orders to prohibit gathering of more than five people between 9 pm and 6 am and put a cap on the number of attendees in marriages, social, political and religious events.  The orders came on a day when Maharashtra crossed the 1,400-mark in around two month’s time even as total cases of Omicron variant surpassed 100 cases on Friday. The Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi had been mulling restrictions in the wake of the jump of figures ahead of the Christmas and New Year festivities.  However, essential services have been exempted from the prohibitory orders.  In the Maharashtra Legislature, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Anil Parab made a formal announcement on the restriction timings.  On Thursday night, Thackeray chaired a Cabinet meeting and also met members of the Covid-19 Task Force to discuss the Omicron threat even as Prime Minister Narendra Modi reviewed the situation in New Delhi.  Other states like Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Gujarat and Rajasthan have announced restrictions to combat the spread of the Omicron variant.  In cases of marriages, where movement of people is generally staggered, the total number of attendees should not exceed 100 in enclosed places (like banquets, marriage halls), and 250 for open sky spaces or 25 per cent of the capacity, whichever is less, according to the orders issued by Chief Secretary Debasish Chakrabarty.  Similar restrictions would be applicable in case of religious, social and political gatherings.  In the last 24 hours, 1,410 cases and 12 deaths were reported, taking the progressive total to 66,54,755 and 1,41,404, respectively.  As many as 20 new cases of Omicron were reported, taking the progressive total to 108. Of the Omicron cases, 54 have been discharged after the RT-PCR report was negative.  Of the 20 new cases, 15 have history of international travel, one has history of domestic travel and four are their high-risk contacts, according to the Public Health Department.  Meanwhile, Behram Khodaiji, Joint Chief Executive Officer, Masina Hospital, Byculla, Mumbai, said: “As the 2021 draws to a close, the threat of the new Omicron variant is looming large and staring alarmingly on the face of the common citizen. What started as a new localised variant in South Africa has rapidly spread all across Europe and is jumping into new countries with every passing day. India is also seeing the spread of the virus although, as yet, it is largely limited to Maharashtra and Delhi. But, as the WHO has repeatedly stressed, unless all countries are immune from the virus, no one is really safe from it.” “People have to be highly vigilant and take adequate measures to ensure that they do not get infected and, more importantly, spread the virus to others. The festive parties and New Year celebrations should not become a super spreader,” he said. Check out DH's latest videos on Covid:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-prohibits-gathering-of-more-than-5-persons-from-9-pm-6-am-imposes-other-curbs-1064368.html
24-12-2021||West||Maharashtra reports more than 1,400 Covid cases in a day, 20 new Omicron infections||The daily Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra crossed the 1,400-mark in around two months’ time even as total cases of Omicron variant surpassed 100 on Friday.  Amid the rise in cases, the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi dispensation is contemplating clamping more restrictions in the worst Covid-affected state of the country. In the last 24 hours, 1,410 cases and 12 deaths were reported, taking the progressive total to 66,54,755 and 1,41,404, respectively.  As many as 20 new cases of Omicron were reported, taking the progressive total to 108. Of the Omicron cases, 54 have been discharged after the RT-PCR report was negative.  Of the 20 new cases, 15 have history of international travel, one has history of domestic travel and four are their high-risk contacts, according to the Public Health Department. Meanwhile, Behram Khodaiji, Joint Chief Executive Officer, Masina Hospital, Byculla, Mumbai, said, “As the 2021 draws to a close, the threat of the new Omicron variant is looming large and staring alarmingly in the face of the common citizen. What started as a new localized variant in South Africa has rapidly spread all across Europe and is jumping into new countries with every passing day. India is also seeing the spread of the virus although, as yet, it is largely limited to Maharashtra and Delhi. But, as the WHO has repeatedly stressed unless all countries are immune from the virus, no one is really safe from it.” “People have to be highly vigilant and take adequate measures to ensure that they do not get infected themselves and, more importantly, spread the virus to others. The festive parties and New Year celebrations should not become a super spreader,” he said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-reports-more-than-1400-covid-cases-in-a-day-20-new-omicron-infections-1064389.html
24-12-2021||West||7-member interstate dacoity gang busted in Maharashtra; 4 held from UP||A seven-member interstate gang was busted on Friday, leading to the solving of three dacoity cases in Dabha and Beltarodi area of Nagpur, police said. Four members of the gang were arrested from Prayagraj in Uttar Pradesh with the help of the Special Task Force there, while the rest were held here, an official said, adding that some of them hail from neighbouring Madhya Pradesh. Gang kingpin Changiram Gosai (50) managed to flee when a colony in Prayagraj in UP was raided, he added. The dacoities, two in Gittikhadan police station limits and one under Beltarodi police station area, had led to police forming special teams to nab the culprits, he said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/7-member-interstate-dacoity-gang-busted-in-maharashtra-4-held-from-up-1064417.html
