25-12-2021||Comment||Linking Voter ID to Aadhaar: A selectively picked ‘reform’||The Election Laws (Amendment) Bill was passed on December 21, amidst protests by the Opposition in both Houses of Parliament. The crux of this new bill is that the Aadhaar, a unique identification system, is to be linked to the electoral rolls as a way to authenticate voters. The opponents of the bill have several suspicions about the bill which need to be addressed. The government has said that the bill sought to address the Election Commission (EC)’s concern over identifying duplicate voters so as to clean up the rolls, and that the linking is designed to do exactly that. There are two principal reasons for the proposal to link. Improved accessibility to voting: With over 300 million migrant workers across the country, the Voter ID-Aadhaar linking will allow the EC to track them and allow them to participate in elections in their home states. Preventing voter fraud: Since Aadhaar information is linked to biometrics, which cannot be replicated, the EC had contended that voter fraud on the basis of this information would be very difficult. Voter cards linked with biometrics would be difficult to falsify. The EC had sent the proposal for voter card and Aadhaar linking in August 2019, suggesting that electoral law be amended to allow it to gain access to the Aadhaar records of registered voters and those of first-time voters getting registered. Earlier, in 2015, the EC had launched a pilot programme, the National Electoral Roll Purification and Authentication Programme, to use Aadhaar information to remove duplicate voters from the electoral rolls. The Supreme Court had stayed this action till it adjudicated whether it would violate citizens’ privacy. In August 2017, a nine-judge bench of the Supreme Court delivered a unanimous verdict in K S Puttaswamy vs Union of India affirming that the Constitution guarantees to each individual a fundamental right to privacy. Before the SC stay, the EC had already collected and verified the Aadhaar data volunteered by 32 crore voters. The bill was met with a storm of opposition even at the time of its introduction in the Lok Sabha. Their opposition is based on primarily three grounds: 1) Linking the electoral roll with Aadhaar information could lead to personal information getting leaked. This could lead to targeted electoral campaigns and even disenfranchisement of groups of voters. What was mentioned as a proof of this having already happened was the tracking of millions of voters in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana in 2019, and even the actual deletion of 55 lakh voters from the electoral rolls. 2) The scope of voter fraud remains even with the use of Aadhaar. In 2020, the Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) had admitted that it had had to cancel 40,000 fake Aadhaar cards. Multiple examples exist where Aadhaar has been faked, such as the incident in 2018 in which a Bangladeshi national was arrested at Bengaluru airport with a fake Aadhaar card and other documents that he had procured from an agent in Bengaluru. The voter ID-Aadhaar linking could thus potentially give non-citizens the right to vote, as Shashi Tharoor pointed out during the debate on the bill. 3) Justice B N Srikrishna, who was chairman of the committee that drafted the original Personal Data Protection bill, has said that the voter ID-Aadhaar linking could allow the government to profile voters. Precedent for this exists in Latin America, where authoritarian governments had brought in legislation to use a single form of identification (a national ID), which had actually caused disenfranchisement and a reduction in the number of voters due to marginalised communities failing to procure the ID and thus the vote. India, with its plethora of marginalised communities, could very easily face a similar problem. The EC has sent a number of electoral reform proposals to the government from time to time that have been languishing. If the reason the bill was rushed through Parliament was truly to purify the electoral rolls and system, then why have the other reforms been left out? Why has the government brushed the fears and apprehensions of the Opposition under the carpet, instead of addressing them and taking them along? In my view, the fear of voter information leakage is perhaps unfounded as the electoral roll information is already in the public domain in pdf format. The other information is the voting pattern which, in any case, is secret and not linkable to any database or network. The government has said, in view of the SC judgement on Aadhaar, that the linking is voluntary. How exactly can the voluntary assent of 90 crore voters be taken? Will a door-to-door campaign be conducted? What is the motivation for a voter to give consent to their data to be linked with Aadhaar? What if a majority — or even a small number — refuse the permission? That will not ensure a clean roll, defeating the purpose of the whole exercise. The bill answers none of these questions. The electoral roll is the foundation of the integrity of the entire election process. No doubts should be allowed to cloud its credibility. Every political party wants clean rolls. They should have been taken into confidence on how it is being attempted. If the government has no mala fide intention or a secret plan, why could it not attempt to take all parties along? By pushing it down the throat of the Opposition, it has itself created suspicion in public minds, as it did in the case of the three farm laws. Why burn your fingers again? (The writer is a former Chief Election Commissioner of India and the author of ‘An Undocumented Wonder — The Making of the Great Indian Election’).||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/linking-voter-id-to-aadhaar-a-selectively-picked-reform-1064326.html
25-12-2021||First Edit||PM Modi, priest and proprietor of the nation||These are times when the distinctions between the government and the party, politics and religion, propriety and impropriety, and even law and lawlessness are disappearing. When roles are mixed up and interchanged, the accepted norms for the functioning of a democracy come under pressure. That undermines the system that is built or at least sought to be built on the basis of propriety, fairness, equal rights and opportunities for all and adherence to the rules of the game. In such a scheme, the government is different from the party that forms it and the Prime Minister is different from the politician who assumes that office. Politics is to be practised on its own terms and should not stray into other areas of life, and the boundaries for the conduct set by the law and best practices and conventions should not be breached. But transgressions have become the norm in all these areas and those who hold the highest offices in the country appear as transgressors.  Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been on an inauguration spree, unveiling projects for the last few weeks in Uttar Pradesh, where Assembly elections are due but are still a good two-three months away.  He used an IAF aircraft to land on a newly built highway and went on to make an election campaign speech; he laid the foundation stone for an airport that will take all of 40 years to complete and went on to make a political speech; he inaugurated the Kashi Vishwanath corridor and used the event to showcase his Hindutva politics. These are all national projects on which the taxpayers’ money is spent. It is wrong to appropriate them and present them as gifts from the ruling party, the Prime Minister or the Chief Minister, to the people. The Prime Minister should not reduce himself to a salesman of public goodies, trying to maximise profit from them. It is true that others, including Chief Ministers and ministers of other parties, too, do that, but shouldn’t the conduct of the person occupying the highest person be held against the highest standards?  Other causalities of the Prime Minister’s desperate determination to win the UP election at any cost have been the distinction between politics and religion and the separation of public conduct from personal faith. It is highly inappropriate for the Prime Minister to wear his faith on his sleeve and use it for political commerce. He is the Prime Minister of a country where there are practitioners of all religions and it is wrong to make an ostentatious public display of his religion. The images of the Prime Minister performing rituals in Ayodhya or at the Kashi Vishwanath temple appear as disquieting questions to the nation. Some vital lines are blurred when the Prime Minister becomes a priest, even in a state where a priest is the Chief Minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/pm-modi-priest-and-proprietor-of-the-nation-1064323.html
25-12-2021||In Perspective||Sainthood for Father Stan Swamy||On Christmas day, thoughts turn to a good Christian who was snatched away from us on July 5 this year. Father Stanislaus Lourduswamy, or Stan Swamy, had dedicated his life to serving Adivasis in Central India, after having been director of the Indian Social Institute, Bengaluru, from 1975 to 1986. He was implicated and jailed — falsely, in the opinion of a large number of human rights activists and even noted jurists — in the infamous Bhima-Koregaon case. The case was filed during the former BJP rule in Maharashtra, bizarrely leading to the arrest of many respected intellectuals; and once the BJP lost power in the state, it was transferred overnight to the National Investigation Agency. Many human rights groups and esteemed publications deem Stan Swamy’s death to have been “institutional murder” by cynical agents of the Indian State. Justice Madan Lokur, retired Supreme Court judge, wrote in The Wire: “The entire episode leaves behind a feeling that Stan Swamy was virtually thrust a sentence of death without charges being framed against him and without a trial. I wonder if his soul will be able to rest in peace, but I hope it does. I suppose all that can be said is ‘Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do’.” Justice Lokur went on: “Soon after his arrest and given his health status (Parkinson’s and age), Stan Swamy applied for interim bail on health grounds. The application was unfortunately rejected on October 22, 2020. Soon after, since Stan Swamy suffered from Parkinson’s, he found it convenient to use and also required a sipper or a straw to consume liquids, including water. He moved an application for being provided with a sipper and a straw. This application was dealt with great insensitivity. First, the prosecution sought time to file a reply. Was it necessary? Could a straw and sipper not have been provided to Stan Swamy? Then, even more surprisingly, the learned judge granted 20 days to the prosecution to file a reply! This was simply amazing.” Professor Mary Lawlor, the United Nations special rapporteur on the situation of human rights defenders, said: “There is no excuse, ever, for a human rights defender to be smeared as a terrorist, and no reason they should ever die the way Father Swamy died, accused and detained, and denied his rights.” Cardinal Oswald Gracias, Archbishop of Mumbai and President of the Catholic Bishops’ Conference of India said: “Under Indian criminal law, one is innocent until proven guilty. Fr Stan’s case did not even come up for hearing. We were eagerly waiting for the case to be taken up and the truth to come out. I do hope that the truth will come out soon and his name will be cleared of all criminal conspiracy.” Veteran journalist and human rights activist John Dayal poignantly noted: “Our hearts had foretold his death. It was clear that the State had, in cold blood, decided to wreak on him and others the full might of its vengeance for daring to speak for the poor and deprived.” Some people have called for the awarding of the Nobel Peace Prize to Stan Swamy. That will not happen: The Nobel Foundation decided in 1974 not to award any posthumously. A realistic possibility would be the start of the years/decades-long process leading to the Vatican proclaiming Father Stan a saint who’d walked amidst us, having dedicated his life to serving the Adivasis. Those of us non-Christians might at first glance have little right to suggest what the Catholic Church should do. Yet we do: The Vatican is a member-state of the United Nations, its actions and policies open for public comment. The Pope influences policies adopted around the world: rightly, as in many human rights activists’ views with the current Pope’s powerful denunciation of the death penalty, or wrongly, in the opinion of feminists who resent the Vatican’s opposition to their rights over their bodies. That said, Pope Francis seems to have distanced himself from fanatical US-based anti-abortion activists. One of his immediate predecessors, Pope John Paul II, Polish-born, played not an insignificant part in precipitating the collapse of the ‘Eastern Bloc’, i.e., the vast Soviet Union and its allies. The Second Vatican Council of the mid-1960s contributed to promoting the concept of universal human rights. In 2013, when the Argentinian Cardinal Jorge Mario Bergoglio, a Jesuit, i.e., a member of the Society of Jesus, as Father Stan was, got elected as Pope, he named himself after Saint Francis of Assisi, the 13th century Patron Saint of Animals. It would be good if, during his Papacy, the process of proclaiming Father Stan as, perhaps, the ‘Patron Saint of Human Rights Defenders’ could begin. Just so a ringing message goes out to India’s Hindutva supremacist establishment. (The writer is a Bengaluru-based senior journalist)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/sainthood-for-father-stan-swamy-1064325.html
25-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Bommai announces extension of 'Raitha Vidya Nidhi' scheme to girls of classes 8 and 9||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Saturday announced that the 'Raitha Vidya Nidhi' scholarship scheme is being extended to girl students of classes 8  and 9, in view of the drop in their enrolment in rural areas. A Government Order in this regard would be issued immediately, according to an official press release, after launching development works worth over Rs 244 crore in Vijayapura district. Speaking about the poverty in northern Karnataka, Bommai said the living standards of people there had not improved despite "thousands of crores of rupees" being spent in the past. "Elaborate discussions have been held for the development of northern Karnataka. Many reports have been presented, agitations have been held, thousands of crores has been spent... but when I see the living condition of the people here, their homes, education facilities, employment opportunities for the youth, I feel sad. It really hurts me. This has to change," Bommai said. Emphasising timely completion of long-standing projects like the Upper Krishna Project-3, the chief minister said that the state government has already released Rs 2,500 crore for completing relief and rehabilitation of people who would be affected by the UKP-3. He also said that the state cabinet has fulfilled the long-standing demand of grape farmers of the region by converting the Wine Board into Karnataka Grape and Wine Board, which would enable the farmers to be board members. Referring to the demand for expansion of the under-construction Vijayapura airport, Bommai said the work on the airport is in progress. The demand for extension of its runway to enable landing of bigger aircraft, cargo handling facilities and other works would be fulfilled by providing an additional Rs 120 crore, he said. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/bommai-announces-extension-of-raitha-vidya-nidhi-scheme-to-girls-of-classes-8-and-9-1064704.html
25-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Activists allege large-scale chopping of trees in Kali Tiger Reserve||Wildlife activists have alleged that hundreds of trees in the core area of Kumbharwada range in the Kali Tiger Reserve (KTR) Dandeli, Uttar Kannada district, have been chopped by the forest department officials to “create grassland for wild animals.” While KTR Director Maria Christu Raj denied any such incidents taking place inside the highly sensitive area, photographic and video evidence by two activists show large-scale tree cutting at Gundali-Gayatri Gudda in KTR. Speaking to DH, wildlife activist and convener of Kali Brigade, Joida Ravi Redkar said trees were being felled for the last many days now. “We have informed all the senior Forest Department officials, including the principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife) and vigilance department. However, no action is being taken to prevent the cutting of trees,” he said. This forest patch witnesses regular movement of Indian Gaur, chital, barking deer, and other wild animals, as it has rich grass and fruit trees. “There is already a fertile grassland. What is the need to create a grassland by cutting trees - which are decades old,” asked Ravi. He fears that cutting of trees is part of the Forest department’s plan to bring this area under tourism. “Seven months ago, the forest department officials were involved in cutting trees on either side of forest service road so as to create second tourism route. When we raised the issue and complained with the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA), the project was dropped, but not before at least 200 trees were cut,” said Ravi. The two other activists (requesting anonymity), who visited the spot, counted the cutting of at least 200 trees on the Gundali-Gayatri Gudda and fear that on the other side of the hills more than 800 trees might have been cut. “Officials are not giving us the exact reason,” said the sources. Maria said: “If there is such a thing as 1,000 trees being cut I am sure it will be visible in satellite imagery. It will be available for anyone to investigate. We are open for any enquiry or investigation.” He said as part of grassland management woody vegetation that encroaches upon grasslands are removed. In general, they will be less than 10 cm girth undergrowth vegetation. “Grassland management is a permissible activity under the tiger conservation plan of Kali Tiger Reserve approved by NTCA. Grasslands are key to the long-term survival of tigers in this landscape. It is our bounden duty to protect whatever grasslands are left in KTR. The activities are no different from removal of lantana and other weeds including cassia spectablis in the tiger reserves in South Karnataka,” he said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/activists-allege-large-scale-chopping-of-trees-in-kali-tiger-reserve-1064711.html
25-12-2021||Karnataka Politics||Anti-conversion bill not tabled with good intention, alleges Congress MLA Khader||The BJP-led Karnataka government did not table the Protection of Right to Freedom of Religion Bill, 2021, "with good intention" but with an eye on the vote bank politics, Mangaluru MLA U T Khader alleged on Saturday. "The Bill was tabled to create confusion among people... without even bringing it in the Assembly business agenda," he told media persons in Mangaluru. “Noone will support forceful conversion in the country. There are already laws in place. The BJP government has tabled the Bill to fool the citizens of the state. If there are any loopholes in the existing laws, then it could have been strengthened,” he said. To a query on Congress in the past drafting the anti-conversion bill, the MLA said that the Congress government had not drafted the bill. "The Karnataka Law Commission had prepared a draft bill. However, the then Social welfare minister had deferred it citing that it was not required in the state in 2016 and the government never discussed it for two years while in power,” said the MLA. Stating that there are chances of Bill being misused for political gain, MLA Khader alleged that the government failed to discuss the woes of the people in Karnataka in the Winter Session. To a query on pro-Kannada organisations demanding a ban on MES and calling for a statewide bandh on December 31, Khader said “We can not tolerate any dishonour to Kannada. We have to respect other languages while loving one’s own mother tongue and Kannada. Marathi and Kannada speaking people are living in harmony in border areas. Banning MES is a legal issue. BJP was part of the MES in the past in Maharashtra,” he added. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/anti-conversion-bill-not-tabled-with-good-intention-alleges-congress-mla-khader-1064534.html
25-12-2021||Karnataka Politics||Pralhad Joshi rubbishes 'rumours' of Bommai's exit||Union Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi Saturday said there is no discussion at the central leadership to change the Karnataka leadership. Speaking to media persons after participating in the cleanliness drive at Heggeri graveyard as part of the 98th birth anniversary of former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee here on Saturday, he said the central leaders are clear that the party will go to the 2023 assembly polls in Karnataka under the leadership of Basavaraj Bommai.  “Bommai is giving a good administration and has earned a good name for his governance. The central leadership, with whom I gave good rapport, are not discussing the change in leadership. All these discussions are just rumours and there is a need to stop such misinformation being spread,” he said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/pralhad-joshi-rubbishes-rumours-of-bommais-exit-1064543.html
25-12-2021||Karnataka Politics||Joint legislature session will be held in February, fortnight before Budget, says Horatti||Legislative Council Chairman Basavaraj Horatti said the joint session of the legislature will be held in February, 15 days before the Budget session. Speaking to mediapersons on Saturday, Horatti said when it comes to the issue of discussing matters related to North Karnataka, the recently concluded Winter Session of the legislature was the most productive in recent years. “In Council, the members discussed issues related to North Karnataka for more than 11.5 hours, while the government took 3 hours to respond to the questions raised by the MLCs related to the region,” he said. He said that it was interesting to note that MLCs from South Karnataka raised more questions about the development of this region, compared to their northern counterparts. 'Hurt by Cong’s behaviour' Horatti, one of the seniormost lawmakers in both the Houses, said he was hurt by the behaviour of Congress on the last day of the session in Belagavi. “There was some confusion regarding the restarting of Council after 3 pm. While the house bell rang, I called the members. However, the Congress leaders were under the impression that the House has been adjourned sine die and objected to the decision of me allowing the placing of the anti-conversion bill,” he said, adding that the subsequent developments were unwarranted. "A few of Congress leaders called me names, including ‘agent of BJP’," he said and added that hurt by this, he had decided to tender resignation from the post. “I withdrew my resignation letter only after the chief minister, leader of opposition in assembly and senior leaders convinced me,” he said and added that as the erring MLCs have expressed their apologies, he has decided against prolonging the matter. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/joint-legislature-session-will-be-held-in-february-fortnight-before-budget-says-horatti-1064629.html
25-12-2021||National||As Hindu extremists call for killing of Muslims, India’s leaders keep silent||Hundreds of right-wing Hindu activists and monks rose in unison at a conference this week to take an oath: They would turn India, constitutionally a secular republic, into a Hindu nation, even if doing so required dying and killing. “If 100 of us are ready to kill 2 million of them, then we will win and make India a Hindu nation,” said Pooja Shakun Pandey, a leader of Hindu Mahasabha, a group that espouses militant Hindu nationalism, referring to the country’s Muslims. “Be ready to kill and go to jail.” Even by the standards of the rising anti-Muslim fury in India, the three-day conference in the city of Haridwar produced the most blatant and alarming call for violence in recent years. The crowded auditorium, where right-wing Hindu monks called for other Hindus to arm themselves and kill Muslims, included influential religious leaders with close ties to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s governing party, and even some members of the party. Videos of the event have spread widely on social media in India this week. Yet Modi has maintained a characteristic silence that analysts say can be interpreted by his most extreme supporters as a tacit signal of protection. Police have been slow to take action. Even opposition political groups have been restrained in their response, an indication of the degree to which right-wing Hindu nationalism has gripped the country since Modi came to office in 2014. The inflammatory remarks come as some states governed by Modi’s Bharatiya Janata Party, or BJP, are holding elections, including in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand, where the conference was held. Modi was busy campaigning this week in Uttar Pradesh for Yogi Adityanath, his hard-line protégé and the state’s chief minister, who has frequently fanned anti-Muslim hatred. “We will do the investigation as per law, and such types of incidents will not be tolerated,” said Ashok Kumar, a top police officer in the state of Uttarakhand. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/as-hindu-extremists-call-for-killing-of-muslims-india-s-leaders-keep-silent-1064468.html
25-12-2021||National||With China, Atal Bihari Vajpayee sought modus vivendi: S Jaishankar||Atal Bihari Vajpayee introduced policy corrections that reflected the end of the Cold War and the new global balance, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said on Friday and noted that the former prime minister sought a modus vivendi with China that was based as much on mutual respect as on mutual interest. He also said the winds of change are most apparent in the Indo-Pacific region and it is there that the diplomatic creativity which Vajpayee inspires should be most strongly applied. "We are looking at a complex set of transformations that are simultaneously underway. The Indo-Pacific is witnessing both multipolarity and re-balancing," Jaishankar said in his opening remarks at the Second Atal Bihari Vajpayee Memorial Lecture, which was delivered by Michael Fullilove, the Executive Director of the Lowy Institute of Australia. The Indo-Pacific region is seeing great power competition as well as "middle power plus" activities, and orthodox politics, including territorial differences, is in sharper play, side-by-side with currencies of power like connectivity and technology, the external affairs minister said. In fact, no other landscape illustrates the widening of our definition of national security better, he added. Talking about Vajpayee, Jaishankar said, "If we are to look at the essence of his approach to international relations, it is evident that it focuses on responding effectively to global changes." Where the United States was concerned, the former prime minister introduced policy corrections that reflected the end of the Cold War and the new global balance, he added. "At the same time, he kept India's course steady vis-a-vis Russia, despite the turbulence of that era. With China, whether as the foreign minister or as the prime minister, he sought a modus vivendi that was based as much on mutual respect as on mutual interest," Jaishankar said. With Pakistan, Vajpayee strenuously tried to dissuade the neighbouring country from its path of sponsoring cross-border terrorism, he said. "All this, of course, was underpinned by his belief that India must develop deeper strengths at home. This found an expression in the exercise of the nuclear option as it did in the economic modernisation that he presided over," the external affairs minister said. In his lecture on "Australia, India and the Indo-Pacific: The need for strategic imagination", Fullilove compared diplomacy with cricket, saying a game of cricket is in many ways similar to the great game of relations between States. "Like foreign policy, cricket is a long game. A Test match can take up to five days.... Things are opaque in cricket as in diplomacy. Sometimes a draw can be a win. Cricket and foreign policy require many of the same qualities, including intelligence, skill, patience, discipline, toughness and imagination," he said. Fullilove said wealth and power are shifting eastwards toward India and Australia. "Impressive Asian economic growth in recent decades has transformed the region and lifted more than a billion people out of poverty. Emerging Asia is the most dynamic part of the world, accounting for more than half of global growth, despite representing only a third of the global economy," he said. "The bilateral relationship between New Delhi and Canberra has the character of a long innings, we started slowly but now that we have settled in, we are taking our shots and the runs are flowing," Fullilove said. He suggested the establishment of a high-level economic dialogue between Australia and India. The two countries should improve the interoperability between their armed forces, Fullilove said, listing a slew of suggestions to strengthen their partnership. Citing a study, he said neither the US nor China would be able to wield undisputed primacy in the Indo-Pacific region. "A bipolar future beckons. In this future, the decisions made by other Indo-Pacific powers, including Australia and India, will be highly consequential. Our actions may well constitute the marginal difference," he said. Speaking on the occasion, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said, "As the waters of the Indo-Pacific seek a new equilibrium, India and Australia are drawn by a natural affinity in political systems, economic endeavours and, above all, values." "As two major democracies of this region, our partnership is of enormous significance in the building of a rules-based global order, with a stable and prosperous Indo-Pacific as its fulcrum," he added. The rapid momentum that the India-Australia relationship has demonstrated in recent years is testimony to this, Shringla said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/with-china-atal-bihari-vajpayee-sought-modus-vivendi-s-jaishankar-1064478.html
25-12-2021||National||DH Toon | This Christmas, a copy of the Constitution of India||Anti-Christian vigilantes are sweeping through villages, storming churches, burning Christian literature, attacking schools and assaulting worshippers. In many cases, the police and members of India’s governing party are helping them, government documents and dozens of interviews revealed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-this-christmas-a-copy-of-the-constitution-of-india-1064484.html
25-12-2021||National||'Inspired by Vajpayee's rich service': PM Modi on his birth anniversary||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday paid tributes to former prime minister and BJP stalwart Atal Bihari Vajpayee on his birth anniversary. Born in Gwalior in 1924, Vajpayee was the face of the BJP for decades and was the first non-Congress prime minister to have served a full term in office.   Modi tweeted, "Remembering Atal Ji on his Jayanti. We are inspired by his rich service to the nation. He devoted his life towards making India strong and developed. His development initiatives positively impacted millions of Indians."  आदरणीय अटल जी को उनकी जयंती पर कोटि-कोटि नमन। Remembering Atal Ji on his Jayanti. We are inspired by his rich service to the nation. He devoted his life towards making India strong and developed. His development initiatives positively impacted millions of Indians. The prime minister also visited Vajpayee's memorial "Sadaiv Atal" along with other senior BJP leaders, including Union ministers Rajnath Singh and Amit Shah besides party president J P Nadda, to pay tributes to him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/inspired-by-vajpayees-rich-service-pm-modi-on-his-birth-anniversary-1064499.html
25-12-2021||National||India reports 7,189 Covid-19 cases, 387 deaths; Omicron cases at 415||A total of 415 cases of Omicron variant of coronavirus have been detected in India so far, out of which 115 have recovered or migrated, according to the Union Health Ministry's data updated on Saturday. Maharashtra has recorded a maximum of 108 Omicron cases, followed by Delhi at 79, Gujarat 43, Telangana 38, Kerala 37, Tamil Nadu 34 and Karnataka 31. India's Covid tally rose to 3,47,79,815 with 7,189 fresh cases in the last 24 hours, while the active cases have declined to 77,032, according to the data updated at 8 am. The death toll climbed to 4,79,520 with 387 more fatalities, the data showed. The daily rise in new coronavirus cases has been recorded below 15,000 for the last 58 days now. The active cases have declined to 77,032 comprising 0.22 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.40 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. A decrease of 484 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 0.65 per cent. It has been less than two per cent for the last 82 days. The weekly positivity rate was also recorded at 0.60 per cent. It has been below one per cent for the last 41 days, according to the Health Ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,42,23,263, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.38 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 141.01 crore. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20 lakh-mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one crore-mark on December 19. India had crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 387 new fatalities include 342 from Kerala and 12 from Maharashtra. Of the 342 deaths, 31 were recorded over the last few days and 311 were designated as Covid-19 deaths after receiving appeals based on the new guidelines of the Centre and the directions of the Supreme Court, Kerala's health department had said on Friday. A total of 4,79,520 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,41,404 from Maharashtra, 46,203 from Kerala, 38,305 from Karnataka, 36,714 from Tamil Nadu, 25,103 from Delhi, 22,915 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,707 from West Bengal. The Health Ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.  Check out latest coronavirus-related videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-7189-covid-19-cases-387-deaths-omicron-cases-at-415-1064500.html
25-12-2021||National||Omicron scare: Night curfews, other curbs in states ahead of Christmas, New Year||As the Centre advised poll-bound states to ramp up Covid vaccination exponentially amid a steady rise in cases of the Omicron variant, several states imposed fresh restrictions during the holidays. In a letter to states and union territories, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan advised implementing strategic interventions for containment like imposition of night curfew, strict regulation of large gatherings, curtailing numbers in marriages and funerals besides increasing testing and surveillance. Here is a list of states that have imposed Covid-related restrictions: Maharashtra Amid rising Covid-19 cases, Maharashtra prohibited gatherings of more than five persons in public places between 9 pm to 6 am. Under the new guidelines issued ahead of Christmas, more than 100 people can not attend weddings in closed places, while in open spaces the number will not be more than 250 or 25 per cent of the total capacity, whichever is less. This restriction will also apply to social, political or religious functions. At functions other than social, political or religious ones, the number of attendees in closed spaces should not exceed 50 per cent of the total capacity where seats are fixed and immovable. The number of attendees shall not exceed 25 per cent of the capacity where seats are not fixed.  Delhi Sarojini Nagar market has been allowed to operate on an odd-even basis over the weekend in view of the large footfalls at the place in the past few days. The national capital reported a spike in daily Covid-19 cases on Christmas eve as people thronged markets and held gatherings despite health experts cautioning them not to lower their guard. The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) had earlier directed district magistrates to ensure no Christmas and New Year gatherings take place in the national capital. However, restaurants and bars will continue to operate with up to 50 per cent capacity. Marriage-related gatherings are permitted with a maximum of 200 people in attendance. Haryana The Haryana government imposed a night curfew — from 11 pm to 5 am from December 25. The government also restricted the maximum number of people at indoor and outdoor events to 200 and 300 people, respectively. The restrictions will remain in place till January 5. Haryana also imposed some curbs in public places from January 1. Gujarat Amid Omicron concerns and an increase in the daily coronavirus cases, Gujarat extended the duration of night curfew in eight cities — Ahmedabad, Surat, Rajkot, Vadodara, Junagadh, Jamnagar, Bhavnagar and Gandhinagar — by two hours. The curfew would be in force in the cities from 11 pm to 5 am instead of 1 am to 5 am from December 25. Madhya Pradesh Madhya Pradesh has not reported any case of Omicron so far but the state government imposed a night curfew from 11 pm to 5 am as a precautionary measure and advised people to strictly follow protocol. CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan said Omicron has already reached 17 states and the possibility of the variant coming to Madhya Pradesh can not be ruled out. Uttar Pradesh The Yogi Adityanath government imposed a statewide night curfew from 11 pm to 5 am from December 25. He also instructed officials to cap the number of people attending events like marriages to 200.  Meanwhile, in Kolkata, fine dining restaurants welcomed the relaxation in night curfew norms between December 24 and January 1 as the state government has announced that there will be no night curfew during that period and movement of vehicles is allowed between 11 pm and 5 am. Karnataka also did not impose any restrictions on Christmas celebrations and prayer meetings at churches. However, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has said restrictions will be in place from December 30 to January 2. (With PTI inputs) Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/omicron-scare-night-curfews-other-curbs-in-states-ahead-of-christmas-new-year-1064505.html
25-12-2021||National||30 IPS officers transferred in Telangana; CV Anand new Hyderabad police Commissioner||In major reshuffle of IPS officers, the Telangana government has appointed CV Anand as the city police commissioner while transferring the incumbent Anajani Kumar to the Anti- Corruption Bureau as Director General. According to a Government Order issued by the Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar on Friday night, as many as 30 IPS officers including Superintendents of Police of some districts were reshuffled. CV Anand was waiting for posting after his stint at the centre. The 1991 batch IPS officer earlier worked as commissioner of Cyberabad police. Shika Goel, Additional Commissioner of Police, Hyderabad (Crimes), has been transferred and posted as Director of ACB. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/30-ips-officers-transferred-in-telangana-cv-anand-new-hyderabad-police-commissioner-1064507.html
25-12-2021||National||Court restrains writers from publishing biography of iconic Odia litterateur||An Odisha court has restrained two writers from publishing a biography of legendary Odia litterateur Fakir Mohan Senapati, after his granddaughter claimed that she was not being consulted for the memoir. The order came upon a suit filed by Senapati’s granddaughter Minakshi Dutta, now the custodian of all his literary works. Dutta had approached the court of senior civil judge in August to permanently restrain Debi Prasanna Patnaik and Lalatendu Mohapatra from publishing ‘Mo Jibani’. Although she had signed an MoU with the two writers, Dutta is no more interested to continue with the project, alleging that they were taking unilateral decisions without even consulting her. “The defendants (Patnaik and Mohapatra) are hereby directed to return all the manuscripts (both original and digitised versions) to Dutta within a month,” the court said in its order. Senapati, regarded by many as the father of modern Odia literature, died in 1918 at the age of 75. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/court-restrains-writers-from-publishing-biography-of-iconic-odia-litterateur-1064520.html
25-12-2021||National||Tiffin, cane bombs recovered in Jharkhand, defused||Around 25 tiffin bombs and cane bombs have been recovered by police in a forest in Jharkhand’s Latehar district, officials said. Based on a tip-off, a police team reached the spot near Barwaia Kalan village with a bomb disposal squad and defused the explosives on Friday, they said. A senior police officer said there was also information that members of a militant outfit were present in the forest, and investigation is under way. “We believe they were planning something sinister with the explosives, which were recovered and defused in time,” he said.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tiffin-cane-bombs-recovered-in-jharkhand-defused-1064525.html
25-12-2021||National||Modi, Rajnath Singh extend Christmas greetings||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Defense Minister Rajnath Singh on Saturday greeted the nation on the occasion of Christmas. Taking to Twitter, the Prime Minister said: "Christmas greetings to everyone! We recall the life and noble teachings of Jesus Christ, which placed topmost emphasis on service, kindness and humility. May everyone be healthy and prosperous. May there be harmony all around." Christmas greetings to everyone! We recall the life and noble teachings of Jesus Christ, which placed topmost emphasis on service, kindness and humility. May everyone be healthy and prosperous. May there be harmony all around. Wishing for "peace and harmony", Rajnath Singh tweeted: "Merry Christmas. May the virtues of kindness, peace, love and harmony always prevail. Merry Christmas." Christmas greetings. May the virtues of kindness, peace, love and harmony always prevail. Merry Christmas! Other politicians such as the Union Law Minister Kiren Rijiju, wished people by sharing a video of himself. "May the divine love of God descend into your home to make it a piece of heaven. This Christmas, I wish you all find peace and prosperity in every sphere of your life. Merry Christmas." In view of rising Covid-19 cases, Christmas is being marked across the world with many restrictions. In India too, prayer meetings were held in churches across the country, following Covid protocols. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-rajnath-singh-extend-christmas-greetings-1064529.html
25-12-2021||National||India-South Africa ties grow stronger in 2021 despite Covid crisis||South Africa and India ramped up their political and trade ties in 2021 and the coronavirus crisis presented an opportunity to the two countries to extend cooperation in fighting the deadly pandemic. South Africa, like most of the rest of the world, started and ended 2021 with serious Covid-19 issues, with the pandemic looking set to dominate for a third year in a row in 2022. In January, South Africa was in the midst of its second wave and as the year was drawing to a close, a fourth wave hit the country following the discovery of the new and highly transmissible Omicron variant in November. In February, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had a telephone conversation with South African President Cyril Ramaphosa and they discussed the continuing challenges posed by the Covid-19 pandemic. The two leaders also discussed possibilities of collaboration between India and South Africa in various international platforms, to facilitate access and affordability of vaccines and medicines. Prime Minister Modi reiterated to the South African President that India's considerable productive capacity for pharmaceuticals and vaccines would continue to serve the needs of all countries, including those in Africa. A week before the two leaders’ conversation, made-in-India vaccines had reached South Africa in an aircraft with President Ramaphosa receiving the consignment of doses. The current wave of the pandemic did not spare President Ramaphosa, who had to isolate himself after getting infected, forcing him to hand over his duties to Deputy President David Mabuza. Just days before he felt ill, Ramaphosa asked the scientists of the BRICS countries to work together in developing solutions for the pandemic. "The collaboration among BRICS countries is intended to broaden our knowledge of the Covid-19 virus not only for the benefit of member countries but for the global community more broadly,” Ramaphosa said. Amid rapidly changing travel bans, Ramaphosa said during his State of the Nation address in February that India was one of the countries that South Africa was looking to as it sought to import skills and boost tourism in the wake of the economic crisis caused by the Covid-19 pandemic. The economic slump caused by Covid-19 failed to deter Indian businesses from scaling up their production and expanding commercial footprint in South Africa. India was the top country of origin for vehicle imports into South Africa despite the lengthy Covid-19 lockdowns and overall declines in vehicle sales in 2020, according to the 2021 Automotive Export Manual report released by the Automotive Industry Export Council. ArcelorMittal South Africa (AMSA), a subsidiary of London-based Indian steel magnate Lakshmi Mittal’s Global steel giant ArcelorMittal, bounced back from a loss of 632 million rands (USD 39.6 million) in 2019 into a profit of 37 million rands ($2.3 million) for the previous fiscal year. Mahindra further entrenched its position in the South African market with a massive investment in skills training in southern Africa by opening a bigger training centre, effectively doubling its capacity. The company also opened a new national parts warehouse larger than its old facility. "South Africa is the regional hub for Mahindra and the brand’s second home outside of India. We will continue to support all levels of skill development to support the growing demand for Mahindra vehicles and the planned expansion on the continent,” said Rajesh Gupta, CEO of Mahindra South Africa. Vedanta Zinc International started a new iron ore product line by ramping up iron ore production at its Black Mountain Mine (BMM) operations in Aggeneys in the Northern Cape province of South Africa. On the domestic front, South Africa saw arson attacks in mid-July following the jailing of former president Jacob Zuma. Protests erupted in parts of KwaZulu-Natal (KZN), Zuma’s home province, after the ex-leader handed himself over to police to serve a 15-month jail term for contempt of court. A number of Hindu organisations across the African continent rallied to the call from India for assistance during its oxygen concentrator crisis. "This unparalleled crisis has brought us all together to collaborate in order to help our fellow Indians back home. It’s a very small gesture from us but would hopefully help in saving lives," said John Francis, Event Director of India Club, who oversaw the entire operation. The Indian missions across South Africa launched scaled-down celebrations of India’s 75th anniversary of independence this year, with lockdown restrictions reducing numbers. A major event was a project called ‘On the Gandhian Trail’, which took two busloads of people across seven towns where there are commemorative museums and busts marking Mahatma Gandhi’s two-decade fight against discrimination during his South African stay. Among the places visited was the Phoenix Settlement started by Gandhi, where his granddaughter Ela Gandhi heads up a developmental centre. The Settlement, surrounded by three largely Black townships, remained unaffected by the rampant violence and looting in the townships surrounding it in July. Tensions between the local Black and Indian communities resulted in Ela Gandhi calling for India to help South Africa in its efforts to rebuild the country during an online seminar organised by the Indian missions in South Africa to mark Independence Day. In the wake of the local government elections in South Africa, the Indian missions in Pretoria and Johannesburg organised a seminar titled ‘Story of World’s Largest Democracy’s Elections’. Glen Mashinini, the chairperson of the Independent Electoral Commission of South Africa, lauded the work of the Election Commission of India (ECI) as an example for the entire world. "The ECI provides the fountain of knowledge, understanding, and experience for all of us as electoral management bodies that are serving throughout the world,” Mashinini said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-south-africa-ties-grow-stronger-in-2021-despite-covid-crisis-1064530.html
25-12-2021||National||Plea in SC seeks uniform judicial code across India||A PIL has been filed in the Supreme Court seeking directions to the high courts to take appropriate steps to adopt a uniform procedure for case registration and to use common judicial terms, phrases and abbreviations. The plea, filed by advocate Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay, has also sought directions to the Law Commission to prepare a report in consultation with the high courts to ensure uniformity in judicial terms, phrases, abbreviations, case registration process and court fee. "The terminology used by different High Courts for different types of cases is not uniform. This non-uniformity causes inconvenience not just to the general public but, in many cases, to the advocates and the authorities as well. "Not just the terms used by them to refer to the same types of cases are different but even the abbreviations used to refer to these terms are different in case the same term is used. It is inexplicable as to why there is a difference in terminologies, procedure, court fees etc., within courts when all are governed by the same laws," said the plea filed through advocate Ashwani Kumar Dubey. It said not only are the high courts adopting different norms and procedures for case registration and using different judicial terms, phrases and abbreviations but are also charging different fees, which is against the rule of law and the right to justice. The petition stated that all 25 high courts across the country have different usage of phrases when it comes to identifying different cases. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plea-in-sc-seeks-uniform-judicial-code-across-india-1064535.html
25-12-2021||National||Legislature falling short of holding executive accountable due to frequent disruptions: Naidu||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Saturday blamed frequent disruptions and forced adjournments for the legislature falling below expectations in fulfilling its role to hold the executive accountable. "Dysfunctional" legislatures, the vice president felt, lead to compromised governance as there would be no fear among the executive of being questioned in the legislature. Good governance needs good legislatures to ensure the accountability of the executive to the people, he said. In a video message from the Raj Bhawan in Chennai on 'Good Governance Day', Naidu said using various instruments such as the Question Hour, Short Duration Discussions, debates on Bills, elected representatives can question the government about implementation of policies, execution of various welfare and development projects. For this, there is a need for 'good legislators' who give their best to do justice to the trust reposed in them by the people, the vice president observed. "If an MP or MLA does not discharge functions effectively, he or she would have no moral right to question the executive at various levels," he felt. Naidu is also the Chairman of Rajya Sabha which witnessed frequent adjournments during the just-concluded Winter Session over suspension of 12 opposition members. He observed that Rajya Sabha lost about 61 per cent of the total Question Hour time due to disruptions during the Winter Session. "This is a serious abdication of the important oversight function of the House," he noted. Observing that good governance enhances trust of people in the administration and catalyses economic growth, Naidu expressed concern that there is a 'governance deficit' in delivery of services at the level of state governments and local bodies. He stressed that such a deficit increases time and cost overruns, jeopardises the goal of socio-economic advancement and alienates people from participatory governance. This needs to be addressed on priority, he urged. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/legislature-falling-short-of-holding-executive-accountable-due-to-frequent-disruptions-naidu-1064551.html
25-12-2021||National||Sacrilege continues to remain a hot political issue ahead of Punjab polls||Incidents of sacrilege threaten to derail communal peace and become a hot political issue in Punjab, with the state set to go for polls early next year. Since 2017, when the last elections were held, dastardly incidents of sacrilege churned the narrative and kept the state on the boil even now. Flared-up sentiments mounted with anger and frustration are turning out to be a deadly cocktail ahead of the upcoming elections.  Data from the National Crime Bureau (NCB) shows that the number of crimes pertaining to sacrilege has been the highest in Punjab between 2018 and 2020. Justice in these cases continues to elude and the perpetrators of sacrilege escape the law, creating heightened hysteria around the emotive issue. But the recent incidents of lynching of those accused of the act have demonstrated the waning faith of the people in government to deliver justice. The process of investigation and subsequent trials that may have possibly unravelled the forces behind the nefarious acts will now be a sideshow. As developments unfold, Punjab stares at the risk of unrest ahead of polls, however fleeting it may appear to be. Political volatility in Punjab that essentially comes around the eve of elections benefits from polarisation on religious lines. Two recent incidents of sacrilege in quick succession — one inside the holy Sanctum Santorum of the revered Golden Temple in Amritsar and another inside a Sikh shrine in Punjab’s Kapurthala — point towards a systematic design to flare up sentiments in this poll-bound state. A spurt in sacrilege incidents seen in the backdrop of an FIR in a drug case against former Punjab minister Bikram Majithia, who is the brother of former Union minister in Modi’s cabinet Harsimran Kaur, and a high explosive bomb blast in Ludhiana just a few days ago, has made the plot even more convoluted with political overtones orchestrating the narrative. The ruling dispensation in this Congress-dominated state led by CM Charanjit Singh Channi is drawing out uncanny links between the drug case against Majithia and the bomb blast. People in this Sikh-dominated state have been waiting for years for some finality and justice in crime incidents of desecration of the holy Guru Granth Sahib. But nothing tangible has come about even as the term of the Congress, which rode to power in 2017 promising justice in these cases, draws to a close in a couple of months. Investigations and inquiry commissions set up to probe incidents of sacrilege have failed to assuage hurt sentiments and bring the guilty to the book. The inapt action in incidents of sacrilege over the years has impacted the psyche of the community at large. Sacrilege incidents of 1978 and 1986 have a bloody history. The recent ones, since 2015 leave behind worrying signs, with several incidents of sacrilege in that year.  Brazen attempts to vitiate the atmosphere that year — first in June, then September and October — led to unrest in the state. Torn pages of the holy Guru Granth Sahib were found on the streets leading to Bargari village in Faridkot district. Later, Sikhs, on a sit-in peaceful protest seeking speedy action to check sacrilege incidents and punishment for those involved in the crime, were fired upon by the police at Behbal Kalan and Kotkapura and subsequently two protesters were killed. The anger that ensued triggered a wave of resentment against the ruling SAD, and among other reasons, led to its rout in 2017.  The Akali Dal-BJP combine moved a bill in 2016 to amend the IPC and the CrPC to deal with the crime of sacrilege with an iron hand. Any sacrilege of the holy Guru Granth Sahib was made punishable with life imprisonment. However, the Union government objected to the amendment as it excluded other religions from its purview. In 2018, the Punjab Assembly passed the new amendments when Capt Amarinder Singh was the CM. It currently states that "whoever causes injury, damage or sacrilege to Sri Guru Granth Sahib, Srimad Bhagwad Geeta, Holy Quran and Holy Bible with the intention to hurt the religious feelings of the people, shall be punished with imprisonment for life." However, the President is yet to accord consent to the amendments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sacrilege-continues-to-remain-a-hot-political-issue-ahead-of-punjab-polls-1064558.html
25-12-2021||National||Yogi, Pradhan pay tributes to Vajpayee on his birth anniversary||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and Union Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan garlanded the statue of former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee and paid him floral tributes on his birth anniversary at the Lok Bhawan here on Saturday. Hailing the former prime minister, Adityanath said Vajpayee commanded respect and reverence from all leaders cutting across party lines. "His long public life, spanning six decades, was unblemished," the chief minister said. According to the state BJP unit, the party is celebrating Vajpayee's birth anniversary as 'Good Governance Day'. Workers and office bearers are taking part in various programmes at the booth level to pay him tributes by holding a discussion on his personality and work. 'Atal Yuva Sankalp Yatras' are being taken out in all 403 Assembly constituencies of the state, the organisers said. On Friday evening, several programmes were held in Lucknow, the constituency Vajpayee represented in the Lok Sabha. At least 30 eye checkup camps were organised in different places of Lucknow during the last one month during which around 5,000 people were benefitted, the organisers said. At a programme organised by Pandit Atal Bihari Vajpayee Memorial Foundation at King George's Medical University here, poet Kumar Vishwas gave a presentation on 'Atal Ram Sankalp, Apne Apne Ram'. Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya, Union Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan, state BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh and former Union minister Radha Mohan Singh were present.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/yogi-pradhan-pay-tributes-to-vajpayee-on-his-birth-anniversary-1064566.html
25-12-2021||National||Need to ensure that country's unity remains unharmed, says PM Modi at Gujarat's Gurdwara event||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said there is a need to ensure that nobody is able to harm the unity of the country and that it remains secure. Addressing the 'Prakash Purab' celebrations of Guru Nanak Dev Ji at Gurudwara Lakhpat Sahib in Gujarat's Kutch via video conferencing, he said that the dangers against which the Gurus alerted the people continue to exist even today, and hence, it is important for everyone to be cautious and ensure that the country remains secure. Modi's appeal to the Sikh community comes two days after a blast took place in Punjab's Ludhiana district court complex. "It is our responsibility to ensure that in such an important period, nobody hurts our dreams and the unity of the country. To achieve the dreams for which our Gurus lived and sacrificed their lives, we should all remain united. Unity is essential for us all," he said. "The dangers against which the Gurus alerted us remain the same even today, so we have to be alert and also ensure that the country remains secure. I am sure that with the blessings of Guru Nanak Dev ji, we will surely fulfil our commitment, and the country will reach new heights," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/need-to-ensure-that-countrys-unity-remains-unharmed-says-pm-modi-at-gujarats-gurdwara-event-1064568.html
25-12-2021||National||2021: Odisha weathers cyclones, hits political turbulence but is game for sport||Two cyclones and a flood amid a raging Covid-19 pandemic tested Odisha's resilience in 2021, but the state was game for a sport that brought India laurels, making the year a bitter-sweet memory. The year was as much about turmoil as it was about triumph, as India's men's hockey team, sponsored by the Naveen Patnaik government, clinched a medal in Tokyo Olympics after a gap of four decades, bringing glory to the country. Its players, some of them from the remotest corners of Odisha, were accorded a hero’s welcome. The women’s team, too, performed well at the event, missing the bronze by a whisker, with Patnaik, who relentlessly supported both the teams, declaring that the sport is a way of life in Odisha’s tribal regions, where children learn to "walk with hockey sticks”. More laurels were in store for the state as the year progressed. Badminton player Pramod Bhagat bagged gold in Paralympics, and with that the coastal state seemed to have emerged as a sports hub of India. The chief minister, besides increasing the budget for sporting activities, announced cash prizes for all players who made the country proud. Patnaik, during the year, announced a slew of sops -- ranging from smart health cards to financial packages -- for the pandemic-affected population, as the second wave of Covid-19 brought economic activities to a halt in Odisha, much like any other state. Over 6,000 people lost their battle to the viral disease, and many more were left suffering, with the administration grappling to fortify the health infrastructure and speed up the vaccination drive. What came as a relief for the Covid-stricken economy was ArcelorMittal Nippon Steel’s proposal to set up a 24MTPA integrated steel plant at an investment of over Rs 1 lakh crore. The project is expected to generate employment for 1.6 lakh people. The coastal state, where cyclones have almost become a routine affair, had to undertake massive evacuation drives twice in the year as ‘Yaas’ and ‘Jawad’ slammed its shores. Cyclone “Jawad’, thankfully, lost its steam by the time it reached the coast of Puri, but triggered heavy rainfall in the coastal belt. Crops got extensively damaged across the state due the two cyclones – one that struck in May and the other in December – and a flood caused by depression-induced rainfall. On the political front, a series of protests and rallies over two murder cases rocked the Assembly, first during the monsoon session and then in the winter session. Opposition parties alleged that law minister Pratap Jena was involved in the murder of BJP leader Kulamani Baral and his associate Dibyasingha Baral, a charge denied by ruling BJD. A case of kidnap and murder of a school teacher later in the year grabbed headlines across the nation, after the victim’s remains were found buried on the premises of the institute where she worked. Minister of State for Home DS Mishra was accused of shielding the prime accused in the case, and the BJP and the Congress sought his immediate resignation. Patnaik, however, refused to drop him from the ministry, and faced the wrath of protesters. The chief minister's convoy was pelted with eggs by opposition BJP activists in Puri. Nonetheless, the BJD managed to bag the Pipili seat in a bypoll, which was necessitated by the death of sitting MLA Pradeep Maharathy. In July, three Odisha leaders found place in the Narendra Modi ministry, including Ashwini Vaishnaw, a bureaucrat-turned-politician, bringing cheer to the state BJP. Another talking point in the year was Odisha’s dispute with Andhra Pradesh over a cluster of villages along the interstate border. The matter was resolved with Andhra CM Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy visiting the state and formulating a strategy with Patnaik to keep any trouble at bay. An espionage case at the Defence Research Development Organisation (DRDO) in Balasore set alarm bells ringing in the security establishment. A high-level probe was instituted and five employees were arrested. As another eventful year reached its end, centenarian teacher Nanda Prusty, who dedicated his entire life to teaching poor children and adults free of cost, died of age-related ailments, a month after he was honoured with Padma Shri – the fourth-highest civilian award. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/2021-odisha-weathers-cyclones-hits-political-turbulence-but-is-game-for-sport-1064569.html
25-12-2021||National||Over 10,500 applications for Indian citizenship pending||Over 10,500 applications by foreign nationals seeking Indian citizenship are pending at present and out of this around half of them could be Hindus, Sikhs, Jains and Christians from Pakistan, Bangladesh and Afghanistan, according to responses placed by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) in Parliament recently. Among the applications pending, the highest was from Pakistani citizens at 7,306 followed by 1,152 from Afghanistan. Between 2016 and 2020, according to data generated from the online citizenship module, India has granted citizenship to 4,177 foreigners. At least 3,117 Hindus, Sikhs, Jains and Christians from Pakistan, Bangladesh and Afghanistan were granted citizenship between 2018 and 2021.  Responding to questions raised by Muslim League MP Abdul Wahab in Rajya Sabha on December 22, the MHA has showed that the highest number of granting of citizenship happened in 2016 when 1,106 people were made citizens.  In 2017, it rose to 817 but saw a dip next year at 628 while in 2019, it again rose to 987. However in 2020, only 639 citizenships were granted. As on December 14 this year, 10,635 applications for citizenship were pending with the Indian government and out of this 79.52% belonged to Pakistanis and Afghans. Americans and Sri Lankans shared the third spot and accounted for 223 applications each while people Myanmar (189), Bangladesh (161) and Kenya (155) followed them. Ten applications from China are also pending while there are applications from 428 Stateless people. Juxtaposing these figures with another set of data provided by the MHA to TRS MP K Keshava Rao showed that nearly half of the pending applications could be from Hindus, Sikhs, Jains and Christians from Pakistan, Bangladesh and Afghanistan. According to the MHA statistics, they had received 8,224 applications for citizenship from the minority communities from the three neighbouring countries between 2018 and 2021. During this period, 3,117 such people were given citizenship, leaving 5,127 pending cases. To a question raised by Congress MP Hibi Eden, the MHA said a total number of 1,33,83,718 Indian nationals are living in foreign countries. As far as the number of Indians who gave up citizenship, the MHA said it was 6,08, 162 between 2017 and 2021. The highest was in 2019 when 1,44,017 people gave up Indian citizenship. In 2017, it was 1,33,089 and in 2018 it was 1,34,561. Travel restrictions and Covid-19 pandemic appeared to have put a break in this trend as only 85,248 gave up citizenship. However, this year till September 30, there were 1,11,287 people who renounced Indian citizenship.   Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-10500-applications-for-indian-citizenship-pending-1064579.html
25-12-2021||National||Every third informal worker registered on e-Shram, total enrollment cross 14 crore mark||Every third informal sector worker in India is now registered on e-Shram portal with registration on the portal crossing the 14 crore mark in four months, Union minister Bhupender Yadav said on Saturday. The national database being created on e-Shram portal will eventually help the government to provide various social security and other welfare benefits to unorganised workers in the country. The e-sharm portal was launched on August 26, 2021. "e-Shram portal in just about 4 months 14 crore crossed... Kudos to all those who made it possible," the labour and employment minister tweeted on Saturday. According to the minister, as many as 14,02,92,825 informal sector workers registered on the e-Shram portal. The latest data of the portal shows that the top five states in terms of number of registration on e-Shram are Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Bihar, Odisha and Jharkhand. Gender analysis of the data shows that 52.56 per cent are female while 47.44 per cent are male. The data show that 42.64 per cent of registered workers are other backward classes (OBC) followed by 26.45 per cent from general category, 22.54 per cent from the scheduled caste and 8.38 per cent from the Scheduled Tribe. It also show that over 94 per cent registered workers' income is Rs 10,000 per month or below while over four per cent have income in the rage of Rs 10,001 to Rs 15,000 per month. About 51 per cent registered workers are farm labourers followed by 11 per cent in construction sector, 10 per cent in domestic & household workers and 6.5 per cent in the apparel segment. About 61 per cent registered workers' ages range from 18 years to 40 years, 23 per cent in the rage of 40 years to 50 years and 12 per cent above 50 years. About four per cent of registered workers are in the age group of 16 years to 18 years. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/every-third-informal-worker-registered-on-e-shram-total-enrollment-cross-14-crore-mark-1064582.html
25-12-2021||National||The Women and Child Development Ministry had a busy 2021||The Women and Child Development Ministry took a slew of measures in 2021 like introducing a bill to raise the marriageable age of women to 21, tackling rising malnutrition during the pandemic and ensuring safety and rehabilitation of over a lakh children who lost either of their parents to Covid. Even though children remained less susceptible to Covid-19, about 1.32 lakh of them lost either of their parents and were at an increased risk of being exploited and trafficked, proving to be a major concern for the ministry. Over 9,800 children were orphaned, 508 abandoned and 1.32 lakh lost either of their parents since April 2020 to December 7 this year during the pandemic, the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) said. Taking cognisance of the issue, the government earlier this year launched PM CARES for Children, a scheme that lends support to kids who were orphaned during the pandemic. NCPCR chairperson Priyank Kanoongo said in 2021 they worked on the social impact of Covid-19 on children. "We tried that children who were lost during 2021 do not get lost and their care could be ensured as per the provisions of the juvenile justice act," he told PTI. He said the biggest challenge next year would be to resolve the issue of street children. "We are working to make states roll out our SOP on street children and we have Supreme Court direction in this regard and we will work as per it. We will also work on substance abuse among children, its action plan we will implement and thirdly different stakeholders in juvenile justice act their proper orientation must be done and helping POCSO victims - psychological, social, financial help is another focus area of NCPCR. NCPCR would do district wise mapping on what is lacking in each state and what could be done to fill the gaps," he said. Two key bills introduced this year were the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Amendment Bill, 2021 and the Prohibition of Child Marriage (Amendment) Bill, 2021. To tackle child marriage, the government introduced the Prohibition of Child Marriage (Amendment) Bill, 2021 under which the marriagable age of women was increased to 21 from 18, drawing a mixed reaction from experts and activists. A bill that seeks to fix 21 years as the uniform age of marriage for women and men was introduced in Lok Sabha. The bill was referred to a standing committee. The Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Amendment Bill, 2021, which sought to amend the Juvenile Justice Act, 2015, proposed to increase the role of district magistrates and additional district magistrates with issues concerning child care and adoption was passed in Parliament and has come into force. The central government also brought out regulations to ease inter-country adoptions under the Hindu Adoptions and Maintenance Act (HAMA). Tackling rising malnutrition among women and children due to pandemic was another major concern of the ministry this year. The Poshan Tracker developed as a governance tool for real-time monitoring of nutritional outcomes was implemented in different states. Anganwadis were trained to use it for entering nutrition data of children and lactating and pregnant women in the app. National Commission for Women (NCW) chairperson Rekha Sharma said 2021 witnessed many firsts for women across the globe, be it the extraordinary performance of women in Olympics or women of Indian origin achieving heights globally. NCW launched projects in different fields concerning women, including entrepreneurship, digital literacy, legal awareness, etc, she said. "NCW has also launched a 24x7 hour helpline to provide assistance to women facing violence and sexual harassment. The new helpline aims to provide 24 hours emergency and non-emergency services to women affected by violence by linking them with appropriate authorities such as police, hospitals, District Legal Service Authority, psychological services etc and providing information about women related government programs," she said. On what to expect next year, Sharma said one of the major concerns would be changing the mindset of people because as "we can see, despite several changes in policies and laws, and several new initiatives launched by the government, the mindset of people remains to be a major roadblock in the development and progress of women. It is important that we ensure gender equality at homes so that it is reflected in society". This year, WCD ministry classified all its major programmes under three umbrella schemes -- Mission Poshan 2.0 (strengthen nutritional content, delivery, outreach, and outcomes), Mission Vatsalya (child protection services and child welfare services) and Mission Shakti (policies and schemes for protection and empowerment of women) -- for their better implementation.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/the-women-and-child-development-ministry-had-a-busy-2021-1064584.html
25-12-2021||National||Opposition leaders suffering from Modi-phobia, says Pralhad Joshi  ||Union Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi stated that leaders of the opposition, especially Congress, are suffering from ‘Modi-phobia’, which is why they are opposing all the bills introduced by the Modi government.  Speaking to media persons after participating in the cleanliness drive at Heggeri graveyard as part of the 98th birth anniversary of former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee here on Saturday he said he fails to understand what is the reason for opposing the 'Election Laws (Amendment) Bill 2021' that envisages voluntary linking of electoral roll data with the Aadhaar ecosystem.  “The bill was introduced in the parliament only after the Standing Committee, which consists of members from all party, approved it unanimously and without a single dissent note. The bill was also received approval from the Election Commission of India, which held discussions with all the political parties. This being the case, what is the need for the opposition leaders to oppose the bill,” he said and questioned if the opposition is opposing only because the bill was introduced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government?  "Looks like they (the opposition leaders) have decided not to allow smooth functioning of the parliament and the winter session was the second such session that was completely disturbed by the opposition leaders, he said and added that the 12 MPs who were suspended for their unruly behaviour also did not budge to tender apology. Ban on MES Responding to a query on the growing demand for banning the Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti (MES), Joshi said being a political party it is not that easy to ban MES. However, the State government is taking stringent measures to punish the few miscreants within the MES for creating unrest in Karnataka.  Joshi said Belagavi-Marathi linguistic is a dead issue and every time the MES faces an existential crisis a few miscreants among them start such nuisance.  “Marathi and Kannada speaking people are living peacefully in both the States. There is a need for both the governments in Maharashtra and Karnataka to rein in such miscreants and prevent flaring up of issue,” he said and asked Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and NCP Supremo Sharad Pawar to ensure that their party men do not make provocative statements.  Joshi also urged the pro-Kannada organisations to withdraw their bandh call given on December 30 as such bandhs are going to affect the people of Karnataka, especially poor and daily wage labourers the most. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/opposition-leaders-suffering-from-modi-phobia-says-pralhad-joshi-1064589.html
25-12-2021||National||Retired lecturer writes open letter to PM against NTA on 'error' in NEET-UG Physics paper||Claiming that a Physics question, 'wrongly translated' to Hindi, in NEET–UG 2021 has put the future of thousands of students at stake, a retired lecturer has written an open letter against the National Testing Agency (NTA). In the letter addressed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, retired Physics lecturer Ajith Singh Banthia alleged that the NTA has meted out injustice to Hindi medium aspirants by incorrectly framing the question on 'alternating current'.  While the English version of the question specified the words 'amplitude of current', the Hindi version had it framed only as 'dhara' (current) and dropped the word 'amplitude'. This prompted the students to solve it by considering the standard value as 'root mean square value of current', Banthia said. Meanwhile, Hindi language aspirants in Kota have formed NEET (UG) 2021 Hindi Madhyam Pariksharthi Sangarsh Morcha demanding ratification of the Hindi version of the question. According to the students, the error would cost them five marks, which would play a crucial role in an examination with such cut-throat competition. They claimed that around 2 lakh Hindi language aspirants would suffer due to the inappropriately framed question and many of them would miss out on admissions in government colleges.   The examination was held on September 9. Following the release of the Optical Mark Recognition sheet last month, the students had complained to the NTA and sought correction in the answer key. However, the agency did not entertain it. Though the students filed a petition in the Supreme Court, they said the the apex court dismissed the case on November 30 on the basis of a "fraudulent affidavit" by the NTA.   Several teachers of Physics in coaching centres of Kota alleged that the 'facts' produced by NTA's joint director Binod Kumar Sahu in the affidavit were against the standard texts such as NCERT (Page no. 236,251,264) and Concepts of Physics by H.C. Verma (Vol-II, Page no. 318). Verma is a retired Physics professor from IIT Kanpur and a Padma Shri awardee for his contribution to the subject.   "The question in Hindi and English version mean different things and hence they should have different answers. Interestingly, this question was translated in several other languages but only in Hindi version of the question the word 'amplitude' was dropped. I totally agree with the demands of the students and stand with them for justice," Brajesh Maheshwari, a Physics expert at a popular coaching institute in Kota, said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/retired-lecturer-writes-open-letter-to-pm-against-nta-on-error-in-neet-ug-physics-paper-1064592.html
25-12-2021||National||1 killed, 3 injured as car hits cyclists in Gurugram||A 35-year-old security guard died and three others were injured after their bicycles were hit by a car on Ardee City road in Sector-52, in Gurugram on Saturday. The accident occurred when Shailendra Kumar, a native of Mainpuri in Uttar Pradesh, who worked as a security guard, and three others were hit by a speeding Honda Amaze from behind, post which their bicycles rammed into a divider, severely injuring them. The injured were rushed to a private hospital by the car occupant and passers-by where doctors declared one of them dead on arrival and the rest were admitted for treatment. The accused driver, identified as Manan Sanjeev (25), an advocate and a resident of Sector-50 in Gurugram, is in police custody. Preliminary investigations suggest that the car driver lost control over the vehicle and hit the cyclists from behind. The police said they are trying to establish the identity of the injured. Investigation is on. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/1-killed-3-injured-as-car-hits-cyclists-in-gurugram-1064593.html
25-12-2021||National||BJP launches special micro-donation campaign, Modi donates Rs 1,000||The BJP launched a "special micro-donation campaign" on the birth anniversary of former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee on Saturday, seeking to raise funds through small contributions from its members and others.  Several BJP leaders, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, made donations and urged others to contribute. "I have donated Rs 1,000 towards the party fund of the Bharatiya Janata Party. Our ideal of always putting Nation First and the culture of lifelong selfless service by our cadre will be further strengthened by your micro-donation. Help make BJP strong. Help make India strong," Modi tweeted.  BJP president J P Nadda said, "Our Karyakartas will connect with millions of people through this micro-donation campaign. 'Donation' module in the NaMo App will be the medium through which we will collect these donations. I seek the blessings of people to strengthen the world's largest nationalist movement." The campaign will continue till February 11, the death anniversary of the party's ideologue Deen Dayal Upadhyay.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-launches-special-micro-donation-campaign-modi-donates-rs-1000-1064596.html
25-12-2021||National||Modi has brought back people's faith in democracy, says Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Saturday said the Modi government has taken decisions that are good for the people and not which people would like, even at the cost of political damage. Addressing a function organised on the occasion of Good Governance Day, Shah said people have long been waiting for good governance which was delivered by the Modi government in the last seven years. "People have kept saying that we have got independence (swaraj) long ago but when will we get good governance (su-raaj)," he said. Shah said because of lack of good governance, people's faith in the country's democratic system is gradually eroding. But Prime Minister Narendra Modi has brought back people's faith in democracy by taking the good governance up to the grassroots level, he said. According to Shah, people have realised that Modi came to power in 2014 not to run the government but to provide a clean, transparent and welfare administration, thus changing the face of the country. He said people's faith in democracy has enhanced since 2014 as they started getting benefits of development undertaken by the Modi government. "Before 2014, many governments have changed. Many government have come, many have gone. But when Prime Minister Narendra Modi came to power, people have realised that his government has come not to run the government but to change the country," he said. Shah said some earlier governments on some occasions took decisions keeping the vote banks in mind. "But Prime Minister Narendra Modi or the Modi government has never taken decisions which the people would like (jo logon ko acche lagen). He has taken decisions which are good for the people. (jo logon ke liye achhe hon). There is a big difference between the two. Some decisions may bring you popularity for a short time but this means keeping the country in problems," he said. The home minister said Modi took everyone along and made the efforts of making good governance a reality. Giving example of good governance, he said there has not been a single corruption charge against the Modi government in last seven years as it is a clean and transparent administration. Shah said in the last seven years, the government has taken the benefits of development to 60 crore population who were otherwise deprived of all welfare programmes in last so many decades. He said the Modi government has provided toilets to the poor, constructed houses, given electricity and gas connections free of cost. Shah said the government has framed such policies through which the problems could be rooted out. He said there should always be a government which is sensitive and accountable to the people. "People should have faith in the government and at the same time government should have faith in the people. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-has-brought-back-peoples-faith-in-democracy-says-amit-shah-1064600.html
25-12-2021||National||Bofors case: Application filed in SC seeks early hearing of plea against Delhi HC verdict||An application has been filed in the Supreme Court seeking early hearing on a petition challenging the Delhi High Court's 2005 verdict which quashed all charges, including against the Hinduja brothers, in the politically-sensitive Rs 64 crore Bofors pay-off case. The application, filed by advocate Ajay Agrawal, has said that the apex court had on November 2, 2018 dismissed the CBI's plea against the high court verdict and had said that the probe agency can raise all grounds in the appeal filed by him against the same judgement. Agrawal said he had filed the petition in the top court against the high court verdict in 2005 itself and over three decades have gone by since the matter came into light. "It is expedient in the interest of justice that the matter be heard at an early date," the application said, adding that there have been "recurrence of scams" in the defence sector since the accused in the Bofors case "have not been punished". It said three years have gone by since the top court had passed the November 2018 order and the matter has not been listed for hearing. In its November 2, 2018 order, the top court had rejected the CBI plea seeking condonation of 13-year delay in filing the appeal against the May 31, 2005 judgement of the high court saying it is not convinced with the grounds furnished by the agency. "We are not convinced with the grounds furnished by the petitioner for the inordinate delay of 4,522 days in filing the present Special Leave Petitions," the apex court had said in its order. The high court in its 2005 judgement had quashed all charges against the three Hinduja brothers -- S P Hinduja, G P Hinduja and P P Hinduja -- and the Bofors company. Before the 2005 verdict, the high court had on February 4, 2004, exonerated former prime minister Rajiv Gandhi in the case and directed the framing of charge of forgery under section 465 of the Indian Penal Code against Bofors company. The Rs 1,437-crore deal between India and Swedish arms manufacturer AB Bofors for the supply of 400 units of 155 mm Howitzer guns for the Indian Army was entered into on March 24, 1986. Swedish Radio on April 16, 1987, had claimed that the company had paid bribes to top Indian politicians and defence personnel. The CBI on January 22, 1990, had registered the FIR for alleged offences of criminal conspiracy, cheating and forgery under the Indian Penal Code and other sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act against Martin Ardbo, the then president of AB Bofors, alleged middleman Win Chadda and the Hinduja brothers. It had alleged that certain public servants and private persons in India and abroad had entered into a criminal conspiracy between 1982 and 1987 in pursuance of which the offences of bribery, corruption, cheating and forgery were committed. The first charge sheet in the case was filed on October 22, 1999 against Chadda, Italian businessman and alleged middleman Ottavio Quattrocchi, the then defence secretary S K Bhatnagar, Ardbo and the Bofors company. A supplementary charge sheet was filed against the Hinduja brothers on October 9, 2000. A special CBI court in Delhi on March 4, 2011, had discharged Quattrocchi from the case, saying the country could not afford to spend hard-earned money on his extradition which had already cost Rs 250 crore.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bofors-case-application-filed-in-sc-seeks-early-hearing-of-plea-against-delhi-hc-verdict-1064606.html
25-12-2021||National||Pandemic drives publishers to adopt newer formats, diverse themes||New publishing models and strategies are emerging; the publishing industry is pushing the boundaries; its heartening to see the brick-and-mortar model steadily return to the sales' mix. The pandemic was a wake-up call, for publishing is an intensive, immersive business. The worst effect of the two waves of the pandemic is tentatively behind us, and the publishing industry is upbeat as the world marches into 2022. "Disruptions are creative in that they clear up new spaces, though they can also pile up debris and blockages," Namita Gokhale, writer, literary activist and co-director of the Jaipur Literature Festival, which is described as the "greatest literary show on earth" for the sheer depth of its participation, told IANS. "We find new publishing models and strategies emerging in the course of the pandemic and the continuing endemic," Gokhale said. "We encounter innovative ways of telling and sharing our stories, on different platforms, in different voices. The publishing industry is evolving in so many directions, though it's still work in progress. The pandemic and the two years of social retreat also gave many authors the impetus to write some outstanding books. The human race needs stories to make sense of our world," she added. Gokhale's just-published 19th book, The Blind Matriarch, is a poignant tale on the complex inner life of an extended family during the pandemic. For people around the world, the pandemic "was a time to take stock of their lifestyles," Mita Kapur, founder and CEO of leading literary consultancy Siyahi, told IANS. "The publishing industry is pushing the boundaries in the kind of stories they are choosing to tell, the kind of innovation they are looking for in narrative styles. Translations from Indian languages to English have spotlighted authors and translators and given the Indian reader access to exquisite stories from all over the country. The coming years can only take us to higher readership and more exciting writing," Kapur added. "The times of uncertainty and isolation that the pandemic brought upon us reinforced once again that books and reading were an important part of our lives -- and also prepared the industry for change," HarperCollins Executive Publisher Udayan Mitra said. "The pandemic years were a time of change, and the entire publishing industry -- from authors to editors to production teams to the book retail and marketing -- adjusted remarkably well to the new normal, which often involved embracing a digital model for key operations and activities, right from reading proofs on screen, to online launch events," Mitra told IANS. "I think this has prepared us for a more efficient, hybrid model of engagements and operations in the future." He added: "And, more importantly, many of us had more time on our hands, and the urge to write. We've had a remarkable number of manuscripts completed and readied for publication during the pandemic years, and many more are in the making. There is a wonderful list of books lined up for publication in 2022 and beyond. This is great news for booklovers." In terms of trends, there have been some excellent works of imaginative fiction being written and published, alongside incisively analytical works of non-fiction. There has been a focus on children's literature, on speculative and fantasy fiction, and on biographies, Mitra said, adding: "It is certainly on our minds to celebrate the lives of remarkable individuals, during a time when we have sadly lost so many fellow human beings." Mitra concluded by observing that both ebooks and audiobooks are now options available for readers to engage with a book alongside the more traditional print edition, and dramatised interpretations of books are also on the rise. "Multi-platform avatars of creative content are going to be a significant trend for the future," he maintained. "Despite the second wave (of the pandemic) interrupting sales for over a month, 2021 closed well with overall sales numbers up," Hachette India MD Thomas Abraham told IANS. "And while online continued to be the dominant strand, it was heartening to see brick-and-mortar steadily return to the mix, and one hopes that next year will see a full return to normal patterns where they are concerned. The big concern remains the lack of traction for new releases that are not superbrands -- not a healthy sign for readership," Abraham added. The pandemic and the lockdown that followed was like a "shuddering stop", as demonetisation was, "an incredible experience in a country of the size and energy of India," Bloomsbury Editor-in-Chief Krishan Chopra said. "To the credit of all, the industry was remarkably nimble in tackling it. Sales and turnovers were badly hit, but the books and the work continued. There were many good books produced, as one can see in the awards lists and the publishing programmes," Chopra said. He added: "The pandemic was also a wake-up call. Publishing is an intensive, immersive business, and suddenly, away from long commutes and with fewer meetings, in the office or with the author, and the disaster unfolding all around, it was an opportunity to rethink what one was publishing. "It wasn't just that people with more time on their hands could dig out great cookery ideas for people to try out while they were stuck at home. There was this whole new perspective on how we live and what really counts. It was like you were midstream in a powerful river and suddenly carried by a wave to a quiet spot on the side, floating peacefully among eddies," Chopra told IANS. "After any traumatic experience such as this, it takes time to evaluate and come to terms with it. One hopes this is not one that will be, as is often the case, lost in the tide of new events. We have some books coming up that look at facets of the pandemic," Chopra said, adding: "Revival has been slow and is gathering pace. If future crises abate, we could be looking at a year of fresh and superb new books." The process of reviving is still on but "I agree that the worst effect of the two waves of the pandemic is tentatively over. I'm using the word tentative because a third wave is always looming large, especially after the discovery of omicron," said Trisha De Niyogi, Director and COO, Niyogi Books, which has carved a niche for itself by producing illustrated books on a variety of subjects connected with culture and heritage. The abiding trend noticed during the process of revival is perhaps the sudden escalation in the interest in non-fiction, De Niyogi said, adding: "Perhaps, because of the long lay-off during the pandemic, people have generally become more introspective, hence, we are now observing an interest in books on mental health and behavioural problems, along with gender issues, environmental issues, ecology and heritage preservation." She concluded by noting: "I believe that just like masks, certain trends will sustain themselves throughout 2022. I foresee more inclusive literature, with more fiction as well as non-fiction on mental health, people with disability, environmental sustainability, subaltern or suppressed voices, and so on." There was considerable damage at every level during the pandemic, and publishing, too, has had its share of ups and downs. But reading and book buying also increased during the period despite many impediments in the supply chain, Aarti David, Director, Publishing, SAGE India, observed. "The only channels that seemed to be working best were digital sales and online sales. Physical stores have been the worst impacted and many smaller players have shut down their businesses as there have been minimal or no sales," David told IANS. The issue of returns has become even more complex as a result of the pandemic; in addition, schools and colleges have remained shut almost throughout this period and have only restarted in a hybrid model -- that too very recently. "Academic publishing has been impacted as a result of these developments. Libraries are not releasing funds for book purchases and neither are textbook adoptions being done at the scale at which they previously were," David added. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pandemic-drives-publishers-to-adopt-newer-formats-diverse-themes-1064610.html
25-12-2021||National||Fact check: Did Shah Jahan chop off the hands of Taj Mahal workers?||On December 13, Kashi Vishwanath Dham was inaugurated by Prime Minister Modi. He showered flower petals on sanitation workers at Kashi Vishwanath Temple as a gesture of gratitude for keeping the temple clean. While covering this event, News18 anchor Amish Devgan compared the PM with the 17th century Mughal Emperor Shah Jahan. He claimed that while PM Modi showered flower petals on sanitation workers, Shah Jahan had chopped the hands of those who built the Taj Mahal. This claim was repeated by union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar in Gujarat. “Taj Mahal workers’ hands were chopped off, and then there is PM Modi who showered flowers on the workers behind the development of the Kashi Vishwanath corridor to express his gratitude,” he said in Gujarati. BJP leader Vinay Tendulkar made a similar claim on Twitter. Shah Jahan - Chopped off the hands of the craftsmen who made taj mahal. Narendra Modi - Paid respect by blessing them with flower shower as a sign of gratitude towards their hard work. Alt News found that one of the oldest instances of this claim by a verified media account was by the UK-based Wired in 2010. Six years prior to this, UK’s leading news portal The Guardian also made the same claim.   The claim — Shah Jahan chopped the hands of those who built the Taj Mahal — is a well known urban myth. Alt News spoke with historian S Irfan Habib who said, “I can state that there is neither any evidence to back this story nor any credible historian has ever made this claim. It is worth noting that this urban myth goes back to the 1960s and I heard it through word of mouth. However, there is one notable difference. Today, there is a communal spin to the myth, while back then it was more like a jibe on Shah Jahan.” On Google Books, we found Journal of Historical Research published by the Department of History, Ranchi University in 1971. It addresses the story as an urban legend. In 2017, The Times of India debunked multiple myths related to the Taj Mahal, including the one at hand. “This story contrasts with available evidence and a vast settlement called Taj Ganj that still exists today. It was set up by Emperor Shah Jahan to house the thousands of masons, artisans and other workers who had assembled from the distant parts of his empire. The descendants of those workers still live there and practise the skills of their forefathers,” the article said. It was authored by journalist Manimugdha Sharma.  India Today had published a listicle on Shah Jahan in 2016 where this claim is again referred to as a myth. That same year, Pakistan-based news outlet Dawn published an article about New York-based Rajiv Joseph’s play ‘Guards At The Taj’ which is based on the same myth. The article states, “The story about Shah Jehan ordering the amputation of 40,000 hands has entered folklore. Even though no contemporary account confirms this incident, the fact that it is still widely believed is proof of the unchecked power wielded by the Mughals, as well as by other monarchs of that period.” The Hindustan Times also published a report on this play. More crucially, no such information is stated on the official website of the Taj Mahal as of December 2021. However, the website Taj Tours published a blog addressing this myth. The blog hypothesised how the myth came about, “In reality, Shah Jahan imposed a moral boundation on his workers that they cannot work for any emperor. In modern time, we call it as a contract between the emperor and his workers. So, the saying “hands of the workers were amputated” came into being as these workers could not seek new work from any other emperor.” Manimugdha Sharma, who has authored multiple articles regarding misinformation targetting the Taj Mahal, refuted any historical basis for this claim while speaking to Alt News. News18 anchor Amish and BJP leader NS Tomar amplified decades-old urban myth targetting Shah Jahan. There is no evidence that Shah Jahan cut off the hands of the workers who built the Taj Mahal. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fact-check-did-shah-jahan-chop-off-the-hands-of-taj-mahal-workers-1064616.html
25-12-2021||National||NITI Aayog comes up with health index||To track the progress on health outcomes and health systems performance across the country, the National Institution for Transforming India (NITI) Aayog has come up with a health index. Health Index is a weighted composite score incorporating 24 indicators covering key aspects of health performance. The domains covered in the report are health outcomes, governance and information, and key inputs and processes, the Aayog said in a statement. The think tank of India will release the fourth edition of 'The Healthy States, Progressive India' ranking states' performances on December 27. In 2017, the NITI Aayog, in collaboration with the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) and the World Bank, initiated an annual health index for tracking overall performance and incremental performance on health across all states and Union Territories (UTs). "The objective of the annual health index is to track progress on health outcomes and health systems performance, develop a healthy competition and encourage cross-learning among states and UTs," the statement read. Health Index Scores and rankings for states and UTs are generated to assess incremental performance (year-to-year progress) and overall performance (current performance). The exercise is expected to help drive state and UTs' efforts towards the achievement of health-related sustainable development goals (SDGs), including those related to Universal Health Coverage (UHC) and other health outcomes. These health index reports aim to nudge the states and union territories towards building robust health systems and improving service delivery. The importance of this annual tool is reemphasized by MOHFW's decision to link the health index to incentives under National Health Mission. The report has tried to shift the focus from budget spending, inputs, and outputs to outcomes. The health index is a useful tool to measure and compare the overall performance and incremental performance across states and UTs over time. It is an important instrument in understanding the variations in performance across various parameters, including health outcomes, governance, and data integrity, and key inputs and processes. It has strengthened the culture of use of data at the state and UT levels to monitor performance and is contributing to the agenda of improving the availability, quality, and timeliness of data in most states and UTs. Through the report, the annual performance of the state and UTs gets monitored at the highest level of the government, the statement added. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/niti-aayog-comes-up-with-health-index-1064621.html
25-12-2021||National||Imagine dashing through the snow at Rs 95 per litre: Cong's Christmas dig at Modi govt||The Congress on Saturday took digs at the government over fuel prices and inflation through a series of Christmas-themed tweets. "All we want for Christmas is a government that listens," the party tweeted with a Santa Claus image and message which read: "Thank God Santa is listening to everyone's wishes because Modi ji is only listening to his Mann ki Baat." In another tweet, the Congress said, "Imagine dashing through the snow at Rs.95/litre." This tweet was accompanied by an image of Santa riding a sleigh and a message which read, "Thank god Santa rides a sleigh, he doesn't need to pay hefty prices for fuel." "Jingle bells... Jingle bells...Jingle all the way. Oh what fun it would be to buy things... without burning all your savings away," the Congress said in another Christmas-themed tweet. In another dig, the Congress tweeted, "Jingle bells, jingle bells, ports, airports, roads, railways, are just a few things Modi ji sells." The Congress said, "He's not making a list, The govt's not checking anything twice; They have no data on- who's naughty or nice." "Thank God Santa has a naughty and nice list, because our government has no data," a message with a Santa image on the party's Twitter handle read.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/imagine-dashing-through-the-snow-at-rs-95-per-litre-congs-christmas-dig-at-modi-govt-1064624.html
25-12-2021||National||CBI files 2 supplementary charge sheets in Bank of Baroda scam||The CBI has filed two supplementary chargesheets in connection with alleged illegal remittance of Rs 6,000 crore from a Bank of Baroda branch in Delhi to Hong Kong, camouflaged as payment for imports, sources said. In the chargesheets filed before a special CBI court, the central agency has alleged that a group of people opened accounts and deposited funds in them through various other accounts. The CBI has named nine accused in the supplementary chargesheets: Tanuj Gulati, Ish Kumar, Ujjwal Suri, Hunney Goel, Sahil Wadhwa, Rakesh Kumar, Sagar Gulati, Bhanu Gulati and VPC Management Consultants Pvt. Ltd. The agency had in 2015 booked several officials of the bank and others for allegedly making remittances of over Rs 6,000 crore to South East Asian countries by 59 current account holders from the Ashok Vihar branch of Bank of Baroda in the garb of purported payments of "non-existent" imports, the sources said. The CBI sources said the agency has found that the Ashok Vihar branch of the bank was a relatively new one and got the permission to entertain forex transactions only in 2013. They said that Rs 6,000 crore was transferred through nearly 8,000 transactions done between July, 2014 and July, 2015. The amount remitted in each transaction was kept at less than $100,000. “All the remittances were made to Hong Kong. The amount was remitted as advance for import and in most of the cases, the beneficiary was the same," an official had said after filing of the FIR. “Most of the foreign exchange-related transactions were carried out in the newly opened current accounts wherein heavy cash receipts were observed but the branch did not generate Exceptional Transaction Report (ETR) and did not monitor the high value transactions," a senior official had said after filing of the FIR. The sources said these remittances were sent by splitting them into amounts below $100,000 to avoid automatic detection by the software used by banks to alert them about such transactions. They said in taxation language, the technique is known as ‘smurfing’ and holders were able to skip the scrutiny of such transactions. "It was revealed that most of the addresses given by the companies /firms were either false or the companies/firms did not exist at the said addresses. Most of the accused persons allegedly involved in perpetration of the said crime have been identified and their interrogation is underway," the official had said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbi-files-2-supplementary-charge-sheets-in-bank-of-baroda-scam-1064635.html
25-12-2021||National||Amit Shah launches Good Governance Index 2021; Gujarat tops, UP shows 'incremental growth'||Gujarat has topped the composite ranking in the Good Governance Index (GGI), followed by Maharashtra and Goa while Uttar Pradesh showed an incremental growth of 8.9 per cent in the indicators launched by Union Home Minister Amit Shah on the occasion of the Good Governance Day on Saturday. As many as 20 states have improved their composite GGI scores in 2021, according to the index. Gujarat topped the composite ranking in the 58 indicator index followed by Maharashtra and Goa. Uttar Pradesh has registered an 8.9 per cent improvement in the GGI indicators in the period 2019 to 2021 which Jammu and Kashmir registered an improvement of 3.7 per cent in the same period, it said. Delhi has topped the union territories category composite ranking. Shah released the GGI 2021 prepared by the Department of Administration Reforms and Public Grievances (DARPG) on Good Governance Day at Vigyan Bhawan here. On this occasion, Minister of State for Personnel Jitendra Singh said that the GGI would help assess the status of governance in states and union territories. The objectives of GGI are to provide quantifiable data to compare the state of governance in all states and union territories, enable them to formulate and implement suitable strategies for improving governance and shift to result oriented approaches and administration. December 25 is observed as the good governance day to commemorate the birth anniversary of former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee. The GGI-2021 said that Gujarat, Maharashtra and Goa topped the composite rank score covering 10 sectors. While Gujarat registered a 12.3 per cent increase, Goa registered a 24.7 per cent increase over GGI 2019 indicators. Gujarat has performed strongly in economic governance, human resource development, public infrastructure and utilities, social welfare and development, judiciary and public safety while Maharashtra scored in agriculture and allied sector, human resource development, public infrastructure and utilities, social welfare and development. Goa's showed good performance was in agriculture and allied sector, commerce and industry, public infrastructure and utilities, economic governance, social welfare and development and environment. Among the sectors, Uttar Pradesh secured top position in commerce and industry sector and has also shown an increase in social welfare and development and judiciary and public safety. It also performed in citizen centric governance including public grievance redressal. The GGI 2021 framework covered 10 sectors and 58 indicators. The sectors are agriculture and allied sectors, commerce and industries, human resource development, public health, public infrastructure and utilities, economic governance, social welfare and development, judicial and public security, environment and citizen-centric governance. The GGI 2020-21 categorises states and union territories into four categories, -- other states - Group A; other states - group B; North-East and hill states and union territories. The GGI 2021 said that Jharkhand showed incremental growth of 12.6 per cent over GGI 2019 performance. It has performed strongly in seven of the 10 sectors. Rajasthan's incremental growth of 1.7 per cent was over the GGI 2019 performance. It has topped the other states (Group B) category in judiciary and public safety, environment and citizen centric governance. In the Northeast and Hill States category, Mizoram, and Jammu and Kashmir have registered an overall increase of 10.4 per cent and 3.7 per cent respectively over GGI 2019. Mizoram has performed strongly in commerce and industry, human resource development, public health and economic governance. Jammu and Kashmir has performed strongly in commerce and industry sector and has improved its scores in agriculture and allied sector, public infrastructure and utilities and judiciary and public safety sectors. The GGI 2021 said that in the union territories category, Delhi tops the composite rank registering a 14 per cent increase over the GGI 2019 indicators. Delhi has performed strongly in agriculture and allied sectors, commerce and industry, public infrastructure and utilities and social welfare and development. The GGI 2021 said that 20 states have improved their composite GGI scores over the GGI 2019 index scores. The sector-wise scores attained by the states and union territories indicates that strong performance in one or the other sector. Analysis of scoring also suggests that there is a very marginal difference among the states in their composite governance scores. This indicates that overall governance in the states of India is moving in the positive direction Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amit-shah-launches-good-governance-index-2021-gujarat-tops-up-shows-incremental-growth-1064652.html
25-12-2021||National||Brought paradigm shift with minimum government, maximum governance approach: Jitendra Singh||Union Minister Jitendra Singh on Saturday said citizen-centric administration is at the heart of the Narendra Modi government's governance model and it has brought a paradigm shift with the 'minimum government-maximum governance' approach. Citizen participation in administration is being done through crowd-sourcing of ideas through hackathons and ideas boxes, said Singh, the Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions. Delivering an address on the occasion of the Good Governance Day at Vigyan Bhawan here, he said, "A lot of information is being shared with citizens through the MyGov.in portal where data sets are updated regularly and the government has been receptive to the feedback that it received from its citizens." December 25 is observed as the good governance day to commemorate the birth anniversary of former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee. Singh said citizen-centric administration is at the heart of the Modi government's. The Modi government has brought a paradigm shift with the 'minimum government-maximum governance' approach in which citizens' interaction with functionaries of the government was sought to be reduced through digitalisation and consolidation of ministries, he said. Policy-making functions have been separated from execution, coordinated implementation is being monitored at the highest levels with well-defined accountability and a proper delegation being ensured, the minister said. "It has been the endeavour of the Modi government over the past seven years to establish that governance can be transformed through digital initiatives, enabling infrastructure and responsive institutions," he said. Singh said that as a democracy and a digital leader, India is ready to work with partners for shared prosperity and security. The country is turning the challenges of the past into an opportunity to leap into the future, he said, highlighting the five important transitions taking place in India. "We are building the world's most extensive public information infrastructure. Over 1.3 billion Indians have a unique digital identity. We are on our way to connecting 6,00,000 with broadband. "We have built the world’s most efficient payment infrastructure, the UPI. Over 800 million Indians use the Internet and 750 million are on smartphones. We are one of the largest consumers of data per capita and have one of the cheapest data in the world," Singh said. Second, the government is transforming the lives of the people by using digital technology for governance, inclusion, empowerment, connectivity, delivery of benefits and welfare, he said. "Recently, we have used technology to deliver over 1.1 billion doses of vaccines, across India’s vast geography using ArogyaSetu and Cowin platforms. We are also building a National Digital Health Mission for affordable and universal healthcare for our billion-plus people. One nation, one card will deliver benefits to the hundreds of millions of workers anywhere in the country." Thirdly, India has the world's third-largest and fastest-growing startup ecosystem. New unicorns are coming up every few weeks. They are providing solutions to everything from health and education to national security, the minister said. "We are also using digital technology for clean energy transition, conversion of resources and protection of biodiversity," Singh said. Fifth, there is a massive effort to prepare India for the future, he said, adding "We are investing in developing indigenous capabilities in telecom technology such as 5G." Singh said the government has taken the bold and visionary initiative of 'Mission Karmyogi' which will go a long way in creating civil servants and public administrators. "As we celebrate 'Azaadi ka Amrit Mahotsav', we must work together to make our youth future-ready who will lead India towards the goal of an Aatmanirbhar Bharat," he added.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/brought-paradigm-shift-with-minimum-government-maximum-governance-approach-jitendra-singh-1064656.html
25-12-2021||National||Despite Omicron threat, 58% of Indians have travel plans in next three months, states online survey||Despite the threat posed by the Omicron variant of Covid-19, 58 per cent of 19,500 Indians surveyed have plans to travel in the next three months, according to an online report. However, only 18 per cent have made their bookings so far, with many looking for last-minute deals or undertaking road travel depending on the Omicron and a possible third wave situation, a survey by LocalCircles found. Of those who plan to travel between December 2021 and March 2022, 49 per cent plan to visit family/friends, 41 per cent plan to undertake miscellaneous travel while 21 per cent are planning on a vacation — with some planning to take up multiple types of travel — according to the survey. The survey was conducted last month and comprised responses from more than 19,500 citizens residing in 320 districts of India. As many as 66 per cent of the respondents were male and the rest female, and 45 per cent of the total respondents were from tier-1 cities, 28 per cent from tier-2 cities, with the rest from tier3 and 4 cities, besides rural areas. According to the survey, while 18 per cent of citizens said they “have plans and have booked tickets, stay”, 15 per cent said they “have plans to travel during these 3 months but have not booked tickets and stay yet”, and 22 per cent said they “have plans to travel during these 3 months but have not booked tickets and stay yet, and will only decide close to travel date”. There were also 32 per cent of citizens who “have no plans to travel during these 3 months”, and 10 per cent are undecided. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/despite-omicron-threat-58-of-indians-have-travel-plans-in-next-three-months-states-online-survey-1064659.html
25-12-2021||National||DCGI approves Bharat Biotech's Covaxin for kids aged 12-18 years||The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) has granted emergency use authorisation to indigenously-developed Bharat Biotech's Covaxin for children above 12 years with certain conditions, official said on Saturday. It is the second vaccine to receive the regulator's nod for use among those below 18 years after Zydus Cadila's needle-free Covid-19 vaccine ZyCoV-D. The Subject Expert Committee on Covid-19 of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) on October 11 after deliberating Bharat Biotech's emergency use authorisation (EUA) application had recommended granting emergency use approval to Covaxin for use in the 2-18 years age group with certain conditions. "The recommendations of the SEC were further evaluated and examined after which DCGI had sought additional data from the firm," an official said. The DCGI gave its approval Friday, the official said. "... Based on the recommendations of SEC experts and submission of additional safety data, this directorate has no objection at this stage for additional indication of Whole Virion inactivated corona virus vaccine for use in age group of more than 12 years to 18 years with the dose schedule of 0 and 28 days for restricted use in emergency situation with the condition to submit SmPC, PI, Factsheet incorporating clinical information for said age group along with pharmacovigilance & risk management plan," the DCGI approval order issued said. Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech, which completed the phase 2/3 trials of Covaxin for use among those aged between 2 and 18 years, had submitted the data to CDSCO for its verification and subsequent approval for emergency use authorisation EUA for the jab in the beginning of October.  It had presented its proposal for grant of market authorisation of its Whole Virion, Inactivated coronavirus Vaccine (BBV152) in the 2 to 18 years age group for restricted use in emergency situation along with the interim safety and immunogenicity data of phase 2/3 clinical trial conducted. Reacting to the development, Bharat Biotech in a statement said, "Covaxin is formulated uniquely such that the same dosage can be administered to adults and children. Covaxin has established a proven record for safety and efficacy in adults for the original variant and subsequent variants. We have documented excellent safety and immunogenicity data readouts in children. We look forward for Covaxin to provide similar levels of protection for adults and children alike." The DCGI on September 1 granted permission to Hyderabad-based Biological E Limited to conduct phase 2/3 clinical trial of its made in India Covid-19 vaccine on children and adolescents aged between 5 and 18 years with certain conditions. In July, it had granted permission to Serum Institute of India (SII) for conducting phase 2/3 trials of Covovax on children aged 2 to 17 years with certain conditions. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dcgi-approves-bharat-biotechs-covaxin-for-kids-aged-12-18-years-1064663.html
25-12-2021||National||Vaccination for kids aged 15-18 years to begin from January 3, says PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday announced the roll-out of Covid-19 vaccination for children aged between 15-18 years from the first week of January and booster doses for healthcare workers, front line staff, and the elderly from the second week. “The vaccination for children in the age group of 15-18 years will begin from January 3, 2022. This will help remove the worries of school and college-going children,” the Prime Minister said in an address to the nation. On the long-awaited announcement on the Covid-19 booster dose, Modi said that a precautionary (he did not use the term booster) dose would be administered to healthcare workers and frontline workers from January 10. They were the first two sections of people who received the Covid-19 shots when India launched its vaccination campaign on January 16, this year. People above 60 years and having comorbidities would also be given a precautionary shot on the basis of their doctor’s recommendations. This would also start on January 10. The Prime Minister’s announcement comes nearly a year after New Delhi began the world’s biggest adult vaccination drive under which nearly 90% of India’s 94.47 crore adults received a single dose and more than 61% received two doses. The second wave of India’s Covid-19 epidemic is currently on a waning phase with 77,000 active cases – the lowest in 579 days – and just about 7200 new cases in the past 24 hours, at least Maharashtra and Delhi appear to be exhibiting the early signs of a new rise in Covid numbers. Modi’s announcement on vaccination for adolescents came soon after Hyderabad-based vaccine manufacturer Bharat Biotech announced that the Drugs Controller General of India approved emergency use of home-grown Covid-19 shot Covaxin for adolescents between 12-18 years. Developed in partnership with the National Institute of Virology, Pune Covaxin is one of the two Covid-19 vaccines being used by India to inoculate its 95 crore adults against the pandemic. “Covaxin is formulated uniquely such that the same dosage can be administered to adults and children. It has established a proven record for safety and efficacy in adults for the original variant and subsequent variants,” the company said in a statement. “We have documented excellent safety and immunogenicity data readouts in children. We look forward to Covaxin providing similar levels of protection for adults and children alike,” it noted. Earlier Zydus Cadila’s ZyCov-D became the first Indian Covid vaccine that received regulatory approvals for use in 12-18-year-old children. However, large scale use of the vaccine is yet to start. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vaccination-for-kids-aged-15-18-years-to-begin-from-january-3-says-pm-modi-1064682.html
25-12-2021||National||Govt stumbling again on Covid vaccination programme: Chidambaram||Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Saturday said it seems that the government is stumbling again on the Covid vaccination programme and its "failures", including not permitting booster shots, will cause "immense harm" to the people. The Congress has been critical of the government's vaccine strategy and has demanded that vaccinations be speeded up and booster shots be provided to prevent another wave of coronavirus. It seems that the government is stumbling again on the vaccination programme, Chidambaram said. The original decision to prescribe a gap of 12-16 weeks between the first and second dose of vaccination was wrong, he said. It was taken obviously because there was a shortage of supply, the former Union minister added. "That decision prevails today even after we have millions of doses lying unutilised. The decision to maintain the earlier wrong decision is doubly wrong," Chidambaram said. The inability of the government to increase the percentage of the adult population that has received the second dose (currently 50 percent) is another grave failure, he said. The third "wrong" is not to permit a booster shot for those who are vulnerable like frontline health personnel, Chidambaram said in a series of tweets. Taken together, these three "grave failures" will cause immense harm to the people, he said. There are growing concerns over the spread of the new Omicron variant of coronavirus in the country Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-stumbling-again-on-covid-vaccination-programme-chidambaram-1064689.html
25-12-2021||National||Savarkar wasn't against beef consumption: Digvijaya Singh||Congress leader Digvijaya Singh on Saturday claimed here that Hindutva ideologue Vinayak Damodar Savarkar did not support cow worship. Savarkar had said in one of his books that there was nothing wrong with eating beef, the Rajya Sabha member said at a training program for party workers. "He also clearly wrote in his book that the Hindu religion has nothing to do with Hindutva," the Congress veteran added. Reacting to the statement, BJP leader Rameshwar Sharma claimed that Singh was misquoting Savarkar.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/savarkar-wasnt-against-beef-consumption-digvijaya-singh-1064693.html
25-12-2021||National||Congress drops Nitin Raut as AICC SC dept chief||In an abrupt move, the Congress on Saturday appointed Rajesh Lilothia as the new Chairman of AICC Scheduled Caste (SC) Department. He replaces Maharashtra Energy Minister and senior party leader Nitin Raut, according to a statement issued by AICC General Secretary KC Venugopal. The Congress also appointed K Raju as the Coordinator to oversee the activities of AICC SC/OBC/Minority departments and All India Adivasi Congress with immediate effect. The AICC has not specified any reason behind the removal of Raut from the powerful post. However, Raut sought to allay speculation over the reshuffle and claimed that the decision was expected six months ago. "The party president has taken this (decision) today," Raut said in a statement here. "I was unable to travel across the country and give justice to the post as I'm a minister in Maharashtra. That's why I requested the party president to free me from the post of president, SC department of AICC," Raut added. Besides, the minister pointed out that the party has a policy of 'one person one post'. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-drops-nitin-raut-as-aicc-sc-dept-chief-1064698.html
25-12-2021||National||Vajpayee respected people with different political views: Kerala Governor||Former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee was a politician who respected even those with diametrically opposite political views. He was a person with integrity who was also able to integrate with everyone around him, Kerala Governor Arif Mohammed Khan recalled. Khan was delivering the fourth Atal Bihari Vajpayee lecture as part of ‘Religion, Culture and Secularism Debates’, organised by India Foundation. He recalled how in his younger days he was not a BJP sympathiser. “Yet I would attend all of Vajpayee’s speeches just to listen to his oration,” he said. He narrated an anecdote on how in the Parliament, he had to once defend the Congress government on allegations of election irregularities. “I had to speak after Vajpayee, who had presented comprehensive facts and figures,” he said. Even though Khan countered Vajpayee in his debate, the leader later invited him for a cup of coffee, he narrated, adding that albeit being in Congress, he always maintained good relations with Vajpayee. “He was a man who had deeply imbibed Sanatan culture,” Khan said, in his tribute to Vajpayee. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vajpayee-respected-people-with-different-political-views-kerala-governor-1064707.html
25-12-2021||National||Former Navy, Army chiefs demand action against hate speeches delivered at Haridwar||A former Indian Navy chief and a former Indian Army chief led the protest on Twitter against hate speeches delivered at a conclave of monks in Haridwar in Uttarakhand recently. “WHY IS THIS NOT BEING STOPPED?” former Indian Navy chief Admiral Arun Prakash wondered on Twitter, reacting to a video with monks being seen and heard making speeches, calling upon a community to take up weapons against another. “Agreed,” tweeted former Indian Army chief, Gen V P Malik, responding to the tweet by Admiral Prakash. “With our jawans facing enemies on two fronts, do we want a communal bloodbath, domestic turmoil and international disgrace? Is it difficult to understand that anything which damages national cohesion & (and) unity endangers India’s national security?” Admiral Prakash added. The event – a ‘Dharm Sansad’ – was held between December 17 to 19. Some of the monks who had organised and delivered speeches at the event were known to be close to the BJP, which is in power both in Uttarakhand and at the Centre. The former Indian Navy chief apparently referred to the India-China military stand-off along the disputed boundary between the two nations in eastern Ladakh as well as Pakistan’s hostility along its Line of Control with India when he referred to the soldiers facing enemies on two fronts. “Agreed. Such speeches disturb public harmony and affect national security. Action required by Civil Admin,” Gen Malik posted, endorsing the tweet by Admiral Prakash. A Twitter user sought to know about the former Indian Army chief’s views on speeches delivered by Asaduddin Owaisi, a Lok Sabha member of the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen. “All public speeches that tend to divide our civil society and disturb social harmony affect national security adversely. Need to be condemned. And action taken,” Gen Malik responded. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/former-navy-army-chiefs-demand-action-against-hate-speeches-delivered-at-haridwar-1064718.html
25-12-2021||National Politics||BJP's 2022 challenges: Saving Gujarat and reclaiming UP||The year 2022 is going to be a year of hopes and challenges for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which claims to be the world's largest party in terms of membership. In the new year, on the one hand, the party will have to work hard to save its stronghold Gujarat, while on the other, it hopes to win the Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections again. The results of the Assembly elections to be held in seven states early next year, including Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh -- that sends maximum MPs to the Lok Sabha -- will indicate whose government will come to power at the Centre in 2024. While elections in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Manipur and Goa are likely to be held in the early months of 2022, voting in Gujarat and Himachal Pradesh is likely towards the end of the year. In 2022, the BJP will also be attempting to achieve its goal of an all-India expansion, which the party has been striving for since 1980. The BJP will continue to make efforts to strengthen its organisation in the southern states of Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Tamil Nadu. Saving its stronghold Gujarat — the biggest challenge for BJP in 2022 The Legislative Assembly elections in Gujarat, the state which has remained a stronghold of the BJP for decades, will be held in the last months of 2022. Being the home state of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah, the election results are directly associated with the prestige of both. The term challenge is being used as the BJP could barely save its government in the state in the 2017 Assembly elections. The BJP has been in power in Gujarat since 1995. After Modi became the Chief Minister n 2001, the saffron party became invincible in the state. But after Modi became PM in 2014, the BJP has not been able to manage Gujarat so well. In the five consecutive Assembly elections of 1995, 1998, 2002, 2007 and 2012, the BJP has been forming the government by winning between 115 and 127 seats out of the total 182 seats in the state. But in 2017, the tally fell below 100 as it won only 99 seats. Congress won 77 seats in that election. Talking about the voting percentage, the BJP got the support of 49 per cent voters, while Congress secured 41.5 per cent of the ballots. After the setback in its stronghold, the BJP changed the entire cabinet along with the Chief Minister. Now the biggest challenge before the BJP is to again win over 115 seats in the upcoming polls. Victory will ensure a seventh consecutive term for the saffron party-led government in the state. Winning Uttar Pradesh again Uttar Pradesh, the country's largest state in terms of Lok Sabha seats, remains crucial for the BJP and especially for the Modi-Shah duo. In 2013, when it was decided that the then Gujarat Chief Minister Narendra Modi would be the BJP's prime ministerial candidate in the 2014 general elections, he managed to place his most trusted ally, Shah, as the national general secretary in the team of the then party national president Rajnath Singh. Shah was also given charge of Uttar Pradesh. Later Modi opted Varanasi as his constituency to contest the Lok Sabha elections, this itself signified the importance of Uttar Pradesh for the BJP and the duo. The state has a total of 403 seats in the Legislative Assembly and in the 2017 election results, the BJP along with its allies won 325 seats. The BJP alone won 312 seats with a vote share of around 40 per cent, while its ally Apna Dal (S) won nine and Om Prakash Rajbhar's SBSP garnered four. In 2017, Samajwadi Party (SP) had won 47 seats with 21.82 per cent votes and Bahujan Samaj Party won 19 seats with 22.23 per cent votes. The opposition, especially SP chief Akhilesh Yadav, is trying to change the political atmosphere of the state ahead of the much-awaited polls. Rajbhar, who contested the 2017 elections with the BJP, is with the SP this time and Akhilesh is trying his best to break the caste equations of the saffron party. It is said that "the path to the throne of Delhi passes through Uttar Pradesh", and therefore the BJP does not want to lose the state, which sends the maximum 80 MPs to the Lok Sabha, so in 2022, repeating its 2017 perforfamce would be one of the biggest challenges for the BJP. After three Chief Ministers in five years, winning Uttrakhand again, another challenge for the BJP Since the formation of Uttarakhand, the people of the state have not given a mandate to the government of any one party for a second time in a row. Breaking this trend, forming the government consecutively for the second time is another big task for the BJP in 2022. In the 2017 Legislative Assembly elections, the BJP won 56 seats with 46.5 per cent votes while contesting on all 70 seats in the state. Intrestingly, the Congress had won just 11 seats in the assembly polls despite getting 33.5 per cent votes. Seeing the mood of the people of the state, BJP had to change its Chief Minister thrice within five years. After winning the election in 2017, it made Trivendra Singh Rawat the Chief Minister. In March 2021, he was replaced by Tirath Singh Rawat and after a few months the command of the state was handed over to Pushkar Singh Dhami. The BJP's main rival in Uttarakhand is the Congress, and by winning again, it wants to send a message that revival of the latter in 2024 is difficult. Challenge to prove popularity in the northeast by winning Manipur again To prove its popularity in the northeast, the BJP is aiming to form a government in Manipur once again. In the 2017 polls in Manipur, the BJP had won only 21 seats out of the total 60, while the Congress got 28 seats. The difference of votes between the two was less than 1 per cent. But with the help of other parties, the BJP formed the government for the first time in Manipur and ran it for five years. Now depending on the works of its government and the popularity of Prime Minister Modi, the BJP again wants to bloom in this northeastern state. Making a hat-trick in Goa, the BJP's goal In 2022, the BJP wants to do a hat-trick by forming the government for a third time in Goa. Like Manipur, the BJP had won fewer seats than Congress in the coastal state in 2017, but with the help of other parties, the saffron party formed its government. In the 2017 polls, out of the total 40 Assembly seats in the state, the maximum 17 (28.35 per cent of the votes) went to the Congress, while the BJP had secured victory over 13 seats despite getting a higher vote percentage (32.48). However showing political readiness, BJP, for the second time, formed the government in the state with the support of other parties and ran it for the five years. This time BJP wants to form the government on its own by getting a majority in the state. This small state with 40 seats is going to have an interesting political battle this time. The main contest maybe between the BJP and the Congress, but this time along with many old regional parties like Goa Forward Party and Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party, many other parties including TMC, Aam Aadmi Party, Shiv Sena will be contesting the polls. In this multi-cornered fight, the BJP is fully hopeful about winning Goa, but it is not less than a big challenge in itself for the BJP, which is going to contest the first election in the absence of late party veteran Manohar Parrikar in the state. Strengthening the party's support base in Punjab Among the states in which elections are going to be held in 2022, Punjab is also crucial. However, the BJP, which will fight the polls on its own for the first time after separating from the Akali Dal in Punjab, has nothing to lose and a lot to gain in the state. The BJP is going to contest the Assembly elections in Punjab along with Amarinder Singh, who was the Chief Minister in the Congress government and former Akali Dal leader Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa. The BJP is also well aware of the political situation in Punjab and therefore instead of making claims to form the government, the BJP leaders are seen saying that no government will be formed in the state without them. However, at the same time, the BJP is 'treating' the state as 'sensitive' because of its border with Pakistan and is promising to the people of Punjab that only the BJP government can give security to Punjab. The Punjab Legislative Assembly has a total of 117 seats. In 2017, the BJP and Akali had contested the elections together. The Akali Dal contested 94 seats and won 15 with 25.24 per cent votes. Whereas the BJP, which contested on 23 seats, won only three with 5.39 per cent votes. Congress had formed the government in the state by winning 77 seats with 38.5 per cent votes. However Amarinder Singh, who became the Chief Minister at the time, is now forming a new party and is going to contest the elections with the BJP in 2022. Goal to secure second term in Himachal Pradesh Like Uttrakhand, in the hill state of Himachal Pradesh too, since 1990, no government has got a mandate for the second time in a row. It is a big challenge for the BJP to break this trend in the state and form the government for the second time in 2022. In 2017, the BJP, which contested on a total of 68 seats in the state, won 44 with 48.79 per cent of the votes. At the same time, 21 seats came in the account of Congress with 41.68 per cent votes. The recent by-elections in the state have raised the concerns of the BJP high command and it is also fully aware of the fact that a 'lot' needs to be done to regain the mandate of the people of the state. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjps-2022-challenges-saving-gujarat-and-reclaiming-up-1064538.html
25-12-2021||National Politics||Central teams to be deployed in 10 states as Covid cases rise||The Union Health Ministry on Saturday said that ten multidisciplinary technical teams were deployed in 10 states including Karnataka for aiding the local administration manage the Covid-19 epidemic better as the number of such cases is on a rise in a few states besides the emergence of the highly transmissible Omicron strain. Other states where the Central teams have been deployed are Kerala, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Mizoram, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, and Punjab. The central teams will be stationed for 3-5 days in each state to review the Covid logistics and contact tracing system besides assisting the state administrations on Covid testing, streamlining the administrative system for sending more samples for genome sequencing and examining the contact tracing and surveillance pattern. Another key task would be to review the vaccination programme in each of these states as seven of the ten states including Uttar Pradesh and Punjab have poor vaccination records with nearly 60% of the adult population in the two poll-bound states remaining unvaccinated. “A decision has been taken to deploy multi-disciplinary central teams to 10 identified states some of which are either reporting an increasing number of Omicron and Covid-19 cases or slow vaccination pace, to aid the efforts of the state and district administration for management of Covid-19,” the ministry said in official order. Though the second wave of India’s Covid-19 epidemic is on a waning phase with 77,000 plus active cases – the lowest in 579 days – and just about 7200 new cases in the past 24 hours, at least Maharashtra and Delhi appear to be exhibiting the early signs of a new rise in Covid numbers. Scientists and public health experts said that India would in all probability witness a new Omicron-driven wave in January. The central teams will specifically look into contact-tracing, surveillance and containment operations, and Covid-19 testing and the processes involved in sending adequate numbers of samples from Covid-19 clusters to the designated laboratories for genome sequencing. They will also review enforcement of Covid-appropriate behaviour, availability of hospital beds and other logistics like ambulances, ventilators, and medical oxygen. Earlier the ministry pointed out that some of the states didn’t even unpack the ventilator sent by the central government and purchase the consumables to make them operational. Each team comprises four members who are either government doctors or scientists from the Indian Council of Medical Research. While they would be working closely with the state officials, they would have to submit a report to the ministry on the situational assessment and remedial measures. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/central-teams-to-be-deployed-in-10-states-as-covid-cases-rise-1064562.html
25-12-2021||National Politics||Wary of shifting of 'Rajbhar' votes, Yogi rakes up 11th century Muslim warrior Masud Ghazi||Wary of possible shifting of the 'Rajbhar' (an OBC) community votes following an electoral alliance between Samajwadi Party (SP) and the Suheldev Bhartiya Samaj Party (SBSP) of former saffron party ally Om Prakash Rajbhar, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath dubbed the SP leader as the disciple of the 11th-century Muslim warrior Syed Salar Masud Ghazi and said that the 'Rajbhars' would never 'support' his (Ghazi) followers. Addressing a public meeting at Baharaich, about 200 kilometres from here, Adityanath also dubbed the SP leaders as the 'supporters' of Mohammed Ali Jinnah and appealed to the 'Rajbhar' community members not to support them in the next assembly polls in the state. ''SP pays respect to those who divided the country whereas BJP always works to unite the country,'' the chief minister said. Masud Ghazi was an 11th-century Muslim warrior and his tomb in Baharaich town was considered to be a place of pilgrimage and visited by a large number of Muslims. It is said that Maharaj Suheldev, the Rajbhar King, had fought Masud Ghazi.  Adityanath also referred to the Ram Temple and said that it was not a symbol of 'communalism'. ''Ram Temple is the symbol of nationalism....it is Rashtra Temple.....talking about is not being communal as is averred by some people,'' he added.  The chief minister's remarks on the Rajbhar community was apparently aimed at countering the SP-SBSP alliance in the polls. The 'Rajbhars' were in sizable numbers of over three dozen assembly seats, especially in some districts in the eastern UP region, including Varanasi, Mirzapur, Ballia, Mau, Ghazipur and others.  SBSP president Om Prakash Rajbhar, who was a minister in the Adityanath cabinet and was sacked before the 2019 Lok Sabha polls after he turned a bitter critic of the chief minister, has been extensively campaigning in the Rajbhar dominated constituencies and seeking support for the alliance. SBSP had allied with the BJP in the 2017 assembly polls and according to the political analysts, the alliance had enabled the BJP to sweep the eastern UP region.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/wary-of-shifting-of-rajbhar-votes-yogi-rakes-up-11th-century-muslim-warrior-masud-ghazi-1064615.html
25-12-2021||National Politics||Centre to bring farm laws back after Assembly polls: Congress||Congress on Saturday charged the Narendra Modi government of conspiring to bring back the now repealed contentious farm laws through backdoors after the Assembly elections to five states, citing remarks by Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar that the government has just taken a step backwards but in future it will take steps forward. The party appealed to voters in the five states going to polls in the next couple of months to “teach the BJP a lesson by decisively defeating them” in the elections to stop the “diabolical conspiracy” to bring back the contentious laws. The Congress attack came as Tomar told a gathering in Maharashtra on Friday that the repealed laws were the most progressive one in the past 75 years, some farmer unions could not digest it and it would take steps in the future though the government has taken a step backwards. Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi tweeted, "The Agriculture Minister has insulted the apology by the Prime Minister (to farmers). This is highly condemnable. If the anti-farmer steps are taken again, then the farmers will again hold satyagraha. Arrogance and ego were defeated earlier, will defeat once again." देश के कृषि मंत्री ने मोदी जी की माफ़ी का अपमान किया है- ये बेहद निंदनीय है। अगर फिर से कृषि विरोधी कदम आगे बढ़ाए तो फिर से अन्नदाता सत्याग्रह होगा- Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said the “concerted conspiracy to bring back the farm laws “now stands exposed” through Tomar’s statement. He claimed that the government repealed the three “black” laws in the recently concluded Winter Session as the BJP feared that it would be defeated if the laws continue to be in the statues. The Prime Minister apologised and announced the decision to repeal the laws and it happened after over 380 days of Gandhian, peaceful protest by farmers at the Delhi borders and sacrifices of over 700 farmers who died, he said. “Then itself we had suspected that the intent of the Prime Minister, the BJP and the RSS were a mere election stunt in view of the upcoming polls,” he said. Referring to statements made by Rajasthan Governor Kalraj Mishra and Unnao MP Sakshi Maharaj in November that the farm laws will make a return and with his statement now, Surjewala alleged that the Agriculture Minister has now confirmed the conspiracy aimed at helping the crony capitalist friends of the BJP. Wondering how the Minister can call the repealed laws as progressive, he said the three laws were the “most regressive” legislations India had since independence and that it was an insult to the 62 crore farmers who were united in their fight against it. “When he says that the government has taken one step backwards and it will take forward steps in future, he has made it clear that they will bring back the laws against which the farmers fought,” he said. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/centre-to-bring-farm-laws-back-after-assembly-polls-congress-1064653.html
25-12-2021||National Politics||BJP falls back on moderate face of Vajpayee, highlights his appeal among all sections||The BJP on Saturday invoked the moderate persona of former prime minister late Atal Bihari Vajpayee, reaching out to segments beyond the ambit of hardline Hindutva appeal to counter the soft Hindutva politics of Congress in UP. “I have donated Rs 1,000 towards the BJP party fund. Our ideal of always putting the nation first and the culture of lifelong selfless service by our cadre will be further strengthened by your micro-donation. Help make BJP strong. Help make India strong,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted on the launch of the programme, which will continue till February 11, the death anniversary of the party’s ideologue Deen Dayal Upadhyay. Nadda flagged how the party was fulfilling the vision of Upadhyay and Vajpayee under Modi’s leadership. In UP, where the party is battling an anti-incumbency post Covid-19, BJP planned motorcycle rallies in all 403 Assembly segments where it will hold Atal Yuva Sankalp Divas to reach out to youths at a time both Akhilesh Yadav of Samajwadi Party and Priyanka Gandhi of Congress are banking on young voters. During the Yatra, which will cross nearly 2,000 organisation circles of the party, BJP workers have been asked to apprise voters of the work done by the Modi government in the last seven years as the party plans to push its “good governance” plank. The focus on Vajpayee also comes amid a perception of disenchantment among a section of Brahmins against the BJP. Vajpayee, BJP’s tallest leader in recent decades, a Brahmin, had a personality acceptable across cross sections. He had won the Lucknow Parliamentary seat for five consecutive terms from 1991 to 2004. Paying floral tributes in Lucknow, UP CM Yogi Adityanath recalled Vajpayee as a leader who “rose above party lines” and one who was respected by people from the ruling party and the Opposition. He also insisted that the traditions of Vajpayee have been “emulated” by Modi. Addressing an event in New Delhi, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar talked about Vajpayee’s contributions to economic modernisation and national security while Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman recalled his “endearing personality” and “persuasive” ways. Leaders from ally-turned-Opposition party Shiv Sena took a veiled dig saying Vajpayee was the “only leader after Jawaharlal Nehru” who was appreciated by people across the country, and that the ‘sabka saath, sabka vikas’ slogan truly suits him. Sanjay Raut’s comments were seen as a snub to PM Modi, whose pet slogan is this. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-falls-back-on-moderate-face-of-vajpayee-highlights-his-appeal-among-all-sections-1064672.html
25-12-2021||North and Central||Man killed in Ludhiana blast identified as dismissed Punjab cop: Sources||The man killed in the Ludhiana district court blast is learnt to have been identified as Gagandeep Singh, a Punjab Police head constable who was dismissed from service. Singh was a resident of Khanna in Ludhiana and was dismissed from the post of head constable in connection with a drugs-related case in 2019, police sources said. Police had earlier said they suspect that the man killed in the blast on the second-floor toilet of the court complex was trying to assemble or plant the explosive device. Singh's family in Khanna is also learnt to have identified him, the sources said. The SIM card of the deceased is believed to have helped identify him. The explosion took place in the court complex on Thursday, killing Singh and injuring six others, prompting the Punjab government to declare a high alert in the state. Earlier in the day, Ludhiana Police Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said they have got important clues during investigation, which would prove to be useful in cracking the case. Police had earlier said a preliminary probe had revealed that the deceased was probably the carrier of the explosive or a human bomb himself. He had a "religious" tattoo on his arms. A mobile phone has also been recovered from the debris, police had said. Union Law and Justice Minister Kiren Rijiju visited the Ludhiana district court on Friday and said the Centre and the state will work together to ensure strong action against the domestic and foreign elements trying to disturb the peace and harmony in Punjab as well as in the country. He said central and state agencies are already conducting an in-depth probe into the incident. Teams of multiple agencies, including the National Investigation Agency (NIA), have arrived at the blast site and are working jointly. Talking to reporters, Rijiju said he had spoken to Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and it was decided that central and state agencies will jointly probe the matter and strong action will be taken against those behind the dastardly act. He said the main purpose of his visit was to assure the people of Ludhiana and entire Punjab that by launching a coordinated effort with the state government, the incident will be thoroughly probed. The Union minister also conveyed the empathy and support of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to the victims of the explosion and the people of Punjab. "The Centre and the state will work together and take strong action against those elements within the country and outside who are trying to spoil the peace and harmony of Punjab and the country," he said. This is a serious incident, a sensitive issue and the Centre and the state government will work on it in a coordinated manner, Rijiju added. Asked if it was a terror crime, Bhullar said, "The investigation is on and it is too early to say anything." The body of the deceased was sent to the civil hospital late Thursday night for post-mortem. Rijiju said the Centre and the state should have one voice on such sensitive issues. Replying to a question on some political leaders in Punjab speaking in different voices on the incident, he said, "It is unfortunate. We are responsible persons, we should speak responsibly." Politics on the issue should be the last resort, he added. Rijiju said the safety and security of the judiciary and judicial complexes is the Centre's top priority. He said multiple review committees are already in place and he would also speak with the Chief Justice of India about it. Rijiju was accompanied by Union Minister of State for Commerce and Industry Som Parkash and National Commission for Scheduled Castes (NCSC) Chairperson Vijay Sampla. They also visited the district hospital and met those injured in the blast. Rijiju also held an interaction with the district and sessions judge and lawyers. Senior advocate and former president of the district bar association K R Sikri expressed dissatisfaction with the existing security arrangements in the court complex. Complete security should be provided so that such a ghastly incident does not take place again, he said. Addressing a press conference in Chandigarh, Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi said his government has sought the Centre's support to crack the case. He said he spoke to Union Home Minister Amit Shah hours after the explosion and that the Centre has sent teams to Punjab to investigate the case. Channi had expressed his apprehension on Thursday that the explosion might have been an attempt to create "anarchy" in the state, which goes to polls early next year. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-killed-in-ludhiana-blast-identified-as-dismissed-punjab-cop-sources-1064458.html
25-12-2021||North and Central||Four militants killed in two separate gunfights in Kashmir||Four local militants affiliated with Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and Ansar Ghazwat-ul-Hind (AGuH) outfits were killed in two separate gunfights with security forces in south Kashmir’s Shopian and Pulwama districts on Saturday. The police said that the first encounter broke out during the wee hours of Saturday after security forces launched a cordon-and-search-operation (CASO) in Chowgam area of Shopian, 55 kms from here, following specific inputs about the presence of a militant in the area. “Two Lashkar-e-Taiba terrorists neutralised in the encounter that broke out between security forces and terrorists in the Chowgam area of Shopian,” Inspector General Police (IGP), Kashmir, Vijay Kumar, said. “One terrorist was involved in grenade firing and killing of civilians. Another terrorist had joined recently.” The slain militants were identified as Sajad Ahmad Check and Raja Basit Nazir, both locals. On December 8, three militants affiliated with The Resistance Front (TRF), an affiliate of the LeT were killed in a similar encounter with security forces in Shopian. Hours after the Shopian gunfight ended, two more militants were killed in an encounter after a joint team of J&K police, army and paramilitary forces cordoned off Hardumir village of Tral in south Kashmir’s Pulwama. As the joint team of forces zeroed in on the target, the militants hiding in the village fired at them, leading to a gunfight, a police official said. In the brief shootout that followed, two militants were killed. The police identified the slain militants as Nadeem Bhat and Rasool alias Adil, who were affiliated with the AGuH, a local affiliate of Al-Qaeda. The police said that the slain militants were “involved in several terror incidents” and two AK rifles were recovered from them. Adil was an IED expert, police added. 165 militants have been killed in the Valley so far this year, of which 142 were locals and 23 Pakistanis. In 2020, the number of militants killed in the Valley stood at 195. According to official estimates over 200 militants were still active in the Valley. Militancy in Shopian on the decline: From 2015 to 2019, Shopian had emerged as a hub of new-age militancy in Kashmir as over 130 local militants were killed in the district during the period. Shopian emerged on the radar of security forces immediately after the killing of the poster boy of Hizb-ul-Mujahideen Burhan Wani in July 2016. Prior to that, a Facebook photo that marked the arrival of new-age militancy in Kashmir was taken in Turkwangam village of Shopian in July 2015. Burhan posed with 12 associates, carrying assault rifles and with faces unmasked. After the killing of Burhan, Shopian remained out of bounds for security forces due to the relentless protests for nearly seven months, with militants seen moving around freely and posting their videos as well. However, since 2020, there has been a decline in militancy in Shopian, though sporadic encounters between militants and security forces are still happening. A senior police officer involved in counter-insurgency operations said that after relentless operations by security forces broke the backbone of militancy in Shopian, “militant handlers across the border instructed terrorists to lay low in the district.” “There is still a movement of militants in Shopian as dense apple orchards and nearby forests in gives terrorists an advantage as they often give a slip to security forces during search operations. Most villages in the district are located at a tri-junction connecting Shopian with Pulwama, Kulgam and Anantnag,” he said. Spread over 30,741 hectares, Shopian has a population of 2.6 lakh (according to the 2011 census) and is relatively affluent, with money earned from the over 20,000 hectares under apple cultivation. Over two lakh metric tonnes of apples are produced in the district every year. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/four-militants-killed-in-two-separate-gunfights-in-kashmir-1064485.html
25-12-2021||North and Central||Over 33,000 cases filed under SC/ST Atrocities Act in Madhya Pradesh in four years||More than 33,000 cases have been registered in Madhya Pradesh under the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act in the last four years, the state government has said. The number of cases registered under this Act has gone up in the state in the past two years, as per the data provided by Home Minister Narottam Mishra in the state Legislative Assembly on Friday in a written reply to a question asked by Congress MLA Jitu Patwari. The data said that 33,239 cases under the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act were registered in a period of around four years between January 2018 and November 2021. At 9,664, the highest number of such cases were registered in 2020, while as many as 9,249 cases were filed in 11 months of this year. A total of 6,852 cases were registered under this Act in 2018, while this number was 7,474 in 2019, the data said. Along with the cases registered under SC/ST Act, Patwari in the same question had also sought information about the annual conviction percentage in the cases related to atrocities against women. The reply said that there has been an annual average conviction of 27 per cent of the cases related to atrocities against women in Madhya Pradesh in the last seven years. It added that the conviction rate in the cases of atrocities against women was 27.16 per cent in 2015, 27.34 per cent in 2016, 26.98 per cent in 2017, 23.15 per cent in 2018, 29.39 per cent in 2019, 26.10 per cent in 2020 and 28.29 per cent in 2021. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/over-33000-cases-filed-under-sc/st-atrocities-act-in-madhya-pradesh-in-four-years-1064515.html
25-12-2021||North and Central||Class 10 student gang-raped in Muzaffarnagar||Two people were arrested in Muzaffarnagar for allegedly drugging a Class 10 student and gang-raping her, police said on Saturday. The minor girl had gone for tuition classes on Thursday from where two people allegedly drugged her and took her to a forest area near Sadpur village, according to a complaint lodged by her family. Two more people were waiting there and all four allegedly raped her, as per the complaint. She was later found in an unconscious state by her family members who had started searching for her along with police after she did not return home. She narrated the episode to her family after coming around. According to local Jansath police station SHO Bablu Singh Verma, a case was registered against four people based on the complaint and two were arrested. The minor was sent for a medical examination, he added.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/class-10-student-gang-raped-in-muzaffarnagar-1064523.html
25-12-2021||North and Central||Minimum temperature dips at most places in Kashmir valley||The minimum temperature at most places in Kashmir dipped on Friday night, even as the weatherman has forecast widespread light to moderate rains and snowfall in the Union Territory over two days from Sunday, officials said. Barring Qazigund, the minimum temperature dipped across the valley on Friday night, the officials said. Srinagar recorded a low of 1.7 degrees Celsius on Friday night – down from Thursday night's 2.4 degrees Celsius. Qazigund, the gateway town to the valley, recorded the minimum temperature of 2.2 degrees Celsius – a degree up from Thursday night. The nearby south Kashmir town of Kokernag recorded a low of minus 1.0 degrees Celsius. The mercury in Kupwara in north Kashmir settled at a low of minus 0.8 degrees Celsius compared to 2.2 degrees Celsius on Thursday night. Pahalgam, which serves as the base camp for the annual Amarnath yatra, recorded a low of minus 5.1 degrees Celsius – down from minus 1.3 degrees Celsius on Thursday night. The mercury in Gulmarg settled at a low of minus 6.5 degrees Celsius as compared to Thursday night's minus 5.1 degrees Celsius. The resort was the coldest recorded place in Jammu and Kashmir. While many areas in the valley received snowfall on Thursday, the MeT Office has said a spell of greater intensity than that is most likely to occur over two days from Sunday. "Another snow spell is likely during 26 (evening) to 28 (forenoon). Due to this, light snowfall up to one inch in plains of Kashmir, moderate – five to six inches -- over higher reaches of J-K, Zojila-Minamarg axis, and light snowfall at scattered places of Ladakh, especially Kargil-Zanskar area and light rain is likely at scattered places of JMU region during above period, especially on 27, is likely to occur," the weatherman said. While the MeT office ruled out any major snowfall as of now, it said there is a possibility of heavy snowfall up to one feet at isolated places over the higher reaches of Jammu and Kashmir during this period. Kashmir valley is currently under the grip of the 40-day harshest winter period known as 'Chilla-i-Kalan' which began on Tuesday. 'Chilla-i-Kalan' is a period when a cold wave grips the region and the temperature drops considerably leading to the freezing of water bodies including the famous Dal Lake here as well as the water supply lines in several parts of the valley. The chances of snowfall are the most frequent and maximum during this period and most areas, especially in the higher reaches, receive heavy to very heavy snowfall. The 'Chilla-i-Kalan' will end on January 31, but the cold wave continues even after that in Kashmir with a 20-day-long 'Chillai-Khurd' (small cold) and a 10-day-long 'Chillai-Bachha' (baby cold).  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/minimum-temperature-dips-at-most-places-in-kashmir-valley-1064532.html
25-12-2021||North and Central||Delhi's AQI improves to 'very poor' from 'severe'||After crossing the 400 or 'severe' mark a day ago, Delhi's Air Quality Index (AQI) improved marginally on Saturday to 398, which is the lower end of the 'very poor' category. "The air quality is likely to improve further but remain in the 'very poor' category on December 25 and 26. The outlook for subsequent five Days: The air quality is likely to improve significantly from December 27 when AQI to reach in 'poor/moderate' category," said the air quality and weather bulletin. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered 'good', 51 and 100 'satisfactory', 101 and 200 'moderate', 201 and 300 'poor', 301 and 400 'very poor', and between 401 and 500 is considered 'severe'. The level of PM10 and PM2.5 pollutants were recorded in the 'very poor' category, respectively. Meanwhile, the Delhi's maximum and minimum temperatures at 9 a.m. on Saturday were recorded at 23 and 7 degrees Celsius, respectively, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). The relative humidity at 8.30 a.m. wass 95 per cent. The IMD has also predicted light rain or drizzle in Delhi from December 26 to 28. As per the forecast, there will be generally cloudy sky with light rain on December 26, cloudy sky with light rain or drizzle on December 27 and mostly cloudy sky with the possibility of rain or thunderstorm on December 28. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhis-aqi-improves-to-very-poor-from-severe-1064540.html
25-12-2021||North and Central||Five Tihar inmates dead in 8 days, probe ordered||Five prisoners at the high-security Tihar Jail in the national capital have died in the past eight days, a Delhi Police official said here on Saturday. He informed that all the deaths appear to be from natural causes, however, a "Magestrial inquiry under Sec 176 of the CrPC has been initiated in all the fatalities". On Friday also, an inmate's death was reported in Tihar Jail no 3. The official said that the prisoner was found unconscious in his cell and was immediately taken to a hospital where the doctors declared him dead. He also allegedly died because of health issues. The deceased prisoner was identified as Vikram alias Vicky. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/five-tihar-inmates-dead-in-8-days-probe-ordered-1064547.html
25-12-2021||North and Central||Right-wing activists allegedly disrupt Christmas prayers in Gurugram||A group of men claiming to be right-wing activists allegedly barged into the premises of a church in Pataudi here on the eve of Christmas and disrupted the prayers, according to a viral video. Police, however, said they have not received any complaint. The video shows some men entering the church premises on Friday evening and raising slogans Jai Shree Ram and Bharat Mata Ki Jai. They are seen allegedly pushing the choir members down the stage and snatching the mike. The incident comes at a time when offering namaz in certain open spaces in Gurugram has kicked up a controversy. A local pastor told PTI, "It was scary as we had women and children around in the church. The nuisance is increasing with each passing day. It's an infringement of our right to pray and religion." Pataudi station house officer Amit Kumar said the police did not receive any complaints so far. The local administration is yet to respond.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/right-wing-activists-allegedly-disrupt-christmas-prayers-in-gurugram-1064553.html
25-12-2021||North and Central||New Industrial Policy: Medanta, Apollo Haldirams to foray into J&K markets soon||Eight months after the Jammu and Kashmir administration notified a New Industrial Policy allowing investments from outside, a few big corporate companies will sign non-binding Memorandums of Understanding (MoUs) worth thousands of crores with the J&K government on December 27. Among the corporate companies, who are signing MoUs include Medanta, Apollo and Haldiram, sources said. J&K Industries and Commerce department will sign the MoUs for the establishment of hospitals by Medanta and Apollo groups and with Haldiram for the establishment of its units in the union territory. The MoUs will be signed in the presence of Union Minister of Housing and Urban Affairs Hardeep Singh Puri, Union Minister of State in the PMO, Jitendra Singh, J&K Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha and other top bureaucrats of Central and J&K governments, they said and added Rs 11,000 crore of the new investments will go to Kashmir, and Rs 12,000 crore will be invested in the Jammu region. Besides, sources said, the Housing and Urban Development department and some non-local real estate companies will sign 15 non-binding MoUs for real estate development in the UT. “The Tenancy Act will be adopted while Affordable Rental Housing Complexes (ARHC) will be launched in J&K on the occasion. Real Estate Regulatory Authority (RERA) portal and registration and approval under the RERA will also be launched on the occasion,” they said. Ranjan Thakur, Principal Secretary, Industry and Commerce, J&K had recently said that since the announcement of the New Industrial Policy (which incentivises investment in J&K), there has been considerable interest in the corporate sector to come to the region. Around 3,000 hectares from the government’s land bank of about 6,000 hectares have been earmarked for the projects. Sources said that as more investments come in, the government will also make land acquisitions. Last month, L-G Manoj Sinha had said that the investment in J&K was expected to reach Rs 35,000 crore by December 2021 and proposals for Rs 25,000 crore have already been received. On August 5, 2019, the BJP government at the Center had justified the revocation of erstwhile state’s special status saying it had acted as an impediment to the development of J&K. In his first speech after the abrogation of Article 370, on August 8, 2019, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had spoken about the central government’s plans to end corruption, atrocities and violence in Jammu and Kashmir to make way for industries, private investments and employment. The move to end J&K’s special status has created an opening for private players to invest in real estate and other infrastructural projects in the UT. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/new-industrial-policy-medanta-apollo-haldirams-to-foray-into-jk-markets-soon-1064554.html
25-12-2021||North and Central||MP: School to get notice for asking question on Kareena Kapoor's son in class 6 GK test||Students of Class 6 of a private school in Madhya Pradesh's Khandwa were asked the full name of the son of Bollywood couple Kareena Kapoor and Saif Ali Khan in a question paper, prompting the education department to initiate issuance of a show-cause notice to the school. The school authorities, however, said the question should be seen as an effort to enhance the students' knowledge. "Write the full name of the son of Kareena Kapoor Khan and Saif Ali Khan," read the question that appeared in the general knowledge paper of term-end exam-II of Class 6 students of Academic Heights Public School in Khandwa city on Thursday. While a local parents-teachers' body raised objections to it, several netizens shared the copy of the question paper on different social media platforms. Talking to reporters on Friday, district education officer Sanjeev Bhalerao said the issue has come to his knowledge and the department would serve a show-cause notice to the school concerned. "After getting a reply from the school, further action will be taken as per the directives of the higher authorities," he said. Bhalerao said that students should be imparted the kind of education that enhances their knowledge in the interest of the nation. An office-bearer of a city-based parents-teachers' body, Anis Arjhare, raised objections saying that students should be asked questions related to great personalities and the country's national heroes like Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj and Ahilyabai Holkar. He demanded a strict action against the school. The Director of the school, Shweta Jain, said the question papers are set by a Delhi-based organisation, with which the school is affiliated. Those who are opposing are not the parents of the students studying in her school, she said, adding, "So far, none of the parents of the school has made a complaint." Jain also said that it was wrong to associate the question with religion or communalism. "It should be seen as an effort to enhance knowledge," she added.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mp-school-to-get-notice-for-asking-question-on-kareena-kapoors-son-in-class-6-gk-test-1064557.html
25-12-2021||North and Central||People of J&K headed towards poverty, says Ghulam Nabi Azad||There has been a slump in business and developmental activities in Jammu and Kashmir over the last two and a half years and people are heading towards poverty, senior Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad said in Jammu. In a veiled attack at the BJP, Azad said the autocratic rule of the maharajas was far better than the current dispensation, which stopped the traditional practice of the biannual 'Darbar Move'. Under the Darbar Move, the civil secretariat and other move offices used to function in Srinagar for six months of summer and in Jammu for the remaining six months of the year. It was initiated by Maharaja Gulab Singh in 1872. Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha had on June 20 announced the end to the practice. "I was always supportive of the Darbar Move. The maharajas gave us three things which were in the interest of the public of both Kashmir and Jammu regions, and one of them was the Darbar Move," Azad told reporters. He said the maharaja (Hari Singh) ensured protection of land and jobs from people who were not from the region. "Today after so many years, we see the maharaja who used to be called a dictator was much better than the present government. The actions of the maharaja were for the welfare of the public, while the present government has taken away all the three things (Darbar Move, protection of land and jobs) from us," he said, referring to the abrogation of Article 370. On a series of public meetings he held across Jammu and Kashmir over the past two and a half months, the senior Congress leader said they had nothing to do with upcoming assembly elections. "People are anguished as there is no business, no jobs, high prices and developmental works have come to standstill," he said. "I was of the opinion that people in cities are happy. Ragunath Bazar, City Chowk and Kanak Mandi (in Jammu) represents the pulse of the whole business community. Every shop I visited, I found that people are disappointed because business is down for the past five years," Azad said. "The overall situation in whole Jammu and Kashmir is very bad, and we are badly heading towards poverty," he said. High inflation and zero developmental work are the main contributors for the present situation, the Congress leader said. He, however, expressed happiness over the growing political activity in the region. "Politicians lost contact with the public over the past two years (since August 2019). We started and others followed, which is a welcome development," Azad said. He avoided a direct answer on the draft report of the Delimitation Commission to enhance six assembly seats for Jammu and one in Kashmir, saying, "For me, Jammu and Kashmir is one, and so, I cannot take sides for one or the other region."  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/people-of-jk-headed-towards-poverty-says-ghulam-nabi-azad-1064581.html
25-12-2021||North and Central||Delhi HC asks govt to enable BS-III diesel vehicle owners to apply for no entry permit online||The Delhi High Court has directed the city government to include BS-III commercial diesel vehicles in the drop-down menu of the online portal for the grant or renewal of "all-time no entry permission" permits. Justice Sanjeev Sachdeva said no notification has been issued by the deputy commissioner of police to impose restrictions on BS-III vehicles under the Delhi Control of Vehicular and Other Traffic on Road and Streets Regulations of 1980 for such permits and the authorities have "merely omitted to provide an option in the drop-down menu of the online portal." "Since the respondents have neither issued any order or notification, nor issued any direction but have simply omitted the option for applying in the drop-down menu on the online portal, the action of the respondents cannot be sustained," the court said in its order dated December 21. Justice Sachdeva, who was hearing a petition filed by the Foundation of Azadpur Tempo and Truck Welfare, observed that merely because a vehicle is BS-III compliant and not BS-IV or above compliant, it will not in any manner achieve the object of reducing congestion on roads. The petitioner sought directions to the respondents, the Delhi government and the Delhi Police, to permit the owners of BS-III compliant commercial diesel vehicles to apply for grant or renewal of "all-time no entry permission" for the operation of their vehicles in the national capital for supplying essential commodities such as fruits and vegetables. "Admittedly, permits are being issued for the identical size and shape of vehicles which are owned by the petitioners, the only distinction being that vehicles of the petitioners are BS-III compliant and permits are being issued only for BS-IV and above complaint diesel vehicles. "It is not in dispute that CNG and petrol vehicles can apply for the permit on the online portal and restrictions apply only to BS-III diesel vehicles," the court stated. "This petition is disposed of with a direction to the respondents to include the option of BS-III vehicles, which are in conformity with the directions of the Supreme Court and National Green Tribunal with regard to their age and condition for plying in Delhi, in the drop-down menu of the online portal for grant or renewal of 'all-time no entry permission' permits," it ordered. The court clarified that despite its order, the authorities are free to issue an appropriate notification for excluding BS-III vehicles. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-hc-asks-govt-to-enable-bs-iii-diesel-vehicle-owners-to-apply-for-no-entry-permit-online-1064585.html
25-12-2021||North and Central||Odd-even scheme implemented in Delhi's Sarojini Nagar market||Amid the increasing threat of Covid-19, a video of people thronging Delhi's Sarojini Nagar market in large numbers has gone viral after which the market will now remain open on the basis of the odd-even scheme on December 25 and 26, officials said. The New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) on Saturday morning also began a crackdown on encroachments in the posh market. The goods of all those shopkeepers having shops on encroached land in the market have been confiscated. The Delhi Police has also swung into action trying to control large gatherings. The NDMC and Civil Defence staff together are making sure that people strictly follow Covid protocols as well as making announcements asking the people to follow the Covid norms. Earlier, NDMC had held a meeting with the market office-bearers after the Delhi High Court expressed concern over the rising Covid-19 cases in the national capital. The Court expressed displeasure over people flouting Covid protocols and had summoned the Sarojini Nagar Police Station House Officer. Expressing concern over large gatherings, the court said such a situation will lead to the deaths of a large number of people due to Covid-19. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/odd-even-scheme-implemented-in-delhis-sarojini-nagar-market-1064599.html
25-12-2021||North and Central||Covid-19: Rajasthan reports 21 new Omicron cases||Rajasthan has reported 21 new cases of 'Omicron', taking the number of people infected with the new variant of Covid-19 to 43, an official said. Of these, 11 are from Jaipur, six from Ajmer and three from Udaipur. One of the patients is from Maharashtra. Results from the National Institute of Virology Pune showed all of them positive for Omicron, a spokesperson of the health department said on Saturday. Among these infected, five had returned from foreign countries while three others had come in contact with foreign travellers. Of the total 43 cases of Omicron in the state, 28 are from Jaipur, seven from Ajmer, four from Sikar, three from Udaipur, and the other being the patient from Maharashtra. The number of active Covid-19 cases in Rajasthan is 244, the official said.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-rajasthan-reports-21-new-omicron-cases-1064604.html
25-12-2021||North and Central||Gunfight breaks out at Awantipore in Jammu & Kashmir||An encounter broke out between terrorists and security forces at Hardumir Tral area of Awantipore in South Kashmir's Pulwama district on Saturday, officials said. "Encounter has started at Hardumir Tral area of Awantipora. Police and security forces are on the job," police said. The firefight took place after a joint team of police and the security forces cordoned off the area and launched a search operation on the basis of specific information about presence of terrorists. As the security forces zeroed in on the spot where terrorists were hiding they came under a heavy volume of fire that triggered the encounter. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/gunfight-breaks-out-at-awantipore-in-jammu-kashmir-1064607.html
25-12-2021||North and Central||Yogi woos youth with tablets, smartphones ahead of UP polls; targets Akhilesh again||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday launched the first phase of distributing smartphones and tablets among the students ahead of the forthcoming Assembly polls in the state, which were scheduled to be held in two months time. Adityanath gave tablets and smartphones to around one lakh students, who had come from different parts of the state and had assembled at the Ekana Sports Stadium in the city.  Addressing the students, the chief minister said that the previous governments never bothered to take care of the needs of the youth and were busy only "looting" public money and "duping" students. He trained guns at Samajwadi Party (SP) President Akhilesh Yadav, claiming that during the SP regime, members of the family "extorted" money from the people and government jobs were given only to the relatives and kin of that family. This was a reference to the Akhilesh Yadav's family. Referencing Akhilesh again, Adityanath said that those who wake up at noon could never represent the youth of the state. "12 baje so kar uthne wale yuva nahin hain... corona vaccine ka virodh karne wale yuva nahin hain (those getting up at 12 are not youth... those opposing the coronavirus vaccine are not youth)," he said. Yogi earlier as well, had said that Akhilesh was in the habit of waking up at "12 noon" and did not get time to work for the people during his tenure as CM of the state between 2012 and 2017. Incidentally, SP had also distributed tablets and laptops during his tenure but his party lost the polls in 2017.  Akhilesh had been facing personal attacks from the BJP leaders, including the chief minister, in the run-up to the next assembly polls. Adityanath had earlier referred to SP patron Mulayam Singh Yadav (Akhilesh's father)  as his "abbajaan" (father in Urdu).  The SP President had also retorted by saying that "Baba", referencing Adityanath, did not know how to operate smartphones and computers. According to the official sources, the state government planned to distribute about one crore smartphones and tablets to the students in the near future. They said that the distribution would take place at the district level. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/yogi-woos-youth-with-tablets-smartphones-ahead-of-up-polls-targets-akhilesh-again-1064609.html
25-12-2021||North and Central||Wheels of justice 'completely collapsed' says Mufti as Kathua rape convict gets bail||The wheels of justice have "completely collapsed", said PDP President and former Jammu and Kashmir Chief Minister Mehbooba Mufti on Saturday after one of the convicts in the 2018 Kathua rape case was granted bail by a court in Punjab. On December 21, the Punjab and Haryana High Court suspended the remaining sentence and jail term of dismissed police sub-inspector Anand Dutta and ordered that he be released upon furnishing surety bonds. "Perturbed that the policeman convicted for destroying evidence in Kathua rape case was granted bail and his jail term suspended. When a child raped and bludgeoned to death is deprived of justice, it becomes obvious that the wheels of justice have completely collapsed," Mufti tweeted.   An eight-year-old girl was raped and murdered in the Kathua district in January 2018 and the verdict in the case was pronounced on June 10, 2019, by a court in Pathankot, Punjab, where the case was shifted on the directions of the Supreme Court. The court convicted six people, including the main accused Sanji Ram, dismissed Special Police Officers Deepak Khajuria and Parvesh Kumar, who were sentenced to life imprisonment. Three dismissed policemen Anand Dutta, Tilak Raj, and Surender Verma were sentenced to five years in jail for hampering material evidence. Dutta has already undergone more than half of the sentence awarded to him, while the sentence of co-accused Tilak Raj was also suspended on December 16 by the Punjab and Haryana High Court. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/wheels-of-justice-completely-collapsed-says-mufti-as-kathua-rape-convict-gets-bail-1064611.html
25-12-2021||North and Central||22 farm bodies in Punjab announce political front, to contest upcoming state polls||As many as 22 farm organisations in Punjab that were part of the protest against the three farm laws formed a political front on Saturday and announced they would contest the upcoming state assembly polls. A decision in this regard was taken by representatives of these organisations here. These 22 farm bodies were among 32 farmer organisations in Punjab which participated in the over-a-year-long protest against the three Central farm laws. Talking to reporters here, farmer leader Harmeet Singh Kadian said the Sanyukt Samaj Morcha has been set up for fighting the assembly polls in Punjab due early next year.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/22-farm-bodies-in-punjab-announce-political-front-to-contest-upcoming-state-polls-1064613.html
25-12-2021||North and Central||False declaration of educational qualifications corrupt practices under RP Act: HC||The Delhi High Court has said that a false declaration made with regard to educational qualifications by a candidate in election can be brought within the four corners of Section 123(4) (corrupt practices) of the Representation of People Act, 1951.  A bench of Justice Rajiv Shakdher rejected a plea by Vishesh Ravi, who was elected as an MLA from Karol Bagh here on AAP ticket that educational qualification does not fall within the ambit of Section 123(4) of the 1951 Act, that provided as to what practices are deemed as corrupt practices for the purposes of the law.  Going through the provision, Justice Shakdher said, "the expression used in relation to candidature" should, in my view, include information concerning the educational qualification of a candidate, since the Supreme Court has unambiguously held that voters have the fundamental right to know the antecedents of the candidate.  "A false declaration made, qua educational qualification can be brought within the four corners of Section 123(4) of the 1951 Act," the bench said.  The court decided to consider the election petition filed by the rival BJP candidate, Yogender Chandolia alleging furnishing of false information by Ravi in his affidavit. He sought a direction from the court, that the result of the election of Karol Bagh Assembly Constituency, held on February 08, 2020 be declared null and void. The court fixed the matter for admission or denial of documents on January 10 and framing of issues on February 25. The bench agreed to the contention by the petitioner that Ravi has been taking inconsistent stands concerning the highest educational qualification secured by him.  As per Form-26 filed in 2013, Ravi claimed that he had obtained a degree in B Com in 2008 from CCS University, whereas in 2015, he claimed that he was pursuing a BA (Programme) from IGNOU, Delhi. In contradiction, in Form-26 filed in 2020, Ravi claimed his highest educational qualification was Class X pass in 2003, via NIOS, the court noted. With regard to non-disclosure of an FIR lodged against Ravi, the court, however, allowed his plea that registration of the criminal case does not bring the matter within the ambit of a pending criminal case as the magistrate concerned has not taken cognisance of the case and no charge sheet had been filed. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/false-declaration-of-educational-qualifications-corrupt-practices-under-rp-act-hc-1064619.html
25-12-2021||North and Central||Two terrorists killed in gunfight with police in Jammu and Kashmir's Pulwama||Two terrorists were killed in a gunfight with security forces at Hardumir Tral area of Awantipore in South Kashmir's Pulwama district on Saturday, officials said. "Two unidentified terrorists killed. Search going on," a police official said. The firefight between terrorists and security forces took place after a joint team of the police and the security forces cordoned off the area and launched a search operation on the basis of specific information about the presence of terrorists in the area. As the security forces zeroed in on the spot where terrorists were hiding, they came under heavy firing to which they retaliated. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-terrorists-killed-in-gunfight-with-police-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-pulwama-1064623.html
25-12-2021||North and Central||Prime Minister to address public meeting in Mandi on December 27||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address a public meeting in Mandi town in Himachal Pradesh on December 27 (Monday) to mark the completion of four-year tenure of the state BJP government, an official statement said on Saturday. On this occasion, the Prime Minister would dedicate and lay foundation stone of development projects of Rs 11,281 crore in the state. These projects include dedication of 111 MW Sawra-Kuddu Hydro Electric Project (HEP) constructed with an outlay of Rs 2,081.60 crore on the Pabbar river in Shimla. The project would generate 386 million units of electricity per annum, which will generate an annual revenue of Rs 120 crore to the state. Modi would lay foundation stone of the Renukaji dam project, a national project of Rs 6,700 crore on the Giri river in Sirmaur district. The project would generate 200 million units of energy for the state in a powerhouse with 40 MW installed capacity. The live storage of dam would be 498 million cubic metres, which would fulfill about 40 per cent of drinking water requirement of Delhi. Modi would lay foundation stone of 66 MW Dhaulasidh Hydro Electric Project, which would be constructed with an expenditure of Rs 688 crore. The project is located on the Beas river in Hamirpur and Kangra districts. He would also lay foundation stone of 210 MW Luhri Hydro Electric Project Stage-I to be completed with an expenditure of Rs 1,811 crore, a joint venture between the governments of India and Himachal Pradesh. The project is located on the Satluj river in Shimla and Kullu districts. The power generated from these projects would help in providing grid stability and improving the power supply position, besides adding valuable renewable energy to the grid, said the statement. The Dhaulasidh hydro project would lead to reduction of 2.4 lakh tonnes and the Luhri project 6.1 lakh tonnes of carbon dioxide from the environment annually, it added. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/prime-minister-to-address-public-meeting-in-mandi-on-december-27-1064627.html
25-12-2021||North and Central||Guest teachers protest outside Sisodia's residence demanding regularisation of services||Scores of guest teachers in the national capital staged a protest outside the residence of Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Saturday, demanding regularisation of their services. The protest was organised by the All India Guest Teachers Association. Delhi Pradesh Congress Committee president Anil Kumar also joined the protest extending the party's support to the demands of guest teachers. "The guest teachers have been betrayed as they have not been regularised despite the Aam Aadmi Party promising to do so in its three election manifestoes. "Sisodia, who had announced that the salaries of the guest teachers would be increased, did not bother to meet the protesting teachers outside his residence to pacify them regarding regularization of their services, which has been a long-pending demand," Kumar said. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had announced in Punjab that ad hoc teachers in the state would be regularized forgetting the fact that he had made a similar promise in the national capital to get teachers' votes, only to "betray" them," the Delhi Congress chief alleged. "The AAP government should first regularise the ad hoc teachers of Delhi, to set a golden example before making hollow promises in Punjab and other poll-bound states," he added.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/guest-teachers-protest-outside-sisodias-residence-demanding-regularisation-of-services-1064639.html
25-12-2021||North and Central||Noida to continue with Section 144, start night curfew due to Omicron fears||A day after the Uttar Pradesh government decided to impose a night curfew from 11 pm to 5 am starting Saturday amid rising cases of the Omicron variant of Covid-19, the Gautam Budh Nagar administration in Noida decided to continue with the already imposed Section 144 of CrPC in the district, besides adding several other measures. The order will remain in force from December 25 to January 31, 2022. Earlier on December 1, Section 144 was imposed and restrictions were imposed over fears of the spread of Covid-19 during the festival season. "During the said period, there will be several competitive examinations for which the administration has to make preparations to smoothly conduct them," Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police, Ashutosh Dwivedi, said in the order. He further said that arrangements have to be made for several other programmes in December and January. Keeping in view the current circumstances, Dwivedi issued fresh restrictions under Section 144 of the CrPC. A night curfew will remain enforced every day from 11 pm to 5 am starting Saturday, during which movement will be allowed only for essential services. Wearing a mask will continue to be mandatory for all people whenever they step out of their homes. Taking prior permission from the authority for all events will be compulsory till January 31, while only 200 people will be allowed in marriage functions in closed spaces. According to the guidelines, people disobeying the order will be charged under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/noida-to-continue-with-section-144-start-night-curfew-due-to-omicron-fears-1064646.html
25-12-2021||North and Central||Ludhiana blast accused strapped bomb around his stomach||Punjab Police on Saturday claimed to have cracked the Ludhiana court bomb blast case after identifying the accused-cum-victim, Gagandeep Singh (31), who reportedly had links with Pakistan-based pro-Khalistan elements. A high intensity explosion occurred in a public toilet at the district court complex in Ludhiana on Thursday, which left one person dead and six others injured. As per the police, Singh was the person who died while planting the bomb. Singh, a former head constable with Punjab Police who was dismissed in August 2019 after heroin was recovered from his possession, had reportedly strapped the bomb around his stomach to give the security personnel a slip. "To avoid detection, he strapped the IED around his stomach, as he knew that it would be next to impossible to enter the court premises otherwise. By strapping it to his body, he was able to take the bomb inside," a reliable source said. Singh also reportedly conducted a recee of the court complex to execute his plan. The Punjab Police have found that ISI was helping a German-based radical Khalistani group which helped in execution of the blast. The probe of Punjab Police has also revealed that Khalistani operatives are working with the drug mafia and Pakistan-based arms and narcotic dealers. It is probably the first time when durg dealers having international connection are working with Khalistani operatives and ISI agents with an intention to create terror and to carry out terror activities across the nation, especially in Punjab. A top police source said that they want to create an anarchy-like situation in Punjab. ISI is helping Khalistani groups to spread their agenda against India. In the Ludhiana blast too, ISI's name has cropped up. Singh reportedly had links with Khalistani operatives who were working at the behest of ISI. He developed contact with ISI and Khalistani operatives when he was lodged in a jail Ludhiana in connection with the NDPS case filed against him for possessing heroin. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ludhiana-blast-accused-strapped-bomb-around-his-stomach-1064651.html
25-12-2021||North and Central||AAP calls Uttarakhand CM ‘incompetent’ over alleged sacking of Dalit woman cook||The AAP on Saturday slammed the BJP government in Uttarakhand over the alleged sacking of a Dalit woman cook at a school in the state and offered to give her a job in the Delhi government. Addressing a press conference at the party headquarters here, senior Aam Aadmi Party leader and Social Welfare minister in Delhi government Rajendra Pal Gautam also hit out at Uttarakhand Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami on the issue, alleging that he is “incompetent” to render justice to the people of the state. He demanded that Dhami should apologise to the people of the state for the “removal” of the Dalit woman from her job. “I invite her to come here. The Delhi government will give her a job as a cook,” Gautam told reporters. A Dalit woman who served mid-day meal at a government secondary school in Uttarakhand's Champawat district was allegedly removed from her job recently after upper caste students refused to eat the meal cooked by her. Following a row, the Uttarakhand chief minister on Friday ordered a probe into the incident and asked the authorities to take stern action against the guilty after visiting the school in Sukhidhang. “Chief Minister Dhami is not competent. He cannot render justice to people. Their entire politics is to divide people on the lines of religion and caste,” Gautam charged. He claimed that the Dalit woman was appointed as 'Bhojanmata' at the government school through a due process of selection but removed by chief education officer of Champawat R C Purohit because some of the upper caste students had refused to eat the food cooked by her. “For this, Dhami Ji should apologise. He should have taken immediate cognisance of it and rendered justice to the victim,” Gautam said. The removal of the Dalit woman from her job is an act of “encouraging those who discriminate people on the lines of caste,” he said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/aap-calls-uttarakhand-cm-incompetent-over-alleged-sacking-of-dalit-woman-cook-1064654.html
25-12-2021||North and Central||Will solve problems of anganwadi and ASHA workers, lawyers, if AAP forms govt in Punjab: Kejriwal||Aam Aadmi Party leader Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday met anganwadi and ASHA workers of Punjab and assured to resolve their issues if his party is voted to power in the state in the upcoming assembly polls. While addressing a programme 'Arvind Kejriwal's Dialogue with Anganwadi and ASHA (Accredited Social Health Activists) Workers', the Delhi chief minister said the "hardships of anganwadi workers such as low pay scale, no vacation, and no compensation to families of ASHA workers who died during the Covid-19 pandemic were the matters of their plight". The AAP is the only party that goes to people to know their issues so that once it is voted to power it can solve them, he said. He promised that like in Delhi, corruption will be eliminated from Punjab's system and all demands of ASHA and anganwadi workers will be met. "Third guarantee announced by AAP, which was heavily criticised by other political parties, is that it alone will provide a great deal of financial help to women in Punjab," said Kejriwal, whose AAP is the main opposition party in Punjab, where assembly polls are due early next year. "We only did one thing in Delhi – corruption elimination. Then we were able to provide free water, electricity, the best schools and hospitals, and free transportation for women," he said. Kejriwal urged anganwadi and ASHA workers to unite to ensure formation of an AAP government in Punjab, which will solve all their issues. In Delhi, the AAP has doubled pay and incentive amounts, and similar benefits will be given to Punjab workers, he promised. Addressing the gathering, AAP leader and MP Bhagwant Mann said, “We do not make manifesto sitting in the drawing rooms like other parties. We go to people to know their issues and needs.” In a separate meeting with lawyers, Kejriwal claimed that it was only the AAP which could give a better future to the country and Punjab. The AAP can solve the problems of common people, lawyers, teachers and others, he said. "About 80,000 lawyers from Punjab can form their own government by joining the AAP so that all the problems of the lawyer community as well as Punjab and the people can be solved. I have come to form a relationship with the lawyers," Kejriwal said. Addressing the lawyers who came from Amritsar, Jalandhar, Tarn Taran, Gurdaspur, Ferozepur and other parts of Punjab, Kejriwal said, "Lawyers in Delhi are very supportive of the AAP. That is why when AAP contested for the second time; it won 67 out of 70 seats. The BJP's chief ministerial candidate Kiran Bedi was defeated by AAP's lawyer candidate." He also said after the formation of the government in Delhi, the problems of lawyers were solved on a priority basis. "Medical and life risk insurance cover has been provided to lawyers and their families and chambers in the courts for lawyers were set up," the chief minister said. Kejriwal promised that the demands of lawyers would be met immediately after the AAP forms government. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/will-solve-problems-of-anganwadi-and-asha-workers-lawyers-if-aap-forms-govt-in-punjab-kejriwal-1064655.html
25-12-2021||North and Central||Amit Shah takes dig at Kejriwal over media advertisements||Union Home Minister Amit Shah Saturday took a dig at Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal over media advertisements given by the city government on its various programmes, claiming that the people of the capital have realised who actually carries out development works and who does only lip service. Inaugurating the 'Bharat Darsha' park, developed by the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) with scrap materials, Shah also said that it is because of the BJP-ruled three municipal corporations of Delhi that the Modi government has been able to carry out welfare programmes in the capital. The home minister said there are two types of work cultures in the country. He said that one type is to carry out various developmental works like providing free vaccines to people, bringing administrative reforms, introducing new education policy, urban development programmes, bringing 60 crore poor people under the ambit of welfare programmes like free housing, electricity, gas etc. "And the other is karo ya na karo, advertisements do, TV interview do. (Just give advertisements even if you don't do anything and give interviews to TV news channels). People of Delhi have realised who actually carries out development works and who just does the lip service," he said. Praising Delhi's civic bodies for carrying out different welfare programmes, Shah said that the three municipal corporations would have done more works if the Kejriwal-led AAP government in Delhi paid the Rs 13,000 crore outstanding. "I want to tell Kejriwal if Rs 13,000 crore outstanding is given to the municipal corporations, they could have much more work for people's benefits," he said. Listing the development works being carried out by the Modi government, the home minister said that so far, 130 crore vaccine doses were given to the country's population while 80 crore poor are being given 25 kilograms of free foodgrains since the Covid-19 pandemic began. He also said that many people used to mock the BJP that the party wanted to construct the Ram temple at Ayodhya but would not disclose when it would be. "But now everyone has seen that a grand Ram temple is being built in Ayodhya at the initiative of Narendra Modi," he said. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/amit-shah-takes-dig-at-kejriwal-over-media-advertisements-1064669.html
25-12-2021||North and Central||I'm a minister despite not having an MP as father or mother, says Gadkari in UP rally||Union Minister Nitin Gadkari on Saturday said it was for the first time during the Atal Bihari Vajpayee tenure that the government began proactively thinking and implementing basic social welfare schemes like those of potable water, health, education and roads, which were missing since Independence. The Union Minister of Road Transport and Highways made the remark while laying the foundation stone for a 47-km stretch of national highway project worth Rs 753 crore and dedicating to people four other projects in Amethi on the 96th birth anniversary of late Prime Minister Vajpayee. In a subtle dig at the Congress and Samajwadi Party, Gadkari said the BJP is not a “pariwarwadi” (dynastic) party but a party of its workers and attributed his rise to the post of a Union minister to the “fact” that the “BJP belongs to its workers”. He said that he "was able to occupy a chair by the side of late Prime Minister Vajpayee” despite “not having any MLA mother or MP father” and despite being an ordinary party worker, doing the job of “painting party posters on walls” and “campaigning for party on loudspeakers on rickshaws”. Gadkari, whom Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya described as “harbinger of road revolution in the country” and whom his Cabinet colleague and Amethi MP Smriti Irani described as the leader of Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojna, also talked of how Vajpayee roped him into his village road-building programme. Gadkari recalled that it was Vajpayee who, after seeing his road building work in Maharashtra, asked him to prepare a report to link country’s villages with roads. "I subsequently prepared a project report on the subject and Vajpayee began its implementation," he said.  It is because of Vajpyee’s vision that out of 6.5 lakh villages of India, over five lakhs of them have been connected to the nearest towns and cities today, said Gadkari. Alleging a “dismal” situation in the education and health sector during the pre-Vajpayee era, Gadkari said in the field of education, either buildings or teachers or students remained missing and even when all three were there, the "education itself stayed missing". “Similarly, in the health sector, either hospital or doctors and nurses or medicines used to missing, and even when all three were there, people lacked trust in them and did not go for treatment," said Gadkari. Addressing the rally, Irani recalled that in 2014, when Gadkari had first visited Amethi, people here had fervently pleaded to him that now that there was Narendra Modi government in the Centre, it must fulfil its 30-year-old demand of a bypass road for the city. Gadkari had promised them that he would visit Amethi again only with this gift, said Irani, adding it is not a chance that Gadkari has come here again only to gift the people here the bypass road as a stretch of the national highway. Talking of her work as Amethi MP, Irani said she was revealing it for the first time that she has been able to implement various developmental projects worth Rs 83,000 crore in Amethi during her short tenure as its MP. Talking of a recent visit of Congress leaders Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi to Amethi, Irani said the brother-sister duo had come here saying that they will stay here for two days but returned in two and half hours only. And during their visit, unable to have people accompany them and welcome them here, they had brought people from Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and neighbouring Sant Kabir Nagar and these outsiders went to the extent of misbehaving with local people here, she alleged. Referring to Priyanka Gandhi poll slogan of “Ladki hoon, lad sakti hoon (I'm a woman, I can also fight)”, Irani lamented that it was an irony that women and girls of Amethi never got private toilets during the 70-year regime of the Congress and they got this basic civic amenity under the rule of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. She also attacked Rahul Gandhi, saying it is his “audacity” that he does not mind insulting people taking a dip in the Ganga — a reference to PM Modi’s bath in the river in Varanasi — and get the courage to ask the meaning of Hindutva from those who have Lord Ram living in their hearts and minds. UP's Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya on this occasion said there is no difference among SP, BSP and Congress. “They are sides of the same coin. Maurya claimed that SP, BSP and Congress do politics in the name of caste and religion and said that as elections come near, they become Hindus."  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/im-a-minister-despite-not-having-an-mp-as-father-or-mother-says-gadkari-in-up-rally-1064675.html
25-12-2021||North and Central||Curbs feared to return as Covid positivity rate in Delhi mounts to 0.46%||Night curfew, closure of schools and colleges, and shops of non-essential items, and halved seating capacity in metro trains is feared to return in Delhi as its Covid positivity rate inched towards 0.5 per cent, the trigger point of yellow alert under the Graded Response Action Plan. Delhi's Covid case positivity rate mounted to 0.43 per cent on Saturday as the city recorded 249 fresh cases, the highest single-day rise since June 13. The positivity rate was also the highest since June 9 when it was 0.46 per cent. Under the four-stage Graded response Action Plan (GRAP), the 'yellow' alert will kick in if the positivity rate settles at 0.5 per cent for two consecutive days, leading to a host of restrictions. If this alert is sounded, most activities will come to a grinding halt just a few months after the phased reemergence from the April lockdown. GRAP was approved by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority in July in anticipation of a third wave of Covid. It aims to bring in a clearer picture of imposition and lifting of restrictions depending on the Covid situation. Curfew from 10 pm to 5 am will be imposed during Yellow, Amber and Orange alerts. If 'Red' alert is sounded, there will be "total curfew". The 'Yellow' (level-1) alert will be sounded when the positivity rate crosses 0.5 per cent or new cases increase to 1,500 or oxygenated bed occupancy reaches 500. The response will involve allowing construction, manufacturing activities and opening of shops of essential goods. However, shops and establishments of non-essential goods and services, and malls will be allowed to open between 10 am and 8 pm based on the odd-even formula. Only one weekly market per zone with 50 per cent of vendors will be allowed to open if the 'yellow' alert is sounded. Restaurants will be permitted with 50 per cent capacity from 8 am to 10 pm while bars can also operate with the same capacity, but from 12 noon to 10 pm. Marriages and funerals will be allowed with 20 people in attendance while all other types of gatherings will be prohibited.  The Delhi Metro will run at 50 per cent seating capacity while auto-rickshaws and cabs can ferry up to two passengers. Busses will ply with only 50 per cent exempted category passengers, according to GRAP. Cinema halls, banquet halls, spas, gyms, outdoor yoga activity,  amusement parks, stadiums, swimming pools, schools and colleges will not be allowed if 'Yellow' alert is sounded. Religious places will be open but without visitors. Parks and gardens can open. Private offices can function with up to 50 per cent of employees. In Delhi government offices also, barring certain categories of officials, only half of the remaining employees will be allowed. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has assured people that his government is prepared to face the third wave. A government official said if the positivity rate settles at 0.5 per cent for two days, the DDMA will issue an order announcing the imposition of GRAP. The response involves restricting economic activities corresponding to the level of alert linked with the severity of the pandemic. Shops and establishments of essential goods and services will be allowed to open during all four levels of alerts. Following 'Yellow' is the 'Amber' alert. It will come into force if the positivity rate rises above one per cent or new cases number 3,500 or oxygenated bed occupancy reach 700. The response is mostly the same as 'Yellow' except that malls and shops of non-essential goods and services will be allowed to open from 10 am to 6 pm. The Delhi Metro will run at 33 per cent of its seating capacity in Amber alert while dining facilities in restaurants will not be allowed, but take away service will continue. 'Orange' alert will kick in if positivity crosses two per cent or new cases reach 9,000 or oxygenated bed occupancy becomes 1,000. Construction activities will be allowed with onsite labourers. Industrial activities will be restricted except those related to essential commodities and defence production. Malls and weekly markets will be closed. Standalone non-essential shops will open from 10 am to 6 pm. 'Red' alert will be sounded if positivity rate crosses five per cent or new cases rise to 16,000 or oxygenated bed occupancy reaches 3,000. Most economic activities will not be permitted under 'Red' alert. Construction activities with onsite labourers and industrial manufacturing of essential commodities, national security and defence-related productions will be allowed. Malls and weekly markets will be closed and standalone non-essential shops will open. GRAP also recommends guidelines for people entering the city, including travellers from states with over five per cent positivity rate and those which have reported mutant strains. For international travellers, Central government guidelines will be followed. Restrictions will come into force when a 'Red Alert' has been enforced and people arrive by air from states where the positivity rate is over five per cent. The second condition will involve people coming arriving by air, trains, buses, cars, trucks from states where the positivity rate is over 10 per cent, it says. The third condition for the restrictions is for people from other states where a new mutant of the virus is detected. People arriving in Delhi when GRAP is in force will have to produce a complete vaccination certificate or a negative RT-PCR report not more than 72 hours old. Those failing to do so will have to stay in 14-day institutional or paid quarantine. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/curbs-feared-to-return-as-covid-positivity-rate-in-delhi-mounts-to-046-1064684.html
25-12-2021||North and Central||Azad joins Christmas celebrations; cautions people against divisive politics||Senior Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad on Saturday joined the Christian community to celebrate Christmas in Jammu and Kashmir's Udhampur district and cautioned people against divisive politics having the potential to harm the nation. Azad also said people are converting out of their own free will and not by swords.   "He (the creator) is benevolent who has given more than what is required by humans but then what is this fight for. Politics is the main devil as some politicians change colours like a chameleon, dividing people and spreading hatred on the basis of religion, region, caste, creed, temple, mosques, gurdwaras and churches just to win elections," the Congress leader said addressing a Christmas function in Udhampur. Without naming anyone, he asked "how long do we divide people just to win an election to the post of sarpanch, district and block development councils, member of parliament or member of legislative assembly". "You can achieve whatever you want on the strength of your good work, service to mankind and statesmanship. Dividing people and spreading hatred will only damage our nation, the religion and the society," Azad said. Referring to the controversy over religious conversions, the Congress leader said if anyone is converting people, he is not using a sword which is not in use nowadays.   "It is good work and character of individuals which are influencing people. When you become a role model, someone will marry you or give his daughter… People convert after getting influenced as they see this particular religion is serving humanity, taking everyone along and not discriminating, a son is behaving well with his father and neighbours are also being treated well," he said. Asserting that all religions teach good things, Azad said anything can be achieved by love and not through hatred, suppression or creating fear. Later talking to reporters, he said he joined the Christmas celebration to greet the community and pray for peace, brotherhood and end to Covid-19 pandemic. Meanwhile, senior BJP leader and former legislator Devender Singh Rana also joined Christians at a church here and extended his greetings to the community. He also prayed for peace and prosperity on the occasion. The Christian community across the Jammu region celebrated Christmas with religious fervour and held special prayers for good health and prosperity of the people. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/azad-joins-christmas-celebrations-cautions-people-against-divisive-politics-1064697.html
25-12-2021||North and Central||Farmers close to IB decide to resume cultivation in J&K's Samba||Farmers living close to the International Border (IB) on Saturday decided to resume cultivation beyond the border fence under the protection of the Border Security Force (BSF) in Jammu and Kashmir's Samba district. An official statement said on Saturday that the farmers of Samba district, whose agricultural fields are close to the IB, have resolved to start cultivation on fields beyond IB Fence after visiting the Suchetgarh sector where the BSF has facilitated their counterparts to resume agricultural activities on the fields across the IB fence. The district administration of Samba in collaboration with the BSF on Saturday organised a farmers' tour to Suchetgarh sector and encouraged them to take up agricultural activities beyond the fence in Samba sector as well. "During the exposure visit, the group of 100 farmers along with PRI members from Rajpura, Samba, and Ramgarh had detailed interaction with their counterparts at Suchetgarh and agriculture officers on cultivable crops and practices that can be taken up along the International Border," an official said. Deputy Commissioner (DC) Samba, Anuradha Gupta informed that on the direction of J&amp;K Lt Governor Manoj Sinha, district administration is encouraging Border farmers of Samba to cultivate their fields in the forward areas. An exposure visit of Samba farmers was organised to the Suchetgarh border to encourage them to follow the suit. The DC said that the district administration and BSF authorities will extend full cooperation to farmers by addressing their concerns and also support them in doing routine farming beyond the border fence. Around 500 hectares of cultivable land beyond border fencing is available for cultivation in Samba along International Border. "The district officers accompanying the farmers informed them that crops like aloe-vera, lemon grass etc can also be sown in the area along with conventional crops. "The uncultivated land across the fence can also be sown with the help of BSF and the farmers can be encouraged to take up agricultural activities," said the District Officer. Farmers said they had stopped cultivation due to the fear of Pakistan firing. Now with the government's encouragement farmers here are cultivating their land beyond the fence and we can also resume the cultivation under the security cover of the BSF. Later, the farmers also attended the retreat ceremony at Suchetgarh post. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmers-close-to-ib-decide-to-resume-cultivation-in-jks-samba-1064705.html
25-12-2021||North and Central||Shameful that no arrest made for hate speeches made at Haridwar Dharma Sansad: Gehlot||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday said it was shameful that no arrest has been made for the alleged hate speeches made against a particular community during the 'Dharma Sansad' held at Ved Niketan Dham in Haridwar. The Congress leader said the Supreme Court should take cognisance of the matter and initiate action. The Dharma Sansad, held from December 17-20, was organised by Yati Narasimhanand Giri of the Juna Akhada, who is already under police scanner for making hate speeches and inciting violence against Muslims. In a series of tweets, Gehlot said it was shameful even though there are videos of "provocative and violence-inciting speeches" at an event, no arrest has been made so far. The prime minister, home minister and Uttarakhand chief minister are silent on this issue, he said. "Some unruly elements in our country talk about killing people of one community, but no action is taken against them. It seems that there is a jungle raj situation in BJP-ruled states. Wherever genocide took place in the world, there were similar inflammatory speeches on which no action was taken," Gehlot said. He said citizens will have to decide whether such violent people can be representatives of any religion. "Do the government that has avoided taking action against these miscreants have any right to continue?" Gehlot asked. An FIR has been lodged against Jitendra Narayan Tyagi and others in connection with alleged hate speeches delivered at a Dharma Sansad in Haridwar to incite violence against the minorities, police said on Friday. Tyagi, who changed his name from Waseem Rizvi after converting to Hinduism earlier this month, and other speakers at last week's event have been accused of making extremely provocative speeches and some video clips of it are doing the rounds on social media. Haridwar Kotwali Police station SHO Rakinder Singh said the FIR was registered on Thursday under IPC Section section 153A -- promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language -- and the matter is under investigation. The FIR has been registered based on a complaint by a resident of the Jwalapur area in Haridwar. Asked about the video clips being shared on social media, the official said the police does not have any footage of the event yet. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/shameful-that-no-arrest-made-for-hate-speeches-made-at-haridwar-dharma-sansad-gehlot-1064708.html
25-12-2021||North and Central||Crowd for Cong's Amethi event called from Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh: Irani||Union Minister Smriti Irani on Saturday claimed that the crowd for Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s padyatra here was brought from Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh as local people do not back the party. Irani is the current Amethi MP and had defeated Rahul Gandhi in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, wresting a seat which was considered a stronghold of the Gandhi family. "Those who ruled Amethi for five decades do not have a single person with them. The crowd for the meeting was called from Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh," she said in an apparent dig at the Congress leader, who had recently held a padyatra in the constituency. Referring to the Congress slogan "ladki hoon, lad sakti hoon" for the upcoming UP Assembly polls, she alleged the party did not construct "a single toilet" for women despite ruling for a majority of period after the Independence. Irani was addressing a public meeting, where Union Minister Nitin Gadkari inaugurated and laid foundation stones of projects worth Rs 753 crore. UP Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya also spoke during the public meeting, held ahead of the Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/crowd-for-congs-amethi-event-called-from-chhattisgarh-madhya-pradesh-irani-1064717.html
25-12-2021||Right in the Middle||Cupcake memories||Come Christmas every year, I start brushing up my small telephone notebook to fish out my Christian friends to greet them — my practice for many decades. It started when I was in my early middle school in Shivamogga. I along with some friends would go to Shiny’s house during Christmas, not only to wish all in her family but also to enjoy the exquisite and delicious cupcakes made by her mother with icing cartoons. Shiny had a happy family. Her father worked at the local Church. I remember her taking some of us once to the Church with her father’s permission. As she was the only daughter, all her six brothers not only doted on her but also welcomed her friends. Whenever her mother baked cupcakes, she would invariably send some extra cupcakes with her tiffin. This was a practice for quite some time till a major tragedy struck her family.  When she suddenly had stopped coming to school, we asked our class teacher who told us she, along with her younger brother Henry (who was also our school student), was hospitalised due to Typhoid which was still deadly those days for lack of scientific advancement. My mother never allowed me to visit them for the fear of contracting the same. Just after that, one day in the school assembly, after the prayer, there was a condolence message read out by the headmaster, conveying the sad demise of both Shiny and her brother and a half-day holiday was declared. We felt very sad but did not know how to react as we were too young to understand the depth and intensity of the situation. For many years, during every last week of December, we would remember Shiny and her mother’s cupcakes, but none of us visited her house. To move past the dual tragedy, the family had shifted to Madras and her house stood there forlorn and bare in stark contrast to how I had known it. For the first time, Christmas became just a day in my life. Then, after a few years, I moved to Bhilai (then in Madhya Pradesh) after marriage. As Bhilai is a cosmopolitan township, all of us partook in all festival celebrations. I had quite a good number of Christian colleagues and students. Here once more my tryst with cupcake began. My good friend Paroo, a Coorgi, used to bake exquisite ones which again took me back to Shiny. Now Paroo is no more and we also have moved away from Bhilai to Bengaluru after my husband’s superannuation. That said, the memories of my friends’ love and kindness towards me during Christmas always glow much brighter than the embers of grief that singe me occasionally.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/cupcake-memories-1064324.html
25-12-2021||Second Edit||Cops, buck up on cybercrime probes||It is a matter of concern that only about 5% of the number of accused in cybercrime cases registered in Bengaluru were traced over two years. Of the 24,795 incidents registered, police have managed to trace the accused in only 1,376 cases, Home Minister Araga Jnanendra has informed the Legislative Council. The conviction rate in the last one year is zero. Karnataka was the first state to establish an exclusive cybercrime police station at CID headquarters, Bengaluru, in 2001. Subsequently, the government set up CEN (Cyber, Economic Offences and Narcotics) police stations across the state, but their performance has been less than optimum. Among all Indian cities, Bengaluru registers the highest number of cybercrimes. According to DGP Praveen Sood, Rs 70 crore belonging to nearly 6,500 victims of cybercrimes are frozen in the bank accounts of fraudsters. The police plan to extend the Cyber Information Report (CIR) facility, where a complaint can be lodged by dialling 112, to the entire state by the end of January. The facility has been available in Bengaluru for about 10 months now, but the CEN wing continued to behave as if it were still in a previous era, insisting that an FIR be lodged first before the investigation is initiated. Speed is of the essence in cybercrimes as the time gap between the occurrence of the offence and police action gives a window to the accused to complete the crime, such as withdrawing the money that has been fraudulently transferred to their account, but also to manipulate digital footprints, making it difficult to trace the criminal. The DGP’s announcement that the CIR facility will be operational 24X7 is welcome as a real-time investigation is crucial, all the more because cybercrimes ranging from online banking/OTP/ATM frauds to child pornography, offences against women and fake news are on the rise, having gone up 12% in 2020 compared to 2019. With the increasing penetration of the internet and mobile phones, more citizens will become vulnerable to such crimes in the future. Bengaluru boasts of being the IT capital of India, and the CEN personnel themselves do not lack talent. A few of them have even won ‘Cyber Cop of the Year’ awards. Unfortunately, many senior officers are not familiar with cyberspace, and a few of them have themselves fallen prey to fraudsters. Unless the entire police force is educated, trained and sensitised to the potential enormity of digital crimes, the detection and conviction rates will continue to remain poor.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/cops-buck-up-on-cybercrime-probes-1064327.html
25-12-2021||South||AIADMK under pressure to bring in Sasikala to party fold||The opposition AIADMK, battered and bruised in back-to-back polls since the 2019 general elections, is trying for a make-over but the lack of unity among its top leaders, O Panneerselvam and K Palaniswami, is creating issues for the party. The AIADMK, wants to bring in a high-level performance in the upcoming urban local body elections scheduled in a couple of months' time. But there needs to be unity at the top which however is lacking in the party. While V K Sasikala was expelled from the party and both Panneerselvam and Palaniswami were opposed to her entry, after the rural local body elections to the eight districts, there is a rethinking in a section of the party leadership led by Panneerselvam. Panneerselvam and Sasikala belong to the same Thevar community which has a considerable influence in southern Tamil Nadu, the forte of the former Chief Minister, where there has been a lot of pressure from the community elders for re-entry of Sasikala into the party fold. The recent Christmas wish of Panneerselvam calling for forgiving the past mistakes and a new beginning is being read by many as a sign of the former Chief Minister providing an extended rope to the expelled Interim General Secretary of the party to make a comeback. However senior leaders of the AIADMK, including former ministers, D. Jayakumar and C.V. Shanmugham, have openly expressed strong opposition to Sasikala's re-entry and said that the party does not need such leaders who had brought a bad name to the AIADMK. The statements of these leaders, who are said to be close to Palaniswami, are considered to be with the support and blessings of the opposition leader who is totally opposed to the entry of Sasikala. R. Padmanabhan, Director, Socio-Economic Development Foundation, a think tank based out of Madurai, while speaking to IANS said: "AIADMK is lacking a charismatic leader and there is a vacuum at the top for that. The rate at which Stalin is surging ahead is to be studied properly by the AIADMK if they need a comeback and bringing in Sasikala who knows the in and out of AIADMK politics as being a shadow and aide of former Chief Minister, late J. Jayalalithaa. I don't think that she will take out a magic wand and bring AIADMK back to reckoning but of course, she can make a difference however little it may be." Sasikala has been working meticulously among the party cadres for recognition in all parts of the state. She has a team of dedicated office staff who is engaging her with the party cadres across the state as well as lower and mid-level leaders of the party to connect a direct chord with the lower strata of the party. K.L. Muruganadan, a former leader of AIADMK from Palani in Dindigul district, told IANS: "The AIADMK is now under lot of pressure and the party needs a different line of thinking. Sasikala if brought back to the party can infuse some charisma to the party cadres as she had the experience and exposure of being the ear and eyes of a dynamic political leader, late Chief Minister, Jayalalithaa, and this is her advantage. If party makes use of that, then AIADMK has a life and both the leader's OPS and EPS must unite for that to bring her back to the party fold and give an impetus to the fortune of the party, otherwise, the party will have to play second fiddle to the DMK." The national leadership of the BJP is also contemplating bringing Sasikala to the AIADMK and according to information from New Delhi, discussions to this count have taken place with all the stakeholders of the AIADMK, RSS, and BJP leadership of Tamil Nadu. While most of the RSS and BJP leaders are in support of Sasikala's re-entry, the AIADMK is still divided equally on her entry and this if not solved would create a roadblock. With the urban local body polls being the next direct fight between the two fronts, the AIADMK needs to bring in a radical change. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/aiadmk-under-pressure-to-bring-in-sasikala-to-party-fold-1064517.html
25-12-2021||South||Tamil Nadu empowers bus staff to alight passengers for unruly behaviour||Tamil Nadu's Transport Department has released a draft gazette notification amending the state Motor Vehicles Rules, 1989, pertaining to the responsibilities of bus conductors and drivers. The amendments, according to Motor Vehicle department officials, will come into effect within 30 days of publishing the draft. The draft was published on Thursday. The transport department took this step after complaints are on the rise of people harassing women commuters with inappropriate behaviour and gestures. Till now the drivers and conductors of the buses were not empowered to act against such people who behave inappropriately towards women. In addition to empowering the bus staff, the new amendment has brought in provisions preventing the bus staff from touching women under the guise of supporting them from boarding and alighting the bus. There were several complaints against bus staff acting discriminately against women passengers with one such instance where a woman from Kanniyakumari selling fish was forced out of a bus citing that she felt a foul smell of fish. In another incident, a driver and conductor of a Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) bus were arrested on December 10 after a woman complained that she was molested in a late-night bus by the crew. A senior official with the Transport Department told IANS: "There were no provisions earlier for the drivers and conductors of stage carriers(buses) to act against passengers who annoy other passengers, including women passengers with lewd gestures and behaviour. With the amendment of the Transport Act, they can now force such passengers out of the vehicle. "In addition to empowering the bus staff, the amendment prevents the bus staff against inappropriate behaviour towards women." The Department will initiate strict action against the conductor and driver of a bus if they are found behaving in an indecent manner towards women commuters. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-empowers-bus-staff-to-alight-passengers-for-unruly-behaviour-1064542.html
25-12-2021||South||Tamil Nadu advises Foxconn to improve working, living conditions of employees||A week after hundreds of Foxconn employees blocked a National Highway to protest against poor quality of food being provided, the Tamil Nadu government has provided a slew of “advice and suggestions” to the Taiwanese electronic equipment major on improving their working conditions and providing all basic amenities at the hostels. The suggestions were given to the top management of Foxconn by Additional Chief Secretary (Industries) S Krishnan, and Additional Director General of Police P Thamarai Kannan during a meeting held at the State Secretariat on December 23.   Hundreds of Foxconn employees working at its massive manufacturing facility in Sriperumbudur, 50 km from here, had blocked the Chennai-Bengaluru highway last week after 159 of their colleagues were admitted to various hospitals after they consumed food provided at a hostel managed by the firm.  The blockade on December 18 had brought traffic on one side of the National Highway to a complete halt for over six hours and came to an end only after intervention from the government.  During the talks, the company told the state government it was working to resume production at the facility, which was suspended after the protest, as early as possible. Foxconn is one of the major Taiwanese companies that have Tamil Nadu its home and had in 2020 pledged to invest over Rs 7,000 crore in expanding facilities, including to assemble high-end Apple iPhones.  In a detailed press release issued on Saturday, the Tamil Nadu government said Foxconn has been advised to improve the working conditions of employees who have been hired on a contract basis.  “Steps should be taken to improve the quality of the rooms, wash rooms, water, and other basic amenities at the hostel. Steps should be taken to ensure that rooms where employees stay are well ventilated,” the statement said.  The top government officials told the company to obtain necessary permission from the district collector for the employees hostel and to take steps to cook the food served to employees within the place of their accommodation.  Foxconn, according to the statement, assured that it will urge the contractors to provide quality food to 15,000 employees working with the company.  The Taiwanese electronic equipment manufacturer told the government that it was expanding the facility which will result in additional employment for people from the state.  “The meeting advised (Foxconn) to grant emergency leave as and when required to contract employees and asked the company to hire a manpower agency to find suitable replacements for contract employees who go on leave,” the statement said.  The government also said the State Industries Promotion Corporation (SIPCOT) was building an integrated hostel complex at a cost of Rs 570 crore in Vallam Vadakal village in the Kanchipuram district. The complex which will come up at an area of 20 acres will have 8 blocks with 11 floors each that can accommodate 18,750 persons.  “The complex will be constructed within 18 months using new construction technology,” the statement added.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-advises-foxconn-to-improve-working-living-conditions-of-employees-1064555.html
25-12-2021||South||File criminal complaints against encroachers: HR&CE to officials||Tamil Nadu’s Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR & CE) department has asked its officials across the state to file criminal complaints with the police against those who are occupying temple properties without any formal agreement and without paying the required rent.  In a letter to sub-officers of the department, HR & CE Commissioner J Kumaragurubaran has quoted a recent amendment to the Tamil Nadu Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Act which has categorised encroachment of properties belonging to temples as a cognisable and non-bailable offence. The fresh amendment also allows any individual to complain against unlawful possession of any property belonging to temples and endowments. Earlier, only the HR & CE Commissioner was authorised to give a written complaint based on which courts or police will act against the encroachers. “So, this letter urges the trustees or officials concerned of temples or religious institutions to file criminal complaints against those who have occupying properties without any formal agreement or without paying any rent. The complaints should be filed at police stations,” Kumaragurubaran said.  He also urged temple authorities to identify people who have been enjoying temple properties without any legal sanction and file complaints against them. The temple management, Kumaragurubaran said in his letter, should cooperate with the police in the investigations by providing details of the encroachments.   Kumaragurubaran also attached a copy of the amendment law, which came into effect in October, in the letter. The letter by the HR & CE Commissioner comes in the wake of the department launching a massive drive in finding out encroachment of temple properties and recovering them.  The DMK government, which assumed office in May this year, has taken several steps to infuse greater transparency in the functioning of temples and has begun uploading details of temple lands, buildings, and other records on its website as the first step. The department is also conducting a drone and DGPS survey of nearly 5 lakh acres of land owned by various temples and trusts that come under it after which 3D images of the land will be published online. As many as 44,121 temples in Tamil Nadu come under the HR&CE department which manages and controls them. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/file-criminal-complaints-against-encroachers-hrce-to-officials-1064626.html
25-12-2021||South||Daily recoveries outnumber new Covid-19 cases in Kerala||Kerala on Saturday clocked 2,407 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the total caseload to 52.21 lakh. However, 3,377 people recuperated from the deadly disease during the same period, taking the total number of those cured in the southern state to 51,61,800. The state health department said 115 deaths were recorded which raised the toll to 46,318. Of the 115 deaths, 11 were recorded over the last few days and 311 were designated as Covid-19 deaths after receiving appeals based on the new guidelines of the Centre and the directions of the Supreme Court. Among the districts, Thiruvananthapuram recorded the highest number--505, followed by Ernakulam 424 and Kozhikode 227 cases. The state tested 44,754 samples in the last 24 hours and there are six wards across five local self government bodies with a weekly infection population ratio above 10 per cent. There are 1,24,904 people under observation of which 3,858 are in isolation wards of various hospitals. "Currently there are 24,501 active Covid-19 cases in the state out of which only 9.3 per cent are admitted to various hospitals in the state," the department said in a release. Of those found infected today, 21 reached the state from outside while 2,253 contracted the disease from their contact. The source of infection of 116 is yet to be traced and 17 health workers are also among the infected. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/daily-recoveries-outnumber-new-covid-19-cases-in-kerala-1064647.html
25-12-2021||South||Omicron spread is significantly higher in closed, unventilated rooms: TN govt||The spread of the Omicron variant of Covid-19 among close contacts and in closed unventilated rooms is “significantly and extremely high”, the Tamil Nadu government said on Saturday, quoting preliminary data from contact tracing of those infected with the Omicron variant.  In yet another indication that Omicron could spread much faster than the previous variants, as many as 54 persons, including doctors, nurses, and health workers, tested positive after they came in contact with a diabetic patient before he was about to undergo surgery at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGH) here.  As many as 3,038 direct and indirect contacts of the diabetic patient, whose genomic sequencing returned positive for Omicron variant, have so far been tested of which 54 samples have turned positive. Besdies, samples of 39 of the 54 persons have S-gene dropout, which is considered a proxy indicator for the Omicron variant. All samples have been sent to the National Institute of Virology, Pune for genomic sequencing.  The development came as Principal Secretary (Health) J Radhakrishnan wrote to district collectors “not to let down their guard” as increased transmissibility of the variant might lead to an increase in caseload, though validation of clinical progress would take some more time.  “Preliminary data in contact tracing has clearly shown that the spread among close contacts and in closed unventilated rooms is significantly and extremely high in the case of the OMICRON variant,” Radhakrishnan wrote in the letter on Saturday.  Officials said the spread was “quite high” in closed spaces as contact tracing of another Omicron-infected person showed that he had transmitted the virus to people with whom he interacted for just a few minutes. The state has so far reported 34 Omicron cases even as the results of genomic sequencing of over 80 samples, including the 54 mentioned above, are awaited.  As it battles a high number of Omicron cases, the Health Department has now asked all international passengers to Tamil Nadu even from “non-risk countries” to quarantine themselves at their home for seven days and step out only after the RT-PCR test taken on the eighth day returns negative. In the letter, Radhakrishnan conveyed his deep concern over the “lack of follow up of COVID appropriate behaviour” in public places and gatherings by most people. “Unless there is a visible change of behaviour among all the people and strict enforcement of masks, social distancing, hand washing, ensuring ventilation in closed places along with increasing the pace of vaccinations, it will be difficult and impossible to contain the spread,” he said.  He also drew the attention of the district collectors to the lack of follow up and enforcement of Covid appropriate behaviour in hospitals and medical colleges. “It is more concerning because in case of OMICRON Symptoms are very mild and a person may not even know that he is sick and would be unknowingly spreading it to many if the persons with infection in such premises and others who come in contact with the person are not wearing a mask and taking other indicated precautions,” he said. Radhakrishnan also said all tested persons should be asked to be in self-isolation till the results come to avoid further spread and told the district administrations to keep reviewing hospital preparedness. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/omicron-spread-is-significantly-higher-in-closed-unventilated-rooms-tn-govt-1064649.html
25-12-2021||South||BJP leaders threaten to stop Munawar Faruqui's show in Hyderabad||BJP leaders in Telangana have threatened to stop the show of stand-up comedian Munawar Faruqui in Hyderabad. State BJP president Bandi Sanjay on Saturday asked Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) to stop the show of Faruqui. The stand-up comedian is scheduled to perform in the city on January 9. After Telangana's industry and information technology minister KT Rama Rao extended an open invite, Faruqui announced that he will be performing in Hyderabad. His show is titled 'Dhandho'. However, this has evoked a strong reaction from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders. Addressing the BJYM workers, Sanjay said it was their responsibility to prevent the comedian from entering the city. He alleged that Faruqui insulted Hindu gods and goddesses and Bhagwad Gita in his shows. Sanjay, who is also an MP from Karimnagar, slammed KTR for inviting Faruqui and dubbed him an atheist. Earlier, BJP MP from Nizamabad, D Arvind said Faruqui's show will not be allowed in Hyderabad. He said while states like Karnataka banned his shows, KTR has invited him to Telangana. "Has Hindu society become a comedy for KTR and his father KCR?" asked the MP. BJP MLA from Goshamahal constituency in Hyderabad has also threatened to stop Faruqui's show. The stand-up comedian had earlier tweeted that he was receiving several calls and emails from Hyderabad to perform in the city. Last week, KTR had extended an open invitation to comedians to perform in Hyderabad saying the city is truly cosmopolitan. The minister took a jibe at the BJP government in Karnataka, after stand-up comedians Munawar Faruqui and Kunal Kamra's shows were cancelled in Bengaluru over threats from some right-wing groups. "In our city, stand-up comedians get an open invite. We don't cancel shows of Munawar Faruqui and Kunal Kamra just because we are not aligned with them politically," KTR had said at an event on Friday. "You claim to be a cosmopolitan city, and then you end up taking comedy very seriously. I don't understand that at all," he had told people from Bengaluru. "We (Hyderabad) are a truly cosmopolitan city who are welcoming of all cultures, welcoming of criticism. You can come here, criticise the government. In fact, we receive a lot of brickbats from our opposition every day but we are very tolerant," KTR had said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bjp-leaders-threaten-to-stop-munawar-faruquis-show-in-hyderabad-1064661.html
25-12-2021||South||Proof of vaccination must to take part in festivals, says Puducherry Lt Governor||Lieutenant Governor of Puducherry Tamilisai Soundararajan on Saturday said those visiting the Union Territory from other States to participate in the New Year eve celebrations or other festivals here should show proof of being vaccinated against the Covid-19 pandemic. Talking to reporters after visiting the premises of the government-owned AFT Mill, now closed, she said the government had planned to use the mill premises to run a Covid Care Centre as there was every necessity for preparations to have beds and other infrastructure facilities when there was threat of onslaught of new variant of the virus - the Omicron. "The new variant of coronavirus has been spreading across the country. Puducherry government has initiated steps to ramp up infrastructure. As part of this the AFT Mill will be used to establish a Covid Care Centre," she said. Referring to the reported plan of some sections to launch agitations to protest the government`s decision to make vaccination compulsory, the Lt Governor said, "This plan of agitation will be a step in the wrong direction. Compulsory vaccination was a part of the efforts of the government to protect people against the virus. Instead of holding agitations, all should join hands to make the current drive against the pandemic a success." The Health Department has so far administered vaccines to more than eight lakh people in the Union Territory. She said the National Youth Festival being held here from January 12 to 16 in association with the Union Ministry for Sports and Youth affairs would be a major event. All those participating in the event should have taken the jab. Those coming from outside Puducherry to participate in the festivals and also New Year eve celebration should have been vaccinated against the pandemic, she added. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/proof-of-vaccination-must-to-take-part-in-festivals-says-puducherry-lt-governor-1064662.html
25-12-2021||South||AP government holds grand reception for CJI Ramana||The Jaganmohan Reddy government hosted a grand reception in Vijayawada on Saturday in honour of the Chief Justice of India NV Ramana. Justice Ramana, who was elevated to the top judicial post in the country in April this year, is on a three-day visit to Andhra Pradesh. Prior to the function, Reddy and his wife Bharathi had also paid a courtesy call to Justice Ramana. The high-tea event organised at the Indira Gandhi municipal stadium was attended by JK Maheshwari, a Supreme Court judge and former chief justice of Andhra Pradesh high court, and Andhra Pradesh and Telangana chief justices, among other judges. Several of Reddy's council of ministers were also in attendance. In October last year, months before Ramana became the CJI, Reddy had made serious allegations against the then second senior-most judge in the apex court. A huge controversy erupted over the letter Reddy wrote to the then CJI SA Bobde, accusing Justice Ramana of trying to control the AP High Court and influence cases affecting the state. The chief minister even charged that the high court was being used to "destabilise and topple his democratically-elected government." After an in-house probe, the complaint by CM Reddy was dismissed. Justice Ramana is set to serve as the CJI till August 2022. On Friday, Justice Ramana received was felicitated in his native village of Ponnavaram in AP's Krishna district. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ap-government-holds-grand-reception-for-cji-ramana-1064667.html
25-12-2021||South||Tamil Nadu to test all international arrivals irrespective of country of origin, says state health minister||Tamil Nadu Health Minister Ma Subramanian on Saturday said the state government has made home isolation and eight-day exit test mandatory for all international passengers arriving in the state. The state health department has tightened the mandatory norms after several cases of Omicron variant were reported by passengers who arrived in the state from countries not designated as 'at-risk'. Botswana, Brazil, South Africa, China, Israel, Mauritius, New Zealand, Ghana, Zimbabwe, Tanzania, Hong Kong, and all countries in Europe, including the UK, are currently designated as 'at-risk.'. The minister in a statement on Saturday said, "We will continue with the mandatory requirements for passengers from 'at-risk' countries that are mentioned above including testing on arrival and home isolation for eight days if found negative and then exit test; but the same will now be implemented to passengers who reach the state from 'not-at-risk' countries also as there are several reports of Omicron variant being detected from passengers who arrives from 'not-at-risk' countries also." Till Saturday, there was only a 2 per cent random test for passengers who arrived from 'not-at-risk' countries and none of them had to wait for results but were advised to monitor their health condition for two weeks. He said that they were called for hospital isolation only when they tested positive, as per the Central government guidelines. The health minister said that the department will now be stepping up testing and monitoring. The minister said that police, revenue, health, and local government bodies will monitor the health condition of passengers who are in quarantine. Passengers in domestic flights will also be asked to provide their travel history, the minister said. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-to-test-all-international-arrivals-irrespective-of-country-of-origin-says-state-health-minister-1064671.html
25-12-2021||South||Telangana announces Covid crubs in light of Omicron threats||The Telangana government has prohibited all kind of rallies and public meetings throughout the state till 2 January in view of the rising Omicron cases. The decision was taken following the Telangana high court directions to the K Chandrasekhar Rao government on Thursday for “appropriate decisions in respect of public gatherings keeping in view the new Omicron variant.” In the orders issued on Saturday, chief secretary Somesh Kumar said that other events involving congregation of people will be permitted subject to adherence to Covid-19 restrictions like physical distancing, compulsory mask. Thermometers/thermal scanners should be arranged at the entry points to scan persons entering the venue. Officials said that a Rs 1000 fine would be imposed on people not wearing mask in public spaces. Three Omicron cases were reported on Saturday, of international travelers who had landed at the Hyderabad international airport from non-risk countries. Telangana has so far reported 41 Omicron cases, 40 of them passengers who arrived from at risk and other nations. Many of these people came from African countries. One case is of contact transmission. Health officials said that 10 of the 41 cases have recovered, while the genome sequencing reports of 20 Covid-19 positive samples are awaited. Watch th latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-announces-covid-crubs-in-light-of-omicron-threats-1064673.html
25-12-2021||State||Bommai to continue as CM, party to silence rumour mongers: Arun Singh||Dismissing the speculation of change of leadership in Karnataka, BJP General Secretary (incharge) Arun Singh on Saturday said Basavaraj Bommai will continue as the CM and complete the term. The party knows who is spreading this and will silence them.  “Home Minister Amit Shah ji already said the next assembly elections in Karnataka will be fought under the leadership of Bommai. There is no ambiguity in it. So the question of change of leadership does not arise”, Singh told DH. “The rumours means there is no truth in it. The party will silence all rumour mongering. Such things will not be tolerated in the BJP,” he said adding that, “the party will take action against those indulging in whispering campaigns.” Denying any infighting in the party, he said, “there is no space for infighting in the party. All are working like family or strengthening the organisation.” Calling the CM's administration 'able and clean', Singh said several popular programmes announced by the Bommai-headed government have received a lot of appreciation from the public. Insisting that the recently held Legislative Council election was not a setback for the party he said, "due to popular programmes of the government, the party was able to gain five more seats in the polls. The election result was positive to the party's performance." Though the party was expecting two more seats- Belagavi and Mysuru, we lost it. We will discuss what went wrong in these two seats, he said. Infact, the Council poll was set back to Congress and JD(S) as both have lost seats, he said. He said in the state executive committee meeting to be held in Hubballi next week, the party performance in the Legislative Council elections would be discussed. The party National president J P Nadda would also attend the meeting. Singh also dismissed the talk of replacing state unit president Nalin Kumar Kateel. He is working hard to strengthen the organisation. The party also performed well in all elections after he became the state unit head, Singh said. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/bommai-to-continue-as-cm-party-to-silence-rumour-mongers-arun-singh-1064668.html
25-12-2021||State||33 medical students test positive for Covid in Kolar||A total of 33 students of the Devaraj Urs Medical College in Kolar have tested positive for Covid. The college hostel and its vicinity have been declared a containment zone. All the infected students are from north India. According to Health department, examinations are underway at the college and all these students had not travelled to their states in the past one and half months. Covid test has been conducted on as many as 1,200 persons including college students and staff. Deputy Commissioner R Selvamani said that the girls hostel of the medical college has been sealed down and movement of people has been prohibited in the vicinity.  In Kodagu As many as 26  students from a private residential school at Attur in Kodagu district have tested positive for Covid. Following illness, two students from the residential school were tested for Covid-19 on December 20 and the infection was confirmed. Subsequently, the health officials collected swab of all the students and 24 were tested positive on Friday.  Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/33-medical-students-test-positive-for-covid-in-kolar-1064709.html
25-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka PG dental students left in lurch over seat allocation||The state government’s failure to complete the postgraduate dental seat allocation in time has put the careers of hundreds of students at stake. The Centre has rejected the state government’s plea to extend the date of admission and validate their admissions retrospectively. After delaying the counselling process for more than a month, the state government, realising its mistake, wrote to the Union Health Ministry requesting an extension of the last date for admissions and approve admissions made after the deadline. However, the Centre turned down the plea and ruled out any extension of the date. The Centre’s communication on December 21, accessed by DH read, “I am directed to refer to letter number MED95RGU2021 dated 26-11-21 received from the government of Karnataka and to inform that with the approval of the competent authority, it has been decided not to further extend the last date of admissions to Post Graduate Dental courses for the academic year 2021-22.” The Dental Council of India (DCI) also issued a public notice which stated, “The executive committee of DCI decided to reiterate that the cut-off date for admissions to MDS courses for the academic session 2021-22 was extended up to November 20 and all dental colleges were directed to upload details of the students on the DCI website up to November 20 (12 midnight) and also decided that any request regarding extension of the last date for admission for the academic session 2021-22 or uploading such details of students on the DCI website shall not be entertained.” While the Centre’s firm stand has left hundreds of students in the lurch, officials from the Karnataka Examinations Authority (KEA) said they are only the executing authority and the counselling process was held as communicated by the medical education department. When asked about the reason for the delay, officials from the medical education department said, “The process was delayed because the consensual agreement between the state government and dental colleges was delayed at the government level.” According to the DCI notification, the last date to register admissions for the 2021-22 academic year was November 20. Sources said the NEET-MDS 2021 entrance was held on December 16, 2020. The all-India counselling was conducted during September 2021. Instead of conducting the state counselling soon after the all-India counselling, the state government delayed the process and started it on December 5. Shocked by the development, the students said, “We have been made scapegoats. The government has toyed with our future and it will be a waste of our academic year,” said a candidate. Principal Secretary, medical education department, Naveen Raj Singh, was not available for comments. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-pg-dental-students-left-in-lurch-over-seat-allocation-1064464.html
25-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Omicron: Few districts tracking community transmission||A day after the Centre’s direction to eight metropolitan cities to send all the Covid positive samples for genomic sequencing, to track the community transmission of the Omicron variant, Health Commissioner D Randeep told DH that Karnataka still need to put tracking and reporting systems in place and that the state surveillance unit is working on it. Out of 183 cases analysed by the Union health ministry across India, 44 (17 per cent) of the cases had no foreign travel history, while the travel history of 18 was not known. As many as 121 (73 per cent) Omicron patients had foreign travel history. As per the ministry, 15 out of 31 Omicron patients in the state have either recovered or discharged or have migrated. Only 16 cases are active. A district-wise breakup of samples sent for genomic sequencing in December revealed that some districts have sent only those samples belonging to clusters and those with international travel history. However, others have sent all samples with Ct value less than 25. Davangere sent 10 out of 19 cases, Koppal sent four out of six cases, Kodagu sent 52 out of 200 cases and Shivamogga sent 114 out of over 140 cases. Dharwad district surveillance officer Dr Sujatha Hasavimath told DH, “All districts have received instructions. Irrespective of Ct value, we are sending samples for sequencing as there are emerging variants of the Covid virus. We are sending samples even that have more than 25 Ct value and leaving it to the lab to take a call.”  Dharwad had 31 active cases till December 23 out of which eight cases were reported on Thursday. However, Davangere district health officials said they are only sending samples that belong to clusters and of international travellers for genomic sequencing. “There was a cluster of four children who had tested positive in Navodaya school. We have sent them for sequencing. None of the 16 cases that were reported in November were sent for sequencing,” the official said.  Dr Anand N, district surveillance officer, Kodagu, said, “We are not only sending cluster samples and those with travel history for sequencing but any sample with a low Ct value.” A scientist, who did not wish to be named, said, “One should do more sequencing especially in early stages of the wave, to estimate population prevalence and plan accordingly.” Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/omicron-few-districts-tracking-community-transmission-1064498.html
25-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Anti-conversion bill not for political gains, says Araga Jnanendra||Home Minister Araga Jnanendra said that there is a need to think over the Karnataka Protection of Right to Freedom of Religion Bill, or the anti-conversion bill beyond the political parties. The Bill has been passed in the Legislative Assembly. “We need to discuss why the Bill was tabled in the assembly. The religious and cultural framework of the country propagates love and respect for all religions. Such a mentality one can not see anywhere in the world. Unfortunately, the ‘tree of love’ is attacked by the termite in the name of conversion, which needs to be checked to maintain harmony,” he told the press at Mangaluru International Airport on Saturday. “The Bill was not tabled keeping in mind the upcoming election. It is for the country’s future. Bills like common civil code are required in the interest of the country,” he said. “Only BJP could abrogate Article 370 in Kashmir. It could not be scrapped by the Congress which believes in vote bank politics,” said the minister. To a query on communal clashes in Uppinangady, the minister defended police action and said they "tackled the issue effectively". He added that they will act against those who take law into their hands. "Personnel had remained patient till they were allegedly attacked by the mob in Uppinangady,” he said. To a query on Maoist leaders from the state surrendering and the relevance of Anti Naxal Force, the minister said, “Several Maoist leaders have come to the mainstream. We can not stop till the police record claims that Naxal activities have come to zero level in Karnataka.” Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/anti-conversion-bill-not-for-political-gains-says-araga-jnanendra-1064524.html
25-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Non-passing of anti-conversion bill not setback to govt: CM Bommai||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said it was not his government’s failure to get the Karnataka Protection of Right to Freedom of Religion Bill (anti-conversion bill) passed in the Winter Session of the Assembly, as the government knew, from the first, that they lacked number in Council. Speaking to media persons here on Saturday, the chief minister said the government made all its efforts to table the bill in Council. “A few of our party members could not attend the session. Had they attended the session, we could have tried to get the bill passed. We even tried to ferry the MLCs to the house but could do so in time. As we were short of number, we decided to legally withdraw the bill,” he said. Bommai also clarified that the bill will be introduced again in the next joint session when the party’s numbers will be just one vote short of a simple majority. Unacceptable behaviour The Chief Minister also condemned the behaviour of leaders of the opposition, especially Congress, for "being stubborn regarding how the house should function". Congress leaders’ behaviour with Legislative Council Chairman Basavaraj Horatti is unacceptable. “It was only after my intervention and leader of opposition’s apology that Horatti decided to withdraw his resignation letter. Congress leaders should understand that Council time is for every member of the house and not limited to just a few,” he said. No foreign visit Bommai also clarified that he has no schedule of visiting any foreign country in the near future. “Earlier, I was supposed to attend the World Economic Forum, Davos meet. However, with the meet itself getting postponed, so I have no plans to visit any country,” said a visibly irked chief minister, whose USA visit was seen by many as signs of his exit from the chief minister’s post. Night curfew The chief minister said he would hold a meeting with top officials and a technical team regarding the measures to be taken to prevent the spread of Covid-19, specifically the Omicron variant. “A meeting will be held in Bengaluru on Sunday and based on the suggestion given by the experts we will decide the future course of action,” he said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/non-passing-of-anti-conversion-bill-not-a-setback-to-govt-cm-bommai-1064539.html
25-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Bommai to decide on night curfew, other curbs in key Omicron meeting on December 26||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Saturday said he would hold a meeting with experts on Covid-19 on Sunday in Bengaluru in view of the rising Covid-19 cases in the country. "Omicron is rising in the country. My fear is that the Covid-19 cases are rising in Maharashtra, Kerala as well as in Tamil Nadu. This scares me. After reaching Bengaluru, I will discuss with all the important people and will decide the next course of action keeping in view the present situation," Bommai said. Regarding the night curfew, he said it will be decided in the meeting. To a query on the possibility of giving booster dose, Bommai said the Centre will take a call on it. He also said that the guidelines issued earlier are still continuing in the state. However, after reviewing the situation, more strict measures can be initiated. Karnataka has seen 31 Omicron cases and a majority of infected persons were asymptomatic. Barring the minors, all of them have been vaccinated.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bommai-to-decide-on-night-curfew-other-curbs-in-key-omicron-meeting-on-december-26-1064559.html
25-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||'Programme postponed': Bommai rules out going abroad||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Saturday ruled out going abroad saying that the programme he was supposed to attend in Davos has been postponed. "I was supposed to attend a programme in Davos, which has been postponed. As a result, my foreign trip is cancelled," Bommai told reporters in Hubballi. There were rumours that the Chief Minister would go abroad for the treatment of his knee related ailment. However, his cabinet colleagues too ruled out his going abroad, saying that the ailment will be cured here in India without undergoing treatment. Regarding the passage of the anti-conversion bill, which aims to check religious conversion in the state, Bommai said the BJP does not have a majority in the legislative council. "We don't have support there in the upper house. If we had at least two more members, we would have passed it," Bommai said. The bill was passed by the assembly on Thursday but has not been cleared by the legislative council. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/programme-postponed-bommai-rules-out-going-abroad-1064602.html
25-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Bommai will remain CM until next elections, says Karnataka BJP chief||Karnataka BJP President Nalin Kumar Kateel on Saturday asserted that Basavaraj Bommai will remain the chief minister until the next elections.  “There won’t be any change in leadership. There’s no need for people to believe in such a hypothesis,” Kateel told reporters.  “With BS Yediyurappa also, speculation on his removal started the very next day he became the CM. Even now, there’s speculation saying Bommai will go this day or that day,” Kateel said, adding that Bommai will lead the BJP into the next elections under Yediyurappa’s guidance.  He said that speculation surrounding Bommai’s exit is aimed at “destabilising” the government and “creating political problems”. He even speculated that the Congress could be behind this rumour.  Kateel further clarified that Bommai is not scheduled for an overseas trip. “He has leg pain for which he is taking treatment. He is healthy. The leg pain will get fixed here itself. He was to go abroad on government work, which was postponed,” he said.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bommai-will-remain-cm-until-next-elections-says-karnataka-bjp-chief-1064637.html
25-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka sees 270 new Covid-19 cases, four deaths||Karnataka, on Saturday, reported 270 new Covid cases and four deaths, taking the total positive cases reported so far to 30,04,239 and death toll to 38,309. The active cases in the state stand at 7,271. Bengaluru accounted for 152 Covid cases, Kodagu 25, Tumakuru and Udupi 14 each, and Mysuru 13. While Bengaluru accounted for two deaths, Udupi and Dharwad reported one death each. The positivity rate for the day stands at 0.27 per cent and case fatality rate 1.48 per cent. As many as 97,782 samples were tested on Saturday, taking the total samples tested so far to 5,59,24,486. As many as 246 discharges took the recovery numbers to 29,58,630 on Saturday. As many as 1,12,967 Covid vaccine doses were administered on Saturday, taking the total vaccination doses given so far to 8,45,72,481. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-sees-270-new-covid-19-cases-four-deaths-1064710.html
25-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Winds of change in old Mysore may take wind out of JD(S)' sails||The recent Legislative Council election results came as a rude shock for the JD(S), with the regional party losing ground in the old Mysore region.  The results also saw the Congress regain an upper hand here, putting the BJP in a tricky spot, even as it hopes to make inroads in the region.  The old Mysore region that comprises some 60-odd constituencies is a crucial bloc for any party in Karnataka to win elections and it was originally a Congress bastion where the JD(S) established a strong presence in recent decades.  Dominated by the Vokkaliga community, the region includes Mysuru, Mandya, Hassan, Ramanagara, Chamarajanagar, Chikkaballapur, Kolar and Kodagu districts, among others. Some of the tallest leaders of both Congress and JD(S), including former chief ministers Siddaramaiah and H D Kumaraswamy, are from the region. With just over a year left for the 2023 Assembly elections, the region is witnessing a shift in political dynamics. In the Council election results this month, the JD(S) won only two seats in Hassan (Suraj Revanna) and Mysore-Chamarajanagar (C N Manje Gowda). The regional party lost to Congress in its turf in Mandya. The Congress also won in Kolar, Tumkur and the second seat in Mysore-Chamarajnagar, reasserting its strength in the region. This was a blow to the JD(S), which has already lost considerable seats in this region in the Chikkaballapur, Hunsur and Sira bypolls.  In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, JD(S) supremo H D Deve Gowda lost in Tumkur, while his grandson Nikhil Kumaraswamy lost in Mandya.  “The JD(S) have been kingmakers until now, a leverage which is being diluted. The region is now turning out to be a two-way fight between Congress and BJP,” points out M J Vinod, professor of international studies, politics and history at Christ (deemed-to-be-university). A number of JD(S) MLAs from this region are expected to jump ship to Congress in the run-up to the 2023 polls. The BJP is keenly watching the changing political landscape in the Old Mysore region, where the saffron party is building its base. One BJP leader cautions against writing off the clout of the JD(S). “The MLC polls are manipulated. The party still has a strong base at the grassroots level,” he said. Congress hopes that the Vokkaliga factor will work in its favour. “With KPCC president D K Shivakumar aspiring to be the CM, we’re seeing the community slowly coming together for his support. Such a trend was visible previously when Deve Gowda and S M Krishna became the CMs,” one Congress insider says.  Plans are afoot in the party for further organisational strengthening. “Booth-level rejuvenation will be the focus. We have also started a membership drive to reach 50 lakh members over three months,” says KPCC working president Saleem Ahmed. The BJP, which wants to make a mark here, may field former CM B S Yediyurappa’s son B Y Vijayendra from Varuna, a constituency currently represented by Siddaramaiah’s son Yathindra. The party has already made inroads here by winning Hassan and KR Pet Assembly seats. What’s next for the BJP? The party leadership wants to make the best use of the changing dynamics in old Mysore by tying up with JD(S).  “The strategy is to bring together Vokkaligas (who support JD-S) and Lingayats (supporting BJP),” a senior BJP leader says.  BJP’s Hassan MLA Preetham Gowda points out that the party will have to nurture local leadership if it has to gain a stronger presence in the region. While district incharge ministers who are appointed from other districts can coordinate and manage the cadre, winning an election requires local leaders who can connect with the cadre at the grassroots level, he opines. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/winds-of-change-in-old-mysore-may-take-wind-out-of-jds-sails-1064716.html
25-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports 7 new Omicron cases, tally at 38||Seven new cases of Omicron variant have been confirmed in Karnataka taking the total cases to 38, State Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar said on Saturday. In a set of tweets, he said, "Seven new cases of Omicron variant have been confirmed in Karnataka on December 25." According to him, those who tested positive were: a 76-year-old man from Bengaluru, who had travelled from Delhi, a 30-year-old woman from Bengaluru, who came from UAE, a 63-year-old man from Bengaluru who arrived from Zambia and a 54-year-old man from Bengaluru, who was a primary contact of a United Kingdom traveller. He added that a 21-year-old man from Bengaluru who arrived from the UK, a 62-year-old man from Bengaluru, who came from Delhi, and a 15-year-old boy from Bengaluru who travelled from the USA have also been found infected. Sudhakar said all primary and secondary contacts have been tracked, traced and tested. The Health Department said except for the 15-year-old, all are vaccinated. Among the infected people, four have symptoms of the new variant of coronavirus. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-7-new-omicron-cases-tally-at-38-1064725.html
25-12-2021||West||Mumbai bans New Year parties, gatherings in closed or open spaces||In view of the spike in coronavirus cases and the growing threat of the Omicron variant, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has banned New Year celebration programmes and gatherings in any closed or open areas in the city. Mumbai municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal issued an order to this effect late Friday evening.  "There shall be no gathering or celebration of New Year in any closed or open areas under the BMC jurisdiction," the order said. The order came into effect from the midnight of December 25 and shall remain in force till the next directive. The order is applicable to all hotels, bars, restaurants as well as to privately-owned places that could be used for such gatherings and celebrations, it said. On Friday, Maharashtra government also prohibited gathering of more than five persons in public places between 9 pm and 6 am. The state recorded 1,410 coronavirus cases and 20 Omicron infections during the day. The BMC had on Friday also issued a separate order stating that Mumbai residents arriving here from Dubai will have to undergo seven-day home quarantine. The travelers who live in other parts of Maharashtra will be able to leave Mumbai on arrival from Dubai, but their transport will be arranged by the collector, it said.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-bans-new-year-parties-gatherings-in-closed-or-open-spaces-1064511.html
25-12-2021||West||Sanjay Raut hails Vajpayee, says 'Sabka saath, sabka vikas' slogan suits him||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Saturday hailed former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, saying that he was the only leader after Jawaharlal Nehru who was appreciated by people across the country, and added that the 'Sabka saath, sabka vikas' slogan truly suits him. Raut's statement was apparently targeted at Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who had assumed office in 2014 with the motto of 'Sabka saath, sabka vikas' (collective efforts, inclusive growth). Speaking to reporters here, Raut said, "Atal Bihari Vajpayee played a pivotal role in cementing the Shiv Sena-BJP alliance. 'Sabka saath, sabka vikas' line truly suits him." The Sena MP was responding to a question related to Vajpayee on the late BJP leader's birth anniversary. "Vajpayee was the only second leader in India, who was appreciated across the country after Jawaharlal Nehru. May it be Nagaland or Puducherry, there were people who respected Vajpayee," he said. Vajpayee and Lal Krishna Advani were the two major pillars of the BJP, who helped the party spread across the country, Raut said.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sanjay-raut-hails-vajpayee-says-sabka-saath-sabka-vikas-slogan-suits-him-1064549.html
25-12-2021||West||Carols, midnight masses usher in Christmas festivities in Goa amid pandemic||Special midnight masses held with adherence to Covid-19 norms, pealing of church bells and singing of carols ushered in Christmas in Goa to celebrate the birth of Jesus Christ. Considering the growing threat of the Omicron variant of coronavirus in the country, the Christian organisations in the state had asked people to strictly comply with all the standard operating procedures (SOPs), like wearing of masks and sanitisation, during the masses and while visiting the churches. Social distancing was mandated during the masses and to accommodate all the parishioners, screens were installed outside the churches and chapels where the masses were aired. Volunteers were enrolled to ensure that everyone follows the SOPs. Goa Governor P S Sreedharan Pillai extended his greetings and warm wishes to the people on the occasion of Christmas. In his message, the governor said that Christmas heralds the birth of Jesus Christ, son of God who came down to the earth in the form of a human being to redeem mankind. "The spirit of Christmas is all about caring, sharing and celebrating the birth of Jesus Christ. The festival brings together people irrespective of caste, creed or religion. It is an appropriate occasion to foster the values of peace, love and friendship that Jesus Christ professed and practised for the benefit of humanity," he said. Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said, "Christmas signifies the time of love, joy and happiness. It is a festival which celebrates the birth of Lord Jesus Christ and reminds us to be kind-hearted towards one another.” "Every year this sacred day is observed with religious zeal, and with sincere prayers all over the world. On this auspicious day, we celebrate the birth of Lord Jesus, who gave us the valuable and eternal message of peace, tolerance, compassion, love and sacrifice. Let us all unite and work for the welfare of the state by channelising all our efforts and energy in ensuring the progress of our state," he said in a message. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/carols-midnight-masses-usher-in-christmas-festivities-in-goa-amid-pandemic-1064564.html
25-12-2021||West||Maharashtra govt's refusal to slash excise duty on fuel exposes hollowness of its leaders: Fadnavis||Senior BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis on Saturday hit out at the Maharashtra government, saying that its "outright refusal" to slash the excise duty on petrol and diesel, has exposed the hollowness of some of its leaders, who blame the Centre for the fuel price hike. He also warned that the BJP would launch an agitation to press for its demand to slash the fuel prices in the state once the winter session of the state legislature ends. "The most discouraging stand of the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government has been its flat refusal to cut excise duty on fuel prices. There were some leaders from this government who held cycle rallies against the Centre for high prices of fuel. But their hollowness now stands exposed as their own government has refused to cut down the fuel rates," Fadnavis told reporters. Some 25 states in the country have already reduced the excise duty on fuel and provided relief to people, the former Maharashtra chief minister said. "Why doesn't the MVA government follow the same path and offer relief to citizens?" he asked. The Leader of Opposition in the state Assembly said if the Shiv Sena-led state government refuses to do so, then the BJP would hold state-wide rallies to demand slashing of fuel prices in the state. "If the government does not slash excise duty on fuel, then we will definitely hold statewide rallies demanding bringing down fuel prices in the state once the winter session of the state legislature gets over, he said. The BJP leader also expressed disappointment over the MVA dispensation's decision of not merging the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) with the state government. "This government should have at least offered something to the MSRTC employees instead of bluntly saying the merger option should be forgotten. The salary hike offered to them is inadequate and government's attitude towards them is disappointing," Fadnavis alleged. A section of the MSRTC employees has been on strike since October 28 demanding that the undertaking be merged with the state government, which would give them better salaries and greater job security. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-govts-refusal-to-slash-excise-duty-on-fuel-exposes-hollowness-of-its-leaders-fadnavis-1064612.html
25-12-2021||West||Lockdown in Maharashtra only if daily oxygen demand touches 800 MT: Minister||Amid rising Covid-19 cases and the threat of Omicron spread, Maharashtra’s public health and family welfare minister Rajesh Tope said that the government would think of a lockdown in case the demand for medical oxygen touches 800 metric tonnes per day. “There will be a statewide lockdown only if the demand for medical oxygen rises to 800 metric tonnes per day," Tope said on the day when fresh restrictions came into force in the state. "Omicron cases were increasing rapidly, however, such patients were not ending up in ICU nor did they need supplemental oxygen, Tope said in his hometown of Jalna.  "We do not want people to face more restrictions, therefore I am making an appeal to people to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour. Wearing a mask is very important,” he said and also appealed to people to get vaccinated. The oxygen-producing capacity in the state is 1,250 MT around the second wave, which has been scaled up. Check out DH's latest videos  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/lockdown-in-maharashtra-only-if-daily-oxygen-demand-touches-800-mt-minister-1064631.html
25-12-2021||West||Covid-19: 2,500 cops deployed to enforce night curfew in Nagpur||Over 2,500 police personnel will be on the ground in Nagpur to enforce prohibitory orders announced by the Maharashtra government in the state between 9 pm and 6 am, a senior official said on Saturday. Police Commissioner Amitesh Kumar said the 'bandobast' (ground deployment) has been finalised as per local requirement and DCPs have been directed to set in place pickets on the roads to keep an eye on markets and other public areas, as well as monitor the city's eight entry points. "There will be 2,500 police personnel on bandobast duty to enforce the 9 pm to 6 am rule," he said. Meanwhile, District Collector R Vimala visited AIIMS, Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) and Mayo Hospital to take stock of the preparedness to tackle any possible rise in Covid-19 cases.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-2500-cops-deployed-to-enforce-night-curfew-in-nagpur-1064665.html
25-12-2021||West||Maharashtra reports two new Omicron cases, tally rises to 110; more than half discharged||Maharashtra on Saturday recorded two new cases of the Omicron variant of coronavirus which took the tally of such cases in the state to 110, the health department said. As many as 57 of these patients have been discharged after testing negative for Covid-19 in subsequent testing, it said in a release here. The two new patients are male, fully vaccinated against coronavirus, and belong to Aurangabad in central Maharashtra. One is 50 years old and another is 33 years old. One of them had returned from Dubai recently while the second person had come into contact with a person having history of international travel. One of them is asymptomatic while the other has mild symptoms, the release said. Since November 1, samples of 729 international passengers have been sent for genome sequencing in the state, of which results of 162 are awaited, it added.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-reports-two-new-omicron-cases-tally-rises-to-110-more-than-half-discharged-1064666.html
25-12-2021||West||Fadnavis witness in phone tapping case: MVA to court||Senior BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis is a witness in the case registered over illegal phone tapping that allegedly took place when IPS officer Rashmi Shukla was heading the state's intelligence department, the Maharashtra government has told the Esplanade court here. Confirming the development on Saturday, Special Public Prosecutor Ajay Misar, appearing for the state, said, "Yes, Fadnavis is a witness in the case. His statement will be recorded in the due course of law." The BKC cyber police station in Mumbai, on the complaint of the Maharashtra Intelligence department, had registered an FIR under Official Secrets Act against unidentified persons for alleged illegal tapping of phones and leak of certain confidential documents. As per the complaint, the phone tapping allegedly took place when Shukla headed the Maharashtra Intelligence department. Fadnavis, a former chief minister of the state, had cited a letter purportedly written by Shukla to the then Director General of Police about alleged corruption in police transfers.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fadnavis-witness-in-phone-tapping-case-mva-to-court-1064687.html
25-12-2021||West||Gujarat sees sharp rise in daily Covid-19 cases||Gujarat on Saturday reported 179 new Covid-19 cases in the past 24 hours, the highest number of daily cases in the last seven months. For the past two weeks, the numbers have been surging, forcing the state government to extend the duration of night curfew in eight major cities by two hours as a safety measure. Ahmedabad leads the chart with 61 cases. The number of active cases on Saturday stood at 837  while the death toll increased to 10,113 with two more deaths. The rising cases are also casting a shadow on the 10th Vibrant Gujarat Summit, 2022 slated to be held in Gandhinagar from January 10 to January 13. Earlier on Friday, the state government extended the duration of night curfew in eight cities by two hours that included Ahmedabad, Surat, Rajkot, Vadodara, Junagadh, Jamnagar, Bhavnagar and Gandhinagar. The curfew is in force from 11 pm to 5 am instead of 1 am to 5 am. Commercial activities in shops, restaurants, shopping complexes, hair cutting saloons, beauty parlors among others in these cities are allowed to remain open till 11 PM.  49 Omicron cases  Gujarat also reported six new cases of Omicron variant of Covid-19, taking the total in the state to 49. The new cases were reported from Kheda, 3, Ahmedabad, 2 and one case from Rajkot. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-sees-sharp-rise-in-daily-covid-19-cases-1064692.html
25-12-2021||West||Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray welcomes PM's announcement on vaccination||The decision will help curb the spread of coronavirus and the provision of booster dose will help senior citizens with co-morbidities too, Thackeray said in a statement. State Environment Minister Aaditya Thackeray had written to the Union Health Ministry on December 7 seeking vaccination of children and provision of booster doses, the chief minister said. The need for booster doses was discussed in the recent state cabinet meeting as well, Thackeray added. Modi, in a televised address to the nation, announced that vaccination against Covid-19 for children between 15-18 years will start from January 3, while "precaution dose" for healthcare and frontline workers begin from January 10. Precaution dose will also be available for citizens above 60 years of age and with comorbidities on the advice of their doctor from January 10, he said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-welcomes-pms-announcement-on-vaccination-1064726.html
