26-12-2021||Hubballi-Dharwad||Olive Ridley turtles lay eggs on Honnavar beach||Exactly a month after the Karnataka High Court binned a plea of local fishermen, opposing setting up of a private port at Kasarkdod Tonka in Honnavar taluk of Uttara Kannada district — based on a report filed by the National Centre for Sustainable Coastal Management (NCSCM), Chennai — two critically endangered Olive Ridley sea turtle sneaked in the pitch of the darkness of Sunday and laid eggs on the beach. NCSCM, which had based its finding on ‘erroneous reading’ of GPS of the Forest Department had submitted a report to the Court stating that the Olive Ridley sea turtle lay their eggs, some nautical miles inside the sea and not on the beach of Honnavar. On Sunday morning, locals who noticed the ‘flap prints’ of the turtle that had visited the beach late in the night and returned to sea after laying eggs, informed the forest department officials. Later, the officials of Honnavar Range located the spot where the turtles had laid eggs and erected a fence to protect the hatchery.  Marine Biologist Dr Prakash Mesta, who has been monitoring these sea creatures' birth cycle for the past two decades said Olive Ridley turtles have been nesting on these shores for centuries now and Saturday night’s incident is no different. “The high court was misled by a report that wrongly calculated the GPS readings as mentioned by the Forest Department,” he said and added that it is not for the first time that Forest Department officials are making arrangements to protect these endangered turtles.  A few months ago, the forest department officials in the presence of local court judge and students had released more than 144 hatchlings of the turtle into the sea, he said and added that the courts have to reconsider their decision and prevent the construction of a private port on the beach.    Local fishermen also fear that those who are in favour of the proposed port might destroy the eggs to wipe out the evidence (of turtles' nesting ground). They demanded the authorities take steps to protect the eggs and thereby conserve the endangered turtle species. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hubballi-dharwad/olive-ridley-turtles-lay-eggs-on-honnavar-beach-1065030.html
26-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||'Unsure of getting job', NIT-Karnataka student ends life by suicide||A 19-year-old student of the National Institute of Technology-Karnataka (NIT-K) ended his life by hanging from the ceiling fan of his hostel room. According to City Police Commissioner N Shashi Kumar, the deceased is a second-year BTech student and a native of Orai village in Bihar. On the death note, he had mentioned financial problems and doubted his family's ability to repay the educational loan as he was unsure of getting a job, Kumar informed. His family members told authorities that they won't be able to travel to NIT-K due to poor financial conditions and requested them to cremate his body. However, the staff and the students of the NIT-K have arranged the travel of the family members to take the body back to Patna for last rites, said the Commissioner. The Commissioner said that the deceased had also attempted to end his life when he was studying in Class 10. The incident came to light when his friends had come near his hostel room to wake him up for breakfast. A case has been registered at Surathkal police station. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/unsure-of-getting-job-nit-karnataka-student-ends-life-by-suicide-1064845.html
26-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Cleanliness drive from Panambur to Meenakaliya beach held||The Mangaluru City Corporation in association with the Youngsters Panambur and Youngsters Yuvaka -Yuvathi Mandala, Baikampady carried out a cleanliness drive  from Panambur to Baikampady -Meenakaliya beach, on Sunday. The volunteers, including students, cleared all the garbage that was littered on the shore. More than three truck loads of garbage were collected during the drive. Yathish Baikampady, former CEO, Panambur Beach Tourism Development Project, said the drive was organised to create awareness on cleanliness. The youth clubs of the area organised a campaign on the beach stretch from Panambur to Meenakaliya. “The residents want the beach stretch free from slums and to keep the area clean. Those who have constructed huts on the government land illegally by the side of the beach and collected rent from migrant labourers' families have not provided basic facilities for them. As a result, open defecation has become a common sight on the shore. The drive was to bring the issue to the notice of the authorities concerned.” “We do not want any illegal activities to take place on the shores of the beach in Mangaluru,” he added. MCC Commissioner Akshy Sridhar informed DH that notices will be served to those who are residing in illegal slums on the beach to vacate them. A survey will be conducted to identify the illegal slums that have cropped up on the shore. Several huts have come up on the stretch of the beach from Panambur to Meenakaliya. According to officials and local residents, huts are rented out for migrant labourers without providing toilets and other basic amenities. As a result, families are forced to defecate in the open and litter on the stretch of the beach, resulting in unhygienic conditions prevailing in the surroundings. The huts were constructed using asbestos sheets by a few local residents and they were collecting Rs 800 to Rs 1000 from the migrant labourers as rent. They lack toilets and bathrooms. As a result, sewage directly flows into the sea, residents said. The cleanliness drive was attended by DK MP Nalin Kumar Kateel, Zilla Panchayat CEO Dr Kumar and MLA Dr Y Bharath Shetty. The drive was also joined by the DK working journalists association. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/cleanliness-drive-from-panambur-to-meenakaliya-beach-held-1064903.html
26-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Christian family in Shivamogga returns to Hindu fold||Nine people of a Christian family converted to Hinduism on Sunday. VHP and Bajrang Dal activists took the initiative of bringing them to the Hindu religion as part of ‘Ghar Wapasi’ at a function at the Rama Bhajan Mandir at Jannapur Jayasheelan is the son of Elumalai, who had converted to Christianity 35 years ago. Jayasheelan, his wife Jayamma, sons Prabhakaran and Prakash, daughters-in-law Lalita Prabhakaran, Shwetha Prakash, of Antaragange are among the converted. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/christian-family-in-shivamogga-returns-to-hindu-fold-1065048.html
26-12-2021||National||How a business idea helped turn these women's lives around||Covid-19 changed lives for the worst for many but a group of women – from college girls Venella and Ramya to septuagenarian Savithramma – in a village near Bengaluru have turned the crisis into an opportunity. Until recently, Venella and Ramya had no source of income to support themselves in their studies but they teamed up with Yashoda, another woman in their village, to produce and market handmade organic cosmetics and registered their venture as ‘KadAmba Naturals’. For Yashoda, it was a do or die battle as her husband, a cab driver in Bengaluru, lost his job in the pandemic and the family was facing financial troubles. That was when Yashoda decided to take the risk – join hands with women in her village and start a business. If Yashoda grouped herself with the two college girls, another group of women started a snacks business selling local delicacies. A group ventured into setting up a tailoring unit while another into producing and selling biodegradable sanitary pads and a group of elderly women looked at options in sheep rearing. All these women are residents of villages in and around Guttahalli in Bengaluru Rural and began their ventures with the support of Smile Foundation’s ‘Entrepreneur Development Training Programme’. “In any crisis or a situation like a pandemic, women have to face the impact. They do not have a support system though they are the mainstays of their families. We need to empower women financially and there need to be projected in that direction,” Seema Kumar, Smile Foundation’s General Manager (Programmes), told DH. Navaneetha Jeyapal, the Project Coordinator of Smile Foundation’s Swabhiman project that runs the programme, said they were helping these women create the business of their interest. The groups of women were chosen from around 170 who gathered for the programme initially and after a series of workshops and training programmes and provided raw materials to the selected groups that made products and ventured into marketing and selling. “Some exercises were conducted as part of a training programme to assess these women’s skills in conducting business and their risk-taking ability,” Jeyapal told DH. Among the groups, there is a clear work division. If Yashodha is making organic cosmetics, Venella and Ramya are into marketing. It is the same case with the tailoring unit, where women were given special training to start their ventures. The project also brought the best among the women, including leadership qualities. Yashoda motivated other women in her community to start their own enterprises.  “For those, who haven’t been able to arrange resources initially, she has involved them in her business on a payment basis for production,” organisers said. Yashoda now wants to expand her business and train and support women. At the time of conceiving the projects, the organisers recall how the “infectious” enthusiasm of septuagenarian Savithramma swept them away, as she teamed with her friends Muni Lakshmamma, Gundamma, Lakshmi and Muniamma for a business venture on sheep rearing. Savithramma attended all the training programmes, they say. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/how-a-business-idea-helped-turn-these-womens-lives-around-1064781.html
26-12-2021||National||India reports 6,987 new Covid cases; Omicron tally at 422||As many as 422 Omicron cases have been detected across 17 states and union territories in India so far and 130 of these people have recovered or migrated, according to Union health ministry data updated on Sunday. Maharashtra has recorded the highest number of Omicron cases at 108, followed by Delhi at 79, Gujarat 43, Telangana 41, Kerala 38, Tamil Nadu 34 and Karnataka 31. With 6,987 more people testing positive for Covid-19 in a day, India's total caseload increased to 3,47,86,802, according to the data updated at 8 am. The death toll has climbed to 4,79,682 with 162 new fatalities, the data stated. The daily rise in coronavirus infections has remained below 15,000 for the last 59 days now. The number of active Covid-19 cases declined to 76,766, comprising 0.22 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, the ministry said. A decrease of 266 cases has been recorded in the active caseload in a span of 24 hours. The national Covid-19 recovery rate stands at 98.40 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 0.74 per cent. It has remained below 2 per cent for the last 83 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 0.62 per cent. It has remained below 1 per cent for the last 42 days, according to the health ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the viral disease surged to 3,42,30,354, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.38 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 141.37 crore. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 162 new fatalities include 115 from Kerala and 12 from Maharashtra. Kerala health department had said on Saturday that of the 115 deaths, 11 were recorded over the last few days and 104 were designated as Covid-19 deaths after receiving appeals based on the Centre's new guidelines and the directions of the Supreme Court. A total of 4,79,682 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,41,416 from Maharashtra, 46,318 from Kerala, 38,309 from Karnataka, 36,725 from Tamil Nadu, 25,104 from Delhi, 22,915 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,711 from West Bengal. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-6987-new-covid-cases-omicron-tally-at-422-1064786.html
26-12-2021||National||PM Modi to address nation in 2021's last edition of 'Mann Ki Baat' on December 26||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is set to address the last edition of this year's 'Mann Ki Baat' on December 26 at 11 am. Earlier, BJP president J P Nadda had said that the BJP's target is to organise programmes for people to listen to 'Mann Ki Baat' at every booth across the country by May 2022. In his previous monthly Mann Ki Baat radio broadcast in November, the prime minister had said that in any country having a large population of youth, three things -- ideas and innovation, passion to take risks and the 'can do' spirit -- matter a lot. Asserting that this is an era of start-ups, Modi said India is leading the world in this field with more than 70 start-ups having crossed the valuation of $1 billion. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-address-nation-in-2021s-last-edition-of-mann-ki-baat-on-december-26-1064788.html
26-12-2021||National||Madani seeks action in Haridwar 'hate speech', writes to Shah||Jamiat Ulema-e-Hind president Maulana Mahmood Madani has written a letter to Union Home Minister Amit Shah, National Commission for Minorities (NCM), National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) and Uttarakhand Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami, demanding strict action against the organisers and attendees of the Dharam Sansad held in Haridwar last week. Speakers at the 'Dharam Sansad' allegedly made hate speeches and called for violence against Muslim minorities.   "The government's silence on the issue is extremely harmful for the country. What is going on is a big threat to peace and communal harmony. Therefore, I demand that strict action be taken against the organisers and speakers at the event who made provocative and hate speeches and openly called for genocide of Muslims and urged the entire Hindu community to be armed," Madani wrote. In his letter, Madani also mentioned the provocative speech made by the controversial head priest of the Dasna temple in Ghaziabad, Yati Narsinghanand, who had organised the event, which was held from December 16 to 19 at Ved Niketan Dham at Bhopatwala in Haridwar. After getting a complaint regarding the alleged inflammatory speeches at the event, police, late on Thursday registered an FIR against one named and several unnamed persons under section 153-A (offence of promoting disharmony, enmity or feelings of hatred between different groups on the grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language etc) of the IPC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/madani-seeks-action-in-haridwar-hate-speech-writes-to-shah-1064792.html
26-12-2021||National||Didn't say farm laws will be brought back, Narendra Singh Tomar clarifies||After facing criticism over his remarks on farm laws at an event, Narendra Singh Tomar Saturday clarified that the Centre will not reintroduce farm laws. Congress had charged the Narendra Modi government of conspiring to bring back the now-repealed contentious farm laws through backdoors after the Assembly elections to five states, citing Tomar's remarks that the government moved a "step back" and "will move forward again". Stating that he "did not say" the laws will be brought back in an amended form, the minister told reporters, "I had said that the government had made good (farm) laws. We took them back due to some reason but we will continue to work for the welfare of farmers."  Speaking at an event in Nagpur, Tomar had said, "We brought agriculture amendment laws but some people did not like these laws which were a big reform brought about 70 years after Independence under Prime Minister Narendra Modi's leadership... But the government is not disappointed, we moved a step back and we will move forward again because farmers are India's backbone." The Farm Laws Repeal Act revoked the three farm laws which were passed by Parliament in September last year with an objective to bring reforms in the agriculture sector. These three farm laws were — Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/didnt-say-farm-laws-will-be-brought-back-narendra-singh-tomar-clarifies-1064798.html
26-12-2021||National||Centre begins consultation on setting up national database on cooperatives||The Centre has started a consultation process with various stakeholders on building a national database on cooperatives which will help in convergence of various schemes implemented by states and the central government as well as in establishing good governance and market orientation. Recently, the first meeting was held under the chairmanship of Cooperation Secretary D K Singh. The representatives from cooperative federations and institutions like RBI, NABARD and IRMA were present besides central and state government officials. Speaking with PTI, a senior Cooperation Ministry official said: "The National Cooperative Database was welcomed by one and all. This will be the most important policy making tool in the cooperative sector." Currently, there is no authentic data repository even though many state governments and central ministries are running schemes for the benefit of their domain cooperatives, he said. To streamline the database, the official said the stakeholders have been asked to give details of the present status and form of data availability, if it is in digital or physical form. They have been asked to help in identification of important data sets and parameters (common and sector specific). The stakeholders have also been asked to give their views on how much live data can be and frequency and mechanism of its updation. They have been asked to give suggestions on ways to ensure data accuracy and reliability, the official added. On the motto behind setting up of a national database, the official said that it will act as an effective planning tool for state governments, central ministers, federations, cooperators, sectoral institutions like NABARD and RBI. It will also help provide an authentic input for meeting training needs of the sector. Its geo-spatial analysis will give insights for further expansion of the sector, the official said. Further, the official said that this database will help assess the contribution of the cooperative sector in the national economy and hence will help make efforts for achieving the national goal of a $5 trillion economy. It will also help in benchmarking intra and inter sectors besides increasing the scope for inclusion of start-ups, he added. Currently, there are 8.5 lakh cooperatives as per the data maintained by the National Cooperative Union of India (NCUI). Out of which, 20 per cent are credit cooperatives and remaining 80 per cent are non-credit cooperatives covering diverse sectors. State cooperatives are governed under respective State Cooperative Acts whereas Multi-State Cooperatives are regulated under MSCS Act.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-begins-consultation-on-setting-up-national-database-on-cooperatives-1064830.html
26-12-2021||National||'Gap between 2nd Covid vaccine shot and precaution dose likely to be 9-12 months'||The gap between the second dose of Covid-19 vaccine and the third, which is being called a "precaution dose", is likely to be nine to 12 months, official sources said on Sunday. The nitty-gritty of the gaps for the vaccines currently being used in India's inoculation programme – Covishield and Covaxin – is being worked out, and a final decision over this will be taken soon, they said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in a televised address to the nation on Saturday night, announced that vaccination against Covid-19 for children between 15-18 years will start from January 3, while "precaution dose" for healthcare and frontline workers would be administered from January 10. The decisions came amid rising Covid cases linked to the Omicron variant of the virus. Modi said the precaution dose will also be available for citizens above 60 years of age and with comorbidities on the advice of their doctor from January 10 next year as well. The precaution dose denotes a third dose of the vaccine for the fully vaccinated but Modi refrained from using the term "booster dose", as it is generally referred. "The gap between the second and the precautionary dose of Covid vaccine is likely to be nine to 12 months with the immunisation division and the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI) discussing on these lines," a source said. More than 61 per cent of India's adult population has received both doses of the vaccine. Similarly, about 90 per cent of the adult population has received the first dose. With the administration of 32,90,766 vaccine doses in the last 24 hours, the cumulative Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has exceeded 141.37 crore, as per provisional reports till 7 am. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gap-between-2nd-covid-vaccine-shot-and-precaution-dose-likely-to-be-9-12-months-1064834.html
26-12-2021||National||'Judges appointing judges' a propagated myth: CJI Ramana||The notion that "judges are themselves appointing judges" is a myth as the judiciary is just one of the many players involved in the process of selecting judicial officers, Chief Justice of India N V Ramana said on Sunday. He was delivering the fifth Sri Lavu Venkatewarlu Endowment Lecture on "Indian Judiciary - Challenges of future" at Siddhartha Law College, Vijayawada. He also said that in recent times, physical attacks on judicial officers are on the rise and at times, there are concerted campaigns in the print and social media against judges if parties do not get a favorable order while these attacks appear to be "sponsored and synchronised." There is a need to liberate the institution of public prosecutors. Total independence must be granted to them and to make them answerable only to the Courts, he further said. "It is nowadays fashionable to reiterate phrases such as 'judges are themselves appointing judges'. I consider this to be one of the widely propagated myths. The fact is the Judiciary is merely one of the many players involved in the process," Justice Ramana said. Recently, Kerala MP John Brittas had reportedly said during a debate in Parliament on The High Court and Supreme Court Judges (Salaries and Conditions of Service) Amendment Bill, 2021 that Judges appointing judges is unheard of anywhere. "Many authorities are involved, including the Union Law Ministry, State Governments, Governor, High Court Collegia, Intelligence Bureau, and lastly, the topmost executive, who all are designated to examine the suitability of a candidate. I am sad to note that the well-informed also propagate the aforesaid notion. After all, this narrative suits certain sections,” Justice Ramana said. Appreciating the Centre for its efforts on appointing more judges, he said, some recommendations made by High Courts are yet to be transmitted to the Supreme Court by the Union Law Ministry. It is expected that the Government needs to strictly adhere to the timelines laid down in the Malik Mazhar Case. The law enforcing agencies, particularly the specialised agencies, need to deal with malicious attacks on the judiciary effectively, the CJI said, adding that it was unfortunate that unless the Court interfered and passed orders, the authorities generally do not proceed with the investigation. "The Governments are expected and duty-bound to create a secure environment so that the judges and judicial officers can function fearlessly," he said. New media tools have enormous amplifying ability, but appear to be incapable of distinguishing between right and wrong, good and bad, and the real and fake. Media trials cannot be a guiding factor in deciding cases, he further said. He said historically, prosecutors in India have been under the control of the government. "Hence it is not a surprise that they do not act independently. They do nothing to prevent frivolous and non-deserving cases from reaching the courts. Public Prosecutors automatically oppose bail applications without independently applying their mind. They attempt to suppress evidence during trial which could benefit the accused," Justice Ramana said. A holistic rework needs to be undertaken. In order to insulate the Public Prosecutors, an independent selection committee may be constituted for their appointment. Best practices should be adopted after a comparative analysis of other jurisdictions, he opined. While making legislations, the lawmakers must also think of providing effective remedies for issues that may arise out of the law and yet these principles seemingly are being ignored, he opined. Citing the Bihar Prohibition Act in 2016 which resulted in the High Court being filled with a lot of bail applications, Justice Ramana said lack of foresight in legislating can directly result in the blockage of courts. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/judges-appointing-judges-a-propagated-myth-cji-ramana-1064837.html
26-12-2021||National||'Mann Ki Baat': Modi remembers Varun Singh, cautions people against Omicron||In the last Mann Ki Baat address of 2021, PM Narendra Modi spoke about group campaign Varun Singh who lost his life in the ill-fated chopper crash that took the life of Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat, too. The chopper crash, which took place on December 8 in Tamil Nadu, left CDS Rawat, his wife, and 11 armed forces personnel dead. Group Captain Singh succumbed to severe burn injuries after a week of the crash at the Air Force’s Command Hospital in Bengaluru. PM Modi, in his address, said that he was touched by a letter that Group Captain Singh wrote to children of his alma mater after he was awarded the Shaurya Chakra in September this year.  Group Captain Singh had written in his letter that while it is ok to be mediocre, and that not everyone will excel at school, one must find their calling and give their best efforts.  PM Modi said that he was touched by the letter. “After reading that letter, my first thought was he did not forget his roots despite touching heights of success,” said Modi. The PM, however, initially said that Group Captain Singh was piloting the chopper. He later rectified the mistake in a tweet from his handle. “Group Captain Varun Singh, who was on board the helicopter that crashed in Tamil Nadu, wrote an inspiring letter to his school. This letter has a very motivating message for students, parents and teachers,” PM Modi tweeted.  PM also spoke about advancing Omicron cases and stressed the need for more vaccinations.  “This new Omicron variant is being constantly reviewed by our scientists. Every day they are getting new data and steps are being taken based on their suggestions,” the PM said. PM Modi also highlighted initiatives by different government departments to bring sustainable solutions. This included paper made of waste by the civil aviation ministry and a cafeteria built in a junkyard by the department of posts.  “Departments under the Civil Aviation Ministry have started making organic compost from dry leaves falling from trees and organic waste. This department is also working to make stationery from waste paper. When the cleanliness drive was started in the Department of Post, the junkyard there became completely empty. Now this junkyard has been turned into a courtyard and cafeteria,” said PM Modi Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mann-ki-baat-modi-remembers-varun-singh-cautions-people-against-omicron-1064839.html
26-12-2021||National||India-Sri Lanka ties tested in 2021 due to persisting fishermen issue, investment impasse||The India-Sri Lanka bilateral relationship was put to test in 2021 after Colombo unilaterally reneged on a tripartite deal with India and Japan to build a deep-sea container port here, and frequent incidents involving Indian fishermen as well as China’s growing footprints in this country. The year began with External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar visiting Sri Lanka in early January, saying, "I am starting 2021 with a visit to Colombo, a visit to India’s closest maritime neighbour and partner." Jaishankar, who met Sri Lanka's top leadership, also noted that it was gratifying to note that the Covid-19 pandemic has not been able to make a dent in India-Sri Lanka bilateral cooperation. But the positive momentum in ties generated by the visit was disturbed by the death of four Indian fishermen in January following a collision between their vessel and a Sri Lankan naval craft. India registered a strong protest in Colombo as well in New Delhi, emphasising the need to deal with issues pertaining to fishermen in a humanitarian manner. In December, India expressed concern over the detention of 68 Tamil Nadu fishermen from December 18 to 20 by Sri Lankan authorities and took up the issue of their "early release". The fishermen issue remains a major irritant in bilateral ties. During the Covid pandemic period, India kept its air space open for travel for the specific and urgent medical needs of Sri Lanka. As part of the Indian government’s Vaccine Maitri humanitarian initiative to provide Covid-19 vaccines to countries around the world, India gifted 500,000 doses of the Covishield vaccine to the island nation, prompting it to launch its national coronavirus immunisation campaign. Meanwhile, in a big jolt to India’s investment plans in Sri Lanka, the Rajapaksa government unilaterally reneged on a tripartite deal with India and Japan to build the strategic deep-sea container port. Sri Lanka, which had agreed in 2019 to develop the East Container Terminal (ECT) at the Colombo port with India and Japan, scrapped the deal and termed the ECT “a wholly-owned container terminal of the Sri Lanka Ports Authority.” Colombo said it would instead develop the port's West Container Terminal (WCT) with investment from India and Japan. More to India’s displeasure, China in November clinched the contract to develop the ECT. As the ECT/WCT issue was brewing, Colombo announced that the government had successfully ended talks with the Indian government to end the leasing of World War II oil storage tanks in the eastern port of Trincomalee. Sri Lanka in 2003 had leased out 99 oil tanks to the Indian Oil Corporation for 30 years for an annual payment of USD 100,000. In 2021, Sri Lanka faced pressure from the international community on its human rights record, especially during the armed conflict with the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE). As the UN called for sanctions and international criminal court procedure against those responsible for rights violations during the armed conflict with the LTTE in 2009, India abstained from a crucial vote on Sri Lanka's rights record at the United Nations Human Rights Council (UNHRC) in Geneva in March. But New Delhi urged Colombo to fulfil its commitments to carry forward the process of reconciliation and address the aspirations of the Tamil community. Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla visited Sri Lanka in October and assured the Sri Lankan leadership that India will leave no stone unturned in mitigating the adverse impact of the Covid 19 restrictions on bilateral socio-economic engagement and will stand together with the Government of Sri Lanka in its efforts for post-Covid recovery. During his meeting with President Rajapaksa, he assured India that Sri Lanka would not be allowed to be used for "any activity" that could pose a threat to India's security. He explained Colombo's ties with China in a "comprehensive manner" and exchanged views on a wide range of issues, including the post-pandemic revival of the economy. Rajapaksa elaborated on the need to re-establish the friendship and relations between India and Sri Lanka that existed in the 1960s and 70s. The year was also a test of President Gotabaya Rajapaksa’s personal capabilities as a novice politician. The 72-year-old former military officer had never been a member of any political party or got involved in any electoral politics other than extending the moral support to his older brother Mahinda, the leader of the Rajapaksa dynasty. Each passing day was a trial for the president as he was faced with tackling the pandemic, key foreign policy issues, and the regional tensions caused by Sri Lanka’s leaning towards China. Sri Lanka's powerful Rajapaksa dynasty, which has consolidated its grip over power in the last couple of years, is known for its tilt towards China. Though China is one of the biggest investors in various infrastructure projects in Sri Lanka, there has been criticism -- both locally and internationally -- and growing concerns that Beijing has lured Colombo into a debt trap. Ironically, that has not stopped Sri Lanka from drifting towards China for economic support. As Sri Lanka’s energy security is threatened by the unprecedented foreign exchange crisis, the Minister of Finance and the third big Rajapaksa in the government Basil Rajapaksa visited India to negotiate a special credit line from Delhi to facilitate oil imports. Sri Lankan officials, despite the bumpy ride of ties with India, stayed optimistic about receiving Indian aid. “India is our closest neighbour and we value their cooperation very much,” Sri Lankan foreign ministry’s top bureaucrat Jayanath Colombage has often said on the bilateral relationship. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-sri-lanka-ties-tested-in-2021-due-to-persisting-fishermen-issue-investment-impasse-1064841.html
26-12-2021||National||Centre accepted my suggestion for Covid vaccine booster dose: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday said the Centre has "accepted my suggestion" to allow the administration of booster doses of Covid vaccine and asserted that the protection of vaccines and booster shots has to be provided to every citizen of the country. His remarks came a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced that "precaution dose" for healthcare and frontline workers would be administered from January 10. In an address to the nation, Modi said the precaution dose will also be available for citizens aged above 60 and with comorbidities on the advice of their doctor. "The central government has accepted my suggestion for a booster dose -- this is a right step. The protection of vaccines and booster shots would have to be provided to all the people in the country," Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi using hashtags 'BoosterJab' and 'VaccinateIndia'. The former Congress chief also tagged his tweet posted on December 22 in which he had said that a majority of the country's population was still not vaccinated against Covid-19 and asked the government when it will roll out booster shots.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-accepted-my-suggestion-for-covid-vaccine-booster-dose-rahul-gandhi-1064854.html
26-12-2021||National||Covid-19, civilian attacks, tackling terror kept Ministry of Home Affairs busy in 2021||Battling the Covid-19 crisis, handling the situation arising after attacks on civilians in Jammu and Kashmir, ambush on security forces in Chhattisgarh and Manipur, among a host of other issues, kept the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) busy in 2021. Bringing in high-capacity cryogenic tankers from abroad to deal with oxygen shortage during the brutal second wave of the pandemic, tussle with the West Bengal government over political violence in the state and actively supporting the states that bore the brunt of natural disasters are some of the other key issues that the home ministry handled during the year. Like the previous year, in 2021 too, the MHA was the nodal authority for regulating the Covid-19 curtailment measures -- imposing restrictions where required and relaxing them when the situation improved. Every month, throughout the year, the Union Home Secretary issued pandemic guidelines to the states and Union Territories. Union Home Minister Amit Shah was instrumental in importing high-capacity cryogenic tankers from countries like Singapore and UAE, for transportation of oxygen from one part of India to the other, when the country was fighting the second wave amid oxygen shortage. Shah was also involved in assisting the states to handle the situation, including issuing directions to revive defunct oxygen plant for augmenting production of the essential public health commodity. The MHA was on tenterhooks when terrorists carried out multiple attacks on civilians and police in Jammu and Kashmir since October. Jammu and Kashmir, which has been on the edge since August 2019 when Article 370 was abrogated and the erstwhile state was bifurcated into two Union Territories, also saw a visit by Shah in October, amid the civilian killings. Killings of 22 security personnel in Chhattisgarh in April by naxals and a Colonel, his wife, son and four security personnel in Manipur on November 14 by the Naga insurgents also reminded everyone that the violence perpetrated by extremists continued unabated in some parts of the country. A bitter feud began in May between the Mamata Banerjee-led West Bengal government and the Centre when the MHA had summoned the state's then chief secretary Alapan Bandyopdhayay to serve in the Central government after he remained absent at a review meeting on Cyclone Yaas chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on May 28. A tussle between the West Bengal government and the Centre was also witnessed in the run-up to the West Bengal assembly elections held in April-May over the political violence. The MHA and the home minister were also busy in dealing with the situation arising due to the clashes along the Assam-Mizoram border in July in which six Assam Police personnel were killed and 50 others, including the district SP, injured. Assam's Barak Valley districts of Cachar, Karimganj and Hailakandi share a 164-kilometre-long border with Mizoram's three districts of Aizawl, Kolasib and Mamit. Following a territorial dispute, there were clashes along the inter-state border in August 2020 and February this year before the massive flare-up in July. Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Kumar Mishra has been facing opposition onslaught ever since his son Ashish was allegedly involved in mowing down four protesting farmers in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri in September. Even though the opposition disrupted the proceedings of both houses of Parliament during the just concluded winter session, Mishra continued to function normally, attending his North Block office regularly. Shah was also seen leading the government's strong defence in the wake of Pegasus snooping controversy. Hitting out at opposition Congress and international organisations, he denied government's involvement in surveillance of politicians, journalists and others, saying such "obstructors" and "disruptors" were only aiming to humiliate India on the world stage. Maintaining that such issues will not be able to derail India's development trajectory with their conspiracies, Shah said those who intend to derail India's progress were peddling the same old narratives about the country. Shah also questioned the timing of the "selective leaks" ahead of the Monsoon Session. "People have often associated this phrase with me in lighter vein but today, I want to seriously say - the timing of the selective leaks, the disruptions…Aap chronology samajhiye! (you should understand the chronology)," he said. In the wake of a coup in Myanmar, many people, including police, from the neighbouring country, entered Mizoram to take shelter. This prompted the MHA to caution four northeastern states — Mizoram, Manipur, Nagaland and Arunachal Pradesh — bordering Myanmar against influx from the neighbouring country in view of the large-scale protests there and take appropriate actions according to law. India shares about 1,700-km-long porous border with Myanmar, where mass demonstrations are being held in protest against the declaration of a year-long emergency by the country's armed forces. For the first time since Independence, the MHA declared that August 14 will be observed as the Partition Horrors Remembrance Day in remembrance of those who sacrificed their lives during the country's partition. Before the MHA announcement, Prime Minister said that the Partition Horrors Remembrance Day will be observed every year in the memory of the struggles and sacrifices of people as the pain of partition can never be forgotten. In a notification, the home ministry said people of India while celebrating 'Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav' salute "those sons and daughters of the country who had to sacrifice their lives during the partition of India". Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-civilian-attacks-tackling-terror-kept-ministry-of-home-affairs-busy-in-2021-1064858.html
26-12-2021||National||Govt's decision on Covid vaccination for children 'unscientific': Senior AIIMS epidemiologist||A senior epidemiologist at AIIMS who is the principal investigator of Covaxin trials for adults and children at the institute on Sunday termed the Centre's decision to vaccinate children against Covid "unscientific" and said it will not yield any additional benefit. Dr Sanjay K Rai, who is also the president of the Indian Public Health Association, said before implementing the decision, data from countries that have already started vaccinating children should be analysed. In an address to the nation on Saturday night, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced that vaccination against Covid-19 for children in the 15 to 18 age group will start from January 3. This will reduce the worries of children going to schools and colleges and their parents, and boost the fight against the pandemic, he said, adding that the move is also likely to aid in the normalisation of teaching in schools. "I am a great fan of PM Modi for his selfless service to the nation and taking the right decisions at right time. But I am completely disappointed with his unscientific decision on childhood vaccination," Rai said in a tweet tagging the Prime Minister's Office. Elaborating his viewpoint, Rai said there should be a clear-cut objective of any intervention. The objective is to either prevent coronavirus infection or severity or death. "But according to whatever knowledge we have about vaccines, they are unable to make a significant dent in the infection. In some countries, people are getting infected even after taking booster shots. "Also, 50,000 breakthrough infections are being reported per day in the UK. So this proves that vaccination is not preventing coronavirus infection but vaccines are effective in preventing severity and death," Rai told PTI. He said mortality due to Covid-19 in susceptible populations is around 1.5 per cent, which means 15,000 deaths per million population. "Through vaccination, we can prevent 80-90 per cent of these deaths, which means that 13,000 to 14,000 deaths per million (population) can be prevented," he added. Serious adverse events following immunisation are between 10 to 15 per million population, Rai said. "So, if you do the risk and benefit analysis in adults, it is a huge benefit," he said. In the case of children, he said, the severity of infection is very low and according to data available in the public domain, only two deaths per million population have been reported. "In this section (children), 15,000 (people) are not dying and keeping in mind the adverse effects also, if you do the risk and benefit analysis, then the risk is more than the benefits based on the available data," Rai explained. "Both the objectives are not being fulfilled by initiating vaccination among children," he said. Few countries, including the US, started vaccinating children four-five months ago. The data of these countries should be analysed before initiating Covid vaccination for children, he said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govts-decision-on-covid-vaccination-for-children-unscientific-senior-aiims-epidemiologist-1064869.html
26-12-2021||National||PM Modi expresses grief over Tutu's death||Paying tributes to Desmond Tutu, South Africa's Nobel Peace Prize-winning activist for racial justice and LGBT rights, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday that he was a guiding light for countless people globally and his emphasis on human dignity and equality will be forever remembered.   South African President Cyril Ramaphosa announced the death of the 90-year-old Tutu earlier in the day.  Modi said, "Archbishop Emeritus Desmond Tutu was a guiding light for countless people globally. His emphasis on human dignity and equality will be forever remembered. I am deeply saddened by his demise and extend my heartfelt condolences to all his admirers. May his soul rest in peace."  Archbishop Emeritus Desmond Tutu was a guiding light for countless people globally. His emphasis on human dignity and equality will be forever remembered. I am deeply saddened by his demise, and extend my heartfelt condolences to all his admirers. May his soul rest in peace. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-expresses-grief-over-tutus-death-1064870.html
26-12-2021||National||India imposes antidumping duty on Chinese goods for 5 years||India has imposed antidumping duties on five Chinese products, including certain aluminium goods and some chemicals, for five years to guard local manufacturers from cheap imports from the neighbouring country. According to separate notifications of the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC), the duties have been imposed on certain flat rolled products of aluminium; sodium hydrosulphite (used on dye industry); silicone sealant (used in manufacturing of solar photovoltaic modules, and thermal power applications); hydrofluorocarbon (HFC) component R-32; and hydrofluorocarbon blends (both have uses in refrigeration industry). These duties were imposed following recommendations of the commerce ministry's investigation arm Directorate General of Trade Remedies (DGTR). The DGTR in separate probes have concluded that these products have been exported at a price below normal value in Indian markets, which has resulted in dumping. The domestic industry has suffered material injury due to the dumping, the DGTR has said. "The anti-dumping duty imposed under this notification (on Silicone Sealant ) shall be levied for a period of five years (unless revoked, superseded or amended earlier) from the date of publication of this notification in the Official Gazette and shall be payable in Indian currency," the CBIC has said. The CBIC has also imposed the duty on a vehicle component - Axle for Trailers in CKD/SKD (complete and semi knocked down) to protect domestic makers from cheap Chinese imports. Similarly it has also slapped the duty on imports of calcined gypsum powder from Iran, Oman, Saudi Arabia and United Arab Emirates (UAE) for five years. While DGTR recommends the duty to be levied, the finance ministry imposes it. Countries initiate anti-dumping probes to determine if the domestic industry has been hurt by a surge in below-cost imports. As a counter-measure, they impose duties under the multilateral WTO regime. Anti-dumping measures are taken to ensure fair trade and provide a level-playing field to the domestic industry. Both India and China are members of the Geneva-based World Trade Organisation (WTO). India has initiated maximum anti-dumping cases against dumped imports from China. India's exports to China during the April-September 2021 period were worth $12.26 billion while imports aggregated at $42.33 billion, leaving a trade deficit of $30.07 billion. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-imposes-antidumping-duty-on-chinese-goods-for-5-years-1064871.html
26-12-2021||National||4 major Indian carriers' dues to AAI more than doubled between January 2020 and October 2021||Dues of four major domestic airlines -- IndiGo, SpiceJet, Go First and AirAsia India -- to the Airports Authority of India (AAI) more than doubled between January 2020 and October 2021, according to internal AAI documents. Air India, however, continues to be the domestic carrier with the highest amount of dues to the AAI. As per the documents, Air India's dues to the AAI have increased from Rs 2,183.71 crore as on January 1, 2020, to Rs 2,362.36 crore as on October 31, 2021. An airline has to pay various charges like air navigation, landing, parking etc to the AAI to use facilities at any of its more than 100 airports. Both Air India and the AAI work under the Civil Aviation Ministry. The government had on October 8 announced that the Tata Group has won the bid to acquire Air India. The Centre is expected to hand over Air India to the Tatas in the first half of 2022. India has six major domestic carriers, IndiGo, SpiceJet, GoAir, AirAsia India, Air India and Vistara, which owed the AAI a total of Rs 2,306.59 crore as on January 1, 2020, the AAI documents -- which has been accessed by PTI -- noted. The dues of these six major domestic carriers taken together increased by 14.29 per cent to Rs 2,636.34 crore by October 31, 2021, the documents added. Vistara and IndiGo have clarified that all their dues have been cleared, while SpiceJet said its dues are well within credit limits. India's largest carrier IndiGo owed Rs 80.69 crore as in October 2021, as against Rs 33.21 crore in January 2021, they mentioned. Asked about this, an IndiGo spokesperson told PTI: "As per our records, all outstanding to the AAI as on October 31, 2021, has been duly paid within the due date." SpiceJet's dues with the AAI increased from Rs 69.93 crore in January 2020 to Rs 146.75 crore as on October 2021, the AAI documents noted. However, a SpiceJet spokesperson said the total dues (of the airline) to AAI as on October 31, 2021 stood at Rs 122.69 crore. SpiceJet has provided a bank guarantee of over Rs 150 crore, and all outstanding are well within the credit limits, the spokesperson added. SpiceJet is making a daily payment of Rs 1.10 crore as per the payment plan agreed with AAI, the spokesperson said, adding, "The airline industry has been one of worst hit sectors due to the ongoing pandemic which led to accumulation of charges, while our revenues were down to negligible limits." Unlike in other countries, no relief or any waivers were offered by the government or the airport operator on their charges during the pandemic, the spokesperson said. "In fact, on the contrary, SpiceJet has huge claims of over Rs 170 crore against AAI with regard to wrongful levy of landing charges for Q400 aircraft, damages for accident and loss of aircraft at Jabalpur airport, and damages for accident at Surat airport," the spokesperson stated. Go First, which was previously known as GoAir, saw its dues to the AAI increase from Rs 15.62 crore in January 2020 to Rs 39.06 crore in October 2021, the AAI documents showed. AirAsia India's dues to the AAI increased from Rs 1.47 crore in January 2020 to Rs 3.58 crore in October 2021, the documents noted. Go First and AirAsia India did not respond to PTI's queries regarding the matter of the dues. Vistara's dues to the AAI increased from 2.65 crore in January 2020 to Rs 3.9 crore in October 2021, according to the documents. A Vistara spokesperson told PTI that the increase in dues is purely on account of increase in operations, with a growth in fleet size and number of passengers carried. When asked how Vistara plans to clear the dues to the AAI, the spokesperson added: "There are no dues outstanding with the AAI, Vistara is current with all airport dues." Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/4-major-indian-carriers-dues-to-aai-more-than-doubled-between-january-2020-and-october-2021-1064876.html
26-12-2021||National||Centre 'oblivious' to threat posed by Omicron; PM continuing to hold rallies: Congress slams Centre||Accusing the government of being "ignorant" to the threat posed by the Omicron variant of coronavirus, the Congress on Sunday demanded that Prime Minister Narendra Modi must follow a clear vaccination policy, provide jabs for children between 5 and 15 years and spell out the roadmap to combat the pandemic. The Congress also took a swipe at Prime Minister Modi over political rallies, saying while in Uttar Pradesh gatherings at weddings are being limited to 200, the prime minister is holding rallies wherein lakhs participate The Opposition's attack at the Centre over its handling of the pandemic came a day after the prime minister announced that vaccination against Covid-19 for children between 15 and 18 years will start from January 3, while "precaution dose" for healthcare and frontline workers would be administered from January 10.  In an address to the nation, Modi said the precaution dose will also be available for citizens above 60 years of age and with comorbidities on the advice of their doctor from January 10 next year as well. Reacting to the announcement, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said the Centre has "accepted my suggestion" to allow the administration of booster doses of Covid vaccine and asserted that the protection of vaccines and booster shots has to be provided to every citizen of the country. At a press conference, Congress' chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala alleged that the Modi government has "failed India" during the pandemic. "Modi ji failed the migrant workers during the first and second Corona wave, Modi ji failed the poor during the first and second wave when he failed to put a single paisa in the hands of the poor when the whole world was doing it, Modi ji failed the small and medium businesses when he virtually left them to fend for themselves," he charged. Ciitng surveys, Surjewala said "mismanagement" of the coronavirus pandemic led to death of nearly 40 lakh Indians. "The tepid response on Omicron virus bordering on the directionless drift is even more alarming now. The entire policy paralysis of the Modi government in dealing with coronavirus including Omicron is marred by failure of leadership, rudderless response and planless preparation," Surjewala charged. The only solution Modi offers is to "escape responsibility, have completely confused and repeated changes in vaccination policy", be preoccupied with self promotion by putting his picture on the vaccination certificate and hold public rallies, Surjewala said.  He also accused the prime minister of shifting the buck on to the states while shouldering "zero responsibility". Attacking the prime minister over his address to the nation on Saturday, the Congress leader said that despite the "lofty announcement and the accolades that he was trying to earn yesterday", the harsh reality is otherwise.  "The harsh reality is -- 47.95 crore adults over 18 years of age are yet to be administered 59.40 crore doses," Surjewala said. The other "harsh reality" is that "where are the vaccine doses", and as per the Modi government, they have availability of 17.74 crore vaccines doses only, he said. Surjewala said Prime Minister Modi's announcement on Saturday would mean that 25.69 crore people would be entitled to 35.7 crore more vaccine doses, he said. So the total need of vaccine doses is over 90 crore and asked "where are the vaccines". India's capacity is to produce 16.8 crore vaccine doses per month, he said.  "So,  how and by when, till which date, will all these Indians be administered these vaccines," Surjewala asked. "The need of the hour is that the prime minister follows the 'raj dharma', adopt a clear vaccine policy, provide vaccine to the children in the age group of 5 to 15 years and suggest a way to save the country from the danger of the Omicron virus," he said. Surjewala also attacked the prime minister over holding of public rallies in Uttar Pradesh. "Modi ji did not prepare to deal with Omicron virus but banned gathering of 200 in weddings. However, his own rallies with lakhs of people are going on. When the first wave of Covid came, PM put people's lives in danger by doing the 'Namaste Trump' event, in the second wave did the 'Jan Ashivaad Yatra' and did rallies in West Bengal without caring for people and now again trying to score political points, while in Uttar Pradesh gathering of 200 in weddings is not allowed, two lakhs are brought for PM's rallies using public money by buses," he said. Surjewala said past experience shows that once the virus has taken root in the UK and US, it hits India within 65 days and within 80 days it is at its peak.  "Why is it that the government is oblivious and ignorant, bordering on criminal negligence, to the threat of the Omicron virus. We know that it doubles between 1.5 and 3 days, it escapes existing antibodies, we know that it changes protein spikes, it is fastest communicable, it will lead to large scale massive hospitalisation," he said. As many as 422 Omicron cases have been detected across 17 states and union territories in India so far and 130 of these people have recovered or migrated, according to Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-oblivious-to-threat-posed-by-omicron-pm-continuing-to-hold-rallies-congress-slams-centre-1064877.html
26-12-2021||National||Such great heroes of social justice will always be source of inspiration: Rahul on Tutu's demise||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday condoled the death of South Africa's Nobel Peace Prize-winning activist Archbishop Desmond Tutu and said such great heroes of social justice will always be a "source of inspiration to all of us across the world". Tutu, who fought for racial justice and LGBT rights and was a retired Anglican Archbishop of Cape Town, died at the age of 90. "My condolences on the passing of Archbishop Desmond Tutu. He was a champion of the anti-apartheid movement and a Gandhian," Rahul Gandhi tweeted. My condolences on the passing of Archbishop Desmond Tutu. He was a champion of the anti-apartheid movement and a Gandhian. Such great heroes of social justice will always be a source of inspiration to all of us across the world. "Such great heroes of social justice will always be a source of inspiration to all of us across the world," the former Congress chief said.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/such-great-heroes-of-social-justice-will-always-be-source-of-inspiration-rahul-on-tutus-demise-1064889.html
26-12-2021||National||Half of Parliament sessions since July-Aug 2001 adjourned before schedule||More than half of the Parliament sessions in the past 20 years were adjourned before the scheduled date of closure, with the Rajya Sabha losing 108 sittings, research by the Rajya Sabha Secretariat has shown. The recently concluded Winter Session of Parliament was adjourned sine die, a day before the schedule with the government citing that it has completed the legislative business. Since the Budget Session of 2020, all the five Parliament sessions were cut short due to Covid-19 pandemic and one due to elections in some states though not specifically stated. The Rajya Sabha Secretariat undertook a study of the Sessions after Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu wanted a fact-sheet on the trend of early adjournments. Sources said the study revealed that 32 of the 63 sessions, since the Monsoon Session of 2001 (193rd Session), were adjourned before schedule. While 25 sessions (40 per cent) ran a full course, six sessions (9 per cent) concluded beyond the scheduled duration. Over the 63 Sessions, Rajya Sabha has lost a total of 108 sittings -- 7.42 per cent of the total scheduled sittings -- over the last 20 years due to early adjournments. With the House meeting beyond the schedule for a total of 23 sittings in six sessions, the net loss in sittings was 85 or 6 per cent of the total scheduled sittings of 1,455 over 20 years. In the last seven years since 2014, when Narendra Modi assumed power, 25 sessions were held and 14 of them fell short of the schedule accounting for 56 per cent of the total. Three of them were affected by the Covid-19 pandemic. Of the total scheduled sittings of 507 during this period, the House lost a total of 39 sittings or 7.69 per cent of total scheduled sittings. Rajya Sabha sat for an extra eight sittings during the 249th session. Since 2014, sources said the analysis suggested that Rajya Sabha loses a net of about 7 per cent of the total sittings due to premature adjournments of the House and the reasons included disruptions, agreement among parties, government’s proposals, elections and the pandemic. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/half-of-parliament-sessions-since-july-aug-2001-adjourned-before-schedule-1064892.html
26-12-2021||National||Ensure availability of Covaxin if mixed match policy for booster is adopted: IMA||The Indian Medical Association (IMA) on Sunday said that the Centre should ensure the large-scale availability of Covaxin if a mixed match policy is adopted for booster doses for healthcare workers, as the majority of the people have taken Covishield as their first and second doses. "On behalf of the frontline and healthcare workers, we hail the announcement of the Prime Minister for the precautionary booster dose for healthcare and frontline workers. It is the right step as the imminent third wave by the new variant is a matter of concern. "Omicron is at our doorstep and we need to protect our healthcare and frontline workers in all possible ways", the IMA said in a statement. On the ongoing RDA strike which has hit all the medical services in the national capital, the IMA said that the issue of expediting PG counseling is the need of the hour to increase manpower ahead of the looming third wave threat. The infrastructure without manpower is a futile measure, it added. The association has also welcomed the government's decision to inoculate children between 15-18 years of age. J A Jayalal, National President of the IMA, said: "The IMA also welcomes the much-awaited decision of vaccination for children from January 3. At this moment of reopening of schools, this will be the welcome step to bring additional safety to children. The vaccination process for children must be handled with much more care and constant monitoring and surveillance must be ensured." Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ensure-availability-of-covaxin-if-mixed-match-policy-for-booster-is-adopted-ima-1064898.html
26-12-2021||National||Naqvi calls PM Modi 'trouble-shooter' who fought from front during Covid-19 pandemic||Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, Union Minority Affairs Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi on Sunday described Prime Minister Narendra Modi as a "trouble-shooter leader" who fought from the front to get the world's largest democracy out of the "biggest calamity of the century". Speaking after inaugurating various development projects at Dhule in Maharashtra, Naqvi said PM Modi ensured adequate facilities and resources for the health and well-being of people during the Covid-19 related challenges. People's self-restraint and precautions reflected their faith in the leadership of Modi, he said. "By the grace of God, we have a trouble-shooter leader like Prime Minister Narendra Modi who has fought from the front to get the world's largest democracy out of the biggest calamity of the century," he said. Naqvi claimed some political parties were trying to commit the sin of derailing the country's progress, prosperity and unity through "post-paid political pretence". "We have to be remain cautious of such players, who are leaving no chance to harm India's growing prestige across the world through their 'caucus of conspiracies'," he said. Prime Minister Modi is taking the country forward on the highway of good governance by demolishing the “speed breaker of cut, commission, corruption, crime and communalism”, the senior BJP leader said. The Modi era has dissipated the “politics of danga and dabangs” with the determination to development with dignity, he said. Inclusive empowerment” is rashtradharma and empowerment without appeasement is rashtraniti of the Modi government, he said. The Modi government has made every section of society an equal partner of the development process, and his governance is an era of Iqbal (authority), Insaaf (justice) and Imaan (integrity), Naqvi said. The Union minister said the Modi government has worked for the health and well-being of every caste, community, region and religion. Today, the Covid-19 vaccination figure has crossed 141 crore. Free ration is being provided to more than 80 crore needy people, the minister pointed out. The Modi government gave priority to precaution, prevention and adequate facilities, instead of panic, he said. During the first Covid-19 wave in India in 2020, there was a lack of resources to tackle the pandemic. But, India has now become self-reliant in Covid-19 vaccines, ventilators, medicines, PPE (personal protective equipment) kits, N-95 masks, testing labs for the coronavirus, ICU beds, Covid-19-dedicated hospitals and medical oxygen, Naqvi said. The production of medical oxygen has now been increased to over 9,000 MT (metric tons) per day, from just 900 MT per day before January 2020, he said. More than 80,000 Covid-19 vaccination centres are functioning. There are over 2,600 Covid-19 testing labs in the country, he said. India currently has an indigenous production capacity of more than 10 lakh Covid-19 testing kits per day. There are over 2,000 dedicated Covid-19 hospitals; more than 4,000 dedicated Covid-19 health centres and about 13,000 Covid-19 care centres, the minister informed. Total isolation beds (with/without oxygen) have been increased to more than 15 lakh as compared to about 10,000 at the starting of 2020. The ICU beds have been increased to over 85,000 compared to just 2,000 before the lockdown last year, he said. More than five lakh indigenous N-95 masks and over five lakh PPE kits are being manufactured in India every day, he said, adding that more than four lakh ventilators are being produced annually. In the last seven years, the Modi government has provided houses to 2.20 lakh crore poor people, more than 12 crore farmers have been given the Kisan Samman Nidhi, and about 9 crore women from poor sections have been given free gas connections under the Ujjwala Yojana. Also, more than 32 crore people have been provide easy loans for various economic activities including self-employment under the Mudra Yojana and ober 44 crore people have benefitted through the Jan Dhan Yojana, he said. Further listing the central government's achievements, the minister said 13 crore toilets have been constructed under the Swachh Bharat Mission across the country and more than two crore people have been given free of cost medical treatment under the Ayushman Bharat scheme. Naqvi inaugurated various development projects worth crores of rupees, including a community auditorium and roads at Dondaicha in Dhule and addressed public meetings in the district. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/naqvi-calls-pm-modi-trouble-shooter-who-fought-from-front-during-covid-19-pandemic-1064902.html
26-12-2021||National||International travel suffers due to Omicron but domestic market persists||Even though domestic air travel in India is experiencing a growth in demand, but flights to and from India are reducing in number amid the Omicron scare. “In 2022, the domestic flight trends are looking very strong compared to 2021. Metro destinations are on track to exceed 2021 numbers. Leisure destinations like Goa, Chandigarh, Jaipur are showing a very strong uptick compared to 2021 numbers,” he added. Rajnish Kumar, Co-founder & Group CPTO, ixigo, said, “Domestic travel appetite is still strong for the holiday season. We have seen a 10-15 per cent year-on-year surge in search queries for popular domestic leisure destinations for year-end travel including Goa, Jaipur, Srinagar and Udaipur.” He also told that wedding-related travel demand has increased in November and December as destination wedding trend returns, adding, “With air quality worsening in metro cities like Delhi, we are also witnessing a trend of ‘escape tourism’ where an increasing level of pollution has tourists flocking to destinations like Goa.” Meanwhile, international flights are not having a good time in the holiday season as there is a significant drop in bookings. “We have seen a temporary dip of around 20 per cent (compared with the company’s expectations) in international bookings for now. Countries like the UK, France, US, Singapore are getting impacted due to the restrictions and concerns related to the new variant,” Rikant Pittie, co-founder, Easy Trip Planners, told the publication. Pittie noted that most of the international travel bookings were not cancelled but postponed. Restrictions imposed by India as well as other countries affect international travel. More than 6,000 flights have been cancelled worldwide over the long Christmas weekend and thousands more were delayed, Flightaware.com reported Sunday, as the highly infectious Omicron variant brings holiday hurt to millions. On Friday, there were around 2,400 cancellations and 11,000 delays, while Sunday cancellations were at nearly 1,500 with more than 1,400 delays also reported. “Thousands of people, especially NRIs, who came home last time around could not go back to the countries of their employment. They came to India and were stuck here because a country like Singapore or Saudi Arabia wouldn’t allow them to enter without rigorous quarantines. That is why international demand is running below what was originally expected for Christmas, New Year’s, and so on,” a senior executive with a domestic low-cost airline told the publication. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/international-travel-suffers-due-to-omicron-but-domestic-market-persists-1064908.html
26-12-2021||National||'No country should have audacity to cast evil eye on us', says Rajnath calling for nuclear deterrents||India wants to manufacture BrahMos missiles not to attack any country but so that no other country has "the audacity to cast an evil eye on it", Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Sunday, while stressing the need for maintaining nuclear deterrents. "The BrahMos missile and other weapons and defence equipment we are manufacturing are not to attack any other country. It has never been the character of India to attack any other country or grab even an inch of land of any country," Singh said. "We want to manufacture BrahMos on Indian soil so that no country has the audacity to cast an evil eye on India," he said, referring to the missile that is capable of carrying a nuclear warhead. The defence minister laid the foundation stone of the Defence Technologies and Test Centre and the BrahMos Manufacturing Centre, along with Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, during the day. "There is a neighbouring country. It got separated from India sometime back. I don't know why its intentions vis-a-vis India are always bad. It committed acts of terrorism in Uri and Pulwama," the defence minister said, referring to Pakistan. "And then our prime minister took a decision, and we went to the soil of that country and destroyed terrorist hideouts, and when there was a need for airstrikes, we did that successfully. We gave the message that if somebody dares to cast an evil eye on us, then not just on this side of the border, but we can go to the other side and hit them. This is India's strength," Singh said. India carried out cross-border strikes in September 2016 and February 2019 in response to terror attacks in Uri and Pulwama. Speaking on the occasion, Adityanath said, "The stand of the country is clear, and it does take security lightly. This is the new India, which does not provoke first, but also does not spare anyone who provokes it." The defence minister praised him for expediting land acquisition for the projects they inaugurated. "When I spoke to Yogiji and expressed the desire to establish this project, he did not take a second, and said that land will be made available at the earliest. I express my thanks that the chief minister for making 200 acres available in just one and a half months," he said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-country-should-have-audacity-to-cast-evil-eye-on-us-says-rajnath-calling-for-nuclear-deterrents-1064914.html
26-12-2021||National||Pralhad Joshi, Jairam Ramesh exchange barbs on suspension of MPs||The political slugfest over the suspension of 12 opposition MPs continues even after the conclusion of the winter session of Parliament with Union Minister Pralhad Joshi and Congress chief whip in Rajya Sabha Jairam Ramesh exchanging barbs on Sunday over the issue. In a series of tweets, Joshi posted a video of the ruckus created during the last days of the Monsoon session that led to the suspension of 12 MPs and tagging Ramesh said, "As people's representatives, it is the duty of parliamentarians to respect the Chair and behave in a manner worthy of their standing." However, Ramesh's colleagues chose disruption over debate. "It was unfortunate as the whole country witnessed their sheer hooliganism," the Parliamentary Affairs minister said. He further said the government was always ready to withdraw the suspension had these 12 MPs apologised, but they were only justifying their actions. "You must not lose your way while pleasing RaGa (Rahul Gandhi). Do tell him about respect being commanded and not demanded," Joshi said, pointing at Ramesh, and added that "'to err is human but to repeatedly justify it is foolish". Responding to Joshi's remarks, Ramesh in a similar tone said, "You mustn’t lose your way spreading lies to please NaMo (Narendra Modi), who himself is the Jagadguru of Jhoot (master of lies). Repeating what I said in the House—if the government is accommodative, then the opposition is responsive." Ramesh also asserted that the onus is on the government to ensure that Parliament functions. Hitting back at Joshi for releasing the video, which Ramesh described was not a legal thing to do, the Congress leader questioned the presence of Delhi police personnel in the lobbies that day, as only Rajya Sabha security personnel are allowed to maintain security within the house chambers and lobbies. He also tweeted the letter of Leader of Opposition written to Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu on the issue. Twelve members of opposition parties in Rajya Sabha were suspended from the winter session on the very first day following a motion brought in by the government. On the last days of the session, one more MP TMC floor leader Derek O'Brien was also suspended for the session. The members faced action for alleged unruly conduct towards the end of the monsoon session in August when marshals were called after opposition members stormed the Well of the House during the passage of the General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Amendment Bill, 2021. The suspended 12 members comprise six from the Congress, two each from Trinamool Congress and Shiv Sena and one each from CPI and CPM. The suspended MPs were -- Phulo Devi Netam, Chhaya Verma, Ripun Bora, Rajamani Patel, Syed Nasir Hussain and Akhilesh Prasad Singh of Congress; Dola Sen, Shanta Chhetri of Trinamool Congress; Priyanka Chaturvedi, Anil Desai of Shiv Sena; Elamaram Kareem of CPM; and, Binoy Viswam of CPI. Throughout the session, these MPs sat in front of the Mahatma Gandhi statue in the parliament complex to protest against their suspension. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pralhad-joshi-jairam-ramesh-exchange-barbs-on-suspension-of-mps-1064925.html
26-12-2021||National||I am '24 carat' Congressman, not upset with party: Ghulam Nabi Azad||Ghulam Nabi Azad Sunday put to rest all speculations about his possible exit from the party, calling himself a "24 Carat Congressman" and saying he was not upset with the party, but was instead working for unifying and uniting its workers. The former chief minister has been holding public rallies in Jammu and Kashmir over the past nearly two months and was seen accompanied by his loyalists including senior party leaders and former ministers who recently resigned from their party posts in a revolt against J&K Congress president G A Mir. Talking to reporters after addressing a public meeting in the border belt of Khour on the outskirts of Jammu, Azad, however, said reforms are a dynamic process and imperative for every party, society and the country as a whole for the benefit of people. "Yes, I am a Congressman. Who told you I am not? 24 'Carat' Congressman. How does it matter if 18 Carats are challenging 24 carat?" Azad said, responding to questions about the speculations of his possible exit from the party like former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh. Azad, who was among the 23 Congress leaders who had sought an organisational overhaul last year, said he is not displeased with the party. "Those dividing parties only see divisions. We are the ones who are linking people. We are forging unity (in the party ranks) as we are for unification," he said. Asked about his call for reforms, he said reforms are needed in every party, every society and country. "Reforms are an ongoing process and necessary in every party…the legislature is also a sort of reform. Many evils of the past are not there in the society today because of reforms," he said, adding the communalism and casteism prevalent in society today also need to be reformed. Azad said reforms are an ongoing process, a dynamic process which continues throughout the world. About his views on "white colour terrorism" highlighted by a Srinagar-based Army officer, he said he did not know what does he meant by it. "I have already said that the politicians should have done the right things for the welfare of the people but sometimes they did the work of Satan by dividing the people. We should desist from it," he said. On a question about the prospects of Congress in the next assembly elections likely to be held after the delimitation exercise, Azad said people are the masters in a democratic set-up and defeat and win of any party is in their hands. However, he said people across Jammu and Kashmir are "fed up" with the BJP because of rising inflation and growing unemployment. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/i-am-24-carat-congressman-not-upset-with-party-ghulam-nabi-azad-1064942.html
26-12-2021||National||SJM national meet demands outright ban on crypto transactions||RSS-affiliate Swadeshi Jagran Manch on Sunday passed a resolution demanding that the central government completely ban buying, selling, investing and otherwise dealing in cryptocurrencies by any person in the country. The law relating to issuing of digital currency by the Reserve Bank of India should be framed "quickly" and the Central Bank Digital Currency (CBDC) considered as legal tender, the Swadeshi Jagran Manch (SJM) said in its fifteenth national meet. "The resolution was passed by the 15th Rashtriya Sabha of the Swadeshi Jagran Manch, which concluded in Gwalior today," the outfit's co-convenor Ashwani Mahajan told PTI. The national meet had started on December 24. "The government should out rightly ban buying, selling, investing and otherwise dealing in cryptocurrencies by any person resident in India," the resolution demanded. It also said that people holding cryptocurrencies can be allowed to sell or exchange the same within a short span of time, subject to provision of submitting information to the Income Tax department. "Disobeying the ban should make person/entity liable to financial penalty," the resolution added. The resolution passed at the SJM national meet argued that giving recognition to cryptocurrencies could lead to heavy speculation and adversely impact financial market. "Recognition may also result in money laundering and terror financing as well as capital account convertibility from the back door," it added. The Union ministries of consumer affairs and corporate affairs should roll out an "aggressive" consumer awareness campaign, after banning cryptocurrencies, to advice people not to fall prey to "deceptive advertisements" being circulated by the "so called cryptocurrencies' exchanges", especially in Tier-2 and Tier-3 cities, the SJM said in its resolution. "The law relating to issuance of digital currency by the Reserve Bank of India should be framed quickly. The CBDC should be considered as legal tender," it said, adding, "Cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin, Ethereum, etc should not be recognised as asset or digital asset because it will indirectly become medium of exchange like currency." Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sjm-national-meet-demands-outright-ban-on-crypto-transactions-1064947.html
26-12-2021||National||Government to launch multi-village scheme to provide piped water supply to rural households||Aimed at accelerating the provision of piped water connections to all village households under the Jal Jeevan Mission, the Jal Shakti Ministry is planning to launch a multi-village scheme by March 2022. Under the scheme, many villages will be clubbed into one drinking water supply project where the nearest water source will be identified, treated and supplied to the group of villages. Although the ministry has launched some projects under the scheme, full-fledged work on all projects under the multi-village scheme will start in the next three months, Bharat Lal, Mission Director, Jal Jeevan Mission said. Claiming that the government's plan under JJM to provide 100 per cent functional tap water connection to all rural households by December 2024 is on track, he said that 1,301 newly emerged arsenic (883) and fluoride (418) affected habitations are being covered through piped water supply on priority, to be completed by March 2022. According to the data shared by the ministry, the government aims to cover all rural households in Gujarat, Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Sikkim, Uttarakhand, Manipur, Jammu and Kashmir, Meghalaya and Ladakh by 2022. In 2023, rural households in nine states — Arunachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Mizoram, Tripura, Nagaland and Chhattisgarh — will be provided with a tap water connection. So far, Goa, Telangana, the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Puducherry, Dadra And Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu, and Haryana have provided piped water connections. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-to-launch-multi-village-scheme-to-provide-piped-water-supply-to-rural-households-1064970.html
26-12-2021||National||Tomar refutes claims farm laws will be reinstated, slams Congress over 'cheap politics'||Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Sunday made it clear that the Central government has no plan to reintroduce the three withdrawn farm laws, and accused Congress leader Rahul Gandhi of doing "cheap politics" and misleading people. Tomar's statement comes a day after the Congress alleged that the Centre was hatching a conspiracy to reintroduce the three farm laws after the upcoming assembly polls. The Congress had made the allegation after Tomar had, during an event in Maharashtra's Nagpur, said that the government moved a "step back" and "will move forward again" while talking about repealed farm laws. "There is no proposal of the government to bring back agriculture reform laws. People like Rahul Gandhi indulge in cheap politics. These people have tried unsuccessfully to mislead the country by misquoting my statement. There is no such proposal to bring back the repealed laws," Tomar told reporters at Morena on Sunday. In Nagpur, Tomar had said that the Centre brought agriculture amendment laws, but some people did not like these laws which were a big reform brought about 70 years after the Independence under Prime Minister Narendra Modi's leadership. "But the government is not disappointed, we moved a step back and we will move forward again because farmers are India's backbone," Tomar had said. After this statement, Congress MP Rahul Gandhi had said in a tweet in Hindi on Saturday that the country's agriculture minister has insulted PM Modi's apology. "If anti-farmer steps are taken again, then satyagraha of annadatas will take place. Had defeated arrogance, will again defeat it," he had said. Congress' chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala, while referring to Tomar's remarks said the "concerted conspiracy" to bring back the three "anti-farmer" agricultural laws now stands exposed again by the statement made by Tomar. The Centre had repealed the three farm laws which were passed by Parliament in September last year with an objective to bring reforms in the agriculture sector, especially marketing of farm produce. These three farm laws were the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tomar-refutes-claims-farm-laws-will-be-reinstated-slams-congress-over-cheap-politics-1064976.html
26-12-2021||National||Entrance test must for admission across central varsities from 2022||The admission process in most of the central universities will change from the upcoming academic session as Central University Common Entrance Test (CUCET) will come into force for admission to all undergraduate courses in different central universities across the country. The Union Education Ministry and the University Grants Commission (UGC) have informed central universities about the mandatory entrance test from the next academic session, after which all central universities have started preparations for the CET. Delhi University (DU) has also made the CET mandatory for the academic session 2022-23. These central universities have also passed proposals in their respective Academic and Executive Councils regarding the CET. According to renowned educationist CS Kandpal, this is a new system and its efficacy can be tested on the basis of experience. It is not proper to comment on the merits and demerits of the new system as of now. Educational institutions must see this as a positive change, he added. The entrance examinations can open new doors for students. If there are demerits in the system or in the conduct or in the process of examinations in future, there is always a chance to improve, Kandpal said. According to DU Professor Hansraj Suman, class 12 marks will not be completely neglected in the name of CUCET. Many central universities have approved CUCET in their academic council but class 12 board exam results will also be given importance. The Union Education Ministry says that there has been a demand to implement the CUCET for a long time, but has come into effect now. Hansraj Suman, also a former member of DU Academic Council, said that due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the process for awarding marks in class 12 board exams was misused by several schools which presented exaggerated performance of the students. The DU Professor is also in favour of completely revamping the admission process in his varsity. However, he says that while doing so the interests of the students from the marginalised and economically weaker sections must be kept in mind. According to Suman, the way the CET is being introduced, coaching centres will see its importance rising as a result of which students from economically weaker sections may be left behind. Now from the next academic session, students will now have to pass the CET with good marks to seek admission in DU, he said. Other central universities are also following the same admission policy. This means that from the next academic session 2022-23, admission in DU, Jamia Millia Islamia, Jawaharlal Nehru University, Banaras Hindu University, among other central universities, can be possible only through CET. Under the present admission system, a merit list is prepared on the basis of marks obtained in class 12 exams in most of the universities. Students fill the respective university forms on different dates to seek admissions. Unable to get admission to the university of their choice, students approach those universities and colleges where seats are vacant. The UGC has said that the CET will be conducted from the academic session 2022-23 by the National Testing Agency. Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/entrance-test-must-for-admission-across-central-varsities-from-2022-1064983.html
26-12-2021||National||15-18 age group to get only Covaxin, precaution dose to be a repeat of the vaccine taken||Bharat Biotech's Covaxin is likely to be the only Covid-19 vaccine available, for now, for children in the age group of 15-18 years, who will be inoculated from January 3, official sources said. Also, healthcare and frontline workers and citizens above 60 years of age with comorbidities would be administered the third dose of the same vaccine they had been given before. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in a televised address to the nation on Saturday night, announced that vaccination against Covid-19 for children between 15-18 years will start from January 3, while "precaution dose" for healthcare and frontline workers would be administered from January 10. The decisions came amid rising Covid cases linked to the Omicron variant of the virus. The precaution dose will also be available for citizens above 60 years of age and with comorbidities on the advice of their doctor from January 10 next year as well, the prime minister had said. "Bharat Biotech's Covaxin is the only Covid-19 vaccine which will be administered, for now, to children in the age group of 15-18 years who will be inoculated from January 3. The estimated population to be covered in this category is seven to eight crores," an official source said. The source said that Zydus Cadila's vaccine ZyCoV-D has not yet been introduced in the country's inoculation programme, even for adults, though it had received emergency use authorisation from the drug regulator on August 20, making it the first vaccine that could be administered in the age group of 12-18 years in the country. The indigenously developed ZyCoV-D is the world's first DNA-based needle-free COVID-19 vaccine. The gap between the second and third dose of the Covid-19 vaccine, which is being termed as "precaution dose", is likely to be nine to 12 months. Necessary modifications are being done on the Co-WIN portal to register the new category of vaccination. The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) granted emergency use authorisation to indigenously-developed Covaxin for children above 12 years with certain conditions on Friday. More than 61 per cent of India's adult population has received both doses of the vaccine. Similarly, about 90 per cent of the adult population has received the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine. The cumulative  COVID-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has exceeded 141 crores. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/15-18-age-group-to-get-only-covaxin-precaution-dose-to-be-a-repeat-of-the-vaccine-taken-1065025.html
26-12-2021||National||Indian Navy sends ship to friendly nations in Gulf to boost cooperation||The Indian Navy has sent its training ship INS Sudarshini to the Gulf region, including Iran and Oman, as part of its efforts to enhance bilateral maritime cooperation with the friendly navies. The ship, on a month-long deployment, has already made port calls at Muscat, Dubai and Bandar Abbas besides engaging in professional interactions with the Royal Oman Navy (RNO), UAE Navy and Islamic Republic of Iran (IRI) Navy, officials said. "The ship built at Goa Shipyard Ltd showcased indigenous shipbuilding capabilities and revisited India's historic maritime linkages with the Gulf," the Navy said in a statement. "The ship, during the deployment, undertook various training exchanges, wherein sail training was imparted to trainees from RNO and IRI Navy and sea sorties conducted." It said the ship also participated in bilateral maritime partnership exercises with RNO and IRI for enhancing interoperability between the navies. Separately, Indian Naval ship Kesari entered Port of Maputo, Mozambique on Saturday. "This is the eighth such deployment in consonance with the Prime Minister Narendra Modi's vision of 'Security And Growth for All in the Region (SAGAR)' and is being conducted in close coordination with the Ministry of External Affairs, and other agencies of the government of India," the Navy said. It said these deployments were conducted in solidarity with India's extended maritime neighbourhood. The Navy said, "500 tons of food aid has been shipped by INS Kesari to support the efforts of the government of Mozambique to cope with the ongoing drought and concurrent challenges of the pandemic." "India also remains committed to supporting the capacity building efforts of the Armed Forces of Mozambique. To this end Kesari is carrying two fast interceptor craft and self-defence equipment to be handed over to the armed forces of Mozambique," it said. INS Kesari, a landing ship tank (large), had undertaken a similar mission in May-June 2020 to provide humanitarian and medical assistance to Maldives, Mauritius, Seychelles, Madagascar and Comoros, including deployment of medical assistance teams of the Indian Navy in multiple locations. "Since May 2020, the Indian Navy has deployed ships to 15 friendly foreign countries under SAGAR missions," the Navy said. "These deployments spanned over 215 days at sea have delivered a cumulative assistance of more than 3,000 MT of food aid, over 300 MT LMO (Liquid medical oxygen), 900 oxygen concentrators and 20 ISO containers," it said. The Navy said while undertaking these missions, Indian Naval ships have traversed a cumulative distance of close to 40,000 nautical miles which it said is "nearly twice the circumference of the earth". "With a steadfast intent of making such high quantum of humanitarian assistance reach its destination in time, personnel from ships and shore organisations of Indian Navy have invested close to a million man-hours to deliver succour to our friends overseas," it said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-navy-sends-ship-to-friendly-nations-in-gulf-to-boost-cooperation-1065028.html
26-12-2021||National||Maharashtra governor confers awards to eminent personalities||Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari felicitated 44 eminent personalities from various walks of life with ‘Maharashtrachi Girishikhare’ awards at a function held at Rangsharada Auditorium in Mumbai on Sunday.   The programme was organised by People’s Art Centre on the occasion of the concluding function of the Diamond Jubilee celebrations of Maharashtra. Playback singer Usha Mangeshkar, actor Rohini Hattangadi, vocalist Asha Khadilkar, Gazal singer Bhimrao Panchale, playback singer Suresh Wadkar, musician Ashok Patki were among those felicitated on the occasion. Heart specialist Dr Uday Mahurkar, BVG company head Hanmantrao Gaikwad, Tabla player Madhav Pawar, Chess champion Pravin Thipsay (award received by Bhagyashri Thipsay), sculptor Bhagwan Rampure, painter Prabhakar Kolte, architect Shashi Prabhu, environment activist Kishore Rithe and Deepak Shikarpur were prominent among those felicitated. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-governor-confers-awards-to-eminent-personalities-1065049.html
26-12-2021||National Politics||'Like pot calling kettle black': AAP hits back after Amit Shah's jibe at Kejriwal govt's ad spend||The Aam Aadmi Party Saturday hit back at Union Home Minister Amit Shah over his jibe at Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal for the city government's spending on advertisements, saying it is a case of the "pot calling the kettle black".  The party also targeted Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on the issue of expenditure incurred on government advertisement, saying there are 850 hoardings of "Yogi ji and Modi ji" in Delhi while against the Delhi government's 108. "The Delhi government spends only Rs 70 crores on advertisements in a year whereas the Yogi government spends Rs 2,000 crores in a year. 'Ulta chor kotwal ko dante?' (pot calling the kettle black?),” the AAP said in a statement, "Look at the hoardings of Modi ji in Delhi, you will come to know how much noise Modi ji makes even while doing the smallest work," the party added. The AAP's reaction came after Shah, while addressing an event in the city, took a dig at Kejriwal over the media advertisements given by the Delhi government on its various programmes, saying that the people of the national capital have realised who actually carries out development works and who does only lip service. "So far as spending money on advertisements is concerned, Amit Shah ji should take a tour of Delhi, only Yogi ji and Modi ji's advertisements are seen everywhere. Everyday advertisements of only Yogi ji and Modi ji appear in the newspapers in Delhi,” the AAP hit back. Inaugurating the 'Bharat Darshan' park, developed by the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) with scrap materials, Shah also said that it is because of the BJP-ruled three municipal corporations in Delhi that the Modi government has been able to carry out welfare programmes in the capital. He said there are two types of work cultures in the country—one which silently carries out various development works like providing free vaccines to people, bringing administrative reforms, introducing new education policy, urban development programmes, bringing 60 crore poor people under the ambit of welfare programmes like free housing, electricity, gas etc. "And the other is karo ya na karo, advertisements do, TV interview do. (Just give advertisements even if you don't do anything and give interviews to TV news channels). People of Delhi have realised who actually carries out development works and who just does the lip service," the home said. Praising Delhi's civic bodies for carrying out various welfare programmes, Shah also said, had the Kejriwal-led AAP government had paid Rs 13,000 crore outstanding to the three municipal corporations, the civic bodies would have done more work. On Shah's remark, the AAP launched a counter attack, alleging that the Delhi municipal corporations under the BJP are the “most corrupt civic bodies in the world.” “All the money of these corporations goes into the pockets of BJP leaders,” the AAP charged and hit back at the Union Home Minister saying, “Instead of supporting corruption, Amit Shah ji should run them (civic bodies) honestly. Then, there will be no shortage of money.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/like-pot-calling-kettle-black-aap-hits-back-after-amit-shahs-jibe-at-kejriwal-govts-ad-spend-1064727.html
26-12-2021||National Politics||TMC, AAP 'fracturing' non-BJP vote in Goa; only Congress has capacity to beat BJP: Chidambaram||The TMC and AAP are "fracturing" the non-BJP vote in Goa, senior Congress leader P Chidambaram said on Sunday and asserted that only his party has the capacity to defeat the BJP. Chidambaram, who is the Congress' senior election observer for the Goa Assembly polls, also said that loyalty to the party and the electorate is the first criterion for selecting candidates for the elections and expressed confidence that when elected, they will remain loyal to both the party as well as the electorate. His remarks come days after the party's state working president, Aleixo Reginaldo Lourenco, resigned as a Member of the Legislative Assembly, reducing the party's strength to two in the 40-member House. Lourenco has joined the TMC. Earlier this month, former Goa chief minister Ravi Naik resigned as Congress MLA. A few months back, ex-CM Luizinho Faleiro had also quit the Congress and joined the Trinamool Congress (TMC). In an interview with PTI, Chidambaram said the only party that has deep roots in all the 40 constituencies of Goa is the Congress and the people know that it is only the Congress that has the capacity to defeat the BJP despite the latter's "money power and misuse of state power". Asked about the recent resignations from the Congress with some quitting to join the TMC, including Lourenco, and the Mamata Banerjee-led outfit adopting an aggressive pitch in the state, Chidambaram said it is not for him to comment on the motive or strategy of any party, and stressed that only two Congress MLAs have joined the TMC.   "99 per cent of Congress workers remain with the Congress.  I am not unhappy that Mr Reginaldo Lourenco defected to the TMC. The TMC has taken a losing candidate from our hands and, if it fields him in the election, he will remain a losing candidate," the former Union minister said. The Congress workers and the voters of Curtorim constituency are determined to defeat Lourenco, Chidambaram said. Asked whether he believes that the TMC is helping the BJP and the Mamata Banerjee-led party along with the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) were acting as the BJP's B-teams, Chidambaram said, "I do not comment on the motives of any party.  In a straight fight between the BJP and the Congress in 2022, the Congress will emerge as a clear winner."  "The TMC and AAP are fracturing the non-BJP vote. Whether that will benefit the BJP, I cannot say," he said. On whether the Congress would announce a chief ministerial face ahead of polls, Chidambaram pointed out that he has said that after all the Congress candidates are announced, in consultation with them, "we will take a call whether it is desirable to announce a CM candidate before the election". That option is open, he added. Talking about the poll preparations and the Congress' standing in Goa, he said the Congress' slide took place in 2017 and 2019 when its elected MLAs defected to the BJP.  The BJP government in Goa is a government "of defectors, by defectors and for defectors", Chidambaram alleged.  "There is an overwhelming desire for change. The only party that has deep roots in all the 40 constituencies of Goa is the Congress. The people know that it is only the Congress that has the capacity to defeat the BJP despite the latter's money power and misuse of state power. We hope to do well in the 2022 elections," Chidambaram said. Asked about the possibility of an exodus of party's elected leaders following the elections, he said, "Nothing of that sort will happen. We have placed the responsibility of suggesting names of potential candidates on the Block Congress Committees and the Block workers. We have asked them to recommend names based on loyalty, integrity, acceptability  to the Congress workers and winnability among the electorate." Loyalty to the party and the electorate is the first criterion, Chidambaram asserted. "We will pick a candidate from among the names suggested by the Block Congress Committee of the constituency. We are confident that our candidates, when elected, will remain loyal to the party and the electorate," he said. On the possibility of alliances, Chidambaram said, "I have found that, in Goa, it is a practice among political parties to talk to each other right up to the elections — and even after the elections!" "Our Goa PCC leaders have responded to suggestions for talks from other parties including the Goa Forward Party. There are opportunities, risks and bumps. The AICC leadership will take the final decisions," he said.  The Congress had released its first list of eight candidates for the upcoming assembly elections in Goa last week, fielding former chief minister Digamber Kamat from the Margao constituency. The Congress this week also named Pratapsingh Rane, 82, as the party's candidate from Goa's Poriem assembly seat.  In the 2017 Goa Assembly elections, the Congress had won 17 seats in the House and emerged as the single largest party. But, the BJP, which had bagged 13 seats, quickly tied-up with some regional parties and independents to form the government in the state. Lourenco's resignation as Member of the Legislative Assembly on Monday, reduced the party's strength to two in the 40-member House after a series of resignations over the last few years by the party's legislators. The AAP had contested the last assembly polls but failed to win a seat. The TMC has entered the poll fray in Goa and has tied-up with the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/tmc-aap-fracturing-non-bjp-vote-in-goa-only-congress-has-capacity-to-beat-bjp-chidambaram-1064840.html
26-12-2021||National Politics||Union Minister Murugan slams DMK, says it 'chokes' free speech||Union Minister L Murugan on Sunday targeted the DMK and the state government over the alleged attack and arrest of people who expressed views critical of the party and regime led by it and dubbed such incidents as a 'big challenge' to the freedom of expression and the Constitution. Asked about an 'attack' on Naam Tamilar Katchi (NTK) cadres days ago by DMK functionaries at Dharmapuri, Murugan alleged that carrying out such acts was customary for Tamil Nadu's ruling party. People should be surprised only if the DMK men did not involve themselves in such attacks, he claimed to add, 'it is in the blood of the DMK' to slight and stifle freedom of expression. If functionaries belonging to opposition parties make remarks critical of the party or the government, they are targeted by way of attacks and arrests." Such incidents, he said, posed a 'big challenge' to free speech and the Constitution in Tamil Nadu. To a question on fishermen arrested by Sri Lanka, Murugan, the Minister of State for fisheries, animal husbandry, dairy, and information and broadcasting, said all steps were being taken for their early release. Recently, 68 Tamil Nadu fishermen were arrested by the neighboring country. Murugan was formerly the Tamil Nadu unit chief of the BJP. Recently, NTK cadres were attacked, allegedly by DMK functionaries, for slamming the party and the government in connection with a demand for premature release of seven Rajiv Gandhi assassination case convicts, besides others. Leader of the Opposition and top AIADMK leader K Palaniswami was among the leaders who condemned the 'attack' and sought tough action against those responsible for it. Days ago, YouTuber M Maridhas (who was arrested, based on two separate complaints) was released from prison after the Madras High Court quashed the two FIRs against him, one after the other. Maridhas is hailed as a nationalist by the BJP and pro-Hindutva groups and several saffron party leaders had rallied behind him, questioning the motive for his arrest by the DMK government. An NTK functionary and YouTuber, 'Saattai' (whip) Durai Murugan, who was previously arrested for making derogatory comments allegedly against Chief Minister M K Stalin, was arrested again days ago over spreading rumours related to a flash protest by workers here.  Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/union-minister-murugan-slams-dmk-says-it-chokes-free-speech-1064861.html
26-12-2021||National Politics||Farooq hints at fighting elections in J&K together with PAGD allies to defeat communal forces||National Conference president Farooq Abdullah, who is the chairperson of the People's Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), has hinted his party will fight the next assembly elections in Jammu and Kashmir together with the constituents of the new coalition to defeat "communal forces". Talking about the situation in Kashmir, Abdullah claimed it is worse than the 90s -- when militancy erupted in Jammu and Kashmir -- because the youth feel they have no place in modern India and have lost faith in the government in Delhi. "...and I am sure when the elections come, we'll sit down together again to defeat the divisive and communal forces," Abdullah, who has been a Union minister and three-time chief minister of the erstwhile state, told PTI here recently. The PAGD is a five-party alliance comprising the National Conference (NC), Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), CPI(M), Awami National Conference and the Peoples Movement. It seeks the restoration of the special status of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir which was revoked by the Centre in August 2019. "What is created is a combination of all parties to fight for the rights and identity of our people – the Dogras, the Kashmiris and others. We recently had a meeting and we all condemned what the delimitation commission has done (based on its preliminary report which recommended six seats for Jammu and one in Kashmir besides reserving nine seats for Scheduled Tribes and seven for Scheduled Castes)," Abdullah said. Outrightly rejecting the recommendations, he also asked how the government would deal with groups like Kashmiri Pandits and Sikhs who are also demanding political reservation. "How will people from all sections be there? Who does not take these things into consideration? That is why we had an Upper House where the people who could not come into assembly were brought so that their voices could be heard," the NC leader said. Today, every Muslim, whether he belongs to Kashmir or the rest of India, has to "continuously prove" that he is a nationalist despite his community having shed blood for the country, said Abdullah, who was picked by former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee to be a member of his team to represent India at the United Nations. "I think the tragedy is that every Muslim, whether he belongs to Kashmir or the rest of India, has to continuously prove that he is a nationalist, that he is an Indian. Why? Why can't it be done for the others? Why can't they ask the Hindus, 'Are you Indians?' Why only Muslims who have given blood for this nation and are continuously giving blood for this nation, defending this nation at every place," he asked. Abdullah said that the problem is that people have lost faith. The young feel that they have no place in modern India which has been communalised to the maximum. "They find they have no jobs, we have no industry, the promise of 50,000 jobs, what happened to them," he asked. "In JK Bank, they got people from Haryana and Punjab. What about our people from J-K, where will they go? Highly educated population, they see this, they see the arrests made on small flimsy grounds, and they are put under such draconian laws, no one is there to listen, and corruption along with inflation rising sky-high," Abdullah said. On the way ahead, the NC leader said, "We can only come out of this if the present government realises that India is a secular nation, follows the Preamble to the Constitution which says everyone is equal, and stops this division of communities … India is more important, and we have to unite communities rather than dividing them if you want to go forward and shine above the rest of the world." The former chief minister was also highly critical of the J-K administration's decision to stop the 'Darbar Move', an age-old practice under which the civil secretariat – the seat of the government – used to shift its base every six months between the twin capitals of Srinagar and Jammu. On his recent tour of the Jammu region, considered a strong base of the BJP, he said this idea that everything is BJP is "wrong" and it is just media hype. "As I said before, people see the sufferings they are going through and the promises that they have made. They realised it is not Lord Ram who is in danger and so the Muslims also realised that Allah is not in danger as well. "Indeed, it is the people who are in danger. They are suffering and they are living hand-to-mouth in some places," he said. Reiterating his demand for early assembly elections to restore a popular government in Jammu and Kashmir, Abdullah said in a democratic setup, people can go and question the MLA as the legislator is always available near them. "And how dare he not respond! He knows in five years he will disappear if he fails the public," he added.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/farooq-hints-at-fighting-elections-in-jk-together-with-pagd-allies-to-defeat-communal-forces-1064864.html
26-12-2021||National Politics||Images of floating corpses, SUV mowing down farmers provide Oppn ammunition in poll-bound UP||Images of bodies floating in the Ganga, video clips of an SUV mowing down farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri and cases of headline-hogging crime provided much ammunition to the opposition as Uttar Pradesh switches into the election mode. The campaign for the Assembly elections in early 2022 has picked up much pace as the year comes to a close. There has been a flurry of visits to the state by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, launching mega projects and berating the previous governments for “neglecting” the state. Crowded campaign rallies by the ruling BJP and the opposition parties, with hardly any Covid-19 protocol in place even amid predictions of a third coronavirus wave, has prompted the Allahabad High Court to suggest a possible ban on them. But it was the second coronavirus wave in April-May that dented Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath’s image, with UP’s health system caught off guard, as was the case in some other states. People struggled for hospital beds and there were long queues at cremation grounds. Even some BJP leaders questioned their own government, complaining of mismanagement. Bodies were found floating in the Ganga in Ballia and Ghazipur districts, and buried in shallow graves on the riverbank near Prayagraj. Ballia residents claimed seeing over 40 corpses at the ghats in the Narahi area. Authorities attributed some of this to local traditions, and the state government has been claiming that its record at fighting Covid-19 is among the best in the country. The brutal second wave of Covid-19 roughly coincided with the multi-tier panchayat elections. Nearly nine lakh posts across the state were up for grabs. Although the elections were not fought on party symbols, both the BJP and the main opposition Samajwadi Party claimed victory. In the backdrop, a silent tragedy also unfolded. The associations of government school teachers, called to conduct the elections, claimed that hundreds of their members died due to Covid-19 during the poll process that stretched for weeks. The state government initially dismissed the claim, but weeks later relaxed guidelines for compensation. It announced payment of Rs 30 lakh each to the families of over 2,000 government employees, about half of them teachers, who presumingly died of Covid-19 contracted while they were on election duty. Farmers in western Uttar Pradesh — the region from where Bhartiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait hails — boosted the ranks of protesters from Punjab and Haryana camping at Delhi’s borders. The Lakhimpur Kheri incident, in which eight people died, created outrage and with the UP elections just months away, the opposition parties rallied around the farmers. On October 3, an SUV ferrying BJP workers had allegedly rammed farmers near Tikunia in Lakhimpur Kheri, killing four of them and a journalist. An angry mob then lynched two BJP workers and their driver, the police claim. The vehicles in the BJP convoy were allegedly linked to the family of Union Minister of State for Home Affairs Ajay Mishra. His son, Ashish Mishra, and 12 others have been arrested but the opposition in UP and Delhi want the minister also to be sacked. Congress General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra was the first to head towards Lakhimpur Kheri. She was stopped in neighbouring Sitapur and spent nearly two days at a government guest house. The event served to galvanise party workers. The Uttar Pradesh Police found itself on the defensive after a Kanpur businessman died in Gorakhpur, the CM’s native district, allegedly after being thrashed by policemen. However, the BJP has aggressively countered the opposition claim about the worsening law and order situation in the state. At rallies, Adityanath has accused the previous governments of encouraging mafias and terrorists. Now, bulldozers raze illegal buildings put up by dons and criminals prefer to stay away from the state, the BJP narrative goes. And PM Modi has been praising Adityanath, particularly for bringing crime under control – contrary to the speculation months back that the BJP could replace the CM before the elections. Modi has made a series of visits to the state, which will also prove crucial in the 2024 Lok Sabha polls, inaugurating or laying the foundation stones of infrastructure projects like the 600-km Ganga Expressway, 340-km Purvanchal Expressway, medical colleges and an irrigation network in Bundelkhand. The standout project has been the completion of the first phase of the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor. The PM took a dip in the Ganges and offered prayers at the inauguration. And his speech focused on the revival of tradition and faith, and how the country has stood up to the likes of emperor Aurangzeb. Akhilesh Yadav’s Samajwadi Party (SP) is taking on the BJP challenge, exchanging barb for barb as the campaign progresses. Yadav has claimed that the projects for which the BJP government is taking credit were “started” when he was the chief minister. The SP is joining hands with smaller parties, learning from its earlier not-too-happy experience of aligning with the Congress and the Bahujan Samaj Party in the 2017 assembly and 2019 Lok Sabha elections. Lately, Akhilesh Yadav has mended fences with his uncle Shivpal Singh Yadav who had floated his own outfit, the Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party Lohia. The senior Yadav had parted ways with the nephew during the tail end of the SP government, and the trouble within the family was seen as one of the causes for the 2017 defeat.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/images-of-floating-corpses-suv-mowing-down-farmers-provide-oppn-ammunition-in-poll-bound-up-1064894.html
26-12-2021||National Politics||Will 'troubleshooter' Priyanka Gandhi play a bigger role for Congress after UP Polls?||After Ahmed Patel passed away, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has emerged as a troubleshooter within the party and all complainants are landing at her door with their grievances. Most recently, when the Uttarakhand crisis loomed this week with former Chief Minister Harish Rawat targeting the party, Priyanka Gandhi stepped in to defuse the tension and placated the sulking leader. This is not the first time the Gandhi sibling has managed a crisis in the party. She was instrumental in Punjab and was the main brain behind the removal of Amarinder Singh and installing Navjot Singh Sidhu in the party apparatus. She along with Rahul prevailed upon Ashok Gehlot to accommodate Sachin Pilot loyalists in the government. After UP polls, analysts feel that Congress will have to offer Priyanka Gandhi a bigger role to reach out to leaders who are not in sync with Rahul Gandhi. Moreover, to win back the disgruntled leaders and the G-23 group, most of the lot praised her for the fight she took up in UP after the Lakhimpur Kheri incident. While she has been credited with making the party visible in UP by raising issues in a short span of time, the current survey shows that Congress may not gain electorally in the state. The party, however, is seeing her as a star campaigner in future elections and her, 'ladki hun lad sakti hun' (I'm a girl and can fight) is attracting nationwide attention and the marathons conducted in getting massive registrations and the Congress sees it as a counter to religion and caste-based politics. At the time when the Congress general secretary got into campaign mode, the country's attention was consumed by the Covid-19 pandemic. Yet her active intervention in Hathras and Sonbhadra got her noticed. And at the peak of the migrant crisis, her offer of buses to transport the affected people to their homes, earned her kudos. During the farmers' agitation, too, she was at the forefront, but then the second wave hit the nation. With Uttar Pradesh going to the polls for the next Assembly early next year along with Uttarakhand and Punjab, the Congress leadership is debating whether Priyanka should be assigned a more prominent, perhaps pan-India role in the party. Several Congress leaders are vocal on this issue. One such person is Acharya Pramod Krishnam, who has been saying that Priyanka is made party president. Others, who are not happy with the way Rahul Gandhi's office functions, suggest that Sonia Gandhi should continue as party president and Priyanka be made vice-president in-charge of north India. When the leadership crisis hit the Congress, there was a collegium to assist Sonia Gandhi. In September last year, a committee was set up with A.K. Antony, the late Ahmad Patel, Ambika Soni, K.C. Venugopal, Mukul Wasnik and Randeep Singh Surjewala as members. After the death of Patel, however, the committee has been meeting occasionally. The Congress constitution has no provision for a vice-president, but in the past Rahul Gandhi, Arjun Singh and Jitendra Prasada had held this position. Some Congress leaders believe that Priyanka's style of functioning is smoother. She's an attentive listener and has been active in defusing crises in Rajasthan and Punjab. The Congress is mired in infighting in a number of states -- Uttrakhand, Punjab, UP, Goa, Manipur and Gujarat, which are preparing to go to polls in 2022 while MP, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh in 2023, so a bigger role for her means the party could bring more traction. A section of the Congress leadership points out that Rahul Gandhi can lead the party without holding any post. These leaders say he has been targeting the government on various issues. Even his critics accept his credentials for mounting attacks on the Prime Minister consistently on the pandemic and economic crisis. The party is facing crises in Rajasthan, Punjab, Uttrakhand, Karnataka, and the supporters of T.S. Singhdeo in Chhattisgarh will press the demand that he be made the chief minister after five state elections. His supporters, though, insist that the party must fulfil its assurance to the leader who was instrumental in winning seats in the tribal belt of the state, which was with the BJP at that time. Similarly, Sachin Pilot is pushing for change in Rajasthan and the party cannot afford to lose him after Jyotiraditya Scindia walked out and was rewarded with a berth in the Modi Cabinet. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/will-troubleshooter-priyanka-gandhi-play-a-bigger-role-for-congress-after-up-polls-1064897.html
26-12-2021||National Politics||Amit Shah targets Akhilesh with 'pro-Muslim' jibe||Sticking to his party's 'Hindutva' agenda, Union Home Minister and former BJP chief Amit Shah on Sunday sought to dub Samajwadi Party (SP) supremo Akhilesh Yadav, BJP's main rival in the forthcoming assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh, as "pro-Muslim" and said that the latter was 'angry' as the centre had scrapped the 'triple talaq' and also over the construction of a Ram temple in Ayodhya. ''Akhilesh is very angry these days...you (people) know why...it's because Modiji scrapped triple talaq and construction of Ram Temple has started in Ayodhya,'' Shah said while addressing a public meeting at Kasganj, about 350 kilometres from Lucknow. He also said that as many as 700 "communal riots" had taken place during the regime of Akhilesh Yadav. ''Not a single communal riot took place during Yogi Adityanath regime,'' he added. Shah said that Akhilesh used to "taunt" the BJP on Ram Temple construction and often remarked that the Ram temple would never be constructed. ''We proved him wrong...Kashi Vishwanath Dham is also being beautified,'' Shah said. The minister also attacked former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, saying that the latter could never gather the courage to hit Pakistan whenever it perpetrated terrorist attacks on Indian soil. ''Modiji taught a lesson to Pakistan with surgical strikes after the Pulwama incident,'' he said. He also showcased the achievements of the Centre and state government and listed the measures for the welfare of all sections of the society. Earlier also, Shah and other BJP leaders had sought to paint his rival, especially the SP, as "pro-Muslim" and accused Akhilesh of favouring the minority community. The saffron party leaders also referred to 'kabristan' (graveyard) and 'mosques' to target Akhilesh and other opposition leaders. The opposition parties have accused the BJP of trying to "polarise" the forthcoming assembly polls by raking up religious issues. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/amit-shah-targets-akhilesh-with-pro-muslim-jibe-1064933.html
26-12-2021||National Politics||After voting on caste and religion basis, people of UP to vote this time on issues: Bhupesh Baghel||The people of Uttar Pradesh do something new in every election and after voting on caste and religion basis in the past, they are ready to vote based on issues concerning them this time, Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel said. Baghel, who is the senior poll observer for the Congress in Uttar Pradesh, in an interview to PTI said the party will contest on all the seats in the state in the upcoming assembly elections, giving 40 per cent seats to women this time. The Congress will fight the polls under the leadership of Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who has fearlessly and aggressively raised people's issues in the state, be it farmers' problems, unemployment, price rise or dwindling incomes, or atrocities against Dalits, women and youth, he said. This will benefit the Congress, the senior leader asserted. He also said that farmers have not forgotten their "humiliation" at the hands of the BJP government after what happened with them in the last over a year and over "700 of them losing their lives". They will vote out the BJP this time, Baghel said. The groundswell of anger against the BJP will be reflected in the Uttar Pradesh election, the Chhattisgarh chief minister said. "The people of Uttar Pradesh do something new in every election. Uttar Pradesh gives you answers to the questions of the present times," Baghel said. He said there was a time when people voted on the basis of caste, and (Bahujan Samaj Party supremo) Mayawati and (Samajwadi Party president) Akhilesh Yadav became chief ministers. They again voted on the basis of religion and the BJP, which was number four in 2012, emerged as the winner in the 2017 assembly polls, Baghel said. "But, the people of Uttar Pradesh now want to vote on their issues - be it price rise and reduced incomes, unemployment, farmers, Dalits, youth, employees, women. Only the Congress is addressing these issues and Priyanka ji has talked about all these issues in the party's pledges," he noted. The Congress leader admitted that in the last election, people rejected the coalition and the Congress-Samajwadi Party combine lost badly due to anti-incumbency of the Akhilesh Yadav government. But, now, every one is contesting differently and all have different agendas. However, no one is addressing people's issues, Baghel said. Only Priyanka Gandhi is addressing issues, be it about farmers, employees or art and craft and local industries of different regions, he said. Asked if the opposition vote will be divided with all parties contesting separately, he said, "Opposition vote will not be divided. Those who neither like Akhilesh Yadav or (Chief Minister) Yogi Adityanath, will vote for the Congress." The senior Congress leader noted that people are not connected with only one party and said if one sees the journey from 2012 to 2022, there are a lot of ups and downs, and they have voted on different issues. "We have seen several combinations also play out - be it Dalit-Brahmin, Yadav-Muslims, experimented with religion, as well as on caste basis. But they (people) feel they did not get anything out of it," he said, adding that they will vote for those raising their issues this time. He said under Priyanka Gandhi, the party is moving forward while taking common people's problems and she has helped the Congress emerge as a third alternative before Adityanath and Yadav. Baghel noted that the groundswell over farm laws and farmer agitation is very much alive and they will vote the BJP out. "The farmers will not forget what has happened to them and will vote against the BJP. The government has earned the distinction of having a 'ghamandi chehra' (arrogant face) over the farm laws issue. (Prime Minister Narendra) Modi ji is not working any more and the BJP is getting a beating in every state," he noted. Asked about the Congress prospects in the next round of assembly elections, including in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Goa and Punjab, Baghel said it will be in favour of the Congress party and some good results will come out. Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/after-voting-on-caste-and-religion-basis-people-of-up-to-vote-this-time-on-issues-bhupesh-baghel-1064977.html
26-12-2021||National Politics||From protests to politics: Key figures of the farmers' agitation set to enter fray in Punjab||Following successful protests at Delhi borders to repeal the farm laws, farmers are now turning their attention to contesting the upcoming Punjab Assembly elections in 2022.  In the forefront is 78-year-old Balbir Singh Rajewal, who emerged as a prominent face during the farmers' agitation and will be the face of the front. Addressing the media after a meeting, Rajewal and farmer leaders Harmeet Singh Qadian and Kulwant Singh Sandhu said that at least three more farmers' organisations might join them. “This was a demand of the people of the state, who said that we had emerged victorious in the farmers’ agitation and should fight on the political front also,” Qadian said.  The farmers said that they were just leading the front and that they were counting on the people of the state as their major strength. Even as this is likely to split the vote share of major political parties, especially of the Akali Dal — that counts farmers among its major support base — 32 member bodies of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), the umbrella body, did not sign up for politics. He has been participating in agitations pertaining to farm laws since his association with the Punjab Kheti-Badi Union in the early 1970s. He was with the BKU (Lakhowal) from 1974 to 1988 and then shifted to the BKU (Mann). Subsequently, in 2001, he floated his own outfit, the report stated. “In 1974, a big farmer movement was launched when restrictions were put on farmers for selling their wheat outside the state and then farmers launched an agitation defying the zonal restrictions on the movement of wheat. Rajewal was also a part of that and even went to jail,” Onkar Singh Augar, general secretary, BKU (Rajewal), told the publication.Augar has been with Rajewal for the past three decades. The BKU (Rajewal), which was not well organised, has become more streamlined over the past year since the launch of the agitation against the farm laws and is currently among the leading farmer bodies in Punjab. Even as farmer leaders said that there was no decision on partnering with the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), sources said that talks were underway, according to the publication. According to SSM leaders, BKU (Dakaunda), BKU (Lakhowal) and BKU (Major Singh Poonewala) are likely to join the party for polls. They attributed the delay for them to amend their constitution, which does not allow for politics, to make the jump. The general secretary of the BKU (Dakaunda), Jagmohan Singh Dakaunda, told The Indian Express that they would hold a meeting on December 27 on whether to support the SSM. According to the report, BKU (Darshan Pal), BKU (Krantikari), BKU (Sidhupur), Azad Kisan Committee (Doaba), Jai Kisan Andolan, Dasuya Ganna Sangharsh Committee, Kisan Sangharsh Committee, Lok Bhalai Insaf Welfare Society, and Kirti Kisan Union were opposed to the move into politics. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/from-protests-to-politics-key-figures-of-the-farmers-agitation-set-to-enter-fray-in-punjab-1064982.html
26-12-2021||National Politics||Prime minister frequently visiting Uttar Pradesh as BJP fears it may lose Assembly polls: Pilot||Former Rajasthan Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot on Sunday claimed that PM Narendra Modi is visiting Uttar Pradesh frequently as BJP leaders fear that the party may lose next year’s Assembly polls there. The Congress leader said it is only his party that can replace the BJP at the national level as he slammed the BJP-led Union government for failing to check inflation. "Be it petrol, diesel, LPG gas or food items, prices are skyrocketing but the central government has failed to contain inflation. We have tried to provide relief to people in the state but the Centre has no interest in curbing inflation," Pilot told reporters in Tonk, his Assembly constituency. He said BJP leaders indulge in politics of religion and caste, and the public has realised this. BJP leaders are concerned and fear that the party may lose elections in Uttar Pradesh due to which the prime minister is frequently visiting the poll-bound state, he said. "It is the Congress Party that can replace the BJP at the national level. The public will stand with the Congress in the Assembly elections in five states," he added. Responding to a question on the demand for regularisation of jobs by contractual employees, he said the state government will do whatever possible in this regard. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/prime-minister-frequently-visiting-uttar-pradesh-as-bjp-fears-it-may-lose-assembly-polls-pilot-1064985.html
26-12-2021||National Politics||Experts question PM’s decision on children’s jab, booster dose||A day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement on Covid-19 shots for the adolescents aged 15-18 years, senior doctors and public health officials on Sunday wondered if the decision was taken due to “political considerations” as there is barely any scientific evidence favouring jabs for such an age group. "The children belonging to 15-18 years are not a priority risk group. But many of them would be first-time voters in the 2024 general election and this (the vaccination) could be a way to tell them that the government cares for you,” a public health expert told DH on the condition of anonymity. A senior epidemiologist at AIIMS, Delhi, who is the principal investigator of Covaxin trials for adults and children at the institute, termed the Centre's decision to vaccinate children against Covid "unscientific" and said it would not yield any additional benefit. Sanjay K Rai, who is also the President of the Indian Public Health Association, said that before implementing the decision, data from countries that began vaccinating children should be analysed to check if there is a definitive benefit to vaccinating children over adults as scientific evidence suggests otherwise. "I am completely disappointed with his unscientific decision on children's vaccination. Those who work in epidemic control or epidemiologists didn’t make such a suggestion. It came from those who are not domain experts," Rai, a professor at the department of community medicine, told DH. Experts also wondered whether the Union Health Ministry and the Prime Minister’s Office were on the same page on Covid strategies as top officials had denied having a policy decision on the booster fewer than 30 hours before the Prime Minister’s televised address, in which he announced launching the booster campaign from the second week of January. The Covid-19 booster shots, described by the Prime Minister described as “precautionary shots”, would initially be available for healthcare workers, frontline workers and senior citizens with comorbidities on the basis of their doctor’s prescriptions. On Friday afternoon, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan and ICMR Director General Balram Bhargava denied having arrived at a decision on boosters and lowering the age group for Covid vaccination to include children. A day later Modi made a public declaration on both. Sources said the PMO took the decision possibly due to pressure from doctors who were among the first recipients of the Covid-19 vaccine almost a year ago and would be having a waning level of antibody in their blood; and political feedback from the ground suggesting a major government action on Covid-19 amid the Omicron scare and ahead of the assembly election in Uttar Pradesh and four other states. There is no clarity on whether the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI) and National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC) have approved the decisions announced by the Prime Minister. Sources said NTAGI only cleared booster doses for immunocompromised patients like those suffering from cancer or those who underwent a transplant. This, however, was not announced by the PM. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/experts-question-pm-s-decision-on-children-s-jab-booster-dose-1064986.html
26-12-2021||North and Central||Members of Hindu outfit burn Santa Claus effigies in Agra||Accusing Christian missionaries of using the Christmas festival as an opportunity to spread Christianity by resorting to gift-distribution spree through Santa Claus to attract children and the poor towards their religion, some Hindu outfits on Saturday burnt effigies of the mythical character. The activists of Hindu outfits Antarrashtriya Hindu Parishad and Rashtriya Bajrang Dal burnt effigies of Santa Claus, also known as Father Christmas or Saint Nicholas outside St John's College on M G Road and various schools in the city. "As December comes, the Christian missionaries become active in the name of Christmas, Santa Claus and New Year. They allure children by making Santa Claus distribute gifts to them and attract them towards Christianity,” regional general secretary Ajju Chauhan of the Rashtriya Bajrang Dal alleged. The outfit’s other member Avtar Singh Gill claimed, "We will keep an eye on the missionaries who visit slums and convert Hindus to Christianity. The members would also act strictly against them." Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/members-of-hindu-outfit-burn-santa-claus-effigies-in-agra-1064767.html
26-12-2021||North and Central||Happy that PM announced booster dose for frontline workers, says Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday expressed happiness over Prime Minister Narendra Modi's announcement for the administration of Covid vaccine booster doses to frontline workers, asserting that it should be given to all. He also said that it was pleasing to know that now children aged 15-18 years will also get the Covid-19 vaccine. Earlier this week, Kejriwal had urged the Centre to allow giving booster doses of Covid vaccines to those already fully vaccinated and asserted that Delhi government had adequate infrastructure for doing so. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday night announced that vaccination against Covid-19 for children between 15-18 years will start in the country from January 3. Administration of "precaution dose" to healthcare and frontline workers will begin from January 10, he said. In Delhi, one dose of Covid vaccine has been administered to all the targeted 1.48 crore people while 70 percent have received both doses. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/happy-that-pm-announced-booster-dose-for-frontline-workers-says-kejriwal-1064769.html
26-12-2021||North and Central||Centre should ensure adequate supply of Covid vaccine booster shots: Omar Abdullah||National Conference vice president Omar Abdullah on Saturday said the central government should ensure an adequate supply of Covid vaccine booster shots across the country. His comments came after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced that "precaution dose" for healthcare and frontline workers will begin from January 10 in the country. “Vaccines for children 15-18 age group to start from 3rd Jan '22, frontline workers & people aged 60+ with co-morbidities will be given a booster/precautionary dose from 10th Jan. The decision comes not a moment too soon. #vaccine #BoosterJab #PrecautionaryDose,” Abdullah wrote on Twitter. Now all that remains is for the government to ensure adequate supply of vaccines. Also a greater choice of vaccines beyond the two already available will go a long way to helping with the booster rollout. After the announcement, now all that remains is for the government to ensure an adequate supply of the vaccines, he said. “Also a greater choice of vaccines beyond the two already available will go a long way to helping with the booster rollout,” the NC leader said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/centre-should-ensure-adequate-supply-of-covid-vaccine-booster-shots-omar-abdullah-1064770.html
26-12-2021||North and Central||DH Toon | Wonder who's paying for UP government's ads!||As 2022 dawns and Uttar Pradesh prepares for elections, the battle is becoming less political and even less issue-based. A new political vocabulary is emerging with slander, laced with communalism, dominating the election campaign which, at present, seems to have narrowed down to a straight fight between the BJP and the Samajwadi Party. The BJP which has been claiming it will return to power with 300 plus seats in Uttar Pradesh, is undoubtedly becoming increasingly nervous as the countdown to the polls begins.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dh-toon-wonder-whos-paying-for-up-governments-ads-1064779.html
26-12-2021||North and Central||Islamic State terrorist killed in encounter at Jammu and Kashmir's Anantnag||A militant affiliated with the Islamic State of Jammu and Kashmir (ISJK), who was involved in the recent killing of a police officer, was gunned down by security forces in an overnight encounter in Bijbehara area of south Kashmir's Anantnag district on Sunday. The ISJK is an affiliate outfit of the IS active in Jammu and Kashmir as part of its broader Khorasan (Islamic State – Khorasan Province or IS-K) branch in South Asia and Central Asia. Inspector General of Police, Kashmir, Vijay Kumar identified the slain militant as 21-year-old Faheem Bhat, who had recently joined the ISJK. Bhat, who was a BA student, was reported to be missing since December 23. Police said he was involved in the killing of an on-duty assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Mohammad Ashraf Dar on December 22 outside the Bijbehara police station. Reports said the encounter broke out on Saturday night after security forces launched a cordon-and-search-operation (CASO) in K-Kalan, Srigufwara in Bijbehara following specific inputs about the presence of a militant in the area. A police official said the trapped militant was given ample opportunities to surrender. However, he denied and instead fired indiscriminately upon the search party which retaliated leading to an encounter in which he was killed. In the last two days, six militants have been killed in four separate encounters in south Kashmir districts of Anantnag, Shopian and Pulwama. So far this year, 166 militants have been killed in the Valley, of which 143 were locals and 23 Pakistanis. In 2020, the number of militants killed in the Valley stood at 195. According to official estimates over 200 militants were still active in the Valley. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/islamic-state-terrorist-killed-in-encounter-at-jammu-and-kashmirs-anantnag-1064785.html
26-12-2021||North and Central||7-year-old girl raped and killed in Uttar Pradesh village||A seven-year-old girl was kidnapped, raped, and murdered in a village in Moradabad, police said. The girl, belonging to a minority community, had gone missing while she was playing outside her house on December 22. Her body was found later in a sugarcane field, nearly two kilometers away from her house on Friday night. An autopsy, conducted on Saturday, confirmed that she was sexually assaulted and murdered. Police have registered an FIR under IPC sections of rape, murder, and the POCSO Act. The girl was the youngest of three siblings, and her father is a vegetable seller. After she went missing, her family lodged a missing complaint. Two police teams were deployed to trace her but they could not find her. On Friday, when a farmer went to his field, a foul smell was emanating from the area. He became curious and started looking for its source, and found the body. The girl's mother said, "I searched everywhere for my daughter but could not find her. I want justice for my daughter." Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/7-year-old-girl-raped-and-killed-in-uttar-pradesh-village-1064796.html
26-12-2021||North and Central||Hindu outfit objects to name, forces Muslim man to shut shop in Uttar Pradesh||A juice shop called 'New Sai Juice Centre', being run by a Muslim man for the past 15 years in the Majhola area of Moradabad district, was vandalised and forced to shut down after members of a right-wing outfit raised objection to the outlet's name. The activists claimed that "Sai Baba is a Hindu deity" and the Muslim owner should change its name. They also allegedly threatened to shut all shops run by Muslims and named after Hindu deities in the locality. The incident took place three days ago but the FIR was registered much later against Bajrang Dal leader Navneet Sharma, and his aides for "rioting and criminal intimidation". The FIR was registered after videos of the incident began circulating on social media. The police, sources said, even advised the owner, Shabbu Khan, to change the shop's name "to avoid further trouble." Locals in the area claimed that police initially remained a mute spectator while all this was going on and later advised Shabbu Khan, the juice shop owner, said, "I was about to have dinner at home on Thursday when I was shocked to learn that a few people were vandalising my shop. They asked me to close my shop because of my faith. This shop is part of my life and my family." Majhola Station house officer (SHO) Dhananjay Singh said, "We found that about 20-25 people, led by Navneet Sharma, had forcefully closed the juice shop. They also slapped its owner. We have registered an FIR under IPC sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (intentional insult), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 147 (rioting) against Sharma and his aides." Incidentally, a complaint was also lodged by the right-wing activists against Khan but police said the complaint against the shopkeeper is "not convincing enough as the man has been running the shop for 15 years and there has been no issue so far." No arrests have yet been made. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hindu-outfit-objects-to-name-forces-muslim-man-to-shut-shop-in-uttar-pradesh-1064807.html
26-12-2021||North and Central||Delhi govt postpones January 5 play on Ambedkar amid rising Covid cases||The Delhi government has postponed a play on the life of Babasaheb Ambedkar that was to be staged from January 5 in view of the rising Covid-19 cases in the national capital, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Sunday. The government did not announce a new date. "Delhi Govt had planned a grand show on the life of Babasaheb Ambedkar from January 5, in Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium. However, this show is being postponed in light of rising Covid cases. We shall announce a new date as soon as the situation improves," Kejriwal said in a tweet. Delhi Govt had planned a grand show on the life of Babasaheb Ambedkar from 5th January, in Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium. However, this show is being postponed in light of rising Covid cases. We shall announce a new date as soon as the situation improves. Delhi on Saturday recorded 249 fresh Covid-19 cases, the highest single-day rise since June 13, and one death, while the positivity rate mounted to 0.43 per cent, according to data shared by the city health department. The city had logged 255 cases on June 13. On Friday, Delhi recorded 180 Covid-19 cases with a positivity rate of 0.29 per cent, according to official data. The city is witnessing an uptick in daily cases amid a jump in cases of the Omicron variant of Covid.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-postpones-january-5-play-on-ambedkar-amid-rising-covid-cases-1064808.html
26-12-2021||North and Central||Ayodhya to be connected with waterways now||The Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh now plans to connect Ayodhya through waterways with other destinations. A state government spokesman said: "Thousands of years ago, the princess of Ayodhya travelled to Korea through waterways. Taking a cue, the state government will now explore options to connect Ayodhya with waterways through the Saryu and Ghaghra rivers which flow through the temple town." Reminiscing the relationship of Ayodhya with Korea, he said: "It is said that Suriratna, the princess of Korea, reached Ayodhya from Korea via the waterways from Ayodhya." He said the new Ayodhya would have best roads, air, rail and waterways connectivity. The Chief Minister, during the weekend, laid the foundation for government Ayurvedic College, along with 500 health wellness centres, and 50-bed AYUSH hospitals for six districts - Unnao, Shravasti, Gorakhpur, Hardoi, Sambhal and Mirzapur and 50- bed Integrated AYUSH hospitals for Lucknow, Kanpur, Kanpur Dehat. Work was on to connect all Ayurvedic colleges of the state with the Ayurvedic University. The Prime Minister will soon lay the foundation stone for international airport in Ayodhya, the spokesman said. "Everyone's cooperation is needed to fulfil Prime Minister Narendra Modi's resolve to develop Ayodhya as the most beautiful city in the world," he said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ayodhya-to-be-connected-with-waterways-now-1064819.html
26-12-2021||North and Central||Yogi government denies permission for Congress's 'mahila marathon'||Even as the Jhansi and Lucknow district administration cancelled permission for the 'Mahila marathon' organised by the Congress on Sunday, thousands of girls collected and shouted slogans. In Jhansi, the girls refused to return and the police did not allow them to move ahead. As part of its poll campaign Ladki Hoon, Lad Sakti Hoon focusing on women in Uttar Pradesh, the Congress had announced marathons for women in Lucknow and Jhansi on Sunday. "The first three winners in both the marathons were to be awarded a scooty, and those coming fourth to 25th would have got a smartphone each. The next 100 were to be given fitness bands, while the next 1,000 women were to get medals," said Mamata Choudhary, the president of Uttar Pradesh Congress's women wing. While the minimum age for participation was fixed at 16 years, the party said that there will be no entry fees for the participants. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/yogi-government-denies-permission-for-congresss-mahila-marathon-1064821.html
26-12-2021||North and Central||Sons, relatives of slain ultras joining militancy in Kashmir: Study||The lingering conflict in Kashmir Valley is pushing people to quagmire as sons and close relatives of those militants, who were killed in 1990‘s are joining militant outfits and subsequently getting killed. A recent Sociological study done by Dr Asima Hassan from University of Kashmir, reveals that in 21 per cent cases the second member of the family/extended family joined militancy after the killing of one member as militant. The research paper titled “effects of armed conflict on the families of slain members of armed groups in Kashmir: A sociological study” has been published by Journal of Emerging Technologies and Innovative Research (JETIR), a research journal. The researcher, who surveyed 100 families of slain militants across Kashmir for the paper, says of these 21 per cent, in four cases father and son or two brothers were militants and both got killed. “While in the initial years of militants, most of the militants were fighting for ‘Azadi‘ (freedom) from India, in the recent years the narrative has changed and now youths, who pick up arms and become militants, do so with a hope of getting a place in (Jannat) paradise if they die for a ‘cause’. In several instances in recent years, sons and close relatives of those militants, who were killed in 1990‘s are joining militant outfits and subsequently getting killed,” it added. The research further reveals that 68 per cent respondents in the study stated that before and after the death of the militant, they faced isolation from the society. “Before the killing of the militant, security forces constantly raided their (militant) houses due to which relatives, neighbours and friends of the family would maintain distance with them leaving the family without any social support. It is believed that militancy generally has social acceptance in Kashmir and due to this reason none of the respondents apparently faced any social stigma,” it says. “However, during the intensive interactions with these families, it was observed that underneath the families of slain militants were facing several social issues; including finding a suitable match for their children,” the paper points out. It further reveals that majority of the militants killed in Kashmir in the last three decades were either illiterates or semi-literates. “45 per cent of militants who were killed in Kashmir were illiterates while another 32 per cent were semi literates. 11 per cent slain militants had studied up to 12th while 12 per cent among them were graduates and above,” it says. The findings of the study have revealed that families of the slain militants are living in miserable and pitiable conditions. “Economically and socially they have been debased and some of them even face starvation. The earliest response to the problems of widows and orphans of members of armed group came from family and relatives who provided financial help, in addition to accommodation, education, security, diet and so on,” it says “But, this type of help, which was not regular, constant and organised, could not last long. In many cases the in-laws' families proved crueller to these widows and orphans and these suffering people had to search for some income themselves,” it added. The research findings revealed that total dependence of these widows and orphans on others outside their own families have made them totally and socially handicapped in the patriarchal society of Kashmir. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sons-relatives-of-slain-ultras-joining-militancy-in-kashmir-study-1064827.html
26-12-2021||North and Central||Peace elusive in Jammu and Kashmir, 2021 leaves behind bouquets and brickbats||The year that has almost gone by has been a mixed bag for the people of Jammu and Kashmir, oscillating between peace and violence. The biggest positive was a modicum of peace in the lives of thousands of people living close to the Line of Control (LoC) and the International Border (IB) in the Union Territory. 'Border dwellers' i.e., people in villages close to the LoC and the IB, have paid the highest price during the escalation of tension between India and Pakistan. In terms of human lives lost, houses destroyed, cattle killed and agricultural fields destroyed, the border dwellers have lived life at its sharpest edge. Thanks to the decision taken by the armies of the two countries, 2021 has been a remarkably peaceful year for people living in border villages. Ceasefire violations on the LoC and IB were virtually non-existent as life remained normal for thousands of border villages in 2021. Children went to school, cattle moved about to graze and men and women engaged in agricultural activities in the villages of Kathua, Samba, Jammu, Rajouri, Poonch, Baramulla and Kupwara districts of J&K, where the LoC and the IB are located. Levels of infiltration came down during 2021, as compared to 2020 and 2019, as alert troops kept round-the-clock vigil at the borders. However, separatist violence continued to mar the lives of the people in the valley as the footfall of the security forces increased due to requirements for increased vigil. What has caused serious worry in 2021 has been the shifting of terror focus from south Kashmir districts to those in central Kashmir, especially Srinagar city. In 2021, Srinagar there were around 20 encounters and shoot-outs in and around Srinagar. Around 34 people, including seven policemen and 14 militants were killed till December this year, even as Srinagar was declared a "militancy-free zone" with no locally recruited militants in October 2020. The main focus of shifting terrorism in Kashmir has been the targeting of civilians and members of the local police. The civilians killed in 2021 included members of the Kashmiri Pandit community who had chosen to exist alongside their Muslim neighbours despite the mass exodus of the local 'pandits'. Respected local pharmacist ML Bindroo, a Sikh school principal, a non-Muslim Dhaba owner's son, pavement sellers belonging to Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, a non-local carpenter and half a dozen labourers were killed by terrorists in 2021 to spread fear. The targeting of local police, even those performing traffic duties, has proved that the engagement of the local police force in anti-militancy operations has badly hit the capacity of the militants to continue anti-national and subversive activities. While targeting off-guard policemen and unarmed civilians, the militants have not been able to carry out any major attack other than the firing at a police bus ferrying police personnel in the Zeewan area at Srinagar outskirts. The policemen in the bus attacked by militants on December 13 belonged to the J&K armed police that has not directly been involved in anti-militancy operations. Three policemen were killed and 14 injured in this attack that is seen as the biggest terror strike against the security forces in 2021. Security forces have carried out highly intelligence-driven, coordinated operations against militants in 2021 that resulted in killing of 186 militants. Three civilians were killed during an operation against militants in the Hyderpora area of Srinagar city on November 15. Initially, the authorities said the slain persons were militants and on that premise they were buried in Handwara town of Kupwara district without any family participation. Subsequent evidence indicated that they were civilians and had been killed during the encounter because of their presence inside the building where the firing had taken place. The bodies of two civilians belonging to Srinagar were handed over to the families while that of the third, belonging to Ramban district of Jammu division, has still not been exhumed. After nearly three years, 2021 saw the revival of political activity by mainstream parties as the talk of the Assembly elections in early 2022 gained currency. The delimitation commission came up with draft proposals to increase seven seats in the Assembly, of which six would fall in Samba, Kathua, Reasi, Kishtwar, Doda and Rajouri districts of Jammu division, while the valley would get one additional seat in Kupwara district. For the first time, the delimitation commission has proposed to give reservation to Scheduled Tribes, who will get nine seats in the 90-member J&K Assembly, while the Scheduled Castes would get six reserved seats. The decision to add six seats to Jammu division has irked the valley-centric parties like the National Conference, the Peoples Democratic Party, People's Conference, Apni Party and the CPI(M). These parties have alleged that the addition of six seats to Jammu, which would now have 43 seats, would load the dice heavily in favour of the BJP during the Assembly elections. The BJP has said the decision to add seats to Jammu has undone historic blunders done against the division since 1947. The Congress, on the other hand, has tried to distance itself from the controversy of seat allocation to the Jammu division asserting that the party sees J&K as one unit. In addition to the proposed 90 seats, the delimitation commission has proposed to keep 24 seats vacant for parts of J&K under the occupation of Pakistan. Tourism saw an appreciable rise in 2021 despite the ongoing pandemic, which imposed restrictions on free movement of visitors. In comparison to 2020, there was a huge increase in tourist influx this year. Official figures say 1.27 lakh tourists visited Kashmir in 2021, against 6,327 in 2020 and 12,086 in 2019. Due to the pandemic, the annual Amarnath Yatra to the Himalayan cave shrine in south Kashmir Anantnag district was not held for a second consecutive year. The Mata Vaishno Devi Yatra in Reasi district of Jammu division was resumed, while limiting the number of daily devotees. More than 35 lakh pilgrims have visited the shrine in 2021. The Central rule continued in J&K during the year with the Lt Governor Manoj Sinha trying hard to push development and better administrative dispensation on the ground. Despite the best efforts of the L-G, the people in J&K have been blaming the administration for remaining unavailable for redressing public grievances. One hallmark of the Lt Governor's rule has been the proactive role played by the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB). Successful traps have been laid by the ACB in 2021 during which public servants have been caught accepting bribes from people. In its drive against corruption, the ACB has also trapped some police while indulging in corruption. Despite the appreciable effort put in by the ACB, corruption remains a fact of daily life in J&K. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/peace-elusive-in-jammu-and-kashmir-2021-leaves-behind-bouquets-and-brickbats-1064848.html
26-12-2021||North and Central||Adityanath pays tributes to IAF pilot killed in MiG-21 crash||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday paid tributes to Wing Commander Harshit Sinha, who was killed in the MiG-21 crash in Rajasthan's Jaisalmer last week. Sinha was a resident of Lucknow. According to an official statement, Adityanath said the Uttar Pradesh government will extend all possible help to Sinha's family. Sinha's plane crashed during a training sortie in Jaisalmer's Desert National Park area on December 24. According to eyewitnesses, the plane burst into flames before hitting the ground. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/adityanath-pays-tributes-to-iaf-pilot-killed-in-mig-21-crash-1064850.html
26-12-2021||North and Central||Delhi to push for electric vehicles for food services, cab aggregators||The Delhi government is going to ask e-commerce companies, food delivery services and cab aggregators to completely switch to electric vehicles, and petrol pumps to not give fuel to vehicles without a pollution-under-check (PUC) certificate, officials said. Vehicular emissions account for around 38 per cent of the city's air pollution. "The government is going to take two major steps to check vehicular pollution — we will ask all aggregators including Zomato, Swiggy, Ola, Uber, etc, to completely switch to electric vehicles. These services account for 30 per cent of the registered vehicles in Delhi," an official told PTI. "We are also considering directing dealers and petrol pumps not to supply fuel to vehicles without a PUC certificate," he said. Directions under the Environment (Protection) Act are expected to be issued this week. Asked if a deadline will be given to aggregators to switch to EVs, a senior official in the transport department said, "It will be done in a phased manner. We will soon publish the draft guidelines."   The Delhi Electric Vehicles policy, introduced in August 2020, aims at increasing the EV share in total vehicle sales to 25 per cent by 2024. Only Flipkart (by 2030) and Fedex (by 2040) have established worldwide targets for converting their last-mile delivery fleets to electric vehicles, while DHL has set a 60 per cent electrification target for its fleet. In October, the city government launched a massive drive to check PUC certificates and deployed around 500 teams at petrol pumps for this purpose. Under Section 190(2) of the Motor Vehicle Act, 1993, vehicle owners not having a valid PUC can be fined up to Rs 10,000, or imprisoned for up to six months or both.  Owners are required to get test their vehicles tested to ascertain if they meet emission standards for pollutants, such as carbon monoxide, nitrous oxides, carbon dioxide. There are around 1,000 authorised pollution checking centres set up at petrol pumps and workshops in the city. Also, in compliance with the National Green Tribunal's directions, the Delhi government will deregister all diesel vehicles older than 10 years on January 1, 2022, and issue a no-objection certificate (NOC) for re-registration in other places. However, no NOC will be issued for diesel vehicles that have completed 15 years or more on the date of application, according to an order issued earlier this month. Delhi is the most polluted capital in the world and is one of the fastest expanding cities in terms of population, according to Swiss air technology company, IQAir. According to a study conducted by the Automotive Research Association of India and The Energy and Resources Institute in 2018, vehicles contribute to about 40 per cent of PM 2.5 [particulate matter having a diameter of 2.5 microns or lower] emissions in Delhi. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-to-push-for-electric-vehicles-for-food-services-cab-aggregators-1064878.html
26-12-2021||North and Central||Pushkar Singh Dhami is like my younger brother, says Harak Singh Rawat||Uttarakhand Forest Minister Harak Singh Rawat, who was upset over the delay in the construction of a medical college in his constituency Kotdwar and had announced his resignation after walking out of the Cabinet meeting, has said that Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami is like his younger brother, signalling that the sulking leader is placated now. All issues seem to have been sorted out in the Uttarakhand BJP as after having dinner with Dhami on Saturday, Rawat said: "Dhami is like my younger brother and our relationship dates back many years. "My blessing is with Pushkar Singh Dhami." Dhami also shared a picture on Twitter, saying: "Met cabinet colleague Harak Singh Rawat over dinner and discussed current issues of the state." Main opposition party in the state, the Congress had been claiming that Rawat will come back into its fold as he was not happy with the saffron party and was feeling suffocated. Taking a dig at the Congress, BJP youth wing national secretary and Uttarakhand in-charge Tajinder Pal Singh Bagga tweeted: "Hello Congress, Stop dreaming for Uttarakhand. We are one and United." Sources said that Rawat's concern has been addressed and he is not going anywhere. It is learnt that the Dhami government has accepted Rawat's proposal for the medical college in his Assembly constituency Kotdwar and the budget for the medical college would be released in a couple of days. A senior party functionary said that the BJP cannot afford to lose any leader, MLA or minister months before state Assembly polls. "In elections everyone is important and any party cannot afford to lose a senior leader like Harak Singh, when you are in a triangular contest with the Congress and AAP. Everyone is important and we will not let anyone go," he said. Election to the 70-member Uttarakhand Assembly will be held in February- March next year along with Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Manipur and Goa. The BJP has set a target of winning over 60 seats in next Assembly polls in Uttarakhand. In the last Assembly polls in 2017, the BJP had won 57 seats. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pushkar-singh-dhami-is-like-my-younger-brother-says-harak-singh-rawat-1064881.html
26-12-2021||North and Central||20th year of ops: Delhi Metro exhibition shows rare pics of first piling work||Rare images of the very first piling work done in the national capital for building Delhi Metro and old newspaper clippings are among the archival documents put up on display as part of a permanent exhibition at the Kashmere Gate station of the network. The exhibition --  'Tracing Delhi Metro's Journey' -- has been launched to mark the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation entering into the 20th year of its operations, officials said. The DMRC had begun its commercial operations on December 25, 2002, a day after then prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee had inaugurated its first stretch spanning 8.2 kilometre from Shahdara to Tis Hazari, with just six stations, on the Red Line. The DMRC network's current span is nearly 392 km with 286 stations (including the Noida–Greater Noida Metro Corridor and Rapid Metro, Gurgaon).  A day after the inauguration of the first-ever corridor, the rush was so “massive” that authorities had to issue “paper tickets” to handle the flow of passengers, officials had told PTI earlier. The introduction of the state-of-the-art rapid transit system was such a novel mode of transport in the city then that many people believed it was only there temporarily and the DMRC had to issue newspapers advertisements that it was “here to stay”, they had said. This journey of nearly two decades of operations has been captured in a exhibition, mounted at the very location from where the then prime minister had inaugurated the Delhi's first ever metro corridor back in December 2002, a senior official said. The Red Line itself has now extended on both sides, to Rithala in Delhi and New Bus Stand (Shaheed Sthal) in Ghaziabad. "The plaque unveiled during the Delhi Metro's first inauguration event is placed right there (at the exhibition venue). The DMRC is promoting the location as a selfie-point too where people can come and become a part of the urban history of the city," a spokesperson of DMRC said. "A large number of archival images as also anecdotes related to metro have been exhibited, including pictures charting the beginning of Delhi Metro's journey, such as the very first piling work that was done at Shastri Park. Piling is done to start work for erecting a pier," he told PTI. The Delhi Metro in its long and eventful journey has had 41 inauguration events so far. On the commencement of 20th year of operations, 20 photos of those inaugurations have been displayed and more will be added in the days to come, the official said. Also, 41 news clippings of those inaugurations have been displayed to take the visitors on a ride down memory lane. Invitation cards of those inaugural functions have also been displayed, he added. From a humble 8.2 km to nearly 392 km, India's first mass rapid transit system has come a long way in its journey, and has achieved many firsts in the process. India's first-ever driverless train -- on the Delhi Metro's Magenta Line (Line 8) --naugurated on December 28 last year by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. In another milestone for the DMRC, driverless train operations on the 59-km Pink Line (Line 7) of the Delhi Metro was started from November 25 this year. With this, the total stretch of DMRC's network which is under driverless operations, now stands at close to 97 km, putting Delhi Metro at fourth position globally, among such networks, officials earlier said. The exhibition also displays a huge photo of the aerial view of Kashmere Gate metro station, the biggest interchange station of the network at present. Kashmere Gate has stations of the Red Line, Yellow Line and Violet Line, making it a three-way interchange facility. A metro coach-shaped latest map of the network has also been exhibited. "The exhibition zone is in the paid area of the Kashmere Gate metro station, but it can be visited by commuters without paying any additional fee. The exhibition is permanent in nature," the spokesperson said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/20th-year-of-ops-delhi-metro-exhibition-shows-rare-pics-of-first-piling-work-1064886.html
26-12-2021||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh government proposes to delay panchayat polls||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led Madhya Pradesh government has proposed to postpone the three-tier panchayat elections in the state. A decision on this regard was taken in a cabinet meeting chaired by Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Sunday. During the meeting, state Panchayat Minister Mahendra Singh Sisodia put forth a proposal before the Cabinet to rescind an ordinance which the state government had recently issued to conduct elections. The Cabinet gave its nod to the proposal which has been sent to the Governor. "The Cabinet has decided to postpone the panchayat elections in Madhya Pradesh as of now. The government has sent the ordinance to the Governor to rescind it. However, further action is the prerogative of the Raj Bhavan followed by the State Election Commission," said Narottam Mishra, Madhya Pradesh Home Minister and government spokesperson, on Sunday. Mishra added that the BJP government had initiated for panchayat elections in the state carrying all sections of people but the Congress did not support the proposal and put hurdles time and again. The Minister alleged that the Congress went to the Supreme Court on December 17 and the latter put a stay on the OBC reservation. "Our government has already announced in the state Assembly that panchayat elections will not be conducted without OBC reservation in Madhya Pradesh and an ordinance was also passed. Now it's up to the State Election Commission to decide on the matter," the BJP leader added. On December 17, the Supreme Court while hearing a petition related to OBC reservation in Maharashtra had put a ban and instructed the Madhya Pradesh government to follow the same rules. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-government-proposes-to-delay-panchayat-polls-1064891.html
26-12-2021||North and Central||Two cops injured in Pulwama grenade attack||Two policemen were injured in a militant attack, as a grenade was hurled towards a police party in south Kashmir’s Pulwama district on Sunday. Reports said the militants lobbed the grenade towards a police party near the Pulwama Post Office, Pulwama, 32 kilometres from Srinagar, causing splinter injuries to two policemen. The injured cops were immediately shifted to a hospital while the area was cordoned off to nab the attackers, according to reports. There has been a spurt in grenade attacks by militants in Kashmir in the last more than a year in which hundreds of civilians and security forces personnel were injured. A senior police officer involved in counter-insurgency operations said militants are targeting security forces just to create an impression of their presence and cause disruptions in the valley. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-cops-injured-in-pulwama-grenade-attack-1064900.html
26-12-2021||North and Central||Congress became property of one family after Independence: UP Assembly Speaker||The Congress used to be a democratic organisation till the country gained Independence but after that it became "property" of one family, with power being transferred from one generation to another, UP Assembly Speaker Hriday Narayan Dixit said on Sunday. He also hit out at Congress leader Rahul Gandhi over his recent "Hindu versus Hindutva" jibe at the BJP, saying he is in a "dilemma" as he himself does not understand the concept and advised him to read the book, "Discovery of India", penned by his great grandfather and former PM Jawaharlal Nehru. The five-time MLA from Bhagwantnagar in Unnao described the patch-up between Samajwadi president Akhilesh Yadav and his uncle Shivpal Singh Yadav as an event in a family and said it should not be seen from a political point of view. Dixit also hailed Prime Minister Narendra Modi as a leader of "global repute" and claimed that the BJP will win around 350 of 403 seats in the next year’s state Assembly polls. Taking at swipe at the Congress, Dixit said, "Till Independence, the Congress used to be a democratic organisation. But after Independence, Jawaharlal Nehru headed the government as well as the party." "Since then, the trend started that the party became a property of the (Nehru-Gandhi) family. With respect, I would say that the Congress became the property of Nehru," he told PTI. "It was transferred to Indira Gandhi. Then it became the property of Rajiv Gandhi, and then to Sonia Gandhi after some gap," he said, adding that for a brief period, it was run by Sitaram Kesri. He also said Congress leader Rahul Gandhi was adamant on taking part in the debate over Hindu and Hindutva without understanding the issue himself. "The Supreme Court has long ago observed that Hinduism is a way of life. Rahulji says Hindu and Hindutva are separate. In fact, Hindu is the identity of this country and is also a geo-cultural name. The need is to understand the geo-cultural faith," the UP Speaker said. "With due respect, I would say that Rahul Gandhi is in dilemma over the issue. He has not understood Hindu and Hindutva, then how can he make an effort to make others understand," Dixit said advising the leader to read the book, "Discovery of India", authored by Jawaharlal Nehru. In his second visit to Amethi after his defeat in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, Rahul had targeted Modi with his "Hindu versus Hindutvadi" jibe. "On one side is a Hindu. On the other, is Hindutvadi. On one side is truth, love and non-violence and on the other is falsehood, hatred and violence," he had said. "Hindutvadi bathes alone in the Ganga but a Hindu will bathe with crores of others," Gandhi said taking a swipe at the prime minister, who had recently inaugurated the Kashi Vishwanath corridor in Varanasi after taking a holy dip. The UP Assembly Speaker refused to comment on Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who is making efforts to boost prospects of the Congress in the poll-bound state, but said, "The Congress is a party, which revolves only around one family." On coming together of Akhilesh and Shivpal ahead of the Assembly elections, Dixit said, "I see this as an incident of the family and not from the political point of view." He also claimed that the BJP will win around 350 seats in the elections. "There is no match to the leadership of the BJP, especially that of Prime Minister Narendra Modiji, and no party has such a personality like him. I am not belittling personalities of other parties," he said, adding that Modi is a leader of "global repute". "The benefit of schemes has reached people. I do not see anyone posing any serious threat to the BJP," he claimed. He also praised Union ministers Amit Shah, Rajnath Singh and Nitin Gadkari and UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. Summing up his five-year term as a Speaker, the 75-year-old BJP leader said he is thankful to each members of the Assembly and the parties, which extended support to him in running the House. "Those who consider me successful, I only tell them that this success is collective," he said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-became-property-of-one-family-after-independence-up-assembly-speaker-1064904.html
26-12-2021||North and Central||Family members being made accused by making casual reference to them in matrimonial disputes: SC||The Supreme Court has quashed criminal proceedings against a man and a woman in a dowry harassment case noting that time and again, the family members of the husband are being made accused in matrimonial disputes by making casual reference to them in the FIR. A bench of justices R Subhash Reddy and Hrishikesh Roy set aside an order of the Allahabad High Court which directed the victim's brother-in-law and mother-in-law, accused in a dowry death case, to surrender and apply for a grant of bail. "It is held that a large number of family members are shown in the FIR by casually mentioning their names and the contents do not disclose their active involvement, as such, taking cognisance of the matter against them was not justified. It is further held that taking cognisance in such type of cases results in abuse of judicial process," the bench said. The top court said that a perusal of the complaint filed by the father of the deceased, pursuant to which a crime was registered, does not indicate any specific allegations by disclosing the involvement of the accused. "Even in the statement of 2nd respondent (father) recorded by the police and also in the final report, except omnibus and vague allegations, there is no specific allegation against the appellants to show their involvement for the offences alleged. "This Court, time and again, has noticed making the family members of the husband as accused by making casual reference to them in matrimonial disputes," the bench said in a recent order. The apex court said though there is an allegation of causing injuries, there are no other external injuries noticed in the postmortem certificate, except the single ante-mortem injury i.e. ligature mark around the neck, and the cause of death is shown as asphyxia. "Having regard to the case of the appellants and the material placed on record, we are of the considered view that except vague and bald allegations against the appellants, there are no specific allegations disclosing the involvement of the appellants to prosecute them for the offences alleged," the bench said. The father of the deceased had lodged a complaint on July 25, 2018 at police station Kotwali in Gorakhpur that husband, brother-in-law, sister-in-law and mother-in-law of her younger daughter continuously used to demand a four-wheeler vehicle and Rs 10 lakh in cash as dowry. It is alleged that as the said demands were not met, they used to beat his daughter and threatened to kill her. It is, further, alleged that ten days prior to the date of the incident, all the accused with a common intention had severely beaten up his daughter and threatened to kill, if the demands of the dowry of cash and car were not met. On July 24, 2018 at about 8 PM, the accused with a common intention beat his daughter, killed her by putting a noose around her neck and hanged her. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/family-members-being-made-accused-by-making-casual-reference-to-them-in-matrimonial-disputes-sc-1064910.html
26-12-2021||North and Central||Ladakh's large Tibetan settlement gets round the clock power supply: Official||The largest Tibetan settlement in Ladakh - Rebel Sumdho and Sumdho TR - in the remote Nyoma block has been connected to the National Power Grid, an official spokesman said on Sunday. "The power development department of Ladakh has done a commendable job to provide 24x7 electricity to the Tibetan settlement on the occasion of Christmas on Saturday," he said. The initiative was taken under the centrally sponsored Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Gram Jyoti Yojana (DDUGJY) scheme. Terming it an early Losar gift (Tibetan new year) to the inhabitants of the settlement -- located between Nyoma and Tsokar Lake -- he said the 70 odd households here were earlier electrified through a small solar photovoltaic power plant. However, the DDUGJY scheme has now connected the villages to the Northern Grid, the spokesman said. The other villages connected under the scheme in Leh are Chilling Sumdha (Aezang, Sumdha Chun and Chilling), Kumgyam, Wanla, Fotoksar, Shara, SAGY Line (Achinathang and Hanuthang), Teri, Youlchung, Harhipti and Skumarkha. The project was executed by TKC TATA Projects and Power Grid Corporation India Ltd (Project Implementing Agency). With round the clock power supply from the grid, the local children will be able to access tele-classes. This will also provide the option of a refrigeration system for those associated with the dairy industry besides bringing in economic development, he said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ladakhs-large-tibetan-settlement-gets-round-the-clock-power-supply-official-1064920.html
26-12-2021||North and Central||BJP's Brahmin leaders hold brainstorming session to woo UP voters||The BJP's Uttar Pradesh poll in-charge Dharmendra Pradhan Sunday held a brainstorming session with the party's Brahmin leaders from the state with an aim to maintain the caste equation in the party's favour, sources said. The over-three-hour meeting at Pradhan’s residence was attended by the party's prominent Brahmin leaders from the state, including Jitin Prasada, Ramapati Tripathi, Deputy Chief Minister Dinesh Sharma, state cabinet ministers Shrikant Sharma and Brijesh Pathak. The meeting was held to discuss further expansion of the party's outreach activities to the community, the sources said. Talking to reporters afterwards, Sharma said the meeting was about the Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections. He categorically stated that no section of the society or caste is upset with the BJP. "There are several Brahmin ministers in the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh and the party works by taking all sections of the society forward," he said in response to a question. The sources said Pradhan discussed various issues with the party leaders and also took their feedback for the upcoming elections. In its bid to woo Brahmins, the BJP had earlier held Brahmin Sammelans as an outreach exercise to the community. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjps-brahmin-leaders-hold-brainstorming-session-to-woo-up-voters-1064929.html
26-12-2021||North and Central||UP Polls: Anupriya Patel seeks more political representation for OBCs to ensure 'social justice'||Political history clearly shows that the party or alliance that gets the OBC support comes to power in Uttar Pradesh, BJP ally and Apna Dal (S) chief Anupriya Patel has said, pitching for more political representation to the community in the state. Confident of the BJP-led NDA again forming the government in the politically most crucial state of the country, Patel said for social justice to prevail it is important that the other backward classes (OBCs) get more political representation. In an interview to PTI, Patel, also a Union Minister, was all praise for senior BJP leader and Union Home Minister Amit Shah, saying the caste equation he shaped led the NDA to massive victories in three back to back elections. "Amit Shah ji worked very beautifully in Uttar Pradesh by forming a bouquet of castes by giving all castes their due place, especially the OBCs," she said. The Apna Dal (S) had won nine seats in the 2017 assembly polls. The party has contested the three elections in alliance with the BJP. According to her, the NDA enjoys "a very good position" among electors in Uttar Pradesh. "And I am hopeful that we will again form the government with absolute majority," Patel said, underlining that the alliance should continue with balancing its caste arithmetic in the state. Advocating for more tickets to OBC candidates, Patel said, "If you look at the history of political parties’ electoral performance and government formation in Uttar Pradesh, whichever way the OBCs have tilted that party and the alliance came to power in the state." Patel said she and her party have been rooting for giving more political representation for the OBCs and Prime Minister Narendra Modi has always been "very sensitive towards the marginalised sections of the society". "If you really want social justice to prevail, OBCs should have more and more representation, especially in Uttar Pradesh where they constitute the largest chunk of the population," she said. Optimistic about getting support of the backward community in the upcoming assembly polls, the Mirzapur MP said the NDA enjoys good rapport among this section of the society as Modi government's schemes are pro-poor and aimed at helping the marganlised sections. Prime Minister Modi has also been always sensitive about the aspirations and needs of the backwards, she said, adding it was visible when he ensured OBC quota in the all-India category of the NEET medical examination. Talking about the seat-sharing arrangement with the BJP, Patel said she cannot quote a number just now, but added the two parties are working together in alliance and talks are underway. "The spirits of both parties are high, and both allies are working with a positive frame of mind and in a very cooperative mood. Soon we will announce our seat sharing agreement," she said. Patel, who is from the Kurmi OBC caste, has also been advocating for caste-based census, an issue the BJP has more or less remained silent on. With assembly polls nearing, all major political parties in Uttar Pradesh have hit the battleground running and are leaving no stone unturned to woo OBC voters as they account for more than 40 per cent of the state's total population. The consolidation of non-Yadav OBCs, attributed as the key factor by political observers for the BJP’s success in the three back-to-back polls in Uttar Pradesh – Lok Sabha elections 2014 and 2019, and the assembly elections in 2017. Yadavs, which are the largest chunk of OBCs votes, usually side with the Samajwadi Party, as its top brass hails from the same caste. More than 100 BJP MLAs are from the OBC community, one-third of its total strength in the 403-member Uttar Pradesh assembly. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-polls-anupriya-patel-seeks-more-political-representation-for-obcs-to-ensure-social-justice-1064930.html
26-12-2021||North and Central||Dharma Sansad row: Hate speeches in Mahatma's land unacceptable, says Gehlot||Targeting the prime minister and other leaders for their 'silence' over alleged hate speeches at a Dharma Sansad in Haridwar, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Sunday said such acts in the land of Mahatma Gandhi cannot be tolerated. He said the 'language of violence' allegedly used by the speakers is against the Indian culture and is unacceptable. Gehlot said it was surprising that the prime minister, home minister and the chief minister of Uttarakhand were silent on the issue and the government did not take any action against them. “The Dharma Sansad held in Uttarakhand has shaken the country. Use of the language of violence is against our culture. The prime minister and the chief minister are silent, and the home minister is keeping mum. Why is action not being taken?” Gehlot told reporters after attending the party's training camp at Shivdaspura near here. He said while Gandhi's birth anniversary is observed across the globe as the International Day of Non-Violence, it is unfortunate that such hate speeches were delivered in his country. “If we do not live with love and harmony, how will the country remain united? Whether it is Hindu, Muslim, Sikh, Christian, Jain, Parsi... everyone has to live together,” he said. Gehlot also expressed concern over the rising number of Covid-19 cases and said the Centre finally announced booster dose after his government mounted pressure. “I had been telling them (Centre) for one-and-a-half to two months that they should allow booster dose to people above 60 years and those ill. The booster dose is being administered in several countries. Yesterday, the prime minister announced this and we are happy that he, at least, accepted our point,” Gehlot said.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dharma-sansad-row-hate-speeches-in-mahatmas-land-unacceptable-says-gehlot-1064934.html
26-12-2021||North and Central||Goons making an exodus under Yogi government: Amit Shah||Union Home minister Amit Shah on Sunday said criminals in Uttar Pradesh are making an exodus now, while earlier it was common man who was forced to flee by them. Shah praised UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath for his governance saying people were not afraid anymore to send their children to school. "Earlier, the law and order situation was so bad, people used to hesitate in sending their children to schools. But in five years of Yogi Adityanath government, all goons have made an exodus from UP," he said while addressing a ‘Jan Vishwas Yatra’ in Kasganj here. The union minister also accused the BSP and the SP of playing caste politics and not working for development when they governed the state. Speaking about the recently inaugurated Kashi Vishwanath Corridor in Varanasi, Shah said the holy site used to wear a “deserted” look, before it was beautified under the watch of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. On the occasion, the BJP leader also remembered former state chief minister Kalyan Singh saying the victory of the party in 2014, 2017, and 2019 would not have been possible without his advice. Singh died in Lucknow on August 21 at the age of 89. He was a prominent backward caste leader and a Hindutva icon. Kasganj district comes under Etah parliamentary constituency and is currently represented in the Lok Sabha by Rajveer Singh, Kalyan Singh's son. "It was Kalyan Singh, who first spoke about good governance in Uttar Pradesh. Kalyan Singh was the first to speak about the backward class people in Uttar Pradesh, and it was he who gave rights to the people of the backward castes," Shah said. He also said it was Kalyan Singh who resigned from his chief minister post within hours of demolition of Babri Masjid in 1992. Speaking on the Ram Temple, he asked those who gathered whether they would vote for the same people who fired at ‘kar sevaks’. The reference was made to the Mulayam Singh government’s decision to open fire at kar sevaks who had gathered near the Ramjanmabhoomi site in Ayodhya in 1990. Shah's tour to Kasganj is part of the campaign which will cover more than 140 constituencies in the poll-bound state, party sources said. Keeping caste equations in mind, each programme will be attended by people from three OBC-dominated constituencies, two urban constituencies, one scheduled caste-dominated constituency and one minority-dominated constituency, they said.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/goons-making-an-exodus-under-yogi-government-amit-shah-1064935.html
26-12-2021||North and Central||Chhattisgarh: Cops start weekly market for locals in Naxal-hit Abujhmad||Police have started a weekly market in the Naxal-hit Abujhmad area in Chhattisgarh's Narayanpur district, with an aim to fight Naxalism by linking locals with employment opportunities and providing a huge relief to villagers who had to walk several miles to get daily provisions, an official said on Sunday. After a demand from locals, the weekly market was started at Kadmeta village near a police camp on Saturday, Narayanpur Superintendent of Police Girija Shankar Jaiswal said. "The market in Kademeta, which is at a junction of five districts (Dantewada, Bijapur, Kondagaon, Jagdalpur and Narayanpur), will cover over two dozen villages in the area and link villagers with employment opportunities,” he said. Kademeta is located in the restive Abujhmad area, about 60 km from the Narayanpur district headquarters, where villagers had prepared an action plan to start the weekly market, but due to the resistance from ultras and threats, the plan was earlier dropped, he said. Earlier, people had to walk nearly 30 km to buy items of daily needs, he said. With the establishment of a police camp in the area in 2020, locals have developed a sense of confidence and they recently submitted an application to police and the district administration, demanding setting up of a weekly market following which the latest move was initiated, the official said. The weekly market is going to be held every Saturday, the official said. The police made a place at Kademeta fit for the weekly market after undertaking a cleanliness drive, he said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chhattisgarh-cops-start-weekly-market-for-locals-in-naxal-hit-abujhmad-1064937.html
26-12-2021||North and Central||Not going to join politics, says Tikait||Farmer leader Rakesh Tikait on Sunday said that the Samyukt Kisan Morcha is not contesting elections and that he was not going to join politics. The comment was made in the context of farmers’ organisations creating a political front to contest Punjab elections due in February. Asked about his stance on Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections, also due in February, he said he will speak on it after the model code of conduct comes into force. He, however, said farmers will play the role of a kingmaker in UP. “Samyukt Kisan Morcha is not contesting any election. Some people had gone there ‘on leave’ for four months, someone is playing cards, someone is roaming... what can we do? After four months, we will see who has gone and who has done what,” he said. “We are holding a meeting on the 15th and we will talk about this then,” Tikait told reporters when asked about the farmers' group forming a political front in Punjab. He also alleged inaction on part of the BJP in the Lakhimpur Kheri incident, wherein farmers were mowed down, allegedly by the son of Ajay Mishra, the Union Minister of State for Home.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/not-going-to-join-politics-says-tikait-1064941.html
26-12-2021||North and Central||Congress calls UP chief minister 'Bulldozernath', says he crushed girls' dreams||The Congress on Sunday termed Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Aditynath "Bulldozernath", or the lord of bulldozers, while accusing him of crushing the dreams of the girls who wanted to run a marathon organised by the party in Lucknow. Congress General secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra also slammed the UP government, saying girls won't tolerate it and will fight for their rights. The statements came after the Lucknow authorities did not allow the party to hold the race there. The race was held in Jhansi on Sunday under the party’s Ladki Hoon, Lad Sakti hoon election campaign. "The destructive government of 'Bulldozernath' tramples upon the dreams of the youth repeatedly. Sometime by question paper leak, sometimes by not declaring recruitment and sometimes using force against them," a Congress tweet said. "This time, the anti-women bulldozer of Yogi has run over the dreams of brave girls," the party said. The authorities have been using bulldozers on illegal property of criminals and this often referred to by BJP leaders in speeches in the state. The Congress further said those who took part in the marathon in Jhansi instilled fear in the CM. "But he does not know that the one whose time has come, no power on this earth can stop him. The slogan #LadkiHoonLadSaktiHoon is echoing in the state. The women power is ready to stake its claim to power," another party tweet said. In a Hindi tweet, Priyanka Gandhi said, "Yogi Adityanathji, you speak against the women by talking about controlling them. It is for this reason that you did not allow girls to participate in the marathon in Lucknow." "The girls of Jhansi have sent a message that they will not tolerate it and fight for their rights," she added. Congress leader Priyanka Gupta said every participant in the women's marathon drew inspiration from Rani Laxmibai, who hailed from Jhansi and fought against the British. "They will not confine themselves to this marathon but will also sprint in country's politics and change its course and direction," she asserted. The UP Congress on this occasion also used the hashtag #ladki_se_darta_hai_Yogi (Yogi feels afraid of the girls). On Saturday night, Congress workers had staged a protest outside the camp office of the Lucknow police chief over the denial of permission to hold the race. The protesting Congress workers, including women, were forced into a police van and whisked away from their protest site outside the Lucknow police commissioner's office. The five-km race was to begin at 8 AM on Sunday, UP Congress spokesperson Anshu Awasthi had said. "The BJP government is scared as women are siding with the Congress. They denied us permission due to their arrogance," Awasthi had said. Police Commissioner DK Thakur had told PTI that Congress had sought permission to organise the race but was denied permission due to the coronavirus pandemics. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-calls-up-chief-minister-bulldozernath-says-he-crushed-girls-dreams-1064943.html
26-12-2021||North and Central||Dalit students in Uttarakhand school refuse mid-day meals after SC cook sacked||The district administration, however, said on Sunday that the issue has been resolved after members from both communities arrived at a consensus. "I hope the Dalit students will resume eating the food prepared by the new Bhojan Mata (cook) from tomorrow," Champawat District Magistrate Vineet Tomar said. A Dalit cook at the Government Inter-College, Sukhi Dang, was sacked after 43 children from upper caste communities, studying in classes VI - VIII, refused to eat food cooked by her. The Champawat education department officials, however, cited procedural lapses in her appointment as the reason for her ouster. She was replaced by an upper caste woman. In retaliation, 23 Dalit students of the school refused to consume the mid-day meal prepared by the new cook. Tomar, for his part, said an inquiry has been initiated and the report is expected in a week. After the news about the ouster of the Dalit cook made headlines, Congress Rajya Sabha MP Pradeep Tamta said his party will launch an agitation to restore the woman's Constitutional rights.         Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad Ravan said his outfit will gherao Uttarakhand Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami if the Dalit woman was not re-instated.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dalit-students-in-uttarakhand-school-refuse-mid-day-meals-after-sc-cook-sacked-1064945.html
26-12-2021||North and Central||FIR not enough, won't rest till Majithia is arrested: Sidhu||Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Sunday said he will not rest till senior Akali leader Bikram Singh Majithia, who has been booked under the NDPS Act, is arrested. Just registering an FIR against Majithia is not enough, he said, addressing a public meeting at Batala in Gurdaspur. Taking a jibe at the senior Akali leader, Sidhu dared him to come out and face the law. "Where are you Bikram Majithia," he asked, adding, "If you have guts, be at home. Are you scared?" In his address, the state Congress chief batted for his 'Punjab model' of governance and promised to provide minimum support price on pulses and oilseeds if his party returns to power in the state. Sidhu also told the gathering that it was just he who fought against the sand mafia for five years. Sharpening his attack against Majithia, he said, "Nothing will happen with the FIR. Unless he (Majithia) is arrested, Sidhu will not rest." Majithia has been booked under relevant sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act on the basis of a 2018 status report of a probe into the drug racket in the state. The report was filed by Anti-Drug Special Task Force (STF) chief Harpreet Singh Sidhu in the Punjab and Haryana High Court in 2018. A Mohali court has even rejected Majithia's anticipatory bail plea. A lookout circular, which prevents a person from leaving the country, has also been issued against the former Punjab minister. Sidhu also appeared to take on his own party's government, asking the gathering whether they are getting cable TV connection at Rs 100 per month. "There may be many announcements. Are you getting cable at Rs 100? Are you getting sand free of charge, its (sand) price is Rs 3,700-4,400 (trolley)…," he said. "This is why I am telling you it will not work with mere talks. It will come with a policy and budgetary allocation… it won't work with 'jugaad'," the Congress leader said. Last month, Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi had announced that the charges for cable TV connection had been fixed at Rs 100 a month. Batting for his 'Punjab model' of governance, Sidhu said if it gets clearance from the party leadership, a sand trolley will be available at just Rs 1,000. He said this time, either he will stay or the sand and liquor mafia. "Punjab's land is being looted even today, and the state is being mortgaged," he alleged. Stating that no rival political party has given any roadmap for the farming sector, Sidhu promised minimum support price for oilseeds and pulses if his party returns to power. Asserting that Batala was known for its foundry industry, Sidhu said the local industry would be allowed to buy the cheapest power wherever it was available in the country. He also asked the gathering not to fall prey to AAP leader Arvind Kejriwal's “trap”. Sidhu lashed out at the Delhi chief minister for not giving jobs promised to the people in the national capital. Without naming anyone, Sidhu said if people wanted to save Punjab's next generation, punish people like Majithia, delivery of justice in sacrilege incidents and employment for youth, they should bring an honest person at the top. "The chief minister does everything, he has absolute power," he said. "If you make an honest person sit at the top, then honesty and transparency will percolate down below," the Congress leader said. Sidhu also backed the candidature of local leader Ashwani Sekhri from the Batala seat. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fir-not-enough-wont-rest-till-majithia-is-arrested-sidhu-1064946.html
26-12-2021||North and Central||BJP's hoardings with 'Ramlala' draws Opposition criticism||Hoardings with pictures of 'Ramlala in tent' and the model of 'Ram Temple' with the BJP's election symbol came up at several parts of Ayodhya ahead of the forthcoming Assembly polls, triggering controversy and inviting sharp criticism from the opposition parties. The hoardings carried two pictures — one showing 'Ramlala' in the tent and the other showing the model of the Ram Temple and the symbol of the BJP — with the headline saying "fark saaf hai" (the difference is clear). ''The difference is clear...earlier the Ramlala was in the tent and now the construction of the Ram temple is going on,'' said the hoardings. According to the reports, one such hoarding has been put up near the house of Iqbal Ansari, who was one of the main plaintiffs in the Ram Janmabhoomi-Babri Masjid Title suits. The opposition parties took strong exception to the hoardings and accused the BJP of trying to gain electoral mileage out of the Ram temple issue. ''BJP is staring at defeat in the forthcoming assembly polls and that is why it has been trying to communalise the elections,'' said former Samajwadi Party (SP) MLA Pawan Pandey. ''BJP does not have anything to show to the people...the state government did precious little for the welfare of the people...prices are rising...the BJP has fallen back on emotive issues,'' Pandey said. Local Congress leader Sharad Shukla said that the Ram temple construction was being carried out after the Supreme Court verdict on the issue. ''BJP has nothing to do with Ram temple construction...it is an attempt to mislead the people....the Election Commission should take cognisance of the hoardings,'' Shukla said. BJP legislator from Ayodhya Vedprakash Gupta said that there was nothing wrong in putting up the hoardings. ''The opposition leaders can not digest the development of Ayodhya...BJP was in power when the SC verdict was delivered; BJP is in power when the Ram Temple is being constructed,'' Gupta said. Saffron party leaders have been referring to the Ram temple in their speeches at public meetings in the run-up to the assembly polls. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjps-hoardings-with-ramlala-draws-opposition-criticism-1064948.html
26-12-2021||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh reports 8 Omicron cases in a first, slammed over reporting delay||Madhya Pradesh reported its first cases of the Omicron variant of coronavirus on Sunday, with state Home Minister Narottam Mishra saying that eight foreign returnees were found infected with the new strain in Indore, of whom six have already been discharged after recovery. Opposition Congress questioned the BJP government in the state over its "delay" in revealing the information about the Omicron cases, while the ruling party hit back saying that the process of genome sequencing of samples takes time. "Eight Omicron cases have been found in Indore. Out of these patients, six have recovered and have been discharged while two are undergoing treatment," Mishra, who is also the state government's spokesman, told reporters. Around 3,000 people returned to Indore from abroad recently and 26 of them were found to be infected with the coronavirus. "Omicron was confirmed in the genome sequencing of eight of these people," he said. The samples of the eight people, who returned to the state's industrial hub Indore from different countries, were taken between December 17 and 21, according to officials. These infected people included two men aged 20 and 30 years, who came from New York (US) on December 14 and 19 respectively; a 23-year-old woman who arrived from London (UK) on December 14; two women aged 33 and 26 who returned from Tanzania (east Africa) on December 19; a 33-year-old woman who returned from Ghana (west Africa) on December 17; and two men aged 26 and 31 years, who arrived from Dubai on December 13 and 18, respectively, they said. On Saturday, Madhya Pradesh reported 42 new cases of coronavirus, raising the state's infection tally to 793,655, while the death toll remained at 10,532. The state had 232 active Covid-19 cases, the official added. Meanwhile, state Congress chief Kamal Nath questioned the government's delay in disclosing the Omicron infection cases in the state. "Eight persons tested positive for the Omicron variant and six of them recovered, while two are undergoing treatment. Why did the state government hide this information for so long? This is a serious issue," Nath said. He also raised question marks over Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan's programmes held in Indore on Saturday. "While the Omicron variant was found in Indore, Chouhan gathered crowds by holding programmes. He should have cancelled his programmes and organised them virtually," he said. Reacting to Nath's allegations, state BJP spokesman Pankaj Chaturvedi told PTI that the state government has made all necessary arrangements to prevent the spread of coronavirus and to tackle the situation. "Nath should be aware of the fact that Omicron is detected through genome sequencing of Covid-19 patients. The samples for this test are sent to Delhi and it takes time. This testing is not like clicking pictures with Bollywood actors as Nath was doing when the coronavirus pandemic broke out in the state," Chaturvedi said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-reports-8-omicron-cases-in-a-first-slammed-over-reporting-delay-1064954.html
26-12-2021||North and Central||AAP declares 15 more candidates for Punjab polls||The Aam Aadmi Party on Sunday declared 15 more candidates for next year’s Punjab Assembly polls. It is the fourth list of the party and with this the total number of candidates announced by it so far reached 73. Punjab has 117 Assembly seats The announcement was made by party leader Raghav Chadha on his Twitter handle. From Rupnagar, the party gave a ticket to Dinesh Chadha. Currently, Amarjit Singh Sandoa is AAP's MLA from this constituency. Sandoa in December 2020 had rejoined AAP, a year and a half after defecting to the ruling Congress. According to the list, Ranjit Singh Rana will contest from Bholath, Inderjit Kaur from Nakodar, Gurdhian Singh from Mukerian, Karamvir Singh from Dasuya, Jasvir Singh Gill from Urmur, Lakhbir Singh from Fatehgarh Sahib and Tarunpreet Singh from Khanna. Hakam Singh will contest from Raikot, Devinder Singh from Dharamkot and Ashu Banger from Ferozepur Central. Amandeep Singh will fight from Balluana, Vijay Singla from Mansa, Narinder Kaur from Sangrur and Kuljit Singh Randhawa from Dera Bassi. Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/aap-declares-15-more-candidates-for-punjab-polls-1064959.html
26-12-2021||North and Central||Sidhu targets Channi govt again, dares Majithia to face law||Taking on his own party's government, Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Sunday asked people whether they were getting cable TV connection and sand at the cheap rates announced recently. "There may be many announcements. Are you getting cable at Rs 100? Are you getting sand free of charge, its price is Rs 3,700-4,400 (trolley)…," he said, addressing a public meeting at Batala in Gurdaspur. At the same rally, he also dared senior Akali leader Bikram Singh Majithia, who has been booked under the NDPS Act, to face the law. Last month, Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi had announced that the charges for cable TV connection had been fixed at Rs 100 a month. He also announced that sand will be sold at Rs 5.50 (verify) per cubic feet. Batting for his 'Punjab model' of governance, Sidhu said if it gets clearance from the party leadership, a sand trolley will be available at just Rs 1,000. "This is why I am telling you it will not work with mere talk. It will come with a policy and budgetary allocation… it won't work with 'jugaad'," the Congress leader said. Sharpening his attack against Majithia, Sidhu said just registering an FIR against the Akali leader was not enough. Daring him to come out and face the law, the Congress leader said, "Where are you Bikram Majithia?" "If you have guts, remain at home. Are you scared," he asked. Majithia has been booked under relevant sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act on the basis of a 2018 status report of a probe into the drug racket in the state. A Mohali court recently rejected Majithia's anticipatory bail plea. A lookout circular, which prevents a person from leaving the country, has also been issued against him. "Nothing will happen with the FIR. Unless he (Majithia) is arrested, Sidhu will not rest," Sidhu added. "Punjab's land is being looted even today, and the state is being mortgaged," he alleged. Stating that no rival political party has given any roadmap for the farming sector, Sidhu promised minimum support price for oilseeds and pulses if his party returns to power. Asserting that Batala was known for its foundry industry, Sidhu said the local industry would be allowed to buy the cheapest power wherever it was available in the country. He also asked the gathering not to fall prey to AAP leader Arvind Kejriwal's “trap”. Sidhu lashed out at the Delhi chief minister for not giving jobs he promised to the people in the national capital. Without naming anyone, Sidhu said if people wanted to save Punjab's next generation, punish people like Majithia, justice in sacrilege incidents and employment for youth, they should bring an honest person at the top. "The chief minister does everything, he has absolute power," he said. "If you make an honest person sit at the top, then honesty and transparency will percolate down below," the Congress leader said. Sidhu also backed the candidature of local leader Ashwani Sekhri from the Batala seat. Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sidhu-targets-channi-govt-again-dares-majithia-to-face-law-1064961.html
26-12-2021||North and Central||Over 327 Central govt employees lost lives due to Covid in 2020||Over 327 teaching and non-teaching staff employed with the Central government lost their lives to Covid-19 in the past year, the government has told the Parliament recently. The data comes in the face of an ongoing debate on the reopening of schools, as the number of the Omicron variant continues to rise steadily. The government was replying to a question posed by RJD Rajya Sabha MP Manoj Kumar Jha and independent MP Ajit Kumar Bhuyan; both wanted to know about the number of teaching staff who died due to Covid-19, and details of the government’s compensation schemes for their families.  In reply, the ministry of education said that the 327 staff who lost their lives were employed with Kendriya Vidhyalaya (KV), Jawahar Navodaya Vidhyalaya (JNV) and Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE). The government also said that while they died due to Covid-19, “none of these teachers died during Covid duty.” On compensation, the government said that since education is on the concurrent list of the Constitution, schools other than those owned or funded by the Central Government, are under the jurisdiction of the state governments. The government’s data comes as officials across states debate whether reopening schools is wise as Omicron cases steadily continue to rise. States like Delhi, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, Kerala, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan, Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, and Bihar, have reopened schools. In some states, the hybrid system, where students attend classes on certain days of the week, is in place.  While parents continue to express fears of physical classes, digital education in a country with low mobile internet penetration is tricky. In August this year, education minister Dharmendra Pradhan said that digital classes have led to 15 crore children dropping out of the education system.  In reply to another question, the government said that during the recent National Achievement Survey (NAS), aimed at evaluating students classes V, VIII and X, it found that 7.47% of children in Navodaya Vidyalayas had no access to devices and that 224 children enrolled in Kendriya Vidyalas who could not be contacted by the schools.  Dr Ameeta Wattal, chairperson and executive director at DLF Schools & Scholarship, said that she welcomes the government’s decision to vaccinate children. She said online classes have hampered the learning process of children across generations. “We cannot shut down schools forever; only a minuscule percentage of children across the country are availing regular education. There is a fear psychosis among parents, as well as some form of laziness permeated by the work from home culture. As a result, there are huge learning gaps, and children can’t write, speak and communicate as they should,” said Wattal.  She said that, while for young school children foundational learning years are affected, for those in middle years, personal development is affected. For senior children, critical thinking is a casualty.  “Peer connectivity is different in the real and virtual world,” said Wattal. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/over-327-central-govt-employees-lost-lives-due-to-covid-in-2020-1064966.html
26-12-2021||North and Central||Delhi govt imposes night curfew from December 27 amid rise in Covid cases||With rising Covid-19 cases, the Delhi government has decided to impose a night curfew from Monday. Sources said that the curfew will be imposed between 11 pm and 5 am.  Several states, including Uttar Pradesh, have imposed night curfews in the wake of rising Covid-19 cases, including the Omicron variant. Delhi reported 290 fresh Covid-19 cases and one death while the positivity rate rose to 0.55%, the latest government data said. The cumulative cases have risen to 14,43,352 while the death toll rose to 25,105. The number of active cases stands at 1,103, of which 583 patients are in home isolation. Delhi has already asked the district authorities to tighten the curbs put in place. The Delhi administration has also restricted the Christmas and New Year celebrations. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has said that the government is fully prepared to tackle any eventuality. He said the government has earmarked enough hospital beds to handle the surge in cases. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-imposes-night-curfew-from-december-27-amid-rise-in-covid-cases-1064968.html
26-12-2021||North and Central||Despite all its efforts, Pakistan cannot take an inch of J&K land: Azad||Pakistan cannot take an inch of Jammu and Kashmir's territory despite all its efforts, senior Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad said Sunday, lauding the security forces and the people of the union territory for fighting Pakistan-sponsored terrorism for the past over three decades. On the National Conference's and the PDP's persistent demand for holding dialogue with Pakistan to restore peace in Jammu and Kashmir, Azad said the decision on holding talks should be left to the BJP-led Centre. Addressing a public meeting at Khour near the International Border in Jammu, Azad said border residents are the guardians of Indian borders and stand with the security forces. "You have suffered a lot due to Pakistani shelling and firing over the past three decades. This is your third generation who are born and brought up under the roaring guns. Your fields remained uncultivated after mines were laid to stop infiltration (of terrorists) from Pakistan. "You lost many lives, houses and livelihood to Pak shelling and firing. But I want to tell you that despite all its efforts, Pakistan cannot take even an inch of our land," the Congress leader said. He said it is India's greatness that whichever party comes to power, its priority remains the defense of the borders. "Want to remind Pakistan of its defeat in 1971 when our forces under the leadership of then prime minister Indira Gandhi separated Bangladesh. If you make any misadventure, we will teach you a lesson," he said. Talking to reporters, Azad said the decision to begin any dialogue with Pakistan should be left to the government. "I am nobody because I do not have to talk and I also do not know what the gravity of the situation is. It is not for the first time (we are not talking with Pakistan). Even in the past, we have discontinued talks during our government," he said, adding when things improve between the two countries and atmosphere is conducive, the talks can be held. "So I think it is the government of India at the moment who shall have to decide," he said, responding to a question on persistent demands by the National Conference and the PDP for dialogue to restore peace in Jammu and Kashmir. Assuring the border residents that whole of the country is behind them, Azad said he wants to tell Pakistan that India is united and nobody can harm it. He said Pakistan-sponsored terrorism has ruined Kashmir but its attempt to disturb peace in Jammu region was frustrated by the people who stood united against the enemies of the country and their conspiracies. Cautioning people against attempts to polarise the situation in the region ahead of assembly elections, Azad said politics is meant to bring people closer to each other but "there are some national and regional parties who are out to divide people on the name of religion, region, caste and creed. “We are fighting Pak sponsored terrorism for the last 31 years…We cannot afford internal fighting. If we have to move forward, we have to stand united and not fall to mischievous propaganda,” the Congress leader said, adding “we have to bring down the walls of hatred and become one for our nation and its progress and prosperity.” He said the Congress never played politics on the basis of region or religion. “We will continue to work for the betterment of the people, their prosperity and ensure no discrimination.” Targeting the BJP, he said the country is witness to “wrong politics” which is not based on justice. "The government is equal for every citizen and does justice whether someone has voted for it or not. Everyone should be given his or her right but the situation today is that only those close to the ruling party are getting contracts while others are being sidelined," he said. Referring to the August 5, 2019 development when the special status of J&K under Article 370 was abrogated and the erstwhile state was divided into two Union Territories, he said, “Our struggle is based on justice as our state was snatched along with our rights over land and jobs.” "We have never imagined that the largest Dogra state will be downgraded. This has happened for the first time in our country and no other government can think of such a flawed decision, he said, adding “I regret the thought which led to the suffering of the people of Jammu and Kashmir.” Azad alleged that the continuation of closure of schools in Jammu and Kashmir smells of a conspiracy as the government jobs have been opened for the youth of the rest of the country. “When our students are out of their schools for so long, how come they compete with their counterparts from other places?” He said while the rest of India is moving ahead, the people in Jammu and Kashmir are headed towards poverty. "We need a change which is possible when you support us. You have seen the rule of National Conference, PDP, Congress and BJP and now it is easy for you to decide whom to vote for," he said, appealing to the people to reject the parties dividing them. Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/despite-all-its-efforts-pakistan-cannot-take-an-inch-of-jk-land-azad-1064972.html
26-12-2021||North and Central||Citizens to get revenue extract, mutation online soon: J&K Official||The citizens in Jammu and Kashmir would get Fard (revenue extract) and mutation online soon, a senior government official said on Sunday. Commissioner Secretary, Revenue, Vijay Kumar Bidhuri, said the department is in the process of making all their services available online through a single portal, installing auto-mutation process in the National Generic Document Registration System (NGDRS), linking land records with other services, process of providing Fard and Mutation online. "The aim is to minimise human interface and increase convenience to the citizens," he said.           Within a couple of months of its launch, Apni Zameen Apni Nigrani, the land record portal launched by the Revenue department has crossed more than four lakh visitors. The one of its kind initiative, wherein citizens can login and see the status of their land records, Jamabandi, Girdawari, Mutation and Mussavi online without visiting a Patwari or any revenue office free of cost. Bidhuri appealed citizens to make best use of this initiative as updated jamabandies and other revenue records are regularly being hosted on the portal and grievances thereof settled and every landholder must visit the site and check the status of their revenue record to their convenience. He also appealed citizens to voluntarily share and provide mobile number and Aadhaar to the revenue department for linking the same with their land records for achieving real time land transaction communication system, wherein the landholders will get information of any transaction, change, updation or verification of their Revenue records on real time basis.        "This will also increase transparency and efficiency in the system with truthfulness to the record, and shall act as a check to any unwarranted change in revenue record or concealment thereof. Nobody will be able to enter into any arrangement without the actual consent of the landowner,” he said.  Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/citizens-to-get-revenue-extract-mutation-online-soon-jk-official-1064974.html
26-12-2021||North and Central||TMC continues to expand beyond West Bengal||Even as West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee is planning to visit Varanasi in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh after New Year’s Day, her Trinamool Congress is continuing to explore options to expand beyond West Bengal – even in the southern States. The Trinamool Congress initially sought to keep away from the Congress during the winter session of Parliament, but the suspension of the opposition MPs from the Rajya Sabha forced it to join the other opposition parties to protest against what they called the dictatorial attitude of the government led by the Bharatiya Janata Party at the Centre. But with the parliamentary session now over, the Trinamool Congress is now likely to go full steam ahead to expand its footprints beyond West Bengal, even if it has to do so at the expense of the Congress. Sources in the Trinamool Congress said that the party was still in touch with the Congress veteran and Health Minister of Chhattisgarh, T S Singh Deo, who appeared to be unhappy over the reluctance of Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel to vacate the top office to make way for him to take over. Though Singh Deo himself dismissed the speculation over his leaving the Congress and joining the Trinamool Congress, Banerjee’s party is likely to keep its door open for him and make a fresh overture to him, possibly after the assembly elections in the five states. The Trinamool Congress also reached out to Tamil Manila Congress in Tamil Nadu, as well as some disgruntled leaders of the Congress in Telangana. Banerjee is likely to visit Varanasi, where late Congress stalwart Kamalapati Tripathi’s grandson Rajeshpati Tripathi and great-grandson Laliteshpati Tripathi already joined her Trinamool Congress. She may offer obeisance at the Kashi Vishwanath temple too, according to the sources in the Trinamool Congress. It is, however, still not clear if she will take part in any political event during her visit to Varanasi – a stronghold of the Bharatiya Janata Party and the parliamentary constituency of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The Trinamool Congress has been trying to expand to other states across the country ever since it stalled the BJP’s juggernaut and had a landslide victory in the assembly elections in West Bengal earlier this year. The party has been trying to emerge as a formidable political force in Goa, although Congress has accused it of actually trying to split votes to make it easier for the ruling BJP to retain power. Apart from opening its door for grandson and great-grandson of Kamalapati Tripathi, the Trinamool Congress, however, has not yet made any move to enter the political scene in Uttar Pradesh, which will also go to polls along with Goa, Manipur, Punjab and Uttarakhand in February-March 2022. Banerjee said during her last visit to New Delhi that she and other leaders of her party would be ready to campaign for the Samajwadi Party in Uttar Pradesh if Akhilesh Yadav asked them to do so in the northern state. The Trinamool Congress supremo may also visit Haryana, where her party recently opened its first office after a former Congress MP from the state, Ashok Tanwar, joined it. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/tmc-continues-to-expand-beyond-west-bengal-1064981.html
26-12-2021||North and Central||Sunny Leone's effigy 'crushed' by right-wing activists in Mathura over music video||Two Hindu right-wing outfits tried to burn an effigy of Bollywood actress Sunny Leone accusing her of “indecent dance” and hurting their religious sentiments in a music video, police said on Sunday. The incident took place on Saturday when the activists belonging to the two bodies tried to burn the actor’s effigy objecting over her song 'Madhuban'. The song shares a few words of its lyrics with the iconic 'Madhuban mein Radhika naache re' song from 1960 film Kohinoor. The activists belonging to ‘Srikrishna Sena Sangathan’ and ‘Yuva Brahmin Mahasabha’ were stopped in the act with an assurance of an FIR in the matter, a police officer said. “Surveillance cell has been requested to stop obscene dance scene in the song,” Vrindavan SHO Ajai Kaushal said. However, no FIR was lodged in the matter till late Sunday evening. During their protest, when the activists could not burn the effigy, they crushed it under their feet. “On the assurance of action against the actor and producers, the plan of burning the effigy was withdrawn,” Sanjiv Singh Baba, National President, Srikrishna Sena Sangathan, said. Last week, a section of priests in Vrindavan too had objected to the video. Akhil Bhartiya Tirth Purohit Mahasabha of Vrindavan has now extended its demand and has sought action against the people behind the video produced by music label Saregama. The producer, director, and financer should also be booked for the "offence", Mahesh Pathak, the body’s national president said. Madhya Pradesh Home Minister Narottam Mishra too demanded an apology from Leone and the song’s singers Shaarib and Toshi threatening them with "action". The minister alleged that the video hurt the religious sentiments of Hindus. Earlier in the day, Saregama issued a statement saying it will change the lyrics of the song within three days. "The new song will replace the old one across all platforms over the next 3 days," the label, which had released the song on its YouTube channel on December 22, said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sunny-leones-effigy-crushed-by-right-wing-activists-in-mathura-over-music-video-1064992.html
26-12-2021||North and Central||PM Modi expresses grief over deaths in Muzaffarpur boiler explosion||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday expressed grief at the loss of lives in a boiler explosion at Muzaffarpur in Bihar and expressed condolences to the families of victims.    Modi approved an ex-gratia of Rs 2 lakh each from the Prime Minister's National Relief Fund for the next of kin of the deceased. The injured would be given Rs 50,000 each, the PMO said. He wished speedy recovery to the injured.  At least six persons were killed and several others were injured when a boiler explosion inside a factory here brought the structure down and left many buildings in the vicinity severely damaged, a top official said. Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-modi-expresses-grief-over-deaths-in-muzaffarpur-boiler-explosion-1064996.html
26-12-2021||Opinion||China is rising in Central Asia, a friend is worried, and we need access||Summit meetings, such as the Modi-Putin meet or the Biden-Putin meet, are followed up with a series of secretarial-level working meetings to implement the agenda decided by the leaders. But recently, Modi and Putin followed up their December 6 summit with a follow-up telephone call between the two leaders themselves. It is significant in the background of a number of geopolitical events and announcements. Presidential aide Yury Ushakov suggested that a Russia-India-China (RIC) trilateral meeting could be held soon, on the lines of the one that took place in June 2019 in Osaka on the sidelines of the G20 summit. According to the Kremlin spokesperson, Putin informed Chinese President Xi Jinping about his visit to New Delhi. It is not known if the possibility of the RIC meeting was discussed in New Delhi. The Chinese reaction to the proposal is also not known. The India-China standoff remains unresolved despite 13 rounds of military talks and political efforts to defuse the situation. However much Moscow may want to, there is little it can do to broker peace between India and China. Russia, meanwhile, is keen to activate its counter-terrorism mechanism, probably to flex its muscles in Taliban-controlled Afghanistan. Moscow seems to be eager to work with both India and China to regain its foothold in Kabul. In a video address to a Beijing symposium, Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Oleg Syromolotov reportedly recalled the Russian action plans to strengthen counter-terrorism efforts with its partners. “Russia is prepared to pool efforts with China and to take real, constructive efforts, without politicisation, to combat global terrorism, including its manifestations in Afghanistan”, Syromolotov is said to have told the Chinese leadership. Unlike the US, the Russian leadership does not seem to be fazed by terrorist threats to its internal security. In his address to the annual Security Agency Worker Day, Putin boasted of having foiled more than 200 terrorist attacks over the past 11 years, 32 this year alone. Calling for a tough and uncompromising attitude towards terrorism, he cautioned the agencies that the “international situation is challenging and the nature and scale of current challenges and risks make higher demands on the work of special services.” Given the single-party control over the political establishment and the zero tolerance to any unlawful activity, non-existent political opposition, and the unbridled powers of his highly authoritarian dispensation, Putin seems least worried about “home grown terror.” Rather, he is looking for a larger coalition to fight the “international terrorist challenge.” Afghanistan may emerge as ground for power contestation once again, this time with China as the additional contestant. Unlike during the earlier Cold War, the emerging conflict zone is closer home. Delhi needs to prepare for the challenges that could emerge from this situation. India faces a much greater challenge from terrorism and conventional and non-conventional threats. Considering the challenges from our western and northern neighbours, the need for unobstructed supply of energy to manufacturing centres around the country, and the growing need for defence preparedness, New Delhi has entered into a number of agreements with Russia, without compromising on the principle of strategic autonomy. At this juncture, it is important for New Delhi to expand bilateral and multilateral trade relations to reach out to a wider Indo-Pacific community and the Central Asian countries. China’s strategy to increase its influence in the region and in India’s extended neighbourhood was prompted by the changed geopolitical realities after the disintegration of the former Soviet Union and the consequent situation emerging in the region common to both India and China. To realise its ambition of emerging as a regional and global power, China embarked on a growth plan that targeted Asia, Africa, and Latin America. China has followed a “three-track balance of power strategy” in Asia -- maximising the power gap between strong Asian neighbours through focussed military modernisation and, simultaneously, leveraging its economic and political clout; using states like Iran, Pakistan, the Central Asian Republics and Myanmar in its strategy to access critical oil and gas resources and to the Indian Ocean; and using soft power through multilateral economic and political engagement to enhance its strategic influence in Asia. A $10-billion loan to ASEAN for development of land and rail communication corridors, apart from development assistance, is a case in point. Thus, the central pillar of Beijing’s peripheral policy is “to ensure peaceful and dependable periphery” through economic engagement and infrastructure development. What is Delhi’s roadmap? The foreign ministers of the five Central Asian countries -- Kazakhstan, Kyrgyz Republic, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan -- who were in Delhi to attend the third India-Central Asia Dialogue, hosted by External Affairs Minister Jaishankar, called on Modi. The Prime Minister highlighted the importance that India attaches to the Central Asian countries as part of its “extended neighbourhood”. Needless to say, India too has to build on this opportunity and improve rail and road connectivity and extend the seaports to these landlocked Central Asian neighbours. Unless we have our own independent, seamless route connecting to the region, any energy transportation or rail or road project will face the same fate as that of the Turkmenistan-Afghanistan-Pakistan-India (TAPI) pipeline. The changing dynamics of geopolitics and geo-economics in the region only serve to underline the importance of the areas illegally occupied by Pakistan and those illegally ceded by it to China. Seamless and unfettered access and connectivity to Central Asia is possible only through those areas. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/china-is-rising-in-central-asia-a-friend-is-worried-and-we-need-access-1064750.html
26-12-2021||Opinion||In the corporate world, Goliath slays David||By all popular accounts, the internet is a wonderful place to be since it allows all manner of opinions to be posted, all manner of goods to be bought and sold, information is free, democracy thrives, and competition is encouraged. If this were really true, then how do you explain the power wielded by just five companies – Apple, Amazon, Facebook, Google, and Microsoft – in controlling our day-to-day activities on the web? And how did they acquire so much power? The answer is simple – just eliminate the competition by any means, fair and foul. What better way is there to fend off competition than buying up a competitor and shutting it down? What better way is there to prevent patents from being turned into innovative products than buying up the patents and never making use of them? For example, Amazon Pay acquired the Bengaluru start-up Tapzo, and shut it down days later in 2018. Amazon, Google, IBM and Facebook buy up patents and companies on a regular basis to forestall competition, never mind the collateral damage resulting from such actions. In the global marketplace of ideas and things, while initially there are many offerings, in course of time, due to fierce competition and unfair trade practices, the few that come out on top seem to fit the ‘survival of the fittest’ Darwinian evolutionary model. In reality, however, a better explanation is to be found in an idea proposed by Greek philosophers over 2,000 years ago but popularised by the 19th century French biologist Jean-Baptiste Lamarck. This now-discredited idea, labelled Lamarckism, posits that the traits of individuals were acquired from contact with the environment, and that such acquired characteristics could be inherited by their offspring. To see how Lamarckism actually applies in the corporate world, in specific the IT sector, a few facts are needed. First, corporations are considered to be people, and enjoy the same rights of free expression as citizens. This was made clear in the definitive US Supreme Court 2010 ruling in the Citizens United versus the Federal Election Commission case on election campaign financing. As a consequence of this ruling, Google became a person, as did Alphabet. Strictly speaking, though Alphabet is the ‘parent’ of Google, the fact that Google created Alphabet cannot be denied, the Freudian implications of which are better left unaddressed. Second, while corporations enjoy freedom of expression, this same right does not extend to their employees, since it is standard practice nowadays for companies to require their staff to sign highly restrictive non-disclosure agreements (NDA). NDAs are the corporate version of the ‘Official Secrets Act’ of governments. They serve to prevent company whistle-blowers from making public any issues pertaining to the work environment – things such as inadequate health and safety standards, or wage, gender and race discrimination problems. At a much deeper level, NDAs pose grave ethical problems for computer professionals who develop algorithms for AI-driven automated decision-making programmes, such as those used by Facebook in determining what constitutes fake news and what doesn’t, or in the case of facial recognition systems, whether a particular non-white face in a crowd represents a threat or not. If you work for the government and violate their Official Secrets Act, you end up in prison. When you violate a company’s NDA, you can be sued for millions of dollars in damages and end up destitute. Third, when companies hire new employees, these employees are forced to sign paperwork containing ‘non-compete’ clauses, which essentially prevent employees from ever working for competing firms, though the salaries and working conditions may be better at these other companies. The same applies to IT products. For example, banning Huawei based on national security concerns or preventing AstraZeneca vaccines based on inadequate testing would appear to be bogus arguments, since the real reasons might as well be attributed to squelching competition. As the saying goes, “There’s more than one way to skin a cat”. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-the-corporate-world-goliath-slays-david-1064751.html
26-12-2021||Opinion||An AI Universe, a Metaverse, or both?||The launch of private space flights and the pending launch of metaverse have been the highlights of technology in 2021. My prediction is that since the rich boys now have had their day in near-space, private space travel is going to go into hibernation, or is going to be inconsequential to the larger world soon. The time for metaverse, meanwhile, is a couple of years away when realistic 3D avatars, realistic 3D spaces, edge compute-enabled responsive interactions, augmented reality, next-gen communication, next-gen sensors and actuators, artificial intelligence, and social computing will combine to give the first usable metaverse platforms for social and business interactions. This will happen because Meta and Microsoft, among others, will pour resources into developing the metaverse, and there is no stopping them. In the next two years, we will see the growth of AI into every corner of the technology world. Some examples include: AI-based Immersive Entertainment with Intelligent and Interactive Artificial Cast: Microsoft Comic Chat, now known as Microsoft Chat, was released in 1996. The online conversations are recorded as a comic strip that unfolds live as the chat progresses. The concept has come a long way today but still has ground to cover before realising its full potential. Released in 2018, Black Mirror Bandersnatch was Netflix’s first interactive offering, in which audiences could make choices and drive the direction of the plot. The future possibility is to have immersive entertainment where individuals can become part of the plot, along with other real and computer-generated individuals. The plot itself would be dynamic and adapt, depending on the real-world characters that take part and the roles they play. This will be the beginning of metaverse. AI and Bio-Modelling to predict and prevent pandemics: Close to 5.5 million people have died due to Covid-19 so far. In comparison, the Spanish Flu of 1918 took 50 million lives, and the bubonic plague of the 14th century took 200 million lives. According to WHO, since 1970, more than 1,500 new pathogens have been discovered and some have caused significant human loss – such as the Ebola virus in 1976, and HIV in 1983. With better modelling (including, using AI) of disease-causing germs and their spread, it is possible to prevent and contain pandemics and epidemics. With the new genetic approaches, the possibility exists to detect new germs and germ variations early and develop countermeasures. On the other hand, the possibility of climate change thawing out frozen pathogens of the past is now a reality. AI, Chaos-based techniques to predict natural patterns and disasters: Natural disasters have precursors and certain patterns that need massive computing resources to monitor, track, and create warnings. Chaos theory describes systems whose state evolves with time exhibiting dynamics that are particularly sensitive to initial conditions and can exhibit exponential growth of initial perturbations. Weather is considered a chaotic system. Hybrid computing (utilising the power of millions of edge devices and their data, along with the power of the cloud) combined with advances in AI techniques and Chaos theory will make it possible to provide natural disaster warnings way ahead of the occurrence -- with very low false positives. The challenge is that the progress of Chaos theory application has been terribly slow. Edge data and AI might be the difference in making Chaos mainstream! AI-based Augmented Reality for enhanced data visualisation: Three-dimensional (3D) visualisation and the ability to work interactively with image data has been possible in the industry for some time. However, in the return-on-investment battle vs 2D visualisation, 2D won. 3D visualisation required specialised computing and even visualisation ‘caves’. With the resources behind metaverse, 3D industrial and health visualisation will become a beneficiary, leading to better factory yields and health outcomes. I have been writing about the future of technology since 2008. Some of the technologies I have written about have become mainstream now. The AI applications mentioned in this article have been languishing; waiting for other technologies and market needs to catch up. That time is at hand. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/an-ai-universe-a-metaverse-or-both-1064752.html
26-12-2021||Opinion||New Year, with butterflies and birdsong||As we look back at the end of yet another pandemic year, the news is filled with uncertainty about the future and what it holds for us. 2020 and 2021 have shown us that we can no longer take the old ways of living for granted. The air we breathe is not just packed with viruses, it is also dense with smoke and smog from the more than eight million vehicles in Bengaluru, and with dust and cement particles from the tens of thousands of new buildings springing up across the city. The water we drink is contaminated with pesticides, sewage and heavy metals. The air is also filled with the sounds of hammers, horns and heavy machinery, but the birds, frogs and crickets have fallen silent. Perhaps we don’t even recognise that they are silent. The tragedy is that we have become used to this change. We no longer question why the world is in such a mess. Last year, during the first lockdown, we could see and smell, hear and taste the difference in the air. The birds were out singing in larger numbers than ever before. Peacocks were all over Bengaluru, reclaiming spaces in Jayanagar parks and streets where they had not been seen for decades. Butterflies and honeybees, brilliantly coloured, filled the air, lightening our spirits in the worst of times. Deer were seen in cities like Noida and Chandigarh, and near Guwahati, a rhino made its way to the fringes of the city. With no new industrial effluents entering the Arkavathy river, this erstwhile lifeline of Bengaluru, polluted and foaming for decades, was able to clean itself up. The lockdown came at too steep a cost of human suffering. It showed us the possibility of forging a new pact with nature, but also told us that we needed to find a different path to get there – one that was less drastic. For a brief while, we dreamt that humanity would be able to find a different way to live embedded in ecology – with space for all beings, not just human beings. Global carbon dioxide emissions fell by close to 6% in 2020, encouraging progress towards climate change. But in 2021, the world returned to a business-as-usual model. CO2 emissions soared back, returning to, and possibly surging past, 2019 levels. At a time when the IPCC report warns of the catastrophic consequences of global warming beyond 2°C, governments and businesses should sit up and take notice. But all signs indicate the opposite, as the city administration moves at full speed to cut down tens of thousands of trees for new Metro lines and peripheral road expansion, even entering premises like the All Saints Church -- one of the few remaining wooded spots in the heart of the city -- to take down old trees for new ‘development’. With so much of the city in private hands, there is still space for co-existence, though. There are millions of us in Bengaluru. If each of us were to identify a spot of green where we could create or restore some habitat for biodiversity, we could start to make a difference. This does not mean that each one of us has to have access to large parcels of land. A casual visit to most slums in Bengaluru will show you how creatively the residents have managed to live amidst nature in cramped surroundings. In Puttenahalli, Agara and Bhattrahalli, and so many other parts of the city, people live in tiny sheds with aluminium roofs, but still find space to grow tulasi, mallige, and soppu in old buckets and plastic bags. If every apartment in Bengaluru had a few pots in the balcony, and every corporate building filled its rooftops with plants, we could have millions of butterflies and birds visiting each day. What better way to usher in the New Year?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/new-year-with-butterflies-and-birdsong-1064753.html
26-12-2021||Opinion||For dweshbhakti-filled India, it’s two minutes to midnight!||Dear Gandhiji, Nehruji, Patelji, Merry Christmas and Happy New Year. Except there’s not much to be merry or happy about. Don’t get me wrong. I mean the merry and happy wishes for you. You, the long dead, are in a position to enjoy these occasions, unlike we, the living. But, forgive me, you can’t enjoy your bliss forever. We need you to come back. Let me appraise you of the state of Bharatmata. Gandhiji, you may be happy to learn that India’s farmers staged a determined, year-long, non-violent protest against the farm laws and the government finally yielded, never mind that it was merely because Modiji feared losing the UP election. But, at least after having bowed to the farmers’ peaceful protest, one would have expected that the BJP and its Parivar would come out and acknowledge that non-violent protest works, and can bend even the most heartless and ruthless of rulers -- whether it be the British colonial masters, or the ideological heirs of those who supported them by not joining the freedom struggle. For 75 years, they have gone around whispering that your non-violent struggle had nothing to do with our freedom and it was only violence, or the fear of violence, that made the British run away. They celebrate the Chauri-Chaura incident, but not your call to civil disobedience, or your suspension of it in the wake of the massacre. Violence – physical, verbal, psychological – has become so much the way of life for some to be able to accept that non-violence works. Which brings me to what I wanted to tell Patelji. Sardar, remember the words that you wrote in pain and anguish to M S Golwalkar that the RSS and Hindu Mahasabha had spread the poison of communal hatred in society that led to the assassination of Gandhiji? Well, it is happening again. The amount of poison and hatred that’s being pumped into society is unbelievable. For seven years, we have heard and seen nothing but ‘dweshbhakti’ being propagated -- from the top offices in the country to the goondamentalist on the ground. Mob lynching in the name of the cow, ministers calling for dissenters to be labelled traitors and shot dead, attacks on students, institutions, attacks on Muslims, Christians, the arrest and demonisation of those speaking up for Dalits and Adivasis…Now, this week, Sardar, we heard pandits in Uttarakhand call for mass murder to establish ‘Hindu Rashtra’. We have come to a stage when the pandit in Uttarakhand says “There is no alternative”. We are at Nazi Germany’s ‘final solution’ moment. Sardar, your ban on the RSS and forcing Golwalkar to pledge that the RSS will respect and live by the Constitution has all gone down the drain. His ideological heirs are taking revenge on you. And they are so clever, they are using our democracy to destroy democracy, the Constitution to destroy the Constitution, Parliament to render parliamentary democracy futile. Sad to say, but the Bharat that you and Nehru put together has reached failure point. What that India-hater Churchill kept saying, it is all coming true now. Nehruji, you must by now know, of course, that your secular, forward-looking, modernising India is dead. As our Home Minister once proudly proclaimed, they have “reversed 60 years in six years.” It is as if we are back to 1947, and it was not you and Gandhiji and Sardar Patel that led us to freedom and into the modern India that existed until Kangana Ranaut gained independence. We are now in a parallel universe in which a bunch of thoughtless men became the leaders of India in 1947. We desperately need a Man in the High Castle to send us tapes of history as it actually happened -- before our memories are permanently overwritten by counterfactual imagination. You spoke of our tryst with destiny, and we were moving, slowly but surely, towards our destiny for 70 years. But we are no longer moving towards it slowly. Now, we are hurtling uncontrollably towards our destiny. Except that our destination has changed. It used to be development and progress. It is now destruction. It used to be unity. It is now balkanisation. Ah, yes, the very prospect that gave you a shiver and fever on May 10, 1947, in Shimla. Yes, you prevented it then, but how will you stop it now, now that you are long dead? India’s doomsday clock started ticking last week in Uttarakhand, the very ground that Adi Shankaracharya once stood on. Gandhiji, Nehruji, Patelji, you wanted Bharatmata to be independent, united, modern, humane and all that, and you struggled for it. If you want to save that India, you have to save it yourself. I know, I know, you are all dead. But the truth is, we, the living, in today’s India are more dead than you are. Our conscience is dead, our vision of India is dead, our ability to make the sacrifices needed is dead. So, take rebirth and come back and save India yourself, if you can. It’s two minutes to midnight! Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/for-dweshbhakti-filled-india-it-s-two-minutes-to-midnight-1064754.html
26-12-2021||South||Telangana Rashtra Samithi may face the heat ahead of 2023 polls||Ending 2021 with a mixed bag, the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) stares at some big challenges in 2022 as it faces rejuvenated opposition, growing public expectations, pressure to deliver on unfulfilled promises and strained relations with the Centre. The TRS government headed by K Chandrasekhar Rao, which this month entered the fourth year of its second term in power, faces a daunting task in the new year, which is likely to set the tone for 2023 elections. The defeat in the Huzurabad Assembly bypoll and the row with the Centre over paddy procurement towards the year-end marred what was otherwise a smooth year for the KCR government. Both the developments are likely to cast their shadows in the coming year as well. At the same time, with seven years in power in India's youngest state, TRS eyes a new role. The party chief appears to be keen to revive his national ambitions and play a key role at the Centre. "KCR and TRS have reached a juncture where expectations and promises start to haunt the regime. People have started raising questions about the promises/assurances made over the years, especially the promise to create jobs. Suicides by youth in the recent months over lack of employment opportunities will continue to haunt KCR and TRS in 2022," said political analyst Palwai Raghavendra Reddy. The coming year will see an aggressive opposition taking on TRS on the issues of agriculture and unemployment. Reddy pointed out that both Congress and the BJP have upped their game to emerge as a possible alternative to TRS. However, the immediate challenge which the TRS government faces is on the agriculture front. Months after its claim of turning Telangana into a rice bowl of the country by expanding the area under paddy cultivation, the government found itself in a crisis with the Centre refusing to lift parboiled rice from the state citing lack of demand in the country. With the Centre ruling out procurement of parboiled rice during the coming Rabi season, the TRS government faces the immediate challenge of convincing farmers to go for alternate crops. This is a daunting task given the reluctance of farmers to grow crops other than paddy for a variety of reasons. The state government has already declared that it will not approach the Centre to procure paddy during Rabi season as the Centre has ruled out lifting the stocks from the state. Even during the current Kharif season, the state is facing a crisis in procurement as the production of paddy has far exceeded the target of 60 lakh tonnes fixed by the state. The TRS government is insisting that the Centre buy the entire stocks. A delegation of state ministers and MPs is camping in Delhi for the last one week to get a written assurance from the Centre. The government has already come under flak for the sluggish pace of procurement from farmers. The opposition parties have claimed that 200 farmers committed suicide due to the government not procuring their paddy. "Considering the large scale paddy production across Telangana, procurement will become a major challenge for the TRS government. And that is the precise reason, KCR is trying hard to shift the blame towards the Modi Government. It remains to be seen how farmers in Telangana will react to developments," said an analyst. The paddy crisis saw TRS leaders and cadres took to the streets with the chief minister himself leading ministers, MPs, state legislators and other leaders on a three-hour sit-in last month. In an indication that he is reviving his plans to play a key role in national politics, KCR declared an open war against the BJP-led Centre over its 'anti-farmer' policies. Broadening the scope of his fight, KCR offered to lead the nationwide movement of farmers. As part of the efforts, the state cabinet on November 29 sanctioned Rs 22.5 crore to pay Rs 3 lakh each to the kin of 750 farmers killed during the nation-wide agitation against the three controversial farm laws of the Centre. BJP, which is already working on its Mission 2023 to come to power in the state, is gearing up to turn the heat on TRS. This was evident after the recent meeting of state BJP leaders with union home minister Amit Shah. Shah advised the BJP leaders to highlight the corruption of TRS and KCR and be ready for elections whenever they are held. The saffron party leaders do not rule out KCR once again taking them by surprise by going for early polls. Anticipating the Modi wave in simultaneous polls impacting the prospects of TRS, KCR went for early Assembly elections in 2018, six months before they were originally scheduled. This worked to his advantage as TRS retained power by bagging 88 seats in the 119-member Assembly, a huge improvement over its 2014 tally of 63 seats. He subsequently decimated the opposition by luring a dozen MLAs from Congress party. However, KCR's hopes of cobbling up a Federal Front were dashed as Narendra Modi-led BJP stormed back to power at the Centre with a huge majority. By winning four Lok Sabha seats in the state, BJP emerged as a challenge for TRS. After wresting the Dubbak Assembly seat in 2020 and Huzurabad in 2021 from TRS and by significantly improving its tally in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), BJP positioned itself as the number one opposition party. The recent setback in Huzurabad was huge for TRS and personally for KCR as Eatala Rajender managed to return to Assembly barely five months after he dropped him from the Cabinet on the allegations of land encroachment. Rajender was the first big TRS leader who challenged KCR's leadership and succeeded in retaining the seat even after switching loyalties. He won the bypoll despite KCR going all out to defeat him. Analysts say with the Huzurabad debacle and Rajender emerging as one of key symbols of opposition politics, more voices of dissent might emerge from within the ruling party in 2022. Barring Huzurabad, TRS did well in 2021. It retained the Nagarjuna Sagar Assembly seat despite a tough fight given by senior Congress leader K. Jana Reddy. The pink party also won all 14 Legislative Council seats including the lone seat held by BJP and made a clean sweep in the elections held to seven urban local bodies. The party crossed a milestone on April 27 as it completed 20 years of its formation. The celebrations, however, were a low-key affair due to the surge in Covid-19 cases across the state. A major development during the year was the launch of 'Dalit Bandhu', aimed at social and economic empowerment of Scheduled Castes (SCs). Under the scheme, claimed to be the first of its kind in the country, every Dalit family will get Rs 10 lakh as a grant and the beneficiary will be free to choose their profession, self-employment or businesses for utilising the funds. The ambitious scheme was launched on a pilot basis in Huzurabad a few weeks before the by-election. The government released Rs 2,000 crore for implementing the scheme in the constituency in saturation mode, drawing criticism from the opposition that it was aimed at luring Dalit voters. After the defeat of TRS, the government faced allegations from the opposition that it had cold-shouldered the scheme. Stating that it is committed to the implementation of the scheme and to counter the opposition attack, the government last week sanctioned Rs 250 crore for implementation of the scheme in four mandals or blocks, which were picked for pilot project along with Huzurabad constituency. KCR announced that the scheme will be extended to all other Assembly constituencies where at least 100 Dalit families will be covered during the current fiscal by March 31, 2022. He had earlier told the state Assembly that the state has nearly 18 lakh Dalit families and it requires Rs 1.80 lakh crore to implement the scheme for all Dalit families. The chief minister also announced that Rs 20,000 crore will be allocated in the next year's budget for Dalit Bandhu. With this money, 2,000 Dalit families will be covered in each Assembly constituency. However, it's not clear how the government will mobilise additional resources for the scheme when the state's finances were already strained due to a drop in revenues under the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. The TRS government claims to be the number one state in the country in implementing welfare schemes with an annual expenditure of Rs 40,000 crore. The Covid-19 pandemic led to a revenue loss of Rs 50,000 crore in the previous fiscal year but the government claims that it did not allow it to affect the implementation of welfare schemes. The launch of 'Dalit Bandhu' also led to demands from other sections of the society like backward classes and minorities for similar schemes. "Promise to deliver Dalit Bandhu to all deserving families is the biggest social welfare challenge before KCR. There is a likely possibility, people will remain unhappy with and without the implementation of this scheme. Hence, there is a high chance of this scheme backfiring," said Raghavendra Reddy. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-rashtra-samithi-may-face-the-heat-ahead-of-2023-polls-1064809.html
26-12-2021||South||Puducherry's political churnings saw fall of elected government in 2021||Fall of the elected Congress-led coalition government, a short period of President's rule, BJP's significant electoral gains in the Assembly polls, the return of N Rangasamy as Chief Minister and torrential rains -- 2021 had enough in store for this small union territory. A spate of defections in the then Chief Minister V Narayanasamy-led cabinet, triggered by senior party leader and PWD Minister A Namassivayam, culminated in the fall of the Congress-DMK coalition government on February 22 this year, with the AINRC-led NDA storming to power three months later where the BJP scored its first electoral wins in the UT, resulting in the saffron party's expanding its southern footprint. The political crisis started on January 25 with a virtually sudden resignation by Namassivayam as a minister as well as a legislator, with three more, including then-Speaker K Lakshminarayanan, who later joined the AINRC, subsequently parting ways with the grand old party. DMK MLA K Venkatesan also resigned. With the crisis deepening, Lt Governor Tamilisai Soundararjan, who succeeded Kiran Bedi after she was removed from office, directed Narayanasamy to seek a vote of confidence on the floor of the House on February 22. However, Narayanasamy, who tabled the motion of confidence, did not face the confidence vote but tendered his ministry's resignation to the L-G in the backdrop of lack of majority. President's rule was subsequently imposed for a short period. The Assembly poll held on April 6 witnessed the AINRC and BJP emerging victorious in 16 of the total 30 constituencies to form the ministry, the BJP, in particular, having more reasons to smile as it netted six seats in its first electoral success in the UT. AIADMK, which was also part of the NDA, drew a blank in the polls. There are three nominated members belonging to BJP. The Congress could return just two seats while the DMK and independents won six each. The cabinet formation of the NDA was no smooth affair as Chief Minister Rangasamy, who alone took the oath initially in early May after returning power after five years, was hospitalised with Covid-19. Later, a tug of war ensued between him and the BJP as it wanted Namassivayam to be made the CM's deputy. However, Rangasamy, a veteran, did not relent from his stand not to have a deputy CM. Later, the BJP was given the post of Speaker and two cabinet berths, and the ministry formation took place at the fag end of June this year. The saffron party was also allotted the lone Rajya Sabha seat from the UT. Incidentally, the cabinet has a woman member after a gap of 38 years. Ahead of the polls, then chief minister Narayanasamy made a faux pas when he translated complaints into compliments, to his party leader Rahul Gandhi during his visit here, after a fisherwoman aired her grievances at a meeting attended by the Wayanad MP, drawing criticism from various quarters. Heavy rains hit Puducherry and Karaikal regions during the last quarter of the year, leading to inundation in many parts. A Central team visited the affected areas to assess the damage and the territorial government has sought interim relief of Rs 300 crore to tackle the situation arising out of the natural fury. The State Election Commission made an unsuccessful bid to hold civic polls as petitions were filed against its move to conduct the elections without making reservation of wards for the BCs and STs. As the Covid-19 wave continued through 2020, Lt Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan personally took up the awareness on vaccination and went door to door to meet citizens and persuade them to take the jabs.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/puducherrys-political-churnings-saw-fall-of-elected-government-in-2021-1064814.html
26-12-2021||South||YSRC steamrolls Opposition, rains unleash fury in Andhra Pradesh in 2021||The year 2021 was a mixed bag for the ruling YSR Congress in Andhra Pradesh as the party re-established its political dominance against rival TDP, sweeping the civic polls, but alleged flip-flops over its policy decisions, including on its pet 'three capitals' and prohibition, prompted opposition fire. Monsoon fury late in the year devastated Rayalaseema, leading to loss of lives and property. Covid-19 peaked in August during the second wave, when the total cases touched the 20 million mark. "Maata tappam, madama tippam” (we will not go back on our word nor do we flip our heels) has always been Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy’s buzzword. But there were visible changes in government stand on key issues. The "avowed" policy of total prohibition of liquor has been altered to merely 'reduction in consumption'. Prohibition of liquor in phases has been one of the flagship programmes 'Navaratnalu' (nine gems), which Reddy refers to as "our Bhagavad Gita, Quran and Bible". The profits from liquor sales, which is now completely in government hands, has crossed at least Rs 12,000 crore so far this year, with indications that the figure may cross Rs 16,000 crore, implying it is a key source of raking in the moolah. "The Navaratnalu are dropping like nine pins. The somersault on liquor prohibition is a glaring example. Going back on every promise has become the hallmark of Jagan's administration," Jana Sena Political Affairs Committee Chairman Nadendla Manohar noted. Leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Council Yanamala Ramakrishnudu said Jagan 'degraded' AP to such a state that welfare schemes were only possible through income from liquor. The ruling YSR Congress, though, has not reacted on the issue. After two years of batting for establishing three capitals for the state, the government in November passed a Bill in the Andhra Pradesh Legislative Assembly, repealing the controversial AP Decentralisation and Inclusive Development of All Regions Act, 2020, which was intended to establish an Executive Capital in Visakhapatnam, Legislative Capital at Amaravati and Judicial Capital in Kurnool. Reddy, however, said the government would come up with a "complete, comprehensive and better" Bill to take forward his "decentralised development" plan after explaining "our genuine intention and the need for decentralisation" to all concerned and incorporating necessary changes. Among others, the government passed a resolution in the Assembly, withdrawing its earlier statutory resolution, seeking abolition of the state Legislative Council, where it incidentally now enjoys a majority. "It only exposed the arrogance of the ruling party. When we were in majority, the YSRC wanted the Council disbanded but since it gained majority now, the latter is seeking its continuation," Telugu Desam MLC P Ashok Babu lashed out. Other rollbacks included the much-vaunted job recruitment calendar, though finally released in June this year, as none of the promised jobs were notified, besides the Government Orders on taking over aided educational institutions. Following a huge public outcry, the move was termed as only "optional". And, the government expressly announced that it cannot abolish the Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS), as promised earlier, because "even the state Budget will not be sufficient" if the word is honoured. Ahead of the 2019 elections, Jagan, as the then Opposition leader, promised to abolish the CPS for government employees "within a week" on assuming power. "If we now look into it (CPS) … the financial or other aspects … even the entire budget will not be sufficient," government advisor (public affairs) S R K Reddy remarked, indicating that the CPS would stay. Alleged flip-flops on the administrative front apart, the YSRC nevertheless scored political points, making a clean sweep of the elections to rural and urban local bodies. The local bodies’ poll process that began in March 2020, finally concluded in mid-2021 overcoming the Covid-19 and legal obstacles. The principal opposition Telugu Desam was reduced to nothing in the local bodies while other parties barely made their mark. The Congress continued to remain a non-entity in the state politics even as the BJP gained little. The year also saw the peaking of the Covid-19 pandemic in AP as the total number of cases crossed the two million mark on August 20, riding on the second wave. May 2021 had been the worst Covid-19 month in the state when the highest number of 5,71,973 positives were registered, while it was also marked with 5,46,063 recoveries and 2,877 deaths. Floods, caused by heavy rains, on an unprecedented scale devastated the arid Rayalaseema region in November, claiming at least 48 lives and rendering hundreds of families, mainly in Kadapa district, homeless. By the end of 2021, state government employees went into an agitation mode, with the government yet to take a call on their long-pending demands, including implementation of the pay revision commission recommendations. The government has been resetting the deadline for addressing employees’ issues but a settlement still remained evasive as talks were stuck in a deadlock, mainly on the quantum of pay enhancement.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ysrc-steamrolls-opposition-rains-unleash-fury-in-andhra-pradesh-in-2021-1064818.html
26-12-2021||South||5 policemen injured, jeep set on fire as workers clash in Kerala||Five policemen, including a Circle Inspector, were injured after two groups of guest workers at Kizhakkambalam in Ernakulam district of Kerala fought against each other and also directed their fire at the police, setting police vehicles on fire. The incident occurred on Saturday night following a dispute over the Christmas Carol music team. Around 500 guest workers under the influence of alcohol working for a prominent private industry in Kizhakkambalam fought against each other. Police arrived at the scene and tried to disperse the crowd of clashing guest workers, who attacked the police with stones and rods. Five policemen were injured and have been admitted to the hospital. The guest workers also burnt two police jeeps. A strong police contingent arrived at the scene and lathi-charged the workers bringing the situation under control. Ernakulam rural superintendent of police Karthik told the media persons that 150 guest workers were arrested and are in police custody and cases have been registered against them. He said that the situation got out of control after two groups of workers from an industry fought against each other and police arrived at the scene on getting information from the public. However, police were also attacked. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/5-policemen-injured-jeep-set-on-fire-as-workers-clash-in-kerala-1064825.html
26-12-2021||South||Geological Survey of India officials to check Tamil Nadu village over tremors||Officials from the Geological Survey of India (GSI) officials will conduct a detailed check in the Perampet village of Tamil Nadu's Vellore district where mild tremors have occurred since December 21. On Saturday, the tremors were stronger which led to cracks on several mud huts. Addressing mediapersons, Vellore district revenue officer, K. Ramamoorthy who visited the site on Saturday, said: "Villagers said that mild tremors were taking place in the area since December 21. However, on Saturday tremors took place between 1 pm and 4 pm that led to cracks in the walls of around 12 mud huts." He said that the district authorities have already informed the GSI officials for further testing of the area and ascertain the cause of the temblors. With no quarries in and around Perampet, the district revenue officers have ruled out the possibilities of blasts causing the tremors. Speaking to reporters, L. Swaminathan, a farmer from Perampet village, said: "The district authorities reached here on Saturday and said that GSI officials would be informed and we are expecting the GSI authorities and scientists to provide proper informationAon these recurring tremors and whether the danger quotient is high." Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/geological-survey-of-india-officials-to-check-tamil-nadu-village-over-tremors-1064862.html
26-12-2021||South||Workers attack police, torches vehicles; Kitex group in tight spot||A section of workers of the Kerala-based Kitex group of companies attacked a police party and torched and damaged police vehicles on Saturday night after a clash broke out between two sections of workers, mostly migrant labourers, at Kizhakkambalam in Ernakulam district, where the company is headquartered. The incident that took place following Christmas celebrations of the workers has become an embarrassment to the firm as Kitex group managing director Sabu Jacob had recently locked horns with the left-front government in Kerala over frequent inspections by various government agencies at its units. Ruling CPM and Congress came out against the company following the incident. Police said that around 500 workers, most of them under the influence of alcohol and drugs, clashed following a dispute that broke out during the Christmas celebrations. A police party that rushed to the spot came under the attack. Many workers climbed on the police vehicles and damaged the vehicles and the police personnel were beaten up. Five police personnel, including a circle inspector, were injured. One police vehicle was torched and four other vehicles were damaged. Later more police personnel rushed to the spot and brought the situation under control Around 150 workers were taken into custody in connection with the incident. Kitex group managing director Sabu Jacob said that the workers who engaged in the clashes were under the influence of drugs. A detailed probe was required to find how they got drugs. All those arrested by the police were not culprits. Stern action will be taken against those involved in the clashes. Denying allegations that the clash occurred due to lack of facilities at the labour camps, Jacob said that a section of residents complained that the celebrations were causing disturbance to them and this triggered the clashes. Local MLA P V Srinijin of the CPM said that the local people were much irritated as they alleged that drug abuse was very rampant in the region. Congress MP Benny Behanan said that a comprehensive probe was required into the incident. The Kizhakkambalam panchayat is being ruled by the Twenty20 forum initiated by Jacob as part of the CSR activities of the Kitex group. Twenty20 had also contested in the Assembly elections. Jacob had alleged that the frequent inspections by various government agencies at his units were politically motivated. He also withdrew Rs. 3,500 crore investment plan proposed in Kerala alleging that the state was not investor-friendly and decided to make the investments in Telangana. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/workers-attack-police-torches-vehicles-kitex-group-in-tight-spot-1064875.html
26-12-2021||South||Aide of Palaniswami's personal assistant held for taking bribe||The Salem District Crime Branch (DCB) has arrested a person who was an aide of former Chief Minister K. Palaniswami's personal assistant, for allegedly taking bribe from an engineer promising him a government job during the previous AIADMK regime. The accused K. Selvakumar (45) of Kadayampatty was arrested on Saturday. Selvakumar was a close aide of G. Mani alias Nadupetti Mani who was the personal assistant of Palniswami. According to the Crime Branch, Tamil Selvan (29), an engineer from Neyveli in Tamil Nadu was approached by the duo promising him a job in Tamil Nadu Transport Corporation. The duo demanded Rs 17 lakh bribe from Selvan which was given. However, even after several months, the accused could not provide Selvan a job and when asked for his money, the duo returned him Rs 4 lakh and threatened him with dire consequences if he revealed the matter to anyone. Selvan complained to the Salem DCB on October 24, which arrested G. Mani. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/aide-of-palaniswamis-personal-assistant-held-for-taking-bribe-1064884.html
26-12-2021||South||Shashi Tharoor can go out of Congress if he doesn't toe party line: Kerala Congress chief||The Congress leadership in Kerala has toughened its stand against Congress MP Shashi Tharoor over the high-speed rail project issue with party state president K Sudhakaran stating that those who do not follow the party line would be out of the party. The Kerala PCC president told reporters on Sunday that Tharoor was just an individual member of the party. If he was not following the party line he would have to opt-out of the party. While the Congress leadership had announced agitations against the proposed Thiruvananthapuram-Kasargod semi highspeed rail project, Tharoor was maintaining that he required more time to study about the project. He even kept off from signing on a petition filed by the Congress MPs from Kerala to the railway ministry objecting to the project. Tharoor's stand irked the Congress leadership as the party had already conducted a detailed study with the help of experts about two months back and took its stand against the project. Even as Tharoor sought to justify his position stating that he only sought time to study the project and had not backed it, the ruling CPM is taking advantage of Tharoor's stand. Tharoor's subsequent praise for Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan's pro-development approach also made the CPM happy, while it caused further embarrassment to the Congress. Many senior Congress leaders already expressed their resentment against Tharoor's stand openly. Coalition partners of the Congress were also unhappy over Tharoor's stand. The 540 kilometre rail project aims at reducing travel time between Thiruvananthapuram in the south and Kasargod in the north to less than four hours while now it takes at least ten hours by road and rail. Huge financial commitments of over Rs. one lakh crore, ecological impacts and massive displacement of people are the major concerns being raised by those opposing the project. But the Pinarayi Vijayan government was reiterating that the project would be taken forward as it was essential for the state's development and economic progress. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/shashi-tharoor-can-go-out-of-congress-if-he-doesnt-toe-party-line-kerala-congress-chief-1064885.html
26-12-2021||South||Chennai police to set up NCC like units in 100 schools||The Greater Chennai police is constituting National Cadet Corps (NCC) like units in schools across the city called Student in Responsible Police Initiatives (SIRPI). The initiative, which is the brainchild of police commissioner, Shankar Jaiswal, will be initially implemented in 100 schools across the city. The project is aimed at addressing the issue of juvenile delinquency, identifying vulnerable children and guiding them. The idea, according to the Greater Chennai City police commissioner, is to identify 50 students from 100 schools and provide them uniforms and other facilities. Vulnerable students from Class 8 and above will be identified and included in the "SIRPI Wing" of the police. Shankar Jaiswal told IANS: "We will be commencing the operation by the first week of January and provide uniform to around 5,000 students, both boys and girls. The 100 schools have already been identified." He also said that the uniform design is underway and the curriculum for the programme is currently being worked out. The city police will spend time with the cadets of the SIRPI and provide books, uniforms and other study materials to the students. The children who are in the programme will be taken for tours to premier educational institutions and also be shown how the police force works. Shankar Jaiswal said: "The whole idea is to make them responsible citizens and we will conduct physical training, classroom training and instil discipline in students in a one-year curriculum which is being worked out." Resistance to social evils and empathy for vulnerable sections of the society will be cultivated in the cadets through field visits and information through classrooms and study materials. The police will depute the services of a police inspector as the liaison officer between the police and the student cadets and schools. This officer will depute sufficient officers for training of students and will also try and maintain excellent relationships with the concerned schools. Legal literacy programmes in association with the government and non-governmental organisations (NGOs) will be conducted for the SIRPI cadets. They would be made to understand the value of traffic laws and good habits. The cadets will be involved in staging programmes like mono act, street plays and also organising campaigns against alcoholism, anti-drug campaign as well against terror activities. The culture and need for conducting national festivals and saluting the national symbols would also be inculcated in the students. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/chennai-police-to-set-up-ncc-like-units-in-100-schools-1064896.html
26-12-2021||South||I am confident of Centre granting Puducherry statehood: Rangasamy||Chief Minister of Puducherry N Rangasamy on Sunday said he was confident that the plea of the Union Territory for Statehood would be conceded by the Centre. Addressing the inauguration of the Puducherry Print and Television Journalists Association here by Lieutenant Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan, the Chief Minister said, "We have been making a plea for full statehood to Puducherry. I am confident that the Centre will concede." He said the territorial government was implementing several schemes for the betterment of the journalists. "We will also consider the pleas presented earlier at the function on behalf of the association of journalists," he said. Rangasamy asked mediapersons to report correct and confirmed information and said the government would always take steps to protect them. "The media's role during the current drive against pandemic is laudable," he said. Later, he honoured senior journalists by presenting them mementos. Speaking on the occasion, Soundararajan said Puducherry was the first in the country to declare mediapersons as frontline workers. "We have shown the way to the rest of the country and have also vaccinated mediapersons to protect them against Covid-19," she said placing on record the pro-active role the press was playing here in combating the pandemic. She honoured Health Department officials for their service in combating coronavirus. Speaker of the Assembly R Selvam and PWD Minister K Lakshminarayanan also spoke. Member of Rajya Sabha from Puducherry S Selvaganapthy, legislators K S P Ramesh, A K D Arumugham and Richards, Secretary to Information E Vallavan and Health Secretary T Arun were also present. President of the journalists association R K Raja presented a memorandum to Chief Minister containing presspersons' demands. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/i-am-confident-of-centre-granting-puducherry-statehood-rangasamy-1064907.html
26-12-2021||South||Tamil Nadu fishermen's strike enters eighth day, 'rail roko' on January 1||The indefinite strike here by fishermen demanding the immediate release of fishers arrested by Sri Lanka entered the eighth day while community leaders on Sunday said a 'massive rail roko' would be held on January 1. Until the Centre has secured the release of all arrested fishermen and their boats, the strike would continue to be on, said P Sesu Raja and S Emerit, leaders of separate fishermen's associations. Sesu Raja is president of Tamil Nadu Kadalora Meenava Sangam and Emerit heads the Meenavan Meenava Sangam. On January 1, a 'massive rail roko protest' would be held here, they said. Fishermen hailing from different parts of Tamil Nadu, including Rameswaram and Pudukottai, were arrested by Sri Lankan naval personnel between December 19 and 21, 2021 after they allegedly crossed the international maritime boundary. After their arrest, an indefinite strike was launched here by fishermen associations on December 19. While other fishermen associations too joined the strike and took part in agitations, a section of them have reportedly resumed work on Sunday, following Christmas. Leaders of fishermen associations also plan to visit Delhi and meet Union Ministers as part of efforts to find a long-term solution to the continuing arrest of fishermen. Days ago, Chief Minister M K Stalin had urged the Centre to take immediate action to secure the release of all the 68 arrested fishermen and their 75 fishing boats. Stalin had also requested the Centre to establish India's traditional fishing rights in Palk Strait and guard the lives of fishermen. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-fishermens-strike-enters-eighth-day-rail-roko-on-january-1-1064912.html
26-12-2021||South||Tamil Nadu commences preparatory work to administer Covid-19 vaccine to 15-18 years age group||The Tamil Nadu government on Sunday said it has initiated the preparatory work to administer Covid-19 vaccines to children aged 15 to 18 years. The statement comes a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced that Covid-19 vaccination for those in the age group of 15-18 years will start from January 3, 2022. After inspecting the 16th Mega vaccination camp underway in over 50,000 camps across the state, Minister for Medical and Family Welfare Ma Subramanian noted that there are 33.20 lakh kids aged 15 to 18 years in Tamil Nadu. "The vaccination for these children will commence in January 3 and they will be administered doses at schools and also by holding special camps," he told reporters. Referring to the booster dose of vaccine to front-line workers as announced by the Centre, Subramanian said there are 1.40 crore such workers who would receive the jab on January 10. Meanwhile, the Minister said over 100 people who came in contact with the 22 active Omicron cases in the state were detected with symptoms of the new variant of coronavirus and they were placed under 'isolation'. "All them are doing well", he said. Earlier in the day, Chief Minister MK Stalin inspected the wards that have been set up at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital to treat patients infected by Omicron strain, official sources said. On TN's Covid vaccination coverage, the Health Minister said the department has inoculated 8.14 crore people of which 84.87 per cent comprise first dose while 55.85 per cent second. "At the national level the 88.59 per cent of population have received the first dose of vaccination," he said. Vaccination commenced across the country on January 16. Appealing to the members of the public to wear a face mask and follow Covid-19 safety norms while in public, Subramanian said those who violate the protocols were 'penalised'. "Such a situation should change and people should adhere to the government laid standard operating procedures," he added. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-commences-preparatory-work-to-administer-covid-19-vaccine-to-15-18-years-age-group-1064922.html
26-12-2021||South||Pinarayi Vijayan's bid to sideline IUML to gain support of Kerala muslims||Kerala Chief Minister and CPM politburo member Pinarayi Vijayan has been constantly attacking the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) by giving it a communal tag, this seems to be his political strategy to seek a cut in the Muslim vote bank of Kerala. During his first term as Chief Minister, from 2016 to 2021, Vijayan enhanced his rapport with the church leaders by proactively taking up their grievances and thereby made inroads into Christian vote banks that were enjoyed by Congress. CPM had also gained from it in the recent Assembly elections. Now, Vijayan seems to be playing a similar strategy to make inroads into the Muslim vote banks by attacking the IUML, which is a key coalition partner of the Congress, according to political analysts. Vijayan has alleged that the IUML is a communal party. He also alleged that IUML was dictating terms to the Congress. Recently, Vijayan foiled a bid by an IUML-backed forum to organise protests in mosques against the Left-front government's moves to entrust recruitment to Kerala Wakf Board to the Public Service Commission. Vijayan managed to take into confidence the leaders of Samastha Kerala Jem'iyyathul Ulema, a supreme body of Islamic scholars of Kerala. Veteran political analyst M N Karassery told DH that Vijayan seems to be trying to weaken the IUML by constantly attacking it and giving it a communal colour. In the meantime, he is also developing a good rapport with other Muslim leaders which was evident in the Wakf Board issue. The decision to give ministerial berth to the lone MLA of the Indian National League, despite it being an insignificant coalition partner in the Left-front, could be also seen as an effort to weaken the IUML. Karassery also said since Congress lost power for the second consecutive term, the chances of IUML cadres exploring options to allign with the Left-front could not be ruled out in the long run.   He pointed out that the CPM already managed to make inroads into the Christian community that constitutes 18 per cent of Kerala population (as per 2011 census) and if they gain the backing of the Muslim community, which constitutes 27 percent of the population, the Left-front would be able to remain in power in Kerala without any hassle. Then there is also the considerable fall in vote share of IUML candidates even in its strongholds in North Kerala in the last Assembly polls, Karassery said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/pinarayi-vijayans-bid-to-sideline-iuml-to-gain-support-of-kerala-muslims-1064927.html
26-12-2021||State||Two from Karnataka selected for PM-YUVA Mentorship Scheme||Two contestants from Karnataka (for Kannada language) Jayasimha KR  and Tejas H Badala have been selected for PM-YUVA Mentorship Scheme. National Book Trust (NBT) announced the results of the all-India contest organised on the theme ‘National Movement of India’ under the PM-YUVA Mentorship Scheme as part of 'AzadiKaAmritMahotsav' programme. A total of 75 writers from 22 official languages and English were selected for the scholarship-cum-mentorship scheme for the young authors below the age of 30 years, Yuvraj Malik, Director NBT, said in a statement. The NBT received a total of 16,000 book proposals, including 300 from Kannada, and in which an expert panel selected 75 authors' proposals having the potential to develop full-fledged books, said an official from the NBT. "The selected authors will undergo six months of mentorship in which they would be provided research and editorial support under the guidance of eminent authors and the editorial team of National Book Trust, India to develop their book proposals as full-fledged books to be published by the trust as part of AzadiKaAmritMahotsav initiatives," the statement said. "Their published books will be later translated into other Indian languages as well. During mentorship, the selected authors will receive a scholarship of Rs 50,000 per month for a period of six months. Further, a royalty of 10 per cent will be payable to the authors on successful publications of their books," said the statement. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/two-from-karnataka-selected-for-pm-yuva-mentorship-scheme-1064984.html
26-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka long way from completing Covid vaccinations, to miss year-end target||Though the state government had announced earlier this year that Covid-19 vaccination would be wrapped up by the end of the year, data shows that it is still a long way from achieving this goal.  In August, Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar had said that the government’s aim is to “fully vaccinate the entire eligible population by the end of December”. With the year-end milestone now looming, the data is unequivocal: while first dose coverage had reached 96.89 per cent as of Saturday afternoon, second dose coverage was 75.96 per cent. More alarmingly, about 3.1 per cent of the population has not even been inoculated even once. These include some 1.34 lakh healthcare workers and 54.1 lakh people aged 18 to 44. Meanwhile, district officials affirmed that hesitancy is still a factor. Kalaburagi is at the bottom with a 95 per cent first-dose and 62 per cent second-dose coverage. “Our second-dose numbers are low because it took a long time to build up our first-dose numbers due to vaccine hesitancy,” explained Dr Sharanabasappa Ganajalkhed, Kalaburagi district health officer. “This means that many people are still ineligible for the second dose,” he added. The district has about one lakh people eligible for a second dose and 5 per cent yet to take a first dose. “We are trying to get influencers to convince people, especially in villages. The holdouts are a mixed group and they vary from village-to-village,” Dr Ganajalkhed said. Even the performance of the top five coverage districts has been relatively tepid. Among them is Kodagu which has an adult population of four lakh (the lowest of any district in the state). Despite this advantage, it has been unable to wrap up vaccinations. As of Saturday, while its first-dose coverage was 100 per cent, it still had only reached 92 per cent second-dose coverage. “The problem with this district is that although the population is small, the area is vast,” said DHO Dr Venkatesh, clarifying that ASHA workers were finding it difficult to cover ground during house-to-house visits intended to reduce vaccine hesitancy. Raichur district is the second from last. Officials here said migration and agriculture are impediments. “Most working-age people go for agricultural work early in the morning, after which time, they become unreachable,” a district official said, clarifying that in the 18 to 44 age group, 92 per cent have had a first dose while 58 per cent have a seconddose “Hesitancy is a major problem in the above 60 age group where 86 per cent have a first dose while 67 per cent have a second dose,” the official added. The Health Minister attributed the delay to people not coming forward to finish their dosage after the second wave subsided due to negligence or complacency thinking the worst was over. “But after we started the door-to-door campaign, the coverage increased significantly. However, we should be able to achieve 100 per cent double-dose coverage in the next 1-2 months,” he said. “As far as stock is concerned, we have an inventory of about 63.87 lakh doses including about 57 lakh doses in districts,” he said.  Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-long-way-from-completing-covid-vaccinations-to-miss-year-end-target-1064738.html
26-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Powered by 'Kutumba' database, CM Bommai's pet project takes off||When pre-university student S Deeksha received Rs 3,000 in her bank account one day, the girl from Chikkanayakanahalli in Tumakuru district didn't know anything beyond the fact that it came from the government.  Like Deeksha, some two lakh students also received money in their bank accounts and many of them are clueless over the reason why.   The reason behind their good luck is Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai’s pet project Vidyanidhi — an annual scholarship for agriculturists' children studying in PU or ITI, degree, LLB/para medical, B Pharm, MBBS and engineering courses. Authorities say Vidyanidhi is the first welfare scheme in Karnataka for which the government is using Kutumba, an extensive database that contains a treasure trove of data on families across the state, to automatically identify eligible beneficiaries. “This is the first time Kutumba is being used to give benefits on a suo motu basis,” Additional Chief Secretary (e-Governance) Rajeev Chawla told DH.  Kutumba currently has data on 5.5 crore citizens belonging to 1.6 crore families. It is further linked to the education department’s database and the Farmer Registration & Unified Beneficiary Information System (FRUITS) that has details of seven million farmers, databases of ration cards and caste/income certificates. So, the government knows who the farmers are, and if they have any students in their families.     “With this social registry, we are able to generate a list of students who belong to a farmer’s family,” Chawla said. Till date, out of 13 lakh PU students, the government has found that 3.5 lakh belong to farming households, of whom two lakh have received scholarship money directly into their Aadhaar-linked bank accounts.  Overall, some 17 lakh students are eligible to get various scholarships. “We've already identified 8-9 lakh of them as farmers' children,” Chawla said. “Some eight lakh farmers’ families are not registered in Kutumba. We’re making an attempt to get them enrolled so that they can get the scholarship.”  A recent government order said the Vidyanidhi scholarship will be given on an entitlement basis, which means eligible students need not apply. The downside of this is that beneficiaries won’t even know under what scheme they have received money.  Another challenge is that Aadhaar is static data. “Aadhaar is just the financial address and payments are triggered to the Aadhaar-seeded bank accounts. But, if a citizen has changed his or her phone number, how will someone come to know they’ve received a benefit,” Chawla asked. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/powered-by-kutumba-database-cm-bommais-pet-project-takes-off-1064740.html
26-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka divided over December 31 bandh call||More than 60 per cent of organisations have declared ‘only moral support’ and have decided to stay away from protest rallies as they do not want to lose out on the brisk business generated during New Year’s Eve.   Refusing to be part of the ‘bandh’ call, the Karnataka Film Chamber of Commerce (KFCC) President DR Jayaraj said closing of cinema halls will affect the industry. “Many films are lined up for release and it is our duty to protect the interests of the industry, artists and producers,” he said. However, Jairaj said that KFCC will fully support the cause of Kannada organisations. Similarly, Karnataka Rakshana Vedike (KRV), Bruhat Bangalore Hotels Association, Peace Auto, schools and colleges association, shopping malls association and several other commercial establishments have offered only moral support and declared that operations will be normal on December 31. Angered by the film industry’s decision to withdraw from the protest, Vatal Nagaraj, President of the Kannada Okkuta sharply said, “I do not want their moral support. Everyone must come to the street and protest. While we protest on the street, should they sit back at homes by announcing moral support?” Higher Education Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayana also appealed to Kannada activists to withdraw the bandh decision. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-divided-over-december-31-bandh-call-1064741.html
26-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Night curfew in Karnataka for 10 days from December 28||Karnataka announced Sunday a night curfew from 10 pm to 5 am for 10 days starting December 28.  Health and Family Welfare Minister K Sudhakar said that all public gatherings for new year celebrations will be prohibited. "Only 50 per cent occupancy in hotels will be allowed," he added. The rule will apply to pubs and restaurants also. "Every activity after 10 pm will be curbed," he said. However, there will be no restrictions on movement of public transport services and goods. The decision was following a meeting chaired by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai with ministers, senior officials and experts on the spread of the Omicron variant. "Based on the situation in the next 10 days, the government will review whether additional curbs are necessary," he said.  According to guidelines issued, all gatherings including marriages, meetings, conferences etc from December 28 should strictly limit the number of participants to 300. Patrolling and surveillance at all border districts adjoining Maharastra and Kerala state will be intensified. The movement of individuals will remain strictly prohibited, save in some cases. "Patients and their attendants requiring emergency need for movement shall be allowed" along with employees of industries and companies which require operations at night.  There will be no prohibition for the movement of employees and vehicles of telecom and internet service providers, essential staff of IT and ITeS companies and employees of medical, emergency and other essential services. Movement of all types of goods, home delivery of goods and operations of e-commerce companies are allowed. Movement of buses, trains, metro and air travel is permitted, according to the guidelines. Commenting on vaccination in the state, Sudhakar said that first dose coverage was at 97 per cent, while second dose coverage was 75 per cent. "As many as 45 lakh people are yet to get the second dose and have surpassed the due date of vaccination. These people should understand that Omicron is spreading at a very fast pace and get fully vaccinated," he said. The meeting also discussed the preparations of the Health Department in case the variant spread at a faster pace. "The department will add 3,191 ICU beds to the existing 4,000 ICU beds. The number of oxygenated beds with the government was around 30,000," he said. Preventive doses will be administered from January 10 to those above 60 and co-morbidities along with healthcare and frontline workers, he said. In the first phase of vaccination for those between 15-18 years of age, around 43 lakh children will benefit. The government will also procure equipment for early detection of the Omicron variant, Sudhakar added. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/night-curfew-in-karnataka-for-10-days-from-december-28-1064800.html
26-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||BJP in Karnataka set to make temple authorities accountable||The ruling BJP in Karnataka is taking steps to bring accountability in the management of temples in the state. The government has decided to act tough against temple managements and initiate legal proceedings if they do not fall in line as far as bringing transparency is concerned. After making an announcement in this regard, Minister of the Muzarai department Shashikala Jolle issued a circular giving a deadline to the powerful and influential temple authorities in the state. The Assistant Commissioner of the muzarai department has been asked to visit at least three temples a week, conduct verification of accounts and submit reports. The officers have also been instructed to file a monthly report on accounts' submission by the temple authorities. The exercise has been taken up to ensure transparency in the affairs of temples. The department has warned the officers of stern action in case of dereliction of duty in this regard. As per the records of the muzarai department, there are 207 'A' grade temples with an annual income of more than Rs 25 lakh. Likewise, there are 139 'B' grade temples which have an income of between Rs 5 lakh to Rs 24.99 lakh. These 'A' and 'B' grade temples are required to submit accounts every year as per the law. Only four temples in the state -- Chamundeshwari temple of Mysuru, Yediyur Siddhalingeshwara temple, Ghati Subramanya temple and Banashankari temple of Bengaluru -- are submitting audit reports every year. Barring these four temples, other cash rich temples and their managements who are generating huge incomes through commercial activities and commercial complexes have not bothered to submit accounts. Successive Congress governments and the so called secular leaders have not dared to touch upon the subject of bringing transparency in temple management and hold powerful temple managements responsible for accounts. Even the Siddaramaiah government, branded as anti-Hindu by the Bharatiya Janata Party, did not dare to address the issue. Surprisingly, the ruling BJP is all set to take up the sensitive issue as each temple has lakhs of devotees and there is a possibility that any action against the temple authorities would anger them. Though taluk and zilla panchayat elections are due and the party is gearing up for the 2023 assembly elections, the muzarai department seems determined to ensure transparency in the affairs of the temples. Speaking to IANS, Minister for Muzarai, Hajj and Wakf Shashikala Jolle explained that since times immemorial the people have emotional bonds with temples. More than 35,000 temples in the state have their own properties. Many properties have been lost. The temple authorities have built commercial complexes and shops in the premises and properties of the temples. "It has come to our notice that temple properties are encroached, those who have taken properties on lease are not returning them and not paying rent. So, a survey has to be conducted and the properties of the temples have to be declared," Jolle said. The survey will be taken up in coordination with the revenue department and talks have been initiated with the Revenue Minister. "I have already discussed the matter with the Chief Minister and it is about bringing transparency in temple accounts and preservation of properties of temples," she added. There should be accountability for the money collected from devotees. Whenever devotees' money is being spent there should be transparency. It has come to our notice that many temple managements have not submitted audit reports since 100 to 15 years, she said. Jolle stated that accountability and transparency have to be maintained and with this intention directions have been given to temple authorities to submit audit reports by January 20, 2022. In case of non-compliance, the muzarai department will initiate legal action against the temple authorities under the Hindu Religious Institutions and Charitable Endowments Act and Rules. Siddalnga Prabhu, member of the Rajya Dharmika Parishat, told IANS that the step is very much required. The muzarai department would get 10 per cent of the income and it will be utilized for the renovation of 'C' grade temples across the state. Besides, it is desirable to have transparency in temple accounts. There are 1.80 lakh temples in Karnataka among which 35,500 temples come under the muzarai department. Former Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa had released Rs 2,000 crore for the muzarai department. Present Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai is also releasing funds for the development of temples. There is a master plan and detailed project report on maintaining hygiene in temples across the state, he stated. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bjp-in-karnataka-set-to-make-temple-authorities-accountable-1064805.html
26-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Bommai rules out any change in Karnataka's fresh Covid curbs||After the Karnataka government announced the imposition of night curfew in the state, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai Sunday said there is no question of revising the Covid-19 guidelines and night curfew will be in place as per the order. Speaking to reporters at Mysuru airport in Mandakalli, the Chief Minister said, "Covid and Omnicorn are in control in the state but night curfew has been imposed as a precautionary measure." The cases are slightly high in neighbouring states and keeping this in mind, the government ordered a night curfew, he said. On reports suggesting a surge in Covid-19 cases in February 2022, Bommai said "they are just predictions and thus precautionary measures have been taken". Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bommai-rules-out-any-change-in-karnatakas-fresh-covid-curbs-1064893.html
26-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Weavers' children to be covered under Vidya Nidhi scheme: Karnataka Minister||Minister of Textiles & Sugarcane Shankar Patil Munenkoppa said the Karnataka government is contemplating Rs five lakh compensation to the family members of a handloom weaver who has committed suicide. Speaking to media persons here on Sunday, the minister said recently the members of the weaving community had staged a protest in front of Suvarna Vidhan Soudha, Belagavi. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai after hearing the concerns of weavers had decided to extend benefits such as compensation and Vidya Nidhi scheme to children of weavers. Soon, weavers to get all the benefits on par with the farmers, he said. The government is also planning to provide concession and other facilities for textile industries and dyeing units in Belagavi to give a boost to the sector that has been adversely impacted by Covid-19. Sexual harassment Munenkoppa said the state government has taken a serious note of the observation made by State Women’s Commission Chairperson R Prameela Naidu regarding the sexual atrocities against women at the garment industries in the state. He said the textile commissioner and other senior officials will be asked to visit all the textile industries and ensure the owners put in place all the safety measures for the women. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/weavers-children-to-be-covered-under-vidya-nidhi-scheme-karnataka-minister-1064953.html
26-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||6 arrested after minor girl gang-raped in Karnataka's Dharwad||Dharwad Town Police on Sunday arrested six minor boys on charges of raping a minor girl.  According to the police, a complaint was filed at the Town Police station that six boys, all minors, hailing from Laxmisinganakeri in Dharwad had allegedly raped a 15-year-old girl, who is a resident of Morey Plot in Dharwad. Based on the complaint, the police team, led by Assistant Commissioner of Police Anusha G, swung into action and after investigation, nabbed the six boys. Interrogation revealed that the boys had repeatedly raped the girl at different places over a period of three months and had also threatened the girl of dire consequences if she revealed the offence. The victim was subjected to medical examination and the arrested boys were produced before the court. They have been remanded to judicial custody. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/6-arrested-after-minor-girl-gang-raped-in-karnatakas-dharwad-1064955.html
26-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka prepared to tackle Covid challenges ahead: Bommai||The Karnataka government has said it is prepared to tackle possible third wave of the coronavirus. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai in his address after inaugurating the Oxygen Generator and Liquid Medical Oxygen Plant at the JSS Hospital on Sunday said, action has been initiated to set up new ICU facilities, ramping up of oxygen plants and ensuring stocks of medicines. About 97 per cent first dose Covid vaccination has been achieved in the state and 76 per cent have been covered with both the doses. It is a record compared to other states, he said. Protection from Covid can be achieved only by 100 per cent vaccination. The government has been working relentlessly to achieve it. Tough preventive measures too would be taken. People need to cooperate with the government, Bommai said. Appreciating JSS institutions for their services in education, feeding the hungry and medical care, he said, the government has been successful in managing the Covid spread with cooperation from many organisations and hospitals. Pontiff of Suttur Mutt Sri Shivarathri Deshikendra Swamiji, Health and Family Welfare Minister Dr K. Sudhakar and other dignitaries were present on the occasion. Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-prepared-to-tackle-covid-challenges-ahead-bommai-1065000.html
26-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||90% Hindi questions in Kannada paper shock UGC-NET examinees||Thousands of candidates across Karnataka who appeared for the UGC-NET exam for Kannada, conducted by the National Testing Agency (NTA) on Sunday, were shocked to find that most of the questions were in Hindi. The National Eligibility Test (NET) is conducted to assess eligibility for teaching at undergraduate colleges and universities and to qualify for research. On Sunday, the test was conducted in online mode. However, thousands of candidates who logged in to write the Kannada exam were shocked to find that 90 questions out of 100 were in Hindi, leading to much confusion. The candidates launched a protest at several centres and boycotted the test.  The issue went viral on social media, forcing the NTA to issue a public notice postponing the test. "The first paper, which was for 50 marks, was normal. But in the second paper carrying 100 marks, most questions were in Hindi," said a candidate who had registered for the test from Bengaluru. "As there are no coordinators at the level of universities, since the test is conducted by NTA, it took us at least an hour to reach out to the authorities as it was Sunday," said another candidate. "This is the problem when everything is controlled by people sitting in Delhi. How can they set questions for Kannada subject in Hindi," another candidate asked. At around 5 pm, the candidates received a communication from NTA about the postponement. The notice issued by NTA read: "Due to the technical issues at some of the centres of UGC-NET December 2020 and June 2021 cycle examination, Subject Kannada held on December 26th (Shift 1) in CBT mode, the scheduled examination could not be conducted. NTA has decided to reschedule the examination of these impacted candidates. The revised dates for the rescheduled examination will be uploaded shortly along with the revised admit card of these candidates." The notice advised the candidates to regularly visit the NTA website for the latest updates regarding the examination. The UGC-NET was postponed at least four times in the last 10 months due to various reasons. The December 2020 cycle was merged with the June 2021 cycle and finally scheduled on December 26, 2021. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/90-hindi-questions-in-kannada-paper-shock-ugc-net-examinees-1065015.html
26-12-2021||West||Maharashtra district's New Year gift for transgenders - Rs 12,000 annual assistance||Fulfilling a long-pending demand, Palghar district has taken the lead in Maharashtra to provide monthly financial assistance to transgenders from New Year 2022, sending waves of excitement among this deprived sexual minority. Around 100 identified and eligible transgenders in the district will be entitled to modest assistance of Rs 1,000 per month (totaling Rs 12,000 annually) which will be deposited directly into their bank accounts, Palghar District Collector Dr Manik Gursal said. "The financial assistance will be given under the Sanjay Gandhi Niradhar Yojana of the state government which is available for destitute, blind, disabled, orphans, victims of major illnesses, divorced or abandoned women, outraged or women rescued from prostitution, transgenders, etc," Gursal told IANS. The scheme stipulates an annual income limit of up to Rs 21,000. With the help of a social worker, Vaibhav Sankhe, a district-level survey was undertaken and around 100 eligible transgenders were identified for the scheme. Sankhe said the officials came to know how a majority of them were abandoned in childhood or thrown out due to embarrassment by their own families when they realised their sexual divergence or preference. "A majority don't have even the basic documents or a bank account Most are illiterate. We shall register them, give them the certificate, prepare their necessary documents like Ration Card, Aadhaar Card, Election Card, etc, and assist them to open bank accounts where the government will transfer the money online," Gursal explained. For this purpose, the district administration has set up a four-member medical team comprising Dr Pradeep Thodi, Dr Vivek Kini, Dr Pragnya Savardikar and Dr Jaypalsingh Rajput, to certify the prospective beneficiaries as per the rules, he added. Sankhe explained how most transgenders are forced to lead a wretched life, are shunned and condemned by mainstream society, have no dignity or documents to avail assistance under any official scheme, and are relegated to the societal pavements. "However, we expect all this will change with the remarkable initiative taken by the Collector Dr Gursal and with mentorship from concerned persons like Dr Manoj Shinde of Boisar," Sankhe said. Gursal said that to enable the maximum transgenders in the far-flung areas, he has delegated powers at the local Sub-Divisional Magistrate level who can issue the certificate and other relevant documents. "We are not even asking them to come to the district or taluka headquarters. We organize camps where the transgenders can go and register themselves for the documents and other formalities," Gursal said. One of the transgenders, Aarti, told local newspersons how the community felt "overwhelmed" by the initiative which will help them to join the mainstream. "We thank and bless Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, the Collector, and others for treating us like human beings, giving us the necessary documents which are easily available to all the other normal people," said Aarti. Aarti added how difficult it was for transgenders to survive, especially when they attained seniority with no social support systems or financial resources, but the aid under SGNY would bring some succour. With Palghar becoming the first district in the state to implement the SGNY scheme, it is expected that the remaining 35 districts may follow suit soon, giving a boost to the much-neglected issues concerning the transgenders and even the larger LGBTQ communities. However, there is no reliable data available on the number of transgenders in the state with figures ranging from 5,000 to 15,000. Officials say a proper district-wise survey could provide accurate statistics to extend the SGNY benefits to all. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-districts-new-year-gift-for-transgenders-rs-12000-annual-assistance-1064790.html
26-12-2021||West||Mild tremor in Maharashtra's Palghar; no casualty reported||A tremor of 3.9 magnitude was recorded in Maharashtra's Palghar district on Sunday morning, an official said. There was no report of any casualty or property damage so far, district disaster cell chief Vivekanand Kadam said. The tremor was felt at 5:35 am, he said. The district has experienced frequent tremors since November 2018, especially in the Dundalwadi village of Talasari taluka and also in parts of Dahanu taluka. The seismic activity in the district on Sunday was recorded after a couple of months. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mild-tremor-in-maharashtras-palghar-no-casualty-reported-1064795.html
26-12-2021||West||Woman held for killing five-month-old son in Thane||A day after the body of a five-month-old boy was found in a water-filled drum in Kalwa of Thane district, the police on Sunday arrested the infant's mother and charged her with murder and disappearance of evidence, an official said. The boy's relatives told police the boy was kidnapped on Friday afternoon from their Mahatma Phule Nagar home, after which Kalwa police formed several teams to crack the case. However, on Saturday morning, the infant's body was found in a water-filled plastic drum near his home. "We checked the CCTV footage of the area and questioned people, including the child's kin. We got a tip-off that the child used to fall ill frequently and it was his mother Shantabai Chavan who used to give him medicines. However, on Friday she accidentally gave him a high dose, which left the child dead," Assistant Commissioner of Police Venkat Andale told PTI. "She cooked up a story about the child being kidnapped on Friday afternoon and then put the body inside the water-filled drum on Saturday morning. She has confessed to the crime. Kalwa police is probing further," the ACP said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/woman-held-for-killing-five-month-old-son-in-thane-1064918.html
26-12-2021||West||Burglars trigger blast to break open ATM near Pune, flee with Rs 17 lakh cash||Burglars broke open an automated teller machine (ATM) of a bank using explosives before decamping with cash worth around Rs 17 lakh near Pune city early on Sunday, police said. "Some people triggered a blast in the ATM of a private bank with the help of gelatin sticks and stole around Rs 16 lakh to Rs 17 lakh cash near Alandi town located close to Pune city," said DCP Manchak Ippar of Pimpri Chinchwad police. On being alerted, a technical team, including the Bomb Detection and Disposal Squad (BDDS) reached the spot and launched a probe, he said. "We have found the CCTV footage, but we are not able to identify the thieves. We are investigating the matter," a police official added. This is the second incident that has occurred in Pune rural area so far this year, wherein money was stolen from an ATM after breaking it open with explosives. In July, thieves had stolen Rs 28 lakh from an ATM from Chakan MIDC area in a similar way.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/burglars-trigger-blast-to-break-open-atm-near-pune-flee-with-rs-17-lakh-cash-1064921.html
26-12-2021||West||Maharashtra's MVA delegation meets Governor Koshyari on Speaker election||A delegation of Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi called on Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari to seek his approval for the election of Speaker of Maharashtra Legislative Assembly. The Speaker post has been vacant for eight months.  The delegation consisted of Revenue Minister Balasaheb Thorat of the Congress, Food and Civil Supplies Minister Chhagan Bhujbal of the NCP and Urban Development Minister Eknath Shinde of the Shiv Sena.  The post of the Speaker has been vacant since February after Nana Patole resigned to take over as Maharashtra Congress President.  Deputy Speaker Narhari Zirwal of the NCP is holding the fort officiating the Constitutional post.  The name of former Maharashtra Chief Minister Prithviraj Chavan and three-term MLA from Bhor, Sangram Thopte is doing the rounds.  Because of the Covid-19 pandemic and now the outbreak of Omicron, the MVA had scheduled only a week-long session, which was opposed by BJP and sought an extension.  The Speaker’s election - by a voice vote - is expected to be held on Monday and Tuesday. Thorat, who is also the leader of Congress Legislature Party, said that the delegation handed over a letter by Thackeray to the Governor. According to him, the Governor had sought details of the amendment in legislative rules about holding the election through voice vote instead of the ballot.  “The Governor has informed that he will discuss and seek more information from legal experts and convey his decision by Monday," Thorat said  Shinde, who is a case aide of Thackeray, said the change in the procedure of holding the Speaker's election has been done as per rules and we are confident that the Governor will give his approval soon. Notably, last week, Chavan tabled the suggestions of the Legislative Rules Committee of Assembly to conduct the Speaker’s election by voice vote instead of secret ballot.  Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis lead the BJP protest against reducing the time frame allocated for objections and suggestions on the report of the Legislative Rules Committee from 10 days to one. Fadnavis said, “The Supreme Court in its order had urged 12 MLAs who have been suspended in this House to submit an application to the (Deputy) Speaker to reconsider their suspension. As per the apex court’s directions, the 12 MLAs have submitted such an application to you. The session is going to end on the 28th. You want to conduct the Speaker's election. I urge you with all humility that you should give your verdict on the application of these 12 MLAs before the Speaker's election." Both Shinde and Thorat said the Governor had not discussed the issue of suspending 12 BJP MLAs or the long-pending nomination of 12 members to the Legislative Council from the Governor's quota.  It has been for over a year that Koshyari had kept the nominations of MLCs pending. According to Article171(5) of the Constitution: “(5) The members to be nominated by the Governor under sub-clause (e) of clause (3) shall consist of persons having special knowledge or practical experience in respect of such matters as the following, namely: literature, science, art, co-operative movement and social service.”  While the Governor has to go by the recommendations of the Cabinet, there is no deadline by which the Governor has to clear the nominations. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtras-mva-delegation-meets-governor-koshyari-on-speaker-election-1064965.html
26-12-2021||West||On first assignment, woman constable drives Maharashtra's deputy CM, two ministers||Fresh out of the VIP Security Driving Course, woman constable Trupti Malik drove Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar and his two cabinet colleagues on her first assignment on Sunday, winning accolades on social media. Malik drove Pawar, the state Higher and Technical Education Minister Uday Samant and Minister of State for Home and Information Technology Satej Patil to the Sindhudurg district of the coastal Konkan region.  Pawar and his two colleagues were all praise for Malik, who is attached to the Motor Transport Department of Sindhudurg police.  As a constable, she has been working for the past 10 years. However, she is fond of driving and successfully completed the VIP Security Driving Course.    नारी शक्ती! Malik hails from Ambap Padali village in Kolhapur district. Patil tweeted a photo of all of them being driven by Mulik even as a video shot of the SUV speeding went viral on social media platforms.  Malik, donning a camo-pattern mask and maroon shirt, could be seen all smiles as a photo of her with Pawar went viral. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/on-first-assignment-woman-constable-drives-maharashtras-deputy-cm-two-ministers-1064969.html
26-12-2021||West||Maharashtra sees sharp spike in Covid-19 cases, reports 31 Omicron cases||As Covid-19 cases and the new Omicron variant continued to move northwards in Maharashtra on Sunday, the government and doctors have appealed to the public not to panic, mandatorily use masks and get vaccinated at the earliest.  On Sunday, 1,648 new cases and 17 deaths were reported, taking the respective tallies to 6,657,888 and 141,433, respectively.  In the last 24 hours, 31 new cases of the Omicron variant were also reported, taking the total to 141.  So far, Mumbai has reported 73 cases, including those who were screened at the Chhatrapati Shivaji International Airport, followed by Pimpri-Chinchwad (19), Pune Rural (16), Pune City (7), Satara and Osmanabad (5 each), Thane City (3), Kalyan-Dombivli, Nagpur and Aurangabad (2 each) and one each in Buldhana, Latur, Ahmednagar, Akola, Vasai-Virar, Navi Mumbai and Mira Bhayander. Meanwhile, state Public Health Minister Rajesh Tope has said that the government would think of a lockdown in case the demand for medical oxygen touches 800 metric tonnes per day. “There will be a statewide lockdown only if the demand for medical oxygen rises to 800 metric tonnes per day," Tope said. The state’s Covid-19 Task Force member, Dr Shashank Joshi, said: “The next wave in India is dependent on how the Omicron penetrates Delta…hopefully less severe and mutated. Don’t fall prey to speculations and rumours and panic. Pandemic is likely to have clusters in unvaccinated or immunocompromised hosts. Mask, vaccinate and behave responsibly.” What has emerged as concern is that the Covid-19 cases in Mumbai and the larger Mumbai metropolitan region once again have crossed the 1,000-mark, reporting 1,180 cases on Sunday. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-sees-sharp-spike-in-covid-19-cases-reports-31-omicron-cases-1064971.html
