27-12-2021||Comment||Hubballi-Ankola line: The railroad to disaster||At a time when the world is facing frequent, ghastly episodes of cyclones, hurricanes and deep depressions leading to violent storms that claim several lives, and while India has pledged to achieve net-zero emission by 2070 at the global climate conference CoP26, the Karnataka government has approved a 168.23-km railway line between Hubballi and Ankola that diverts virgin forest land of 595 hectares. Global warming and consequent climatic changes have been held responsible for natural disasters, death and destruction. While the overexploitation of forests and other landscapes are believed to be the main causes for the collapse of ecological systems, India, unfortunately, does not seem to have learnt any lessons from the recent catastrophes. The proposed construction of the Hubballi-Ankola railroad looks like a project of fulfilment and commitment rather than a necessity for serving a large cause that benefits a vast number of people in the region. The railway line runs through the dense forests of the Western Ghats, one of the world’s biodiversity hotspots of the UN, where three elephant corridors, a tiger reserve and a wildlife sanctuary are located. The project includes 34 tunnels and nine stations that disconnect and fragment a large number of habitats of elephants and tigers. Indeed, it is an environmentally disastrous project that will be a major setback to the people of North Karnataka in particular and the Western Ghats region in general. More than 3,00,000 trees of the primary forest are going to be felled to clear the way for the proposed rail line. The forests down below the famous Magodu falls are a treasure trove of valuable, terrestrial resources that span the vast swathes of the Western Ghats, which were formed millions of years ago and believed to be much older than the Himalayan forests. Such enormously rich forests have given millions of people precious wealth like water, air, medicinal plants, soil nutrients and a number of other products like honey, fruits and wood material on a sustainable basis. Further, the most important feature of the Western Ghats are the rivers that irrigate millions of acres of agricultural land and also produce hydropower for hundreds of industries that employ thousands of people. The electricity hence produced lights up a large number of homes in the Ghat region of South India. Besides the benefits and advantages to entire southern India, the forests also help the Indian subcontinent in terms of carbon sequestration and mitigating the rise in temperature as the country’s economic activities rise. Constant threat At a time when the world is under the constant threat of rising temperature and, thereby, climate change, the government needs to think about what nature has gifted us, which could be retained so that it won’t compound the worsening situation. As a matter of fact, the government may look at the Western Ghats as a predominant environmental specimen that has been catering to the basic needs of millions of people and can also mitigate the climate crisis. Unfortunately, these forests, over the past few decades, are fast-declining due to the encroaching projects that satiate the economic avarice of the state and the private sector. Instead, the government should think of the Ghat region of North Karnataka as a range that fulfils the needs of communities in terms of agriculture, water, soil, biodiversity and grasslands. These salient features of the region have credited the land between Ranebennuru and Belagavi with a very special tag, namely the ecotone belt, which means this stretch of the region is compressed with four ecosystems (forests of the Western Ghats, the scrub jungle, the pond ecosystem and the grasslands within 45 km of breadth and the running length of 200 km between these two towns). If North Karnataka is distinct in its taste, flavour and nutrients of food and fruits and vegetables, it is because of this ecotone belt, which is uniquely situated and nowhere else to be found in the country. If the government is serious enough with regards to the sustainable development of the state, there is a need to take into account both direct and indirect values of these forests in terms of protecting agriculture, horticulture and animal husbandry. Because the loss of these enormous trees will affect the region by disturbing the monsoon and the pattern of flow of water in the rivers. There are four more rivers towards the north of this proposed rail line, namely the Kali, the Malaprabha, the Ghataprabha and Mahadayi. These rivers are the lifeline of the entire North Karnataka region where millions of acres of land are irrigated. The rich forests are the source of abundant rains which fill the tanks, lakes and rivers of Uttara Kannada and Belagavi districts. If thousands of people are living in the vicinity of the forests, it is because of the strong and genuine reason that the land, shrubs, grass, soils and nutrients support their livelihood. They won’t migrate so long as they have these earthly offerings provided by the Western Ghats. This region, where the government has proposed to lay the rail lines, has good roads by which people travel between Hubballi, Ankola and Karwar. As a matter of fact, there is not much trade that happens between these places, except iron ore, which is perhaps one of the reasons for this railroad, and even that is carried by an existing line that goes through Londa and reaches Karwar. Therefore, there is a strong cause to avoid the proposed destruction of the biodiversity-rich forest, which will spell doom for North Karnataka if the lines are laid by clearing the forests. (Heblikar is actor-director and environmentalist: Raj is a professor at ISEC) Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/hubballi-ankola-line-the-railroad-to-disaster-1065008.html
27-12-2021||First Edit||Jammu and Kashmir delimitation: Unfair rejig of seats||The delimitation of assembly constituencies in Jammu & Kashmir, undertaken by a commission set up by the government in March 2020, seems to have been a political exercise rather than a fair plan to redraw the boundaries of seats based on population changes. The proposals are of a draft nature but have been disclosed in public, though not officially notified yet. They have attracted widespread criticism from all political parties in the Kashmir Valley who view the exercise as an attempt to reduce the electoral and political importance of the Valley in relation to the Jammu region. The Commission has suggested the addition of six assembly segments to the Jammu region’s 37 and one to the Valley’s 46. It has also proposed the first-time reservation of nine seats for Scheduled Tribes (ST) and seven seats for Scheduled Castes (SC). In effect, it has redrawn the Union Territory’s political map. Delimitation is an exercise undertaken in democracies to ensure continued fair and equal representation to all constituents in legislative bodies. The important criterion for this is population but in J&K the commission has taken into consideration the constituencies’ geographical features, communication facilities and contiguity, public convenience etc as factors. With the new proposals, the commission has relatively increased the political representation of the Hindu-dominated Jammu region and reduced the representation of the Muslim-majority Valley. Based on the 2011 census, there is a population of 1,46,563 in Kashmir per constituency, and 1,24,437 in the Jammu region. Other factors cannot make such a big difference because they had always been taken into consideration in past delimitation exercises and should be equally valid in both parts of the state now. The disproportionate increase in the number of seats in the Jammu region would give an advantage to parties that have sway there, and at present that happens to be the BJP. The basis for this is the communal polarisation in the UT on regional lines. The plan to increase the number of Assembly seats is contained in the J&K Reorganisation Act, 2019. But there is obvious manipulation in the way it has been done. Some governments undertake such exercises to give a veneer of legitimacy to their plans to politically dominate territories or populations, especially of minorities, which are not seen to support them. The rationale of delimitation in J&K itself is not clear as the delimitation exercise for the entire country has been postponed. The proposals will be considered in the Valley as part of the series of unpopular and repressive measures taken by the government after the reorganisation of the erstwhile state. They will increase the sense of alienation among the people and further weaken the pro-India sentiment and forces in the Valley.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/jammu-and-kashmir-delimitation-unfair-rejig-of-seats-1065005.html
27-12-2021||In Perspective||Shiv Sena, the ‘new Lalu’ for Congress||Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee’s newfound aggression in grabbing the prime space in the opposition has let the Congress know who its real friends are and who could remain with it through thick and thin. And lo and behold, Shiv Sena, which was BJP’s closest ally till a few years ago, has emerged as the new bosom pal of the Congress, much to the astonishment of many a political pundit. The adage ‘politics makes strange bedfellows’ is well known but seldom does politics take a 360-degree turn as this. At a time when Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Sonia Gandhi are seeking greater unity in the opposition space, the Sena has become the darling of the Grand Old Party. Though the Sena is not so far part of the United Progressive Alliance (UPA), the Congress-led alliance at the national level, it has achieved the status that Lalu Prasad of the RJD had managed during the UPA-I tenure of 2004-2009. Then, Lalu was virtually the convenor of the UPA. At that time, Lalu Prasad was the first leader to pitch for Sonia as prime minister. It was a time when Congress leaders themselves were muted about their leader and many of them believed that the Congress had no chance in the 2004 elections when the BJP was led by a veteran like A B Vajpayee. Sena leader and Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray may be ailing with a spine problem but he has shown the spine to publicly stand by his party’s newfound ally with which it had crossed swords umpteen number of times since its inception over half a century ago. And it must be understood that taking a bold stand against Mamata’s new tactics was a painful decision for Uddhav, who, if one goes by talk in political circles, is a huge fan and admirer of the West Bengal Chief Minister. Uddhav is more than a silent admirer of Mamata since the street fighter in her drove out the CPM-led Left Front from power in the state. In 2010, soon after his son Aaditya’s political debut as the chief of the Yuva Sena — the youth wing of the Shiv Sena — Uddhav had sent him to New Delhi to meet the then Railway Minister Mamata Banerjee in the Manmohan Singh government. Aditya had sought reservation of a few railway coaches on the suburban train services for students and senior citizens at all times. That Mamata paid no heed to the request is another matter. Unambiguous statement Sena leader Sanjay Raut’s unequivocal declaration that there cannot be an opposition alliance possible without Congress at the helm was more than music to the ears of the Gandhis and a setback to Mamata’s newfound political consultant Prashant Kishor. The unambiguous statement of Sena signals the fact that the Uddhav-led party sees its future with the Congress and has virtually burnt its bridges with the BJP. Sena’s statement also means Thackeray sees a better future for Aaditya with Rahul at the helm. The Sena mouthpiece Saamna which declares itself as the “world’s most discussed newspaper” had on umpteen occasions in recent years hailed Rahul Gandhi for the way he takes on the Narendra Modi dispensation.  NCP supremo Sharad Pawar, who is the architect of the Maha Vikas Aghadi experiment in Maharashtra, must have been taken aback by the way Sena and Congress are gelling. Some Sena observers, however, say that Uddhav has hardly any option but to keep Congress in good humour when the elections to the Brihan Mumbai Municipal Corporation are scheduled in the next few months. Retaining hold over the corporation is virtually a life-and-death question for the party espousing the cause of the ‘Marathi Manus’.  It is equally true that the aggressive methods of the BJP under Modi-Shah have been slowly but surely turning friends into opponents. Facing intense humiliation, some like Sena come out after biding their time till an opportunity arises. Sena is not the first. They were followed by the Telugu Desam Party and the Shiromani Akali Dal. Reasons might be different.  BJP’s march into Telangana is making the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samiti nervous and the just-concluded session of Parliament shows that it is behaving like an opposition party on certain issues. Uddhav’s leadership may not be flamboyant like his legendary father Bal Thackeray’s. He shows outward calm but strikes when the iron is hot. It is unclear when the Sena will join the UPA but reports suggest that it could be sooner than later. The Sena is said to be arguing that it is time to expand the ‘weak’ UPA by inviting parties like TRS, YSRCP, BJD and even Trinamool Congress.  All in all, interesting times are ahead politically as Modi-Shah have been hit hard by the farmers’ agitation and in fact, are in retreat.  (The writer is a senior journalist) Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/shiv-sena-the-new-lalu-for-congress-1065006.html
27-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Polling peaceful in 58 ULBs, 381 gram ganchayats across Karnataka||Polling held on Monday across 58 urban local bodies (ULBs) and 381 gram panchayats was largely peaceful. The elections, including bypolls, were held for 1,185 wards in 34 town panchayats, 19 town municipalities and five city municipalities. The elections were also held for 1,264 seats in the 381 gram panchayats. Among the urban local bodies, the elections for as many as seven ULBs including Chikkamagaluru, Gadag-Betageri, Hosapete and Sira city municipal councils, along with Athani, Annigeri and Bankapur town municipalities, are being conducted now even though their term ended in 2019. This was as a result of pending court cases in connection with delimitation. The counting of votes will be held on December 30. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/polling-peaceful-in-58-ulbs-381-gram-ganchayats-across-karnataka-1065358.html
27-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Chikkaballapura hospital provides free treatment to 55 kids with heart defects||A total of 55 children with congenital heart defects have been treated at the Sri Sathya Sai Sarla Memorial hospital in Chikkaballapura district, free of cost. The 150-bed multidisciplinary hospital, along with Sri Sathya Sai Sanjeevani Centres for Child Heart Cares operated on 23 children in November and 32 in December. The children who underwent the surgeries belonged to underprivileged families from Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Orissa, Chattisgarh and Jharkhand. A child also travelled from Bangladesh to get the surgery, according to the hospital. "While some cases were simple, some had complex conditions that required high quality paediatric and neonatal intensive care and allied health support services like physiotherapy, nutrition, radiology, and lab services”, the press release said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/chikkaballapura-hospital-provides-free-treatment-to-55-kids-with-heart-defects-1065369.html
27-12-2021||Karnataka Politics||Big changes in Karnataka? Bommai dismisses speculations as 'media creation'||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Monday said speculation that there will be some major political changes is “a media creation”.  “You create these things and ask questions,” Bommai told reporters who asked him if political changes will come up for discussion during the BJP core committee and executive committee meetings on December 28 and 29 in Hubballi.  “There is good coordination between the party and the government. In the coming days, we will give good programmes to citizens. We will go into 2023 and face the Assembly elections based on our work,” Bommai said. Over the past week, BJP leaders have clarified that Bommai will continue as the chief minister. There is also speculation that a major Cabinet reshuffle is on the cards.  BJP national president J P Nadda is scheduled to attend the Hubballi meetings.  “We don’t have to reveal the politics that will get discussed. These are internal party matters,” Bommai said when asked if he will discuss reshuffling his Cabinet with Nadda.  Bommai also defended the decision to impose a night curfew from December 28 in the face of criticism that it will hurt businesses. “We’ve done it keeping health concerns in mind. And yes, we want business activities to continue at a time when the economy is picking up,” he said.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/big-changes-in-karnataka-bommai-dismisses-speculations-as-media-creation-1065166.html
27-12-2021||Karnataka Politics||J P Nadda not to attend BJP executive committee meet in Hubballi due to Covid restrictions||BJP national president J P Nadda will not be attending the two-day state-level executive committee meeting to be held in Hubballi from Tuesday. Informing this to media persons here on Monday, BJP Karnataka in-charge Arun Singh said owing to Covid-19 restriction imposed by the state government over increase in the number cases, Nadda has decided against attending the meet, as his arrival would have resulted in gathering of large number of followers and violated the norms. "BJP is a party of a discipline and we don't wish to break rules imposed by the state government" he said. Arun Singh informed that except for the Nadda's event, all the other sessions at the executive committee meeting will go ahead as scheduled. Only 300 party workers from across the state will be allowed to attend the meeting, he said. He said the meeting will discuss about the path travelled so far and way ahead for the party. Arun Singh also categorically denied the rumours about the change of Chief Minister in the state. "Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai is doing a wonderful job and party will go to next Assembly polls under his leadership," he said and praised Bommai as one of the most honest and humble men against whom there are no charges of corruption. MLC polls defeat Arun Singh said a committee will be formed to reach the truth regarding the reason for party's defeat in MLC polls in Belagavi. "We should have won that seat. But... We will look into the reasons as to why we didn't," he said. The two-day meeting will also discuss the reason for recent poll results and take corrective action, he said, and denied charges that CM is not getting support from party leaders. 40% commission Arun Singh also denied the charges of government receiving 40% commission from contractors. "I haven't seen the letter, but what I can say is that Bommai government is honest and if lower level officials are indulging in corruption then government will take strict action. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/j-p-nadda-not-to-attend-bjp-executive-committee-meet-in-hubballi-due-to-covid-restrictions-1065302.html
27-12-2021||National||Speak Out: December 27, 2021||The TMC and AAP are "fracturing" the non-BJP vote in Goa, senior Congress leader P Chidambaram said on Sunday and asserted that only his party has the capacity to defeat the BJP. Chidambaram, who is the Congress' senior election observer for the Goa Assembly polls, also said that loyalty to the party and the electorate is the first criterion for selecting candidates for the elections and expressed confidence that when elected, they will remain loyal to both the party as well as the electorate. On the possibility of alliances, Chidambaram said, "I have found that, in Goa, it is a practice among political parties to talk to each other right up to the elections — and even after the elections!"||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/speak-out-december-27-2021-1065082.html
27-12-2021||National||DH Toon | Remember to always wear 'mask' at 'hate speech' assembly!||Hundreds of right-wing Hindu activists and monks rose in unison at a conference this week to take an oath: They would turn India, constitutionally a secular republic, into a Hindu nation, even if doing so required dying and killing. “If 100 of us are ready to kill 2 million of them, then we will win and make India a Hindu nation,” said Pooja Shakun Pandey, a leader of Hindu Mahasabha, a group that espouses militant Hindu nationalism, referring to the country’s Muslims. “Be ready to kill and go to jail.” Even by the standards of the rising anti-Muslim fury in India, the three-day conference in the city of Haridwar produced the most blatant and alarming call for violence in recent years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-remember-to-always-wear-mask-at-hate-speech-assembly-1065083.html
27-12-2021||National||Miscreants ask Hindus to not celebrate Christmas in Assam's Silchar||Miscreants with alleged links to a right-wing organisation disrupted a Christmas programme in Silchar town of Assam's Cachar district, demanding that Hindus should shun the celebrations. Seven people allegedly involved in the incident have been detained so far, a senior police official said. Cachar Superintendent of Police Ramandeep Kaur told PTI that the incident occurred during the celebration of Christmas in a field in the town on Saturday. Some boys went to the venue and asked the Hindus present there to not participate in the celebration. “They did not object to the Christians celebrating the occasion,’ she said. Kaur further said police have not received a complaint against the incident, though seven youngsters have been detained in this connection. “We are looking into the incident. We don't have any inputs on the involvement of any group so far,” the SP added. Locals, however, claimed that the miscreants were associated with the Bajrang Dal. According to eyewitness reports, the boys chanted ‘Jai Shri Ram' and allegedly started manhandling people present at the venue. The incident happened at around 9 pm when the venue was crowded with people. Many people were busy taking selfies and photographs when the trouble started. When the revellers questioned the youngsters on why they were objecting to the celebration, the boys reportedly told them that as Hindus they should be celebrating ‘Tulsi Diwas' that coincided with Christmas. A video uploaded on social media sites showed five to seven youth wearing saffron scarves and claiming to be from the Bajrang Dal asking the Hindus to stay away from the celebration. The boys further said that they were not imposing any restriction on the Christians to celebrate the day, but wanted the Hindus to refrain from it. Meanwhile, condemning the incident, Congress Lok Sabha MP Abdul Khaleque said it was a “failure” on the part of the state government. Khaleque said, “The chief minister is encouraging hatred campaign through his speeches at times.” The Congress leader, however, did not elaborate on his allegation against the chief minister. AIUDF legislator Ashraful Hussain said people should have the freedom to celebrate without any fear. “We have seen that minority communities are often targeted during their celebrations. I think the police should remain alert to thwart such incidents,” he said. Hussain also urged the police authorities to expedite investigations and book the culprits. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/miscreants-ask-hindus-to-not-celebrate-christmas-in-assams-silchar-1065092.html
27-12-2021||National||India sees 6,531 new coronavirus cases, 315 fatalities; Omicron cases tally at 578||India saw the highest single-day rise of Omicron infections with 156 fresh cases, taking the total tally of such cases to 578, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The ministry said 151 out of the 578 people who contracted the infection have recovered or migrated. The 578 cases have been detected across 19 states and UTs with Delhi recording the maximum number of 142 cases followed by Maharashtra at 141, Kerala  57, Gujarat 49, Rajasthan 43 and Telangana 41. With 6,531 people testing positive for coronavirus infections in a day India's total tally of Covid-19 cases rose to 3,47,93,333, while the active cases declined to 75,841, according to the data updated at 8 am.  The death toll has climbed to 4,79,997 with 315 fresh fatalities, the data stated. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been recorded below 15,000 for the last 60 days now. The active cases have declined to 75,841 comprising 0.22  per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.40 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. A decrease of 925 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of  24 hours. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.  India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-sees-6531-new-coronavirus-cases-315-fatalities-omicron-cases-tally-at-578-1065103.html
27-12-2021||National||FIR against Hindu religious leader for derogatory remarks against Mahatma Gandhi||Chhattisgarh Police have registered an FIR against Hindu religious leader Kalicharan Maharaj on the charge of promoting enmity between classes after he used derogatory words against Mahatma Gandhi and hailed his assassin, Nathuram Godse, an official said on Monday. During the conclusion of the two-day 'Dharma Sansad' at Ravan Bhata ground in Raipur on Sunday evening, Kalicharan had used an "abusive" word against the Father of the Nation and asked people to elect a staunch Hindu leader as the head of the government in order to protect the religion. His statement drew flak from leaders of the ruling Congress in the state. “Based on the complaint of Congress leader Pramod Dubey, a case was registered against Kalicharan on Sunday night at Tikrapara police station under Indian Penal Code sections 505 (2) (statements creating or promoting enmity, hatred or ill-will between classes) and 294 (obscene acts),” a police official said. Further investigation into the case is underway, he added. During the event here, Kalicharan had said, "The target of Islam is to capture nation through politics. In front of our eyes, they had captured in 1947 (referring to partition)...They had earlier captured Iran, Iraq and Afghanistan. They captured Bangladesh and Pakistan through politics...I salute Nathuram Godse that he killed Gandhi." The state Congress' communication wing head, Sushil Anand Shukla, had condemned the religious leader's remarks. "The use of abusive words against Mahatma Gandhi is highly objectionable. Kalicharan should first prove that he is a saint," he said.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fir-against-hindu-religious-leader-for-derogatory-remarks-against-mahatma-gandhi-1065107.html
27-12-2021||National||Hate speech row: Lawyers write to CJI over Haridwar 'genocide call'||A group of lawyers, including senior advocates, on Monday asked the Chief Justice of India N V Ramana to take suo motu cognisance against those who made "hate speeches" and called for "genocide of Muslims in order to achieve ethnic cleansing."  They said that urgent judicial intervention is required to prevent such events that seem to have become the order of the day. Former Union Minister Salman Khurshid, Dushyant Dave, Prashant Bhushan, former judge of Patna High Court Anjana Prakash, senior advocate Basava P Patil and others asked the CJI to direct action against those who made hate speeches in two separate events organised by Hindu Yuva Vahini in Delhi and Haridwar on December 17 and 19, respectively. "The said speeches pose a grave threat not just to the unity and integrity of our country but also endanger the lives of millions of Muslim citizens," they said.  In their letter, they said the recent speeches are a part of a series of similar speeches that we have come across in the past.  "It may be noted that no effective steps have been taken under the provisions of Sections 153, 153A, 153B, 295A, 504, 506, 120B, 34 of IPC in respect of the earlier hate speeches," the letter said. Advocate Ejaz Maqbool said the letter was sent to the CJI, hoping for prompt action in his capacity as the head of the judicial wing of the State and knowing his commitment to both the independence of judiciary as also the constitutional values that are fundamental to the functioning of a multicultural nation. An FIR has already been lodged against Jitendra Narayan Tyagi, previously known as Waseem Rizvi and others who allegedly made hate speech in 'Dharm Sansad' organised at Haridwar. However, no arrest has been made so far.   Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hate-speech-row-lawyers-write-to-cji-over-haridwar-genocide-call-1065119.html
27-12-2021||National||After backlash over 'convert Muslims from Pakistan' remark, Tejasvi Surya 'unconditionally' withdraws statement||Bangalore South BJP MP Tejasvi Surya on Monday withdrew statements that he said created “an avoidable controversy”. "At a program held in Udupi Sri Krishna Mutt two days ago, I spoke on the subject of ‘Hindu Revival in Bharat’. Certain statements from my speech has regrettably created an avoidable controversy. I therefore unconditionally withdraw the statements," Surya said in a tweet. At a program held in Udupi Sri Krishna Mutt two days ago, I spoke on the subject of ‘Hindu Revival in Bharat’. Certain statements from my speech has regrettably created an avoidable controversy. I therefore unconditionally withdraw the statements. The BJP Yuva Morcha president, however, did not specify which statement he is withdrawing from his hour-long speech. One portion of his speech that went viral has him calling upon Hindus to bring ‘converted’ Muslims and Christians back into the Hindu fold. Surya urged Hindus to dream of the impossible to reconvert those who left Hinduism and embraced other religions. "It's not just re-converting those Muslims or Christians near our homes. It should be our priority to convert those Muslims in today's Pakistan to Hinduism," Surya said, adding that when this happens "we will have Pakistan back in the geography". He also urged temples and mutts to set targets and reconvert people. Surya's comments came against the backdrop of the Karnataka Assembly passing the controversial anti-conversion Bill in the recently-concluded winter session of legislature. The Bill is not yet a law as it is pending passage in the Legislative Council. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/after-backlash-over-convert-muslims-from-pakistan-remark-tejasvi-surya-unconditionally-withdraws-statement-1065121.html
27-12-2021||National||Rain in plains, light snow in higher reaches of J&K, Ladakh||Rain lashed the plains while light snowfall occurred in the higher reaches of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh on Monday as the weather office said there were little chances of any major precipitation till the year-end. The officials of the Meteorological Department (MeT) said rain occurred in the plains while snow occurred in the higher reaches during the last 24 hours. "Light snowfall occurred in Kupwara, Bandipora and Baramulla districts. Six inches of snow accumulated on the ground in Gulmarg ski resort. "Weather is likely to remain generally dry in Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh till December 31", the MeT official said. Srinagar had 2.2, Pahalgam minus 4.1 and Gulmarg minus 6.0 degree Celsius as the minimum temperature. Drass town had minus 12.2, Leh minus 8.4 and Kargil minus 7.3 as the night's lowest temperature. Jammu city had 9.6, Katra 7.4, Batote 6.0, Banihal 2.2 and Bhaderwah 1.6 as the minimum temperature. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rain-in-plains-light-snow-in-higher-reaches-of-jk-ladakh-1065128.html
27-12-2021||National||Girl and boy from Thane become IAF fighter pilots||It was a matter of pride for the serene and picturesque Eden Woods Complex in Thane city adjoining Mumbai.  Two of its kids - Roshni Iyer and PS Gautam - who are in their early twenties and had grown up in this building complex have become fighter pilots of the Indian Air Force (IAF).  Roshni and Gautam had graduated formally as fighter pilots after rigorous training at Indian Air Force Academy at Dundigal near Hyderabad in Telangana on December 18, 2021. Flying Officer Roshni and Flying Officer Gautam will undergo further training at  Air Force Station, Bidar in Karnataka from January 2, 2022. In fact, Roshni is the first woman fighter pilot from Thane and the second woman fighter pilot from Maharashtra after Nagpur’s Antra Mehta who graduated in June 2020. She is the 13th lady fighter pilot of the IAF.  On Sunday, there was a small get together in the building complex - albeit with all Covid-19 protocols - where the duo was felicitated.  “We are proud of our young Edenwoodians -- Roshni and Gautam -- and wish them a bright and daring flying career in IAF,” said T N Raghunatha, the Honorary Secretary of Federation of Eden Woods Cooperative Housing Societies Ltd.  “It’s a big day for us…they are big achievers. For the Eden Woods CHS Ltd and Eden Woods Cultural Association, it is a matter of pride and honour,” Raghunatha told DH on Monday.  “It does not happen every day that one housing complex like ours contributes two fighter pilots to IAF on a single day. On behalf of the residents of the complex, we felicitated both newly graduated young flag Officers and their parents,” he said. Roshni is the daughter of Usha and Ravi Iyer from Flat No 15 C Willow House. Gautam is the son of Menakshi and P R Sivkumar from flat no 16 B Regency Tower-B. Roshni did her schooling at Lok Puram school, Thane. She later studied at DAV school at Airoli in Navi Mumbai. She subsequently did her Engineering in Aerospace from the SRM University at Kattankulathur near Chennai in Tamil Nadu.  Roshni joined the Indian Air force through the Air Force Common Admission Test (AFCAT) conducted by the Indian Air Force in August 2019. Besides being good in studies right from school days, Roshni is an excellent athlete. She represented her school, college and her University in running and hurdles. She had been a national level athlete before joining the academy and has represented Maharashtra and her university at national level competitions. She is one of the 50 officers selected for the Fighter stream of flying from the 208th pilot course of the Indian Air Force.  “All I can say is that handwork and dedication is everything,” said Flying Officer Roshni.   Gautam did his schooling from Kendriya Vidyalaya, Thane and Smt Sulochanadevi Singhania School, Thane. He did his Mechanical Engineering from College of Engineering (COEP), Pune. Gautam joined the IAF through Combined Defence Service (CDS) exam held in September 2019, for Flying Branch. Gautam had represented Kendriya Vidhyalaya at the regional level in skating. He has been a keen enthusiast of motorsports and I've actively participated in the Formula Bharat Event held in Kari Motor Speedway and SUPRA event held in Buddh International Circuit as a racing driver for Team Octane Racing and won events namely Autocross, Endurance and Skidpad. His hobbies include swimming, playing football and badminton. "I was motivated to join the Indian Air Force by the Sukhoi Su-30s flying overhead during college days and the active lifestyle it provides,” said Flying Officer Gautam.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/girl-and-boy-from-thane-become-iaf-fighter-pilots-1065131.html
27-12-2021||National||Ahead of Punjab polls, Amarinder Singh meets Amit Shah, Nadda in Delhi||Former Punjab chief minister and leader of the newly floated Punjab Lok Congress Amarinder Singh on Monday met with Union Home Minister Amit Shah and BJP national president J P Nadda in New Delhi. The BJP has announced that it will contest the Punjab Assembly polls in alliance with Singh's party. The meeting is underway at Shah's residence where all three are present.   Singh has been meeting various BJP leaders to chalk out a strategy for the Punjab elections. Both parties are expected to take various offshoots of the Akali Dal on board and forge a bigger alliance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ahead-of-punjab-polls-amarinder-singh-meets-amit-shah-nadda-in-delhi-1065135.html
27-12-2021||National||Cannot imprison my thoughts: Rahul Gandhi quotes Mahatma||Slamming the remarks made against Mahatma Gandhi at a function in Raipur, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday quoted the Father of the Nation that his thoughts cannot be imprisoned. The Wayanad Lok Sabha member's remarks came after a section of Hindu religious leaders sang paeans to Nathuram Godse, the assassin of Mahatma Gandhi, at a religious congregation in Raipur on Sunday. "You can chain me, torture me, you can destroy this body, but you cannot imprison my thoughts," the former Congress President said quoting the Mahatma. During the conclusion of the two-day 'dharma sansad' at Ravan Bhata ground in Raipur, Hindu religious leader Kalicharan Maharaj had used an "abusive" word against the Father of the Nation and asked people to elect a staunch Hindu leader as the head of the government in order to protect the religion. Earlier, Yati Narsinghananda Giri had praised Godse as the symbol of truth and religion. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cannot-imprison-my-thoughts-rahul-gandhi-quotes-mahatma-1065138.html
27-12-2021||National||Minority communities' representatives flag dichotomy between age of marriage bill and personal laws: Report||Representatives of minority communities have raised concerns over the union government's Prohibition of Child Marriage (Amendment) Bill, 2021, which increases the legal age of marriage for women to 21, questioning how it will affect personal laws in the country. While most minority communities are not opposed to raising the legal age of marriage, they said that that personal laws are protected under the Constitution. The draft Bill states that the law will supersede the existing marriage and personal laws. “We believe that the rule of law of the land must supersede Canon law. Within the Catholic as well as other communities, girls are getting married later. But this is primarily in urban areas. The concern is the rural areas, especially marginalised communities such as Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes,” Father Savari Muthu, spokesperson of Delhi Archdiocese, said. “The fear is that they will continue to get married younger and hide it. It is also possible that the new law may be misused to harass these communities, and young people. These are concerns that the government must look into before the Bill becomes law," he told the publication. Meanwhile, the AIMPLB has called the law "completely irrational". “This is not just about personal laws, but also looking at what actually benefits women. The biggest requirement in India is the safety and security of women, and when a girl has to be kept at home, her safety becomes the responsibility of the parents, which is why she is often married off," Niaz Ahmad Farooqui, a member of the AIMPLB said. Farooqui also said that the issue is "not about age of marriage, but poverty," adding that they are not advocating that girls get married younger, and questioned the reasoning behind the law. Mohsin Taqvi, Imam Jama Masjid (Kashmiri Gate), told the publication that the government should carry out extensive consultations with community leaders before passing the law, adding that very rarely do girls get married before they turn 21-22 years and in that sense there is no problem with the increasing the legal marriage age for women. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/minority-communities-representatives-flag-dichotomy-between-age-of-marriage-bill-and-personal-laws-report-1065146.html
27-12-2021||National||Kerala best state on health parameters, UP worst||Kerala has again emerged as the top performer in terms of overall health performance among larger states, while Uttar Pradesh is the worst, according to the fourth Health Index launched by Niti Aayog. The fourth round of the Health Index took into account the period 2019-20 (reference year). The report by the government think tank said Tamil Nadu and Telangana have emerged as the second and third best performers, respectively, on health parameters. Bihar and Madhya Pradesh were the second and third worst performers, respectively, on health parameters. The report, however, added that Uttar Pradesh topped in terms of incremental performance by registering the highest incremental change from the base year (2018-19) to reference year (2019-20). Among the smaller states, Mizoram emerged as the best performer in overall performance as well as incremental performance, while among UTs, Delhi and Jammu & Kashmir ranked among the bottom ones in terms of overall performance but emerged as the leading performer in terms of incremental performance. The report pointed out that for the fourth consecutive round Kerala emerged as the best performer in terms of overall performance. According to the report, Kerala and Tamil Nadu were top two performers in terms of overall performance with the highest reference year (2019-20) index scores but ranked twelfth and eighth respectively in terms of incremental performance. Telangana performed well both in terms overall performance as well as incremental performance and secured the third position in both instances. It pointed out that Rajasthan was the weakest performer both in terms of overall performance and incremental performance. In the case of smaller states, Mizoram and Tripura registered strong overall performance, and at the same time showed improvements in incremental performance, the report added. As per the report, the health index is a weighted composite score incorporating 24 indicators covering key aspects of health performance. It said health index comprises select indicators in three domains --health outcomes, governance and information, and key inputs and processes. The report has been prepared in collaboration with the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare with technical assistance from the World Bank. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kerala-best-state-on-health-parameters-up-worst-1065153.html
27-12-2021||National||Here's how to register for the Covid booster dose on Co-WIN||Co-WIN application chief RS Sharma on Monday said that the process to register on the Co-WIN platform for the precaution dose of Covid would be the same as for the other doses of the vaccine.  "The process will be exactly the same. If you are above 60 years of age and have taken both doses and the gap between the second dose and the day you are registering is more than 9 months (39 weeks) then you are eligible", says Dr RS Sharma. He also informed that beneficiaries with comorbidities would have to show the comorbidities certificate from the registered doctor when they apply for the precaution dose. "When you will register, it will ask whether you have any comorbidities or not. If you say yes, you will be able to book and have to show the comorbidities certificate from a registered doctor at the vaccination centre and then you can get jabs," he added. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in a televised address to the nation on Saturday night, announced that vaccination against Covid-19 for children between 15-18 years will start from January 3, while "precaution dose" for healthcare and frontline workers would be administered from January 10. Modi said the precaution dose will also be available for citizens above 60 years of age and with comorbidities on the advice of their doctor from January 10 next year as well. The precaution dose denotes a third dose of the vaccine for the fully vaccinated but Modi refrained from using the term "booster dose", as it is generally referred to. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/heres-how-to-register-for-the-covid-booster-dose-on-co-win-1065156.html
27-12-2021||National||Co-WIN to allow 15-18-year-olds to register with student ID cards||With India's Covid-19 vaccination programme being extended to 15-18-year-olds from January, the Co-WIN platform is making changes to help children register for their jabs, and has added student ID cards as a valid identification to register on it. "Children in the age group of 15-18 years will be able to register on the Co-WIN app from Jan 1. We've added an additional (10th) ID card for registration - the student ID card because some might not have Aadhaar or other identity cards," Dr RS Sharma, Co-WIN platform Chief said, according to a report by ANI.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/co-win-to-allow-15-18-year-olds-to-register-with-student-id-cards-1065163.html
27-12-2021||National||In store for 2022: Books that may shake up politics, reshape ideologies||A much-awaited autobiography of Ghulam Nabi Azad, a new biography on Ambedkar, a history of Delhi University and works on policy directions for the urbanscape take — by leading politicians — are among the most-awaited contributions in store for the Indian ideological and political landscape in the new year. Not to be left behind, academicians and journalists are also offering new insights into Indian politics with biographies of George Fernandes and Ram Vilas Paswan, inside stories of how prime ministers took certain decisions and leaders who influenced Indian politics. Surely atop the list is Ghulam Nabi Azad's autobiography, as readers from across the political spectrum would be eager to know what the quintessential loyalist politician, who has finally rebelled against the Gandhi family, has to say about the latest turn in his life. The publisher 'Rupa' keeps under wraps the glimpses of what Azad, who on Sunday described himself as a "24 carrot Congressman", wants to tell and just said this, "This is the political journey of one of India’s most seasoned politicians, which also reflects the journey of the country’s politics, from the mid-1970s to the present." Senior Congress MP Shashi Tharoor, a prolific writer, would be offering readers a biography of BR Ambedkar. Through the book Ambedkar: A Life, Tharoor seeks to set the record straight on the life and times of a “much-lauded yet often misunderstood leader”. Tharoor's latest book, a collection of his essays, had hit the stands in the second half of this year. Diplomat-turned-politician and Union Minister Hardeep Puri also takes time out of his busy schedule, this time, to edit an anthology — 100 Years of Delhi University — where alumni from various fields pen their memoirs and views about the institution. After 2018 saw Varun Gandhi come up with his Rural Manifesto, this time, he has turned his lens on urban India. Varun’s new offering Urban Manifesto seeks to understand India’s urban journey through diverse aspects, including healthcare, education, water and sanitation, among others. The eternal rebel, George Fernandes, is also getting a new biography in The Life and Times of George Fernandes, penned by academician Rahul Ramagundam. Published by 'Penguin', it documents the course of the Socialist Party in India from its inception in the 1930s to its dissolution into the Janata Party in the late 1970s. The publisher says that the book focuses particularly on a trail of opposition parties that worked to displace the long-ruling Congress Party from its preeminent position. A biography of another socialist leader is that of the late Ram Vilas Paswan, penned by journalist Sobhana K Nair. Published by 'Roli Books', Ram Vilas Paswan: A Biography tells the story of the rise of a Dalit leader from his native Khagaria to Lutyens Delhi. Veteran political journalist Neerja Chowdhury is offering the inside stories of some of the momentous decisions taken by prime ministers. Publisher 'Rupa' described How Prime Ministers Decide as the "most explosive book on Indian politics of the past 20 years". The book is expected to provide inside information about "Indira Gandhi's ruthless strategy to topple the Janata government and return to power in 1980, Rajiv Gandhi’s handling of the Shah Bano case, VP Singh's decision to implement the Mandal Commission report, PV Narasimha Rao’s failure to protect the Babri Masjid, AB Vajpayee’s decision to go ahead with the explosion of tactical nuclear devices, Manmohan Singh’s management of the Indo-US civil nuclear deal, and Narendra Modi’s disastrous demonetisation of much of the country’s currency." Another veteran journalist Rashid Kidwai’s new book Leaders Politicians Citizens: 50 Figures Who Influenced India’s Politics by 'Hachette' will also hit the stands next year. The book captures the essence of 50 leaders — some famous, some infamous, some unmistakably at centre stage, others on the fringes of it — and brings the highs and lows of the careers of some of the most prominent actors and a sneak peek into lesser-known aspects of their lives and personalities. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/in-store-for-2022-books-that-may-shake-up-politics-reshape-ideologies-1065164.html
27-12-2021||National||Covid-19 booster dose vaccination: How to register, eligibility, what experts say||As countries brace for Covid surges led by the Omicron variant of the Coronavirus, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced "precaution dose" for Indian healthcare and frontline workers that would be administered from January 10. The "precaution dose" refers to the third dose of Covid-19 vaccine for the fully vaccinated people but PM Modi refrained from using the term "booster dose", as it is generally referred to. The gap between the second dose of the Covid-19 vaccine and the third is likely to be nine to 12 months, official sources said. Which Covid-19 vaccine will be used as the third dose? The eligible population for the precaution dose would be administered the third dose of the same vaccine they had been given before. As of now, the Centre has not given a nod to mix and match vaccines in the third dose. Who can get the Covid-19 booster dose in India? PM Modi has announced the booster dose for healthcare and frontline workers as well as the at-risk population – people aged 60 and more with comorbidities. How can you get the Covid-19 booster dose? “If you are above 60 years of age and have taken both doses and the gap between the second dose and the day you are registering is more than 9 months (39 weeks) then you are eligible,” he told the publication. “When you will register, it will ask whether you have any co-morbidities or not. If you say yes, you will be able to book and have to show the co-morbidities certificate from a registered doctor at the vaccination centre and then you can get jabs,” he added. Citizens aged 60 and above will need to provide with a medical certificate to prove that they have the co-morbidities that are specified by the government to get the booster shot. What are experts saying about it? As the Centre’s move to start Covid-19 booster dose is applauded by many, experts have shown concern over the vaccine roll-out date. He suggested that the “precaution dose” should be given earlier than the announced date. The Indian Medical Association (IMA) has said that the Centre should ensure the large-scale availability of Covaxin if a mixed match policy is adopted for booster doses for healthcare workers, as the majority of the people have taken Covishield as their first and second doses. The World Health Organization has not been enthusiastic about booster doses ever since it was started in the Western countries as many developing countries have large populations that have not received the first dose of the Covid vaccine. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-booster-dose-vaccination-how-to-register-eligibility-what-experts-say-1065171.html
27-12-2021||National||Centre extends Covid guidelines till January 31 amid Omicron scare, asks states not to let guard down||With the "distinct presence" of the Delta variant of Covid-19 and "detection" of Omicron variant in at least 19 states and union territories, the Centre on Monday asked states not to let the guard down while advising them to consider imposing need-based local curbs or restrictions to control the crowd during festival season. The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) also extended the validity of its notification on restrictions imposed till January 31.  In letters to states and union territories, Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla said that the states should continue to focus on the five-fold strategy -- Test-Track-Treat-Vaccination and adherence to Covid appropriate behaviour -- to tackle the surge in Covid-19 cases, especially keeping in view of Omicron, dubbed a Variant of Concern (VOC) by the World Health Organisation. "I would like to reiterate that all the states/UTs must observe all precautions, and not let the guard down. Local/district administration, based on the normative framework and assessment of the situation should promptly take appropriate containment measures," he said. Bhalla insisted that the state enforcement machinery should "strictly enforce" the Covid-19 appropriate behaviour like wearing masks and maintaining social distancing. He also urged the states to "proactively and regularly" hold media briefings "at the highest level" to counter misinformation in respect of Omicron, which "creates anxiety" among the public. "The country has witnessed an overall decline in active cases. However, the new variant, Omicron, is reported to be at least three times more transmissible than the Delta VOC, and is posing a new challenge for the Covid containment measures," Bhalla said in the letter. In the countries with Omicron-driven surge, he said, the growth trajectory of cases has been very steep and in India, 578 Omicron cases have been reported in 19 states and union territories so far. Globally, Omicron cases have been reported in 116 countries so far.  Further, Bhalla said, a surge in cases is also being reported across various countries, especially in the US, the UK, Europe (France, Italy, Spain), Russia, South Africa, Vietnam, Australia, etc. A normative framework has been provided and with the distinct presence of the Delta variant and detection of Omicron cases in many states, there is a need for "greater foresight, data analysis, dynamic decision making, and strict and prompt containment actions" at the local and district levels, based on the assessment of the situation, he said.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-extends-covid-guidelines-till-january-31-amid-omicron-scare-asks-states-not-to-let-guard-down-1065177.html
27-12-2021||National||No hypocrite can succeed by abusing Mahatma Gandhi: Chhattisgarh CM||Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel on Monday slammed Hindu religious leader Kalicharan Maharaj for his alleged derogatory remarks against Mahatma Gandhi, and said if a "hypocrite" thinks he can succeed in his intention by abusing the Father of the Nation and spreading venom in society, then it is his illusion. Baghel said strict action will be taken under the law if anyone tries to instigate people by making such remarks. “By abusing Bapu (Mahatma Gandhi) and spreading venom in society, if a hypocrite thinks that he will be successful in his intention, then it is his illusion. Their bosses should also listen...whoever tries to hurt the soul of both India and Sanatan culture...neither the Constitution will spare them, nor the people will accept them,” the CM tweeted in Hindi. Earlier in the day, talking to reporters at the Swami Vivekanand Airport in Raipur, Baghel said whoever tries to instigate people by making such remarks, stern action will be taken against that person. During the conclusion of the two-day 'dharma sansad' at Ravan Bhata ground in Raipur on Sunday evening, Kalicharan Maharaj had allegedly used an abusive word against Mahatma Gandhi and hailed his assassin Nathuram Godse. "The target of Islam is to capture nation through politics. In front of our eyes they had captured in 1947 (referring to partition)...They had earlier captured Iran, Iraq and Afghanistan. They captured Bangladesh and Pakistan through politics...I salute Nathuram Godse that he killed Gandhi,” he had said at the event. To a question on the religious leader's statement, Baghel said, “Whoever the person is, legal action will be taken." "An FIR has been registered in the matter. Police are looking into it. Action will be taken according to the facts that will come to light,” the CM said. Based on the complaint by a Congress leader, a case was registered against Kalicharan Maharaj on Sunday night at Tikrapara police station here under Indian Penal Code sections 505(2) (statements creating or promoting enmity, hatred or ill-will between classes) and 294 (obscene acts), Raipur Superintendent of Police Prashant Agrawal earlier said. Further investigation into the case is on, he said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-hypocrite-can-succeed-by-abusing-mahatma-gandhi-chhattisgarh-cm-1065210.html
27-12-2021||National||Kashmir terror blog charge sheet will have 'strong evidence': Police||The charge sheet against the accused in the Kashmir terror blog case will have "strong evidence" against the accused, police said on Monday. The accused running the terror blog called "Kashmirfight blog", including Srinagar Municipal Corporation's former Secretary Sofi Muhammad Akbar and his son, Tabish Akbar Rehmani, are presently in judicial custody and police said the charge sheet against them "is nearing completion and it contains strong evidence against the accused". "The terror blog would act as eyes and ears of the terrorists as it would identify targets for the terrorists. The lists uploaded by the blog had contained names of journalists, police officers, prominent citizens etc," a police official said. Police had lodged an FIR against the blog when senior journalist, Syed Shujaat Bukhari was killed on June 14, 2018. In July this year, police arrested five persons identified as Nazish Yasrab Rehmani and Akbar Rehmani from Sanatnagar, Sofi Akbar from Rajbagh in Srinagar, Peerzada Raqif Makhdoomi from Batpora Hazratbal, and Javed Khalid from Poonch for allegedly running the blog site which allegedly ran smear campaigns and prepared a hit list of prominent persons in Kashmir. On September 11, a special NIA court in Srinagar granted bail to Yasrab Rehmani and Khalid. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kashmir-terror-blog-charge-sheet-will-have-strong-evidence-police-1065233.html
27-12-2021||National||Extortion call to MoS Ajay Mishra: Court sends five accused to judicial custody||A Delhi court on Monday remanded in judicial custody (JC) for two weeks the five people arrested in connection with an extortion call made to Union Minister of State for Home Affairs Ajay Kumar Mishra. Duty Magistrate Udbhav Kumar Jain sent the accused to JC till January 9 after the Delhi Police produced them before him on the expiry of their three-day custodial interrogation granted earlier. The police moved an application seeking judicial custody for the accused for two weeks, saying they were not required for further interrogation. The court also allowed the police plea seeking voice samples of two accused -- Amit Kumar Manjhi and Nishant Singh Rana -- under the law. The Delhi Police had arrested the five people in connection with the case. The minister has been in the news recently after his son was arrested in connection with the Lakhimpur Kheri violence of October 3, in which eight people, including four farmers and a journalist, were killed. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/extortion-call-to-mos-ajay-mishra-court-sends-five-accused-to-judicial-custody-1065240.html
27-12-2021||National||Covaxin only vaccine option for children in 15-18 years age group: Centre||Indian adolescents belonging to the 15-18 year age group would be getting the Covid-19 shots from January 3 and the initial choice for them would be the Indian-made Covaxin, the Union Health Ministry said in a guideline issued on Monday. The indigenous vaccine, manufactured by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the National Institute of Virology, Pune, has been preferred by the government over Zydus Cadila’s ZyCov-D, the other Covid shot approved by the Drugs Controller General of India for use among children. Healthcare and front-line workers, and senior citizens with comorbidities, who received their second dose of Covid-19 vaccine nine months ago would be eligible for a precautionary third shot from the second week of January. The Health Ministry guidelines were issued two days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in a televised address, announced the expansion of the Covid-19 vaccination to the 15-18 year age groups and the third shot for a section of the recipients. “As a matter of abundant precaution, for those Health Care Workers and Front Line Workers who have received two doses, another dose of Covid-19 vaccine would be provided from January 10, 2022. The prioritization and sequencing of this precaution dose would be based on the completion of nine months i.e. 39 weeks from the date of administration of second dose,” the guideline stated. Almost similar conditions were stipulated for those above 60 years with comorbidities. However, they would be given the third shot on the basis of doctors’ advice, even as a section of experts is wondering whether such a condition would limit the scope for many. “The option of precaution dose for those older than 60 year olds with co-morbidities on the advice of their doctors could have been relaxed to make it open to anyone above 60 years without a prescription,” tweeted health economist Rijo John, a guest faculty at the Indian Institute of Management, Kozhikode. The guidelines stated, “Keeping in view the recent global surge in Covid-19 cases, detection of the Omicron variant that has been categorised Variant of Concern, scientific evidence, global practices and inputs of the Covid-19 Working Group of National Technical Advisory Group on Immunization as well as of the 'Standing Technical Scientific Committee of NTAGI, it has now been decided to further refine the scientific prioritisation and coverage of vaccination.” Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covaxin-only-vaccine-option-for-children-in-15-18-years-age-group-centre-1065244.html
27-12-2021||National||Five state assembly polls unlikely to be postponed||The Election Commission of India is unlikely to postpone the state polls due early next year, sources said. The health Secretary on Monday briefed the Commission about the Omicron threat in the country specially in the poll bound states. The commission has asked the government to vaccinate all those on election duty ahead of the polls. Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan submitted a report to the commission according to which the assembly polls in Manipur, Goa, Punjab, Uttarakhand and UP are likely to be held at the scheduled time as mandated by the Constitution. The assembly tenure of UP is due to end in May. Former CEC S Y Qureshi told IANS, "postponement of elections is out of question and it will be violation of the Constitution and the Commission will take into account all the factors while it may ban rallies." A source with the ministry said that the Election Commission and Union Health Ministry discussed the rising number of cases of new Covid variant Omicron across the country with special attention on the states going to polls. Rajesh Bhushan presented a detailed report on the transmissibility of Omicron to the Election Commission. According to a source, on being asked about the Omicron spread in the next three months, the Union Health Secretary said that this time nothing can be said exactly at the moment. The daily Covid caseload can see around 25 per cent jump in next few months as per the present rate of infections, he said in the meeting. The health officials also detailed the districts where R value has increased, said the source. The assembly elections are scheduled for five states - Uttar Pradesh, Manipur, Uttarakhand, Goa, and Punjab in 2022. The dates could be announced in the first week of January, said the source. The Chief Election Commissioner (CEC) and other officials are scheduled to visit Uttar Pradesh to take stock of the poll preparedness on Tuesday. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/five-state-assembly-polls-unlikely-to-be-postponed-1065270.html
27-12-2021||National||Punjab farmers think new political front could impact fight for MSP: Report||Nearly 22 farmer organisations in Punjab that were part of the protest against the farm laws, recently formed a political front which has not gone down well with other farmers who were also involved in the protests. The farmers are concerned about how the political parties would impact the demand for MSP that they have been protesting for. Another farmer Satnam Singh Bharian was quoted by the publication as saying that the farmer leaders were too busy to react to the recent issues because they were too busy floating their own political party. “Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar has said that after taking two steps backwards, the government will take two steps forward again. But there was no farmer union leader to react to it as they are busy floating their own political party. Now what will happen to the morcha, our struggle over farming issues was suspended, it has not ended. The first meeting of SKM is on January 15 after suspending the protest and much before that we heard the news of two political fronts being floated — one by Gurnam Singh Chaduni and another by 22 farmer unions under the leadership of Balbir Singh Rajewal,” he said. Another farmer thought that as farmer unions have been floating out their own party, the struggle on farming issues would take a back seat. “I find it a hasty decision,” Inder Sharma mentioned. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/punjab-farmers-think-new-political-front-could-impact-fight-for-msp-report-1065288.html
27-12-2021||National||Centre asks automakers to start producing BS-VI compliant flex-fuel vehicles in 6 months||The Centre has advised auto-mobile manufacturers to start producing flex-fuel vehicles and flex-fuel strong hybrid electric vehicles complying with BS-VI emission norms within six months. "In order to substitute India’s import of petroleum as a fuel and to provide direct benefits to our farmers, we have now advised the automobile manufacturers in India to start manufacturing flex-fuel vehicles (FFV) and flex-fuel strong hybrid electric vehicles (FFV-SHEV), complying with BS-VI norms in a time bound manner within a period of six months", Union Road Transport Minister Nitin Gadkari said on Monday. “This move will drastically reduce greenhouse gas emissions from vehicles on a well-to-wheel basis, helping India to comply with its commitment made at COP26 to reduce the total projected carbon emissions by one billion tonnes by 2030,” Gadkari tweeted. The minister also said that flex-fuel vehicles are capable of running on a combination of 100 per cent petrol or 100 per cent bio-ethanol and their blends, along with strong hybrid electric technology in case of FFV-SHEVs. "The government is enabling the use of various alternate fuels in an effort to shift from fossil fuels. In order to accelerate the introduction of flex-fuel vehicles, the Production Linked Incentive (PLI) scheme has included automobile & auto components and auto components of flex-fuel engines. NITI Aayog, after acknowledging the strong foundation for the ethanol blending programme (EBP), has formulated the road map for ethanol blending for the period, 2020-2025," said a statement from the Ministry of Road Transport. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-asks-automakers-to-start-producing-bs-vi-compliant-flex-fuel-vehicles-in-6-months-1065306.html
27-12-2021||National||MHA orders states to immediately form Anti-Narcotics Task Forces||The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on Monday asked states to immediately form dedicated Anti-Narcotics Task Forces (ANTF) under the Directors General of Police to fight the menace of drugs and realise the dream of a 'drug-free India'. A national call centre 'Manas' would be launched while an effective system is also being put in place to tackle the increasing use of dark net and cryptocurrency in illegal drugs trade. Drones and satellite imagery will be used to locate illegal drug cultivation while an elaborate awareness campaign against drugs will be launched. These decisions were taken at a meeting of the Apex Level Committee of Narco Coordination Center (NCORD) chaired by Home Minister Amit Shah in New Delhi. Describing drug trafficking as a borderless crime, Shah directed that there is a need for better coordination between all drug law enforcement agencies and intelligence agencies, not only at the national level but also between the Centre and the states. He said the Narendra Modi government has adopted a zero tolerance policy against narcotics and considers drug abuse as a major threat to national security, which can only be dealt with overall coordination. According to MHA statistics, 35 lakh kg of drugs worth Rs 1,881 crore were seized between 2018 and 2021 as against 16 lakh kg of narcotics worth Rs 604 crore between 2011 and 2014. During the meeting, Shah gave directions to form a central NCORD unit under the Narcotics Control Bureau at the national level. It was also decided that narcotics training module should be prepared at national level so that police, paramilitary personnel, prosecutors and people from civil departments can be trained, A standing Inter-Ministerial Committee will be set up to curb misuse of dual-use precursor chemicals, which will be conducted by the Ministry of Chemical and Fertilizers. It will have officials from the NCB and Department of Revenue. Along with this, to stop misuse of dual-use prescription medicines, a standing Inter-Ministerial Committee under Ministry of Health and Family Welfare will be formed with representatives from Department of Pharma, National Medical Commission, NCB and experts related to industry as members. Directions were also given for the arrangement of container scanners and related equipment for scanning of incoming and outgoing containers at all ports, whether government or private. The government will also be launching an oath campaign on drug-free India on January 12, coinciding with the Swami Vivekananda Jayanti which is celebrated as National Youth Day.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mha-orders-states-to-immediately-form-anti-narcotics-task-forces-1065311.html
27-12-2021||National||After Rs 177 crore recovery, taxmen dig out 23 kg gold, Rs17 cr from gunny bags in businessman's property||Four days after recovering a whopping Rs 177.45 crore in cash from the residence of Kanpur businessman Peeyush Jain, the Directorate General of Goods and Services Tax Intelligence (DGGI), Zonal Unit, Ahmedabad on Monday said it has further recovered 23 kilograms of gold and Rs 17 crore, as well as sandalwood oil, from Jain's Kannauj house, which were reportedly concealed in gunny bags and kept in underground storage. Meanwhile, Jain was sent to jail in judicial custody on Monday after he was produced before a local court. The DGGI officers had arrested him on Sunday on charges of "commission of offences prescribed under section 132 of the CGST." The section deals with false invoices, issuing invoices without supplying goods or services, collecting GST but not submitting it to the government within the stipulated time. In a press note, the DGGI stated that the residential and factory premises of Odochem Industries — of which Jain is a promoter — at Kannauj were also searched. During the search, officers reportedly found Rs 17 crore in cash and recovered about 23 kgs of gold. Besides, the note stated, "huge unaccounted raw materials used in manufacture of perfumery compounds, including more than 600 kgs of sandalwood oil hidden in an underground storage, having a market value of Rs 6 crore, have been made." Officials said that since the gold bricks have foreign markings, the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence is being roped in for necessary investigations. Sources said that cases are likely to be registered under the Customs Act for importing gold and the Forest Act for storing sandalwood oil. Earlier, based on "reliable intelligence" the DGGI officials had raided Jain's residence in Anandpuri, Kanpur and recovered Rs 177.45 crore cash, which was unaccounted for. The agency stated that it was "the biggest ever seizure of cash." DGGI officials have jurisdiction all over the country. The officials had first raided the factory of manufacturers of Shikhar brand of pan masala and tobacco products, their transporter Ganpati Road Carriers and Odochem Industries, suppliers of perfumery compounds at Kanpur and Kannauj. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/after-rs-177-crore-recovery-taxmen-dig-out-23-kg-gold-rs17-cr-from-gunny-bags-in-businessmans-property-1065314.html
27-12-2021||National||Seven-term Rajya Sabha MP Mahendra Prasad passes away||Rajya Sabha MP from the Janata Dal(United) and industrialist Mahendra Prasad died at a private hospital here, his party said on Monday.  81-year-old Prasad passed away on Sunday night after battling prolonged illness. Estimated to be one of the richest members of Parliament, the founder of Aristo Pharmaceuticals was a seven-term Rajya Sabha MP from Bihar and was also elected to the Lok Sabha once.  Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar were among those who expressed condolences at his death.  Modi said, "Saddened by the passing away of Rajya Sabha MP Dr. Mahendra Prasad Ji. He served in Parliament for many years and was at the forefront of several community service efforts. He always spoke for the welfare of Bihar and its people. Condolences to his family. Om Shanti." Kumar said his demise is a big loss to the society and politics besides industry. Prasad was first elected to the Lok Sabha on a Congress ticket in 1980. He remained associated with the party for a long time and shifted his loyalties later as its fortunes declined in the state. He joined the Janata Dal and then its offshoots, first Rashtriya Janata Dal and then JD(U).  His name was often prefixed with "King", a pointer to his vast fortunes and the fact that any change in the political weather in his home state mattered little to him as he remained in the Rajya Sabha since 1985 except for brief gaps. The deceased MP was also known for his fetish for visiting as many countries as he could and had his passport stamped by immigrant authorities of almost every country.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/seven-term-rajya-sabha-mp-mahendra-prasad-passes-away-1065326.html
27-12-2021||National||At 156, India sees highest single-day rise in Omicron infections||India reported over 150 fresh Omicron infections, with Goa and Manipur on Monday registering their first cases, as the total tally of the latest variant of Covid-19 touched nearly 600. With the surge in cases, the Centre issued a fresh advisory to all states and union territories, asking them not to let their guard down. According to Union Health Ministry data, 156 fresh cases of Omicron were logged, taking the tally of such cases to 578. However, 151 out of the 578 people, who contracted the infection, have recovered or migrated. The 578 cases have been detected across 19 states and union territories, with Delhi accounting for 142 cases, the highest, followed by Maharashtra at 141, Kerala at 57, Gujarat at 49, Rajasthan at 43 and Telangana at 41. India's total tally of Covid-19 cases rose to 34,793,333, while the active cases declined to 75,841, according to the data updated at 8 am. The death toll climbed to 479,997 with 315 new deaths, the data stated. Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla said that states and union territories may consider imposing need-based and localised restrictions to control the crowd during the festive season. A number of states have already imposed curbs on congregations, besides night curfew. A 48-year-old returnee from Tanzania tested positive for the Omicron variant in Manipur, making him the first patient of the strain in the northeastern state. The Directorate of Health Services in Imphal said the man, a resident of Imphal West district, recently returned via Delhi. He tested positive on the eighth day of his return to India. He has been placed in isolation at the state-run Jawaharlal Nehru Institute of Medical Sciences in Imphal, and he has not exhibited any severe symptom, officials said. Three other family members of the man have also tested positive for Covid-19, but their genome sequencing results are yet to come. In Panaji, an eight-year-old boy who arrived from the UK, was confirmed to be infected with Omicron. The Delhi government on Sunday had decided to re-impose a night curfew from 11 pm to 5 am from Monday in view of the surge in daily cases and a significant rise in the positivity rate. According to a graded response action plan, a 'Yellow' alert will come into force, bringing with it a set of restrictions. Maharashtra reported 26 new cases, including 11 in Mumbai, of the Omicron variant, taking the state's tally of those infected with the new strain to 167. Haryana reported two more cases of the Omicron variant, pushing the tally of such cases to 12 in the state. In view of the emergence of the Omicron cases, the Haryana government has already imposed a night curfew and restrictions on gatherings from Saturday. It also said that people eligible for vaccinations but are not fully vaccinated will be banned from entering shopping malls, cinema halls, restaurants and grain markets, among other crowded places, from January 1. Three more persons tested positive for Omicron in Uttarakhand, taking the number of people infected with the latest variant to four in the state. One of the three cases is of a 28-year-old man who had returned from Yemen and tested positive for the Omicron variant in Haridwar. The two others are a 74-year-old man and a 65-year-old woman, who had come into contact with a family that had returned from Dubai and tested positive for the strain in Dehradun. Gujarat reported 24 new cases of the Omicron variant, taking the tally to 73. In Indore, the health department has sent samples of 164 people, who came in contact with nine people found infected with the new Omicron variant, for testing. Out of these 164 people, if anyone tests positive for coronavirus, then that person's sample will be sent to the National Centre for Disease Control for genome sequencing to ascertain if the person is infected with the Omicron variant, Indore's Chief Medical and Health Officer Dr BS Saitya said. Of the nine people found infected with Omicron after returning from other countries, seven have recovered and been discharged from the hospital, he said. "The other two patients are admitted to different hospitals here and their health condition is stable," the official said. Meanwhile, the Tamil Nadu government has requested the Centre to grant the state permission, as a special case, to announce Omicron confirmed cases rather than wait for reports from the National Institute of Virology, owing to its expertise in whole genome sequencing. Reiterating the demand for necessary approvals, Health and Family Welfare Minister Ma Subramanian claimed that by the time the NIV confirmed the samples, those testing positive in the state get discharged after treatment. Subramanian said of the 97 people recently detected with S-gene drop in Tamil Nadu, the NIV confirmed the presence of Omicron variant in 34, of whom 18 have already been discharged while 16 are undergoing treatment.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/at-156-india-sees-highest-single-day-rise-in-omicron-infections-1065328.html
27-12-2021||National||PM likely to visit UAE by first half of next month||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to visit the United Arab Emirates (UAE) in the first half of next month which would be his first trip abroad in 2022, people familiar with the development said on Monday. Both sides are looking at firming up the visit around January 6 but there is no finality on the dates yet, they said. The prime minister's proposed visit to the strategically important Gulf nation comes as the two countries look at celebrating 50 years of their diplomatic ties. Modi is also expected to visit the ongoing Dubai Expo during the visit. Both India and the UAE have been holding talks to firm up a comprehensive free trade agreement to further boost economic ties and there is a possibility of forward movement on it during the visit. In reflection of their growing strategic ties, India and the UAE recently became part of a new four-nation grouping that is expected to be focusing on issues relating to trade and investment. The other two members are the US and Israel. The ties between the two countries witnessed a major upswing following Modi's visit to the UAE in 2015 as it marked the beginning of a new phase in partnership. Sheikh Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of UAE Armed Forces, visited India in 2016. He again visited India in January 2017 as the chief guest at the Republic day celebrations. It was during this visit that the bilateral relations were upgraded to a 'Comprehensive Strategic Partnership'. Prime Minister Modi visited UAE again in February 2018 for the 6th World Government Summit in Dubai, where India was the guest of honour. He visited the UAE again in August 2019 to receive the UAE's highest civilian award, 'the Order of Zayed'. The UAE is home to over 3.3 million Indians who have been playing a key role in overall cultural and people-to-people ties between the two sides. In August, Anwar Gargash, the diplomatic advisor to UAE President Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, visited India. The bilateral defence and strategic ties between the two countries have also witnessed steady expansion. In December last year, Chief of Army Staff Gen MM Naravane travelled to the UAE and it was the first-ever visit by a head of the Indian Army to the Gulf nation. In July, then Chief of Air Staff Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria visited the UAE, in reflection of the growing strategic ties.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-likely-to-visit-uae-by-first-half-of-next-month-1065331.html
27-12-2021||National||Centre asks poll-bound states to ramp up Covid-19 testing, vaccination; EC reviews situation||The Centre on Monday asked the governments of Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Goa and Manipur to ramp up vaccination and exponentially increase testing in order to contain the Covid-19 pandemic and avert a surge in infections during the forthcoming assembly polls in the five states. The Election Commission too reviewed the Covid-19 situation in the five poll-bound states amid speculation that the Omicron variant might trigger a third wave of the pandemic. Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan briefed the Chief Election Commissioner Sushil Chandra and the two other Election Commissioners, Rajiv Kumar and Anup Chandra Pandey, on the Covid-19 situation in Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Uttarakhand, Goa and Manipur, where assembly polls would take place in February-March next year. Bhushan also had a separate meeting with the top government officials of Uttar Pradesh, Goa, Uttarakhand, Manipur and Punjab and reviewed the public health response measures for containment and management of the Covid-19 in the five poll-bound states. He also reviewed the status of vaccination in the states. While Uttarakhand and Goa reported vaccination coverage for the first and second doses higher than the national average, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Manipur have Covid-19 vaccination coverage numbers below the national average, according to a press release issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW). The Centre and the Election Commission reviewed the Covid-19 situation in the poll-bound states just days after the Allahabad High Court asked the poll panel to consider postponing the assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh as the third wave of the pandemic was “knocking at the door”. Justice Shekhar Kumar Yadav of the Allahabad High Court observed on December 23 that the election rallies of the political parties should be banned to check the spread of the SARS-CoV-2 virus. The EC sources, however, said that the poll panel had not yet taken any decision on postponing the assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh or any of the four other poll-bound states. Chandra, Kumar and Pandey would visit Lucknow on Tuesday and meet the senior officials of the state government to review the Covid-19 situation and preparation for the assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh, sources in New Delhi said. The MoHFW advised the governments of the five states to speedily ramp up the Covid-9 vaccination of all eligible populations for the first dose and ensure that those who were due for the second dose were administered the second dose. The poll-bound states were also advised to exponentially increase the testing to identify infected people promptly for timely initiation of public health response measures, according to the MoHFW press release. Uttar Pradesh currently has 323 active Covid-19 cases after a rise of 41 cases over the past 24 hours, according to the data released by the union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on Monday. Punjab, Uttarakhand, Goa and Manipur have 378, 231, 449 and 182 active cases respectively. The number of active cases in fact went down in Uttarakhand and Goa, while it remained the same as the previous 24 hours in Manipur. Punjab, however, witnessed a rise of 31 active Covid-19 cases. The nationwide active Covid-19 cases stood at 75,841 according to the data released by the Union Government at 8:00 am on Monday. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-asks-poll-bound-states-to-ramp-up-covid-19-testing-vaccination-ec-reviews-situation-1065334.html
27-12-2021||National Politics||EC to discuss Covid situation with top health officials||The Election Commission will convene a meeting with senior officials of the Union Health Ministry on Monday to discuss the current Covid situation in the five poll-bound states, sources said. A source said that the Commission will discuss the current Covid situation for poll-bound states and will seek update on new Covid variant Omicron from Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan. The commission is also likely to seek suggestions on improving the Covid protocol for poll campaigning, polling days, and others. Assembly elections are due in five states - Uttar Pradesh, Manipur, Uttarakhand, Goa, and Punjab in 2022, and the schedule is likely be announced in the first week of January, said the source. The Chief Election Commissioner and other officials are scheduled to visit Uttar Pradesh - the largest of the five - to take stock of the poll preparedness in the state on Tuesday. An Allahabad High Court bench on Thursday had urged the government to consider postponing the Assembly elections in UP for a month or two and banning all political rallies amid rising Covid cases on daily basis. Meanwhile, India continues to report rise in daily Covid caseload. A total of 6,987 fresh cases were reported in a span of 24 hours across the nation on Sunday. As per the Health Ministry report, with 162 more fatalities reported, the total death toll has climbed to 4,79,682. The Omicron infection tally has also climbed at 422 across the nation. However, out of total Omicron positive, 130 have been discharged. So far total 17 states have reported the new Covid variant, said the Health Ministry said on Sunday. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ec-to-discuss-covid-situation-with-top-health-officials-1065076.html
27-12-2021||National Politics||Personal attacks reflect BJP's frustration: Akhilesh||Samajwadi Party (SP) President Akhilesh Yadav has said that top BJP leaders stooping down to making personal attacks reflects their "narrow mindedness and frustration". He was reacting to statements made by Union Home Minister Amit Shah, who said that no one (read SP) would be able to stop the Ram temple construction now, and Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath had remarked, "Babua was playing with his smartphone during the pandemic instead of helping people." "The BJP has nothing left to showcase as their achievement and have, therefore, resorted to mudslinging and levelling baseless personal attacks," said Akhilesh. "BJP ke bade netaon ne apna sayyam kho diya hai aur woh chichchle bayano se apni sankeern mansikta dikha rahe hain (senior leaders of the BJP have lost control and making shallow statements which reflect their narrow mindedness)," he said. The SP chief said that the resentment among people against the BJP was growing rapidly and even the ruling party was fully aware of it as a result of which none of the leaders goes out in public without the government paraphernalia. "The BJP leaders are afraid that farmers will question them about the promise of doubling their income when it has actually been reduced to half because of costly fertilizers, increase in diesel prices. They are afraid that youth will question them about jobs. People will ask them about the price rise," he said. Accusing the BJP government of having destroyed the state's economy, the SP President said the saffron party should explain the steps the government at the Centre have taken to turn the Indian economy into a five trillion economy. "All that the BJP has done till now is to make hollow promises and statements and have done nothing to fulfil these promises," he added. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/personal-attacks-reflect-bjps-frustration-akhilesh-1065114.html
27-12-2021||National Politics||Don't want PM to apologise, tarnish his image abroad: Tikait||Farm Union leader Rakesh Tikait on Sunday said that farmers do not want an apology from the Prime Minister and tarnish his image abroad. Tikait's statement comes days after the Centre repealed the controversial farm laws against which farm unions took to streets and protested for over a year. 'We do not want the cuntry's prime minister to apologise. We don't want his image abroad to be ruined. We have ploughed our field honestly but the 'pen' in Delhi has been dishonest about giving us the price for it,' he tweeted in Hindi. Tikait also said that the Samyukt Kisan Morcha is not contesting any election and that he was not going to join politics. The comment was made in context of farmers’ organisations creating a political front to contest Punjab elections due in February.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dont-want-pm-to-apologise-tarnish-his-image-abroad-tikait-1065120.html
27-12-2021||National Politics||Matuas decide to move away from BJP||In a significant development, the All India Matua MahaSangha (AIMMS) has announced to move away from the BJP and maintain a politically neutral stance in the present situation. The five MLAs that represented the Matua community have even left the BJP MLAs WhatsApp group that might deepen the crisis within the party further. A statement issued by the AIMMS Sukhendra Gayen, said: "Matua Mahasangha will not support any particular political party. The Matuas have been deprived of their legitimate demands. Get prepared for the future. The Matuas also are capable of depriving". The statement issued by Gain triggered wide-ranging speculation about the community shifting political lineage. Shortly before the announcement, the five Matua MLAs left the WhatsApp group fuelling the rumours that they might change allegiance and join the Trinamool Congress camp. Though the Matua community officially announced that they are going to stay politically neutral, experts believe that it is just a gestation period before they switch loyalty. Matua politics has always played a significant role in West Bengal politics compelling major political leaders like Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union Home Minister Amit Shah and Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee to reach out to them. The reason behind this is that the Matuas, who constitute almost 20 per cent of the population in West Bengal, have always been a deciding factor in state politics. The Matua vote will be a deciding factor across 40-45 Assembly constituencies spread across several districts including the rural areas of North 24 parganas and in districts like in Barasat, Basirhat, Bangaon and in some areas of Nadia like Krishnanagar, Kalyani, Ranaghat The differences between the BJP and the Matuas cropped after the saffron party failed to fulfil the promise made by them during the West Bengal Assembly polls earlier this year. While the Modi-Shah duo played the refugee and citizenship card, the Matuas on the other hand overwhelmingly supported the saffron brigade both in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections and the 2021 Assembly polls. But experts are of the opinion that after six months, the Matuas have started to believe they have been deprived and the promises were not fulfilled. Speaking to the media, Gayen said: "The Centre failed to meet our demands. We supported the BJP with high hopes. We had several demands, including unconditional citizenship but none of that has happened yet." The Matuas strongly supported the Citizenship Amendment Bill (CAA) and National Register of Citizens (NRC) despite widespread condemnation of the two legislations. In response to the announcement, state BJP President Sukanata Majumdar said: "We have spoken to the MLAs and the problem will be sorted out soon. We will speak to them. They have certain demands and we are working the demands. We hope to solve the problem." Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/matuas-decide-to-move-away-from-bjp-1065134.html
27-12-2021||National Politics||Captain's party to contest Punjab polls jointly with BJP, SAD||BJP, Amarinder Singh and Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa's party will jointly contest upcoming Punjab polls, Union minister Gajendra Shekhawat said on Monday. The former Punjab chief minister and leader of the newly floated Punjab Lok Congress, Captain, met with Union Home Minister Amit Shah and BJP national president J P Nadda in Delhi. The BJP had earlier announced that it will contest the Punjab assembly polls in alliance with Singh's party. More to follow... Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/captains-party-to-contest-punjab-polls-jointly-with-bjp-sad-1065143.html
27-12-2021||National Politics||Congress loses main Opposition status, TMC gains big in Meghalaya in 2021||With over two-thirds of its Meghalaya MLAs joining the Trinamool Congress en masse, coupled with losses in by-polls, 2021 turned out to be a dismal year for the Congress, a terrible downslide for a political outfit that had emerged as the single largest party in the 2018 assembly elections. The Congress was forced to make strange bedfellows with rival BJP as what remained of its legislature group unanimously decided to support the ruling NPP-led coalition after 12 of its 17 MLAs joined Mamata Banerjee's outfit, which hardly had any meaningful presence in the state. Former chief minister Mukul Sangma and his close aide Charles Pyngrope, a former assembly speaker, led a coup against AICC-appointed Congress state president Vincent H Pala. The duo, along with 10 other MLAs, joined West Bengal's ruling party, catapulting it to the position of the principal Opposition party in Meghalaya in a trice. Sangma's move left the Congress with just five MLAs. The party, which had won 19 seats in the 2018 polls, also lost two to the ruling National People's Party in by-elections, which were necessitated following the death of sitting Congress legislators. Meghalaya and Assam tried to resolve their decades-long boundary dispute through dialogue, with chief ministers of the two states holding talks thrice this year. They have come close to resolving their differences in six of the 12 disputed areas, and have set January 15 as the deadline to complete the first phase of negotiations. There was some strain in ties between Chief Minister Conrad Sangma and his Meghalaya Democratic Alliance (MDA) partner BJP after he dropped the saffron party's minister A L Hek from his cabinet, but he then inducted another BJP MLA Sanbor Shullai into the government. The chief minister's brother and minister James P K Sangma was accused of involvement in massive corruption in the implementation of the Soubhagya Scheme in the state, with the Congress going hammer and tongs to demand a CBI inquiry into the alleged scam. The scheme aims at providing electricity connections to all households, urban and rural, in the country. The chief minister divested James Sangma of the Home portfolio after more allegations of him allowing syndicates to carry out illegal mining and transportation of coal surfaced. The government faced some tense moments on the law and order front when Meghalaya Police faced backlash for killing former militant leader Cheristerfield Thangkhiew in an encounter at his Shillong home. The former insurgent was suspected to be involved in a series of IED blasts across the state, including one behind the busy Laitumkhrah market in the state capital just two days before he was gunned down. On the day of his funeral, a group of youths ransacked a police outpost, snatched firearms and drove around in a police vehicle to mark their protest. The state government appointed a one-judge inquiry commission to probe the killing. The report is yet to be submitted. Illegal rat-hole coal mining, banned in the state by the National Green Tribunal, claimed the lives of five miners in Umpleng, about 20 km from another mine at Lumthari where a similar incident had taken place in 2018. A total of 1,342 people succumbed to Covid-19 during the year, of whom 1,047 died in hospitals. The maximum number of 893 fatalities were reported in East Khasi Hills district, under which Shillong falls, followed by 135 in West Jaintia Hills. During the year, 71,336 people tested positive for the infection, and 70,095 patients recovered from the disease. Among those who succumbed to the infection was Independent MLA from Mawphlang assembly seat S K Sunn. His son and former national footballer Eugeneson Lyngdoh won the seat in a byelection. The ruling coalition put on its best gears for implementing the Jal Jeevan Mission, and the Centre quadrupled allocation for the scheme to Rs 678.39 crore for financial year 2021-22 as compared to the previous fiscal. Statistics show that only 1.88 lakh of the 5.9 lakh rural households, or 31.9 per cent, in the state have tap water connections. Various pressure groups demanded the implementation of Inner Line Permit (ILP) in Meghalaya in their meetings with Union Home Minister Amit Shah during his two visits to the state this year, but did not receive any categorical assurance. ILP is an official travel document issued by the state government concerned to allow inward travel of an Indian citizen into a protected area for a limited period. It is in force in Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland, Mizoram and Manipur. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-loses-main-opposition-status-tmc-gains-big-in-meghalaya-in-2021-1065150.html
27-12-2021||National Politics||Congress attacks BJP over hate speeches, vandalisation of churches||Congress has slammed the Centre following attacks on churches in BJP-ruled states and questioned the silence of the Prime Minister. Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge on Monday said, "Haridwar hate speeches, attacks on churches, murders in the name of religion, are all advanced symptoms of a society and polity in free fall. Hindutvawadis are unleashing barbarism. India is becoming an example of how quickly a democracy can collapse when institutions fail." Referring to hate speeches in Haridwar, former home minister P Chidambaram too questioned the silence of the Prime Minister. "On a day when the PM exhorted people to recall the teachings of Jesus Christ, miscreants disrupted a Christmas programme in a private school in Haryana, Who are these miscreants? Reports say they shouted 'Jai Shri Ram' and 'Bharat Mata Ki Jai'. "On the next day, a church service was disrupted in Assam. Instead of exhortations, the PM should direct the BJP governments of Haryana and Assam to identify the miscreants and bring them before a Court of law. He should also exhort the Hindutva brigade to read the teachings of Jesus Christ." Chidambaram said on Sunday. Meanwhile, Chhattisgarh police have registered an FIR against Hindu religious leader Kalicharan Maharaj and others for allegedly making derogatory comments on Mahatma Gandhi and praising Nathuram Godse. On the complaint of former Raipur Mayor and Congress leader Pramod Dubey, the police registered the FIR under section 505(2), 294 IPC in the Tikrapara Police station. The event 'Dharam Sansad' was organised on Sunday (December 26) in Raipur. The state government's action comes against the backdrop of the Haridwar event in which hate speeches were made. The event in Raipur was organised at Rawanbhata in which Sant Kalicharan Maharaj is alleged to have used derogatory words for Mahatma Gandhi and justified Nathuram Godse, who killed Gandhi. The Haridwar incident took place during an event from December 17 to 20. The video clippings were circulated on social media, which said that "Hindus should arm themselves like those seen in Myanmar, every Hindu must pick up weapons and conduct a 'Safayi Abhiyan'." The three-day event was organised by Yati Narasimhanand, a controversial religious leader who has been accused in the past of inciting violence. The Uttarakhand police have lodged an FIR in the case against Jitendra Narayan Tyagi, who was former Shia Waqf board chairman and recently converted to Hinduism. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-attacks-bjp-over-hate-speeches-vandalisation-of-churches-1065168.html
27-12-2021||National Politics||Chandigarh municipal corporation polls results 'a trailer' for Punjab polls: AAP||The AAP on Monday emerged as the single largest party in Chandigarh municipal corporation polls upsetting the apple-carts of the BJP and Congress with the Arvind Kejriwal-led party now believing that their stake in the upcoming Punjab Assembly elections has grown further. Congress was pushed to the third while BJP emerged a close second but its sitting Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma tasted defeat at the hands of AAP. Akali Dal was relegated to a distant fourth with just one seat. However, a section of Congress leaders pointed out that while it has not managed to win seats, its votes has not decreased substantially and claimed that in voteshare, it is ahead. In the 35-member municipal corporation, AAP has won or is leading in 14, four short of majority, while BJP has won or is ahead in 12 seats. Congress won or leads in eight seats while Akali Dal has just one seat. AAP's Arvind Kejriwal was quick to set the narrative for the party ahead of Punjab Assembly polls claiming the results were a "sign of change". "People of Chandigarh today have chosen honest politics of AAP, rejecting corrupt politics. Many congratulations to all the winning candidates and workers of AAP. This time Punjab is ready for change," he tweeted. AAP's Punjab in-charge Raghav Chadha echoed his leader and said Chandigarh was "just a trailer". He thanked the voters in Chandigarh for giving "such love and trust to a small and honest party", which contested elections for the first time in the municipal polls there. AAP had emerged as the second largest party in the 2017 Punjab Assembly polls in Punjab ahead of the then ruling Akali Dal. However, it could not repeat its performance in Lok Sabha polls in the state or Chandigarh Lok Sabha seat. AAP hopes to win Punjab this time with the election set to be a four-cornered contest between Congress, BJP and Amarinder Singh's party in alliance, Akali Dal combine and AAP. Twenty-two farmers organisations have also formed a party to fight the elections. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/chandigarh-municipal-corporation-polls-results-a-trailer-for-punjab-polls-aap-1065190.html
27-12-2021||National Politics||Imposing curfew at night and holding rallies during day 'beyond comprehension': Varun Gandhi||Again training gun at his own party, BJP MP Varun Gandhi on Monday found fault with the imposition of curfew at night to tackle Covid-19 spread but allowing political rallies during the day, saying it was "beyond comprehension of common man". Gandhi, the BJP MP from Pilibhit, asked the Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh to "honestly decide" whether the priority is to stop spread of Covid-19 or to display power. "Imposing curfew in the night and calling lakhs of people in rallies during the day – this is beyond the comprehension of the common man. Given Uttar Pradesh's limited healthcare systems, we have to honestly decide whether our priority is to stop the spread of the dreaded Omicron or show electoral power," he tweeted.  Uttar Pradesh is among several states that has imposed night curfews in recent days to tackle the spread of Covid-19. Varun's argument is that maximum transmission typically happens during the day, as there are fewer people on the road during the night. There is a need for a push to strongly cut down on social gatherings which could emerge as Covid-19 clusters, he said. Arguing for a "holistic strategy" by highlighting the Centre's note to the Maharashtra government in March 2021, he said measures such as night curfews and weekend lockdowns have very limited impact on containing or suppressing the transmission. "Hence the administration should focus on strict and effective containment strategy," he said adding, "policymakers should lead from the front, inspiring the common public to stay at home," he added. Recently, Allahabad High Court judge Justice Shekhar Kumar Yadav had appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Election Commission to consider "stopping and postponing" upcoming Assembly elections in five states in view of the surge in Covid-19 cases and its Omicron variant. Gandhi has been critical of the BJP governments in Uttar Pradesh and at the Centre in the recent past, targeting them for the now repealed contentious farm laws. He was the first BJP lawmaker to demand action against Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra, whose son was arrested in connection with the killings of farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/imposing-curfew-at-night-and-holding-rallies-during-day-beyond-comprehension-varun-gandhi-1065195.html
27-12-2021||National Politics||Kanpur's government departments asked to mobilise 75,000 people for PM's rally||The administration in Uttar Pradesh's Kanpur district has instructed government departments to garner around 75,000 beneficiaries of central schemes for a proposed address by Prime Minister Narendra Modi after the inauguration of the Metro Rail project in Kanpur on Tuesday. The order was issued in a communique sent to the medical and health, food and civil supplies, horticulture, social welfare, labour, rural development and other departments. They have also been asked to make arrangements for their transportation, food and lodging. According to sources, more than 2,000 UP Roadways and private buses would be deployed to ferry these people to the venue of the meeting. The communique also instructed for the presence of anganwadi, ASHA and panchayat workers, among others, at the meeting. Earlier, the district administration in Prayagraj had directed the 'shiksha mitras' (temporary primary teachers) and employees of various government departments to attend the meeting of UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday. There were reports that in the past also, government buses had ferried crowds to the Modi's addresses in different parts of the state. Opposition parties have sharply criticised the BJP for what they allege is a misuse of government machinery for party-sponsored rallies. The Samajwadi Party (SP) had accused the BJP of "misusing" government machinery for ferrying crowds to the recent rally of Prime Minister Narendra Modi at Prayagraj and had written to the Election Commission (EC) to take note of the same and ensure "free and fair elections" in Uttar Pradesh. ''The state government, with the help of the RTO, deployed hundreds of government and private buses to ferry the people to the venue of the prime minister's meeting at Prayagraj... the chief minister of the state has been misusing the government machinery and public money for the rallies of the prime minister,'' SP State President Naresh Uttam had said in the letter. He demanded that the EC give strict directions to the state government not to use public money and resources to ensure free and fair elections in the state. SP president Akhilesh Yadav had said that the crowds at the Modi rallies in the state had been brought from different places in the state using government resources. ''I wonder if BJP has held any real public meeting so far,'' he had said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/kanpurs-government-departments-asked-to-mobilise-75000-people-for-pms-rally-1065200.html
27-12-2021||National Politics||Nitish Kumar says don't come to Bihar if you want to drink, CJI questions ban||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Monday asked people of the country to avoid coming to the state if they wished to consume liquor, even as Chief Justice of India N V Ramana referred to the state's prohibition move as "short-sighted". Nitish Kumar made his statement during the third programme of his Social Reforms Campaign in Sasaram. He had started the drive from Motihari and then went to Gopalganj. Addressing the gathering in a newly-built stadium in the Fazajganj area of Sasaram, he quoted Mahatma Gandhi who had said that consuming liquor does not result in money loss only, but also makes people mentally corrupt. "Bapu said that if he becomes a dictator for an hour, he would shut all liquor operations in the country," he said "We cannot allow anyone to drink liquor in the state. If you wish to come here to drink liquor, I would suggest that please do not come here," he added. Nitish Kumar also sought to cite World Health Organisation (WHO) data in favour of his ban, noting 27 per cent of all road accidents take place as drivers are in an inebriated condition. "If you want to live a long life, you should avoid liquor," he said. Nitish Kumar earlier said that the liquor ban in Bihar cannot be withdrawn at any cost, and threatened those who challenge it or give statements in public should be liable to face legal action as per the laws. On the other hand, CJI Ramana declared that the liquor ban of Bihar was a "shortsighted decision" of the Nitish Kumar government. Participating in a discussion on the futuristic challenges to the Indian judiciary at the Sidhartha Law College in Vijaywada, he pointed out that every policy needs to address futuristic planning, evaluation and constitutionality before its implementation on the ground. "The liquor ban decision of Nitish Kumar government in 2016 has left a large number of cases pending in the courts. Even hearings for bail in simple cases are taking one year time in the courts. "The applications pertaining to bails in liquor prohibition act are submitted in large numbers in the high court. Due to short-sighted policies implemented by different governments, it is affecting the works of courts in the country. Every law needs to be discussed thoroughly and with solid points before implementation," the CJI said. Earlier, the Patna High Court has also made strong remarks on the liquor ban and a large number of bail applications filed before it. While it has set up a special court in every district for the hearing of bail pertaining to persons booked under liquor violations, the accused are filing bail pleas in large numbers before the high court after their pleas are rejected by the special courts. At present, 11,000 people were arrested on the charges of violating the liquor prohibition law in Bihar, and they form a majority of the prison population. For example, the Beur Central jail in Patna has a capacity of 5,500 and 2,100 of them are behind bars on the charge of liquor violation. As per data, over 50,000 people were sent to jail in the first 8 months of 2021 in Bihar for violating the liquor ban. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/nitish-kumar-says-dont-come-to-bihar-if-you-want-to-drink-cji-questions-ban-1065264.html
27-12-2021||National Politics||Brahmin trouble brewing for BJP ahead of Uttar Pradesh polls||As the BJP sets about to "douse" the perceived anger among the electorally influential brahmin community and bring them back into its fold ahead of the forthcoming assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh, several senior brahmin saffron party leaders, who have been sidelined, appeared to have put the party leadership on notice and demanded more representation for the community in distribution of tickets. They also signalled that they could even consider "other options" if their demand was not accepted. According to the sources, a meeting was held a few days ago in Kanpur that included former minister Ravindra Shukla, former BJP MLA Neeraj Chaturvedi and Kanpur district women's wing president Radha Duney, among others. The leaders expressed their resentment over what they claimed "under representation" of the brahmin community in the distribution of tickets as well as party organisation and government. ''The party (BJP) has been fielding candidates of other castes on brahmin dominated seats...it can not be tolerated,'' said one of the leaders present at the meeting. The leaders decided that they would hold another meeting in the next few days at Lucknow and discuss their future strategy. The meetings come amid efforts by the saffron party to "douse" the perceived anger among the brahmin community ahead of the polls. The party has formed a 16-member committee to reach out to the community and convey to them the steps taken by the Centre and state government for brahmins, besides reminding their persecution during the Samajwadi Party (SP) government.   In a bid to placate the community, BJP's Ajai Kumar Mishra, a brahmin MP from Lakhimpur Kheri, was made a minister in the union cabinet. Congress leader Jitin Prasada, who jumped ship to the BJP, was also made a minister in the Yogi Adityanath cabinet. The pressure from the community on the BJP was such that the Modi government refused to sack Mishra  —despite the entire opposition gunning for his head over his son's alleged involvement in the killing of farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri — fearing a backlash. The Adityanath government found itself under attack from the brahmin community leaders and also from its own brahmin lawmakers after the controversial encounter of gangster Vikas Dubey, a brahmin, who, with his accomplices, gunned down seven cops in Kanpur. A little later, six members of his gang, all brahmins, were also shot dead in encounters. Dubey was termed as the saviour of the community and BJP was dubbed "anti-brahmin."  BJP legislator from Sultanpur district Deomani Dwivedi, a brahmin, had sought to know from the state government about the number of brahmins murdered in the state since the BJP came to power in UP and in how many cases the police were able to arrest the culprits. The recent inductions of several high-profile brahmin leaders, including an MLA each from the BJP and a BSP, mostly hailing from Gorakhpur, to the SP has triggered unease in the BJP. Those who joined the SP include Pandit Hari Shankar Tewari, one of the tallest brahmin leaders in 'Poorvanchal' (eastern region) and a six-term MLA in the state assembly from Chillupar seat in Gorakhpur, and his two sons, one of whom was a BSP MLA and another a former MP.  Digvijay Narayan Chaube, the BJP lawmaker from Khalilabad assembly seat, which was in the Gorakhpur division, also joined the SP along with several other prominent brahmin faces from the eastern region of the state. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/brahmin-trouble-brewing-for-bjp-ahead-of-uttar-pradesh-polls-1065269.html
27-12-2021||National Politics||Centre reshuffles top bureaucracy; gives new assignments to senior IAS officers||The Narendra Modi government on Monday effected a reshuffle in its top bureaucracy by giving new assignments to senior IAS officers, including bringing former Punjab Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan as the new Drinking Water and Sanitation Secretary, and promoting a bunch of Special Secretaries to the post of Secretary. Petroleum, Environment and Steel Ministries will get new Secretaries in the latest reshuffle for which order was issued by the Department of Personnel and Training following the approval of Appointments Committee of the Cabinet headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Mahajan, who was the first woman Chief Secretary of Punjab during the last few months of Amarinder Singh's government, is a 1987-batch IAS officer of Punjab cadre and has been brought to the Centre on deputation. In September this year, Anirudh Tewari had replaced Mahajan after Charanjit Singh Channi became the Chief Minister of Punjab.  Pankaj Jam, an Assam-Meghalaya cadre officer of 1990-batch who was Additional Secretary in Department of Financial Services, will be the new Petroleum Secretary. Leena Nandan, a 1987-batch IAS officer of Uttar Pradesh cadre, will take over as Environment Secretary in place of R P Gupta who is retiring on December 31. At present, Nandan is Consumer Affairs Secretary. Sanjay Kumar Singh, a Madhya Pradesh cadre officer of 1987-batch who heads the Department of Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances (DARPG) and Department of Pensions and Pensioners Welfare (DPPW), has been shifted to Steel Ministry as its Secretary. V Srinivas, who is a Special Secretary in DARPG, will replace Singh in DARPG and DPPW. Manoj Joshi, a Kerala cadre IAS officer of 1989-batch and presently Special Secretary in the Ministry of Food Processing Industries, will take over as Housing and Urban Affairs Secretary after Durga Shanker Mishra retires on December 31. Rajeev Ranjan of Madhya Pradesh cadre (1989-batch), a Special Secretary in Department of Expenditure, will now be Secretary in the National Commission for Backward Classes. Bharat Lal, a 1988-batch officer of Indian Forest Services who is presently an Additional Secretary in Department of Drinking Water and Sanitation, will be the new Secretary in Lokpal. He will replace BK Agarwal whose contract is ending on December 31. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/centre-reshuffles-top-bureaucracy-gives-new-assignments-to-senior-ias-officers-1065285.html
27-12-2021||National Politics||UP health index worst, this is real report of BJP govt: Akhilesh Yadav||Soon after a Niti Aayog report on Monday dubbed Uttar Pradesh as the worst performer on various health parameters, SP chief Akhilesh Yadav attacked the Yogi Adityanath government in the state, saying it is the “real report” of the BJP government. "In the Health Index of the Niti Aayog, UP is at the bottom in terms of medicine and health. This is the real report of the UP's BJP government,” Samajwadi Party chief asserted in a tweet. नीति आयोग के ‘हेल्थ इंडेक्स’ में स्वास्थ्य और चिकित्सा के मामले में यूपी सबसे नीचे! ये है उप्र की भाजपा सरकार की सच्ची रिपोर्ट। दुनियाभर में झूठे विज्ञापन छपवाकर सच्चाई बदली नहीं जा सकती। यूपी की सेहत ख़राब करनेवालों को जनता बाइस में जवाब देगी। यूपी कहे आज कानहीं चाहिए भाजपा “By publishing misleading advertisements, the reality cannot be changed. The people will give a reply in 2022 (elections) to those who have spoiled the health of UP,” he added. “UP is saying today that the BJP is not needed," he further said. The Niti Aayog on Monday released its fourth Health Index report for the country, putting Kerala at the top of the list of states as per their performance in the health sector and Uttar Pradesh at its bottom. The fourth round of the Health Index took into account the period 2019-20 (reference year). The report by the government think tank said Tamil Nadu and Telangana have emerged as the second and third best performers, respectively, on health parameters. Bihar and Madhya Pradesh were the second and third-worst performers respectively on health parameters. The report, however, added that Uttar Pradesh topped in terms of incremental performance by registering the highest incremental change from the base year (2018-19) to the reference year (2019-20). Watch the latest DH videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/up-health-index-worst-this-is-real-report-of-bjp-govt-akhilesh-yadav-1065287.html
27-12-2021||National Politics||Forced to bring anti-mob lynching law after 'Ravana' BJP came to power at Centre: Soren||Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren on Monday went all guns blazing on the BJP and said that the state government was forced to enact anti-mob lynching legislation after the Ravana party came to power at Centre, "ruining the social fabric" of the country. Asserting that the Prevention of Mob Violence and Mob Lynching Bill 2021, passed in the Jharkhand assembly during its recently concluded winter session, will prevent anti-social elements from taking the law into their hands, Soren said that the Centre should have enacted such a legislation to protect the citizens of the country. The Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) executive president also alleged that the Centre's decision to raise the marriageable age of women to 21 years was "politically motivated", and wondered whether the voting age will also be increased to 21. "The BJP wants to make India a Hindu Rashtra. There are considered intellectual people but they are misguiding people. The anti-mob lynching act is not a Hindu, Muslim or Adivasi act because a mob is simply a mob. We were forced to enact the legislation after the BJP, which is like Ravana, came to power at Centre and created an atmosphere which ruined the social fabric of the country," Soren told reporters. The chief minister claimed that a caste census will help policymakers frame targeted welfare schemes for backward castes. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/forced-to-bring-anti-mob-lynching-law-after-ravana-bjp-came-to-power-at-centre-soren-1065313.html
27-12-2021||National Politics||PM Narendra Modi slams 'selfish' political parties, says their motto 'Khud ka Swarth'||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday tweaked his own party's inclusive development slogan, "Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas, Sabka Vishwas", to coin a motto for the "selfish" Opposition -- "Khud ka Swarth, Parivar ka Swarth". Addressing a rally here to mark the fourth anniversary of the Jai Ram Thakur government in Himachal Pradesh, Modi said there are now models in operation for running a government. One of them, he said, is "Sabka Saath, Sabka Vishwas, Sabka Prayas" (everyone's development, everyone's trust, everyone's effort). The other model is "Khud ka Swarth, Parivar ka Swarth aur vikas bhi khud ke parivar ka" (own interest, family's interest and family’s development), Modi added. He did not name any party, but the main Opposition to the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the state is the Congress. The prime minister said the "first model" is in operation in Himachal Pradesh and also claimed that the state is benefitting from the "double-engine" government, a reference to the BJP being in power in the state as well as at the Centre. He also mentioned the "two kinds of thinking", one of "vilamb" (delay) and the other of "vikas" (development). The first "vichardhara" had made Himachal Pradesh wait for decades for infrastructure and basic amenities, Modi said. Underscoring the advantages of a "double-engine" government with less than a year to go for the 2022 Himachal Pradesh Assembly polls, he said the people of the hill state have benefitted a lot over the last four years as various welfare schemes launched by the Centre were implemented in a more efficient manner by the Thakur government. The prime minister pointed out that the Centre launched the Ayushman Bharat scheme and the Himachal Pradesh government initiated a similar scheme called Himcare, adding that a total of 1.25 lakh residents of the state got free treatment under these two schemes. "Ease of living is the topmost priority of our government and electricity plays a major role in it," he said, while pointing out that the power projects launched by him on Monday would be significant in generating more electricity in the state. Beginning his speech in Himachali language, Modi said he had come to Mandi, which is also known as "Chhoti Kashi", to take the blessings of Baba Bhootnath (Lord Shiva). Himachal Pradesh played a vital role in shaping his life, he added. Congratulating the chief minister, Modi said despite the cold weather conditions, the crowd at the rally shows that the people of Himachal Pradesh are satisfied with the achievements of the state government over the last four years. The chief minister urged the voters to break the trend of alternately choosing the BJP and the Congress to rule the state and asserted that the saffron party would retain power in Himachal Pradesh in next year's Assembly polls. Union minister Anurag Thakur talked about various central projects that were launched in the state after Modi became the prime minister, including the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Bilaspur and the PGI in Una. Earlier, the prime minister dedicated and laid the foundation stones of development projects worth Rs 11,581 crore in the state. He also launched 287 investment projects worth over Rs 28,197 crore. The projects dedicated by Modi to the public include the 111-MW Sawra-Kuddu hydro-electric project with an outlay of Rs 2,081.6 crore on the Pabbar river in Shimla district. The project will generate 386 million (38.6 crore) units of electricity per annum, which will help the state earn an annual revenue of about Rs 120 crore, an official spokesperson said. Besides, he laid the foundation stone of the Shri Renukai dam, conceived as a national storage project worth Rs 6,700 crore on the Giri river in Sirmaur district. The project will generate 200 million (20 crore) units of energy in a surface power house with a 40-MW installed capacity, which will be utilised by the state. The live storage of the dam will be 498 million (49.8 crore) cubic metres, which will fulfil about 40 per cent of the drinking water requirements of Delhi. Modi also laid the foundation stone of the 66-MW Dhaulasidh hydro-electric project, which will be constructed at an expenditure of Rs 688 crore. The project is located on the Beas river in Hamirpur and Kangra districts. The prime minister laid the foundation stone of the first phase of the 210-MW Luhri hydro-electric project -- a joint venture of the Centre and the state that will be completed at an expenditure of Rs 1,811 crore. The project is located on the Sutlej river in Shimla and Kullu districts. The power generated from these projects will help provide grid stability and improve the power supply position, besides adding valuable renewable energy to the grid. Modi also inaugurated the second groundbreaking event of the launch of 287 investment projects worth over Rs 28,197 crore of the Rising Himachal Global Investors' Meet. The investors' meet was held in Dharamsala on November 7-8, 2018. The first groundbreaking ceremony of projects worth over Rs 13,656 crore to turn these proposals into real projects was held in Shimla on December 27, 2019 in the presence on Union Home Minister Amit Shah. Earlier, the prime minister released a coffee-table book on the achievements of the BJP government in Himachal Pradesh. The chief minister welcomed Modi at the Paddal ground by presenting a huge "trishul" to him. Accompanied by Anurag Thakur, Modi also saw an exhibition put up by various departments of the state government. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-narendra-modi-slams-selfish-political-parties-says-their-motto-khud-ka-swarth-1065323.html
27-12-2021||National Politics||Turncoats are no leaders, not even fit human beings: Ajay Maken||Only those who stick to their ideology make a mark in politics and those who change their ideology for the greed of power are not leaders at all, Congress general secretary Ajay Maken observed on Monday. Maken, the political affairs in-charge of the Rajasthan Congress, made the observation in a reminder of the state’s former Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot’s failed rebellion against the Ashok Gehlot government. He, however, did not take anyone’s name while making his observation. Addressing a three-day training camp of Rajasthan Congress, Maken said, "In politics, only those people find their place who stay with their ideology throughout their life.” “Those who change their ideology for power and out of greed are neither leaders nor fit human beings," Maken said while addressing the session on its second day. Striking a personal note, Maken said he became bound to the Congress ideology while working for the party’s students wing National Students Union of India at the age of 18 and attending its training camps. The relationship has been for a lifetime, he added. He said during the training camps, one gets an opportunity to understand and assimilate the Congress ideology. Rajasthan Pradesh Congress Committee chief Govind Singh Dotasara, who too addressed the session, sought to encourage the participants to strengthen the party without any selfishness. Describing the sessions participants as the “heirs of the legacy of the great men of the country”, Dotasara said sticking with ideology is more important than any greed for power and position. Earlier, in the first session of the camp, the party leader Mohan Prakash also spoke on the ideology of the Congress party. \ Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/turncoats-are-no-leaders-not-even-fit-human-beings-ajay-maken-1065352.html
27-12-2021||North and Central||Major fire in makeshift market in Jammu||A major fire broke out in a makeshift market on the outskirts of the city, causing damage to nearly a dozen shops and destroying property worth lakhs of rupees, officials said. Fire and Emergency services rushed half a dozen fire tenders and are trying to douse the leaping flames in Bagad Mandi in the Trikuta Nagar area, they said. An official of the fire and emergency services said the blaze was reported in the market, with mostly shops made of wood and tin, around 9.05 pm. “The firefighting operation is on and the details are awaited,” he said, adding more fire tenders are being rushed to the scene to control the blaze. The officials said nearly a dozen shops were damaged when last reports were received but there was no report of any casualty. The cause of the fire was not known immediately, they said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/major-fire-in-makeshift-market-in-jammu-1065056.html
27-12-2021||North and Central||Owaisi will start wearing ‘janeu’ if Yogi returns to power in 2022: UP minister||If the Yogi Adityanath government returns to power in Uttar Pradesh for a second term, AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi will start wearing Hindus’ sacred thread 'janeu', worn across the shoulder, and chanting Lord Ram’s name, a UP minister said on Sunday. This will be in the line of leaders like Rahul Gandhi wearing ‘janeu’ and Akhilesh Yadav visiting Hanuman temples to pay his obeisance amid the strengthening BJP’s ideology, UP's Panchayati Raj Minister Bhupendra Singh Chaudhary asserted. Chaudhary, who hails from Moradabad and is a member of the state’s Legislative Council, made the remark at a youths’ meet in Shamli. Chaudhary reiterated his remark about Owaisi to the PTI, saying it is bound to happen. Asked what makes him feel that Owaisi will start wearing “janeu”, he said, "We are taking our agenda forward. Due to this agenda, Akhilesh Yadav has begun going to Hanuman temples and offering prayers.” “Due to this agenda, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has begun wearing 'janeu' and telling his 'gotra' to one and all,” the minister said. “This is the impact of our ideology due to which people have left their own agendas and started following ours,” he said. “Those who used to indulge in appeasement and speak about minorities only, those who did not accept the existence of Lord Ram and had given an affidavit in the court that Ram was an imaginary figure, have begun wearing 'janeu' and visiting temples," he asserted. In September 2007, the Centre had told the Supreme Court that there was no historical evidence to establish the existence of Lord Ram or the other characters in Ramayana. In an affidavit filed before the apex court, the Archaeological Survey of India had rejected the claim of the existence of the Ram Sethu bridge in ancient times, linking to India’s southernmost tip to Sri Lanka. When contacted, Owaisi told PTI, "What is wrong with you people? If someone makes an obnoxious statement, you want my reaction? What type of reaction do you want from me? I don't want to comment on such mad statements." Owaisi had announced that his party will contest 100 seats in the upcoming assembly elections. He is currently engaged in the poll campaigning for his prospective party’s candidates, crisscrossing the state, particularly the Muslim-dominated areas, and exhorting them to develop their own leadership for their welfare. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/owaisi-will-start-wearing-janeu-if-yogi-returns-to-power-in-2022-up-minister-1065075.html
27-12-2021||North and Central||Perfume industrialist Piyush Jain arrested over tax evasion charges||Kanpur-based businessman Piyush Jain, whose premises were raided by central agencies, has been arrested on charges of tax evasion, a senior official said. The perfume industrialist is likely to be taken to Ahmedabad from Kanpur for further action, he said. Surenrda Kumar, Joint Commissioner (Kanpur), Goods and Services Tax, told PTI Sunday night that Jain has been arrested on charges of tax evasion. Another official, pleading anonymity, said during a series of raids on the premises owned by Jain, cash worth over Rs 257 crore as well as gold and silver was recovered. The money was allegedly linked to the dispatch of goods via fake invoices and without e-way bills by a goods transporter, he added. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/perfume-industrialist-piyush-jain-arrested-over-tax-evasion-charges-1065080.html
27-12-2021||North and Central||8,500 underground bunkers constructed along Jammu border||Despite recent calm along the border, authorities have completed work on about 8,500 underground bunkers constructed for the safety of the people living along the Line of Control (LoC) and International Border (IB) in Jammu province. The Centre has sanctioned the construction of 14,460 individual and community bunkers for the border residents in Jammu, Kathua, and Samba districts covering the villages located along the IB and Poonch and Rajouri villages on the LoC. Sources said that out of 9905 bunkers in phase-I, work on 8444 individual and 1461 community bunkers was taken up for execution by utilizing the funds sanctioned by the Ministry of Home Affairs. Nearly 8500 bunkers have been completed to date and the remaining bunkers are at different stages of construction, they said and the Jammu and Kashmir government will approach the Center shortly for sanction of 15000 more community and individual bunkers in Phase-II. All these bunkers fall between zero to three kilometres from the IB and the LoC and they can be put to use by the border dwellers in case of shelling and firing from the Pakistan side anytime, officials said. The keys of these bunkers have been given to the heads of the respective villages by the civil administration. An individual bunker is meant for the households and can accommodate eight to 10 people while community bunkers can accommodate 20-30 people. The technical design of the bunker withstands the kind of weaponry frequently used in ceasefire violations. Underground bunkers become second homes for the border residents during ceasefire violations by Pakistan along the IB and the LoC. Such bunkers have been instrumental in saving several innocent lives during periods of heavy ceasefire violations from across the border. Though there has been no major ceasefire violation over the past 10-months in Jammu and Kashmir after India and Pakistan signed a fresh agreement to maintain calm along the borders on February 25 this year, in the last few years, dozens of border residents have died in relentless shelling and firing by Pakistan along the border. After witnessing over 5100 incidents of ceasefire violations in 2020, the violations and killings at the border in Jammu and Kashmir this year was an all-time low in the last more than a decade. Last year, at least 36 civilians were killed and over 130 injured on the Indian side of the LoC and the IB due to ceasefire violations by Pakistan. India shares a 3,323-km-long border with Pakistan, of which 221 km of the IB and 740 km of the LoC fall in Jammu and Kashmir. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/8500-underground-bunkers-constructed-along-jammu-border-1065104.html
27-12-2021||North and Central||Leopard which injured 11 in Lucknow captured||The leopard that had been on the prowl in Lucknow since the past three days and also attacked several people, was finally captured by a team of forest officials on Monday. The big cat was captured and put into a cage in Janakipuram area after he attacked a policeman and another resident. A forest official said that the leopard was rather aggressive. Forest officials said that the animal would late be released into the wild. The number of persons attacked by the leopard in the past 24 hours had gone up to 11. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/leopard-which-injured-11-in-lucknow-captured-1065113.html
27-12-2021||North and Central||Night curfew in Delhi from December 27 over rising Covid cases||Night curfew will be imposed in Delhi from 11 pm on Monday, restricting movement of individuals except those in exempted categories, due to rising Covid-19 cases and the threat posed by Omicron, according to a DDMA order. The night curfew will be in place from 11 pm to 5 am till further orders, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) said. Those exempted from the curfew include government officials, judges and judicial officers, medical personnel, pregnant women and patients, people going on feet to buy essential items, media persons, and people going to or returning from railway stations, bus stops and airports. Only exempted-category people will be allowed in Metro trains and public transport buses during the night curfew hours, the DDMA order stated. Delhi recorded 290 Covid-19 cases on Sunday with a positivity rate of 0.55 per cent. As per the Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP), a 'yellow' alert is sounded if the positivity rate stays at 0.5 per cent on two consecutive days. A number of restrictions, including night curfew, closure of schools and colleges, halved seating capacity in Metro trains and buses, closure of non-essential shops and malls among others, kick in with the 'yellow alert. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/night-curfew-in-delhi-from-december-27-over-rising-covid-cases-1065118.html
27-12-2021||North and Central||PM Modi lays foundation of projects worth over Rs 28,000 crore in Himachal Pradesh||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday attended the ground breaking ceremony for 287 investment projects worth over Rs 28,197 crores in Himachal Pradesh's Mandi to mark the fourth anniversary of the Jai Ram Thakur-led BJP government in the state. The prime minister is also expected to address a rally at the Paddal ground in Mandi, the home district of Chief Minister Thakur. हिमाचल के विकास को मिलेगी गति। प्रधानमंत्री श्री नरेन्द्र मोदी जी द्वारा जल विद्युत परियोजना धौलासिद्ध, 66 मेगावाट, का शिलान्यास किया गया । इससे राज्य के विकास को और गति मिलेगी। Earlier, Modi, accompanied by Union minister Anurag Thakur, visited an exhibition put up by various departments of the state government. A Global Investors' Meet was held in Dharamsala on November 7-8, 2019. The first ground breaking ceremony of projects worth over Rs 13,656 crores to turn these proposals into reality was held in Shimla on December 27 the same year in the presence on Union Home Minister Amit Shah. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-modi-lays-foundation-of-projects-worth-over-rs-28000-crore-in-himachal-pradesh-1065165.html
27-12-2021||North and Central||IIT-K convocation to be held in bio-bubble, Modi chief guest||IIT Kanpur (IIT-K) has created a bio-bubble for its students, faculty and staff members to ward off Covid contamination during the convocation ceremony on December 28. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will attend the event as the chief guest. While all the attendees from IIT-K will undergo RT-PCR tests on Monday, all of them will also have to face another rapid antigen test (RAT) hours before entering the venue on Tuesday. The convocation will be held in a hybrid mode with around 870 students expected to attend the event along with faculty and staff. Over 850 more will be present virtually. The institute claimed that this will be the first time in India where a convocation will be conducted inside a bio-bubble. Bio-bubble is a concept developed recently in the field of sports, especially in cricket, where a bio-secure environment is created to minimise contamination risks. According to a IIT-K release: "It is probably for the first time that a higher educational institute has adopted such measures for its convocation. This is in line with IIT Kanpur's vision to ensure holistic well-being and safety for all." Deputy Director at IIT Kanpur, S Ganesh, said on Monday, "As we are going to celebrate the 54th convocation in a hybrid mode in the presence of respected invited dignitaries, it is our duty to ensure everyone's safety. Hence, in view of the constantly changing scenario of the Covid pandemic, we are conducting additional precautionary drills inside the campus. Prior tests are to be conducted to check the health of everyone who will be attending the event physically. This is to ensure utmost safety to all the attendees so that the joy of the occasion is not hampered." Uttar Pradesh Governor Anandiben Patel and Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath will also attend the event. IIT-K will confer honorary doctorate degree to Infosys co-founder Senapathy 'Kris' Gopalakrishnan, physicist Rohini M Godbole and classical vocalist Pt Ajoy Chakrabarty this year. As many as 1,723 outgoing students will be awarded degrees. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/iit-k-convocation-to-be-held-in-bio-bubble-modi-chief-guest-1065172.html
27-12-2021||North and Central||Ahead of Uttar Pradesh polls, BJP's Brahmin leaders hold discussions with Nadda||BJP's Brahmin leaders from poll-bound Uttar Pradesh on Monday met party president J P Nadda, a day after holding a brainstorming session on reaching out to the crucial vote segment in the state. Various issues concerning the community were discussed at length during the meeting with Nadda. On Sunday, more than a dozen Brahmin leaders of the BJP from Uttar Pradesh held a marathon meeting at state in-charge, Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan's residence to chalk out a strategy for reaching out to community members. According to sources, the party has formed a committee comprising BJP's Rajya Sabha chief whip Shiv Pratap Shukla, party leader Abhijat Mishra, former national secretary and Gujarat MP Ram Bhai Mokariya and Mahesh Sharma to reach out to Brahmin members of the community. The party's Brahmin leaders, including Union Minister Ajay Mishra, whose son has been arrested in connection with the Lakhimpur Kheri violence, will reach out to community members in their respective regions, eventually touching all 403 constituencies of the state. Assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh are scheduled for early next year. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ahead-of-uttar-pradesh-polls-bjps-brahmin-leaders-hold-discussions-with-nadda-1065174.html
27-12-2021||North and Central||Fire in empty railway coach in Gaya, no casualty||A fire broke out in an empty isolation coach parked at Gaya railway station yard on Monday, officials said. There was no report of any casualty in the fire as the coach was empty, they said, adding that the cause of the fire is yet to be known. Fire station Officer of Gaya, Arvind Kumar said, "Since the isolation coach was empty and parked at the yard, no one was injured in the incident. Several fire tenders were rushed to the spot to douse the flame". Meanwhile, talking to reporters in Patna, Chief Public Relations Officer (CPRO), East Central Railway, Rajesh Kumar said, "The fire that broke out at 9.15 am on Monday and was brought under control by 10.30 am with the help of fire brigade officials. Only one isolation coach, parked at the railway station yard, was damaged". Senior railway officials who reached the spot are trying to ascertain the cause of the fire, he said, adding that a high-level inquiry has been ordered into the incident. The isolation coach, prepared for Covid-19 patients for emergency use, was parked at the yard.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fire-in-empty-railway-coach-in-gaya-no-casualty-1065188.html
27-12-2021||North and Central||PM Modi counts benefits of double-engine govt in Himachal Pradesh||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday said it has benefitted the people of Himachal Pradesh to have a double-engine government in the state and at the Centre as the speed of development projects and the implementation of different schemes have got a momentum. The prime minister said this while addressing a rally at the Paddal ground in Himachal Pradesh's Mandi to mark the fourth anniversary of the Jai Ram Thakur-led BJP government in the state. He said the Centre launched the Ayushman Bharat scheme and the Himachal Pradesh government initiated a similar scheme called Himcare, adding that a total of 1.25 lakh residents of the state got free treatment under these schemes. "Ease of living is the topmost priority of our government and electricity plays a major role in it," Modi said, while pointing out that the power projects launched in the state on Monday would be significant in generating more electricity. Congratulating Thakur, he said despite cold weather conditions, the crowd at the rally shows that the people of Himachal Pradesh are satisfied with the achievements of the state government over the last four years. Earlier, the prime minister dedicated and laid the foundation stones of development projects worth Rs 11,581 crore in the state. He also launched 287 investment projects worth over Rs 28,197 crore. The projects dedicated by Modi to the public include the 111-MW Sawra-Kuddu Hydro Electric Project (HEP) with an outlay of Rs 2,081.6 crore on the Pabbar river in Shimla district. The project will generate 38.6 crore units of electricity per annum, which will generate an annual revenue of about Rs 120 crore to the state, an official spokesperson said.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-modi-counts-benefits-of-double-engine-govt-in-himachal-pradesh-1065196.html
27-12-2021||North and Central||Delhi dengue toll spikes to 23, highest since 2016||Six minors, including an eight-month-old boy, have succumbed to dengue in the past two months, taking the total number of deaths due to the vector-borne disease in Delhi this year to 23, according to a report released on Monday by a civic body. The number of dengue cases has risen to over 9,500 in the city, with about 130 new cases logged in the past week, far less than what was being reported till a few weeks ago. Till December 18, the official dengue death tally, maintained by the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC), was 17. According to the civic body's report on vector-borne diseases released Monday, a total of 9,545 dengue cases and 23 deaths have been recorded this season till December 25. The six fatalities reported Monday took place between late October and late November, a senior SDMC official said. One of the victims, an infant boy, was aged just eight months, while a resident of Kirari died at CNBC Hospital on November 3, the official said. Other minors who succumbed to dengue in this period included a 15-year-old boy from Mehrauli, who died on October 28, an eight-year-old girl from Dakshinpuri, who died on November 5, a seven-year-old boy who died on October 29, a 10-year-old boy who died on October 21 and a 13-year-old boy, who died on November 21, according to the details shared by SDMC officials. A total of 1,269 cases of dengue were recorded till December 25. In the previous years, the total dengue cases were 4,431 (2016), 4,726 (2017), 2,798 (2018), 2,036 (2019) and 1,072 (2020), according to the report. In 2015, the city had witnessed a massive outbreak of dengue with the number of cases crossing 10,600 in October, making it the worst outbreak of the vector-borne disease in the national capital since 1996. The number of dengue fatalities this year is the highest in the national capital since 2016, when the toll was 10. The national capital recorded two deaths due to dengue in 2019, four in 2018, and 10 each in 2017 and 2016. A total of 1,072 cases and one death were logged in 2020, according to the report. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-dengue-toll-spikes-to-23-highest-since-2016-1065215.html
27-12-2021||North and Central||ED to lodge PMLA case against Kanpur businessman Piyush Jain||More troubles are looming for Piyush Jain as the Enforcement Directorate is now mulling to lodge money laundering case against the Kanpur based businessman, who was arrested by the GST team for tax evasion. The Intelligence Unit of GST had raided the premises of Piyush Jain on Sunday. They had to call a Bank employee to count the notes recovered from his house. "It was Rs 250 crore which we recovered from his premise. Piyush could not give any satisfactory answer as to from where he got the money. We have shared information with Income Tax Department and other agencies. ED was also given a set of documents in this respect," said a source. The source said that now ED will soon lodge a case under relevant sections of Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). The ED is currently waiting for a final report of the GST department. On Sunday, teams of GST and I-T department following a tip off conducted raids at Kanpur, Kannauj and Mumbai. The I-T department is currently making a list of his Benami properties. This will be shared with the ED to decide future course of action. "We have recovered documents pertaining to his Benami properties worth Rs 300 crore. We have doubt that he was helping few politicians to launder money through Benami properties. The ED officials are in touch with us, once we complete the file, we will give it to ED," said a GST source. On Sunday, Piyush Jain was arrested by the central agencies on tax evasion charges. A case against him under section 69 of the Central Goods and Services Tax (CGST) Act was lodged by the central probe agency. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ed-to-lodge-pmla-case-against-kanpur-businessman-piyush-jain-1065216.html
27-12-2021||North and Central||Delhi records 331 Covid cases, highest daily count since June 9||Delhi on Monday recorded 331 fresh Covid-19 cases, the highest single-day rise since June 9, and one death while the positivity rate mounted to 0.68 per cent, according to data shared by the city health department. The death toll due to the coronavirus infection in Delhi rose to 25,106. On Sunday, Delhi recorded 290 cases with a positivity rate of 0.55 per cent and one fatality, according to officials figures. On Saturday and Friday, the daily case counts had stood at 249 and 180 cases respectively. On Monday, it jumped to 331 cases with a positivity rate of 0.68 per cent, according to the latest health bulletin. This rise is the highest since June 9 when 337 cases were logged with a positivity rate of 0.46 per cent, while 36 deaths were also recorded on that day. The number of cumulative cases on Monday stood at 14,43,683. Over 14.17 lakh patients have recovered from the infection. The spike in fresh cases in the last few days is being recorded amid a jump in cases of new Omicron variant of the coronavirus here. Seven Covid-19 deaths were reported here in November this year, according to official data. Delhi had recorded four Covid deaths in October and five in September. A total of 48,589 tests -- 46,549 RT-PCR tests and 2,040 rapid antigen tests -- were conducted a day ago, the bulletin said.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-records-331-covid-cases-highest-daily-count-since-june-9-1065220.html
27-12-2021||North and Central||MP man gets house under scheme, slapped with Rs 14,000 bill after Governor's visit||Budhram Adivasi, a resident of Vidisha district in Madhya Pradesh, could not believe his luck when he was granted an under-construction pucca house under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana scheme in August. The key to the house was handed over by Governor Mangubhai C Patel himself, with whom Budhram shared a meal as well. The lunch was organised during the Governor's visit to the district on August 24, when he attended Budhram's house warming ceremony or griha pravesh. Much to Budhram's despair, his joys were short-lived when he was presented with a bill of Rs 14,000 by the panchayat members, a day after the Governor's visit. The bill was in relation to a fancy gate that was installed prior to the Governor's visit, by the panchayat members and local officials. The officials and the members were quick to install fans and the gate to ensure a 'grand' welcome to the Governor, but took them away in warp speed, the very next day after the 'VVIP's' visit. Along with his new house, Budhram was also promised a cooking gas connection, under the Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana, but he is now left with neither since the house is not yet built. According to the NDTV report, Bhupendra Singh, the Urban Development Minister when contacted, said the guilty officials will be punished, as this is "against the dignity of the Governor." "We have a tradition that when a guest comes, we decorate the house. But, as you have said, this is against the dignity of His Excellency the Governor. So, we will act," he added. As expected, Budhram's case subsequently turned into a political issue, with Congress, being first to react. Congress MLA Kunal Chaudhary said, "After the visit of the Governor, officials handed over a bill of ₹14,000. My request is 'stop looting the poor'. The injustice being done to them... there should be an FIR against those who are responsible."  The Madhya Pradesh government has completed the construction of 20.65 lakh houses, not being able to hit the projected target of 26.28 lakh. The state saw fewer than 24,000 houses in the districts of Guna and Sheopur being approved in the last month. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mp-man-gets-house-under-scheme-slapped-with-rs-14000-bill-after-governors-visit-1065222.html
27-12-2021||North and Central||Night curfew imposed in Uttarakhand in view of Covid-19||Night curfew was imposed across Uttarakhand on Monday in view of the threat posed by the highly transmissible Omicron variant of Covid-19. The night curfew which comes into effect on Monday night will remain in force from 11 pm to 5 am till further orders, said an order issued by Chief Secretary SS Sandhu. However, essential services like health, movement of vehicles carrying health personnel, ambulances, postal services have been exempted from the ambit of the curfew. Production, transportation and distribution of petrol, diesel, kerosene and LPG will also be exempt from the curb. Private vehicles too will have the permission to commute for emergencies during the curfew with strict adherence to Covid SOPs and safety protocols. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/night-curfew-imposed-in-uttarakhand-in-view-of-covid-19-1065251.html
27-12-2021||North and Central||6 Maoists killed near Telangana-Chhattisgarh border in joint operation of security forces||Six Maoists, including four women, were killed in an exchange of fire with security forces in south Chhattisgarh forests near the Telangana border on Monday. According to Sunil Dutt, superintendent of police, Telangana's Bhadradri Kothagudem district, the outlawed CPI (Maoists) were planning some “sensational” violent action in the border areas. “Based on our information, a joint operation was launched by the Telangana and Chhattisgarh police aided by the CRPF,” Dutt told DH. The “encounter” took place at about 7 am in the Kistaram forests of Sukma district. Commandos of Telangana's elite anti-Maoist force Greyhounds, Chhattisgarh's District Reserve Guard and 141 Bn CRPF were involved in the early morning action. “The neutralized ultras are yet to be identified,” Dutt said, adding that they have recovered five rifles and five rocket launchers from the site. Reports quoting Chhattisgarh police officials however stated that the bodies recovered are of the members of the Kistaram committee, which is involved in several violent activities in the area. The Telangana police has, in recent months, stepped up its vigil in the districts bordering with Maharashtra and Chhattisgarh based on inputs that Maoists could be regrouping, planning to carry out activities like attacks on the security forces. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/6-maoists-killed-near-telangana-chhattisgarh-border-in-joint-operation-of-security-forces-1065271.html
27-12-2021||North and Central||With steady rises in cases, Omicron likely to peak in Delhi by February 2022, say experts||With the number of fresh Covid-19 cases going up by 10 times from what it was at the beginning of the month in Delhi, experts on Monday said the number of cases will see an increase in the next couple of months due to the Omicron variant of the coronavirus, with the peak likely to be attained in February. Delhi reported 290 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday, with a positivity rate of 0.55 per cent, while the number of new cases and the positivity rate rose to 331 and 0.68 per cent, respectively, on Monday. In comparison, the national capital had reported 39 cases of the infection with a positivity rate of 0.07 per cent on December 1. The following day, the positivity rate had declined to 0.06 per cent, while the number of fresh cases was 41. Between December 9 and December 15, Delhi logged 48 daily cases on an average, which rose to 95 between December 16 and December 22. According to official data, it was a rise of 49.47 per cent on a weekly basis. Epidemiologist Giridhar R Babu said, "It is very unlikely that the number of cases has risen due to the festive season because in that case, the impact would have been seen 14 days after Diwali in November and the number of cases would have risen by November-end. The number is rising due to the Omicron variant, which is highly transmissible. The cases will see a rapid ascent and a rapid descent and the peak is likely to come between mid-January and mid-February." Dr Jugal Kishore, the head of the community medicine department at the Safdarjung Hospital, said the number of coronavirus cases and the positivity rate are bound to increase, but will not translate into mortality. "What we can say is that 60 per cent to 70 per cent of the present cases could be related to Omicron, while the rest could be due to other variants. The transmission occurs because of proximity. In winter, people are indoors and meeting each other in a close-knit environment, and even the number of influenza cases rise during this period," he said. The senior doctor also said till the time the panic button is not pressed and the situation is managed well, there will not be an issue. "All kinds of disasters are results of a system failure. The government should formulate guidelines on proper management. Those who are suffering from issues like a severe headache or fever should go to hospitals while the rest should manage at home and should not even go for testing. After testing positive, the person will panic trying to grab hospital beds and medicines," he said. Babu said those who have not been vaccinated and have not been infected with the virus are more susceptible and it is that population that needs to be looked after. Kishore echoed similar views and said that while vaccination does not mean one would not contract the infection, it certainly reduces the severity of the infection.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/with-steady-rises-in-cases-omicron-likely-to-peak-in-delhi-by-february-2022-say-experts-1065277.html
27-12-2021||North and Central||ED attaches assets in Chennai Port Trust fraud case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Monday said it has attached assets worth Rs 5.74 crore in connection with a money-laundering probe linked to alleged fraud in the Chennai Port Trust. The case pertains to some suspects submitting "fake" fixed deposit receipts with the port trust. "By retaining the original fixed deposits receipts, they (accused) had fraudulently liquidated the fixed deposits within a couple of days after the opening of the FDs," the ED said in a statement. "It was found that an amount of Rs 45.40 crore was fraudulently transferred to a fake current account in the name of Chennai Port Trust.  "Around Rs, 15.25 crore was withdrawn by cash from the said current account by impersonating as deputy director, finance of the Port Trust," it said. The rest amount of Rs 31.65 crore was transferred to several bank accounts through more than 49 transactions and subsequently withdrawn as cash from those accounts by "luring the account holders in lieu of small commission," it said. The agency has attached 47 properties including 230 acres of land, 20 plots, gold, vehicles and some bank deposits as part of a provisional order issued under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). The total value of these assets is Rs 5.74 crore. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ed-attaches-assets-in-chennai-port-trust-fraud-case-1065292.html
27-12-2021||North and Central||Security forces arrest 2 Jaish-e-Mohammad terrorists in Pulwama||Security forces arrested two overground workers of terror outfit Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) in Pulwama district of Jammu and Kashmir on Monday, police said. According to a police spokesperson, the arrested men have been identified as Adil Ali and Asif Gulzar. "Security forces have arrested two terrorist associates linked with proscribed terror outfit JeM and recovered incriminating materials from their possession," the police spokesperson said. "Incriminating materials of the proscribed terror outfit, JeM, were recovered from their possession," he added. The spokesperson said a preliminary investigation has revealed that the arrested men were in touch with JeM commanders and involved in providing logistics, shelter as well as arms, ammunition and explosive materials to the members of the outfit to strengthen the terror networks operating across Budgam district.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/security-forces-arrest-2-jaish-e-mohammad-terrorists-in-pulwama-1065293.html
27-12-2021||North and Central||Moderate intensity earthquake jolts Kashmir||A moderate intensity earthquake measuring 5 on the Richter scale shook Kashmir on Monday but no loss of life or damage to property has so far been reported from anywhere. Met Department Director Sonam Lotus said: "An earthquake measuring 5 on the Richter scale occurred in J&K at 7.09 PM. "The epicentre of the earthquake was in J&K region and its coordinates are latitude 35 degrees 68 minutes north and longitude 75 degrees 31 minutes east. "The intensity of the earthquake was moderate." No report of loss of life or damage to property has been received from anywhere so far, administrative sources said. Kashmir is situated in a highly earthquake prone region. Past quakes have wrought havoc in the Valley. Over 50,000 people were killed on both sides of the Line of Control (LoC) when an earthquake measuring 7.6 on the Richter scale hit J&K on October 8, 2005. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/moderate-intensity-earthquake-jolts-kashmir-1065305.html
27-12-2021||North and Central||J&K government signs MoUs worth Rs 18,300 crore with country's real estate investors||The Jammu and Kashmir government on Monday signed 39 Memorandum of Understandings (MoUs) worth Rs 18,300 crore with the country's real estate investors for the development of housing and commercial projects. Outsiders - those not classified as ‘permanent residents’ - had earlier been barred from purchasing or owning land but this was changed after the Centre scrapped Article 370 in August 2019, thereby removing special status for J&K. Terming the signing of the MoUs at J&K Real Estate Summit in Jammu as “historic”', J&K Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha said it is a major step towards transformation of the union territory (UT). An official spokesperson said that titans of India’s Real Estate sector, including promoters in residential, retail and commercial space, entertainment industry, tourism and hospitality, logistics and warehousing and financing institutions came together for the growth of J&K at the first-ever ‘Real Estate Summit-2021’. In presence of Hardeep Singh Puri, Union Housing & Urban Affairs Minister and J&K LG, 39 MoUs worth Rs 18,300 crore were signed to foster growth and development in the UT, he said and added it includes investments in the residential, commercial, infrastructure, and film sectors. Puri said that real estate, being the second largest employer in the country, will create innumerable opportunities for economic growth in J&K. “The natural endowments in the UT of J&K and resilience of its people are second to none in the world which now need to be translated into economic development, prosperity and ease of living,” he said. The Lt Governor announced that the next 'Real Estate Summit' will be organised in Srinagar on 21 and 22 May 2022. “Development of local businesses is imperative in scripting the growth story of J&K. Besides national players in real estate, local developers of J&K will also be at the focus of this new dawn of development of the real estate sector in the UT,” he added. The real estate companies which have signed MoUs include Signature Global, Samyak Group, Raunak Group, Hiranandani Constructions for housing projects. Chalet Hotels Limited signed a MoU for hospitality. Raheja Developers, Goel Ganga, GHP Group and Shree Naman Group signed initial pacts for housing projects. However, local protesters and regional political parties have accused the Centre of “putting J&K up for sale.” Just a few kilometres down the road, there were protests against the summit and demands for the restoration of constitutional safeguards and statehood. "J&K is being put up for sale. They are trying to change our demography, history, identity and culture. We don't accept any such development which changes the character of J&K. They are auctioning J&K," Sunil Dimple, President of Mission Statehood J&K, said. J&K National Conference spokesperson Imran Dar called the summit “as yet another despicable measure to deprive people of Jammu and Kashmir of their rights.” "Such measures expose the sinister plans which the ruling dispensation is up to in J&K,” he said in a statement. “It is also a brazen attempt of RSS-BJP to use J&K for scapegoat widespread economic failures, farmer issues, and raging unemployment across the country," he alleged. J&K Apni Party, which is believed to be a proxy of the BJP, too rejected the summit and called it “undermining the Domicile Law.” Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-government-signs-mous-worth-rs-18300-crore-with-countrys-real-estate-investors-1065315.html
27-12-2021||North and Central||Sidhu says MLAs can make cops 'wet their pants'; police officer sends defamation notice||Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu has courted controversy while praising two party members, allegedly saying that they are capable of making policemen wet their pants. Former chief minister Amarinder Singh and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Daljit Singh Cheema slammed him over the purported remark and a Chandigarh police officer sent him a defamation notice. "I have sent a defamation notice to him for humiliating the police," Chandigarh Deputy Superintendent of Police Dilsher Singh Chandel said. A sub-inspector also issued a video message condemning the remark. Congress MP from Ludhiana Ravneet Singh Bittu has backed the policemen and praised them for their role during militancy and Covid-19 times. The controversy erupted after Sidhu, at a recent rally in Sultanpur Lodhi while pointing towards sitting MLA Navtej Singh Cheema, said he can "make a 'thanedar' (policeman) wet his pants". He repeated the remark at a rally in Batala on Sunday while praising local leader Ashwani Sekhri who was standing by his side. When reporters asked him about his remark, Sidhu indicated that it should not be taken literally. He said it's a way of saying the Congress "wields authority". A video clip of Sidhu making the remark went viral on social media inviting sharp reaction from some police officials and political leaders. Punjab Lok Congress president and former chief minister Amarinder Singh said it was sad that the men in uniform were being disrespected. "Sad to see our men in uniform being disrespected. 1700 @PunjabPoliceInd personnel sacrificed their lives to bring the state out of the dark days and now they are being mocked by @INCPunjab leaders & above all their President. Shameful! A leader must give respect to earn respect," Amarinder Singh said in a tweet. SAD's Daljit Singh Cheema questioned the "silence" of Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and Home minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa over Sidhu's remark. He asked both of them to tell Sidhu that he should refrain from making such a remark and ask him to withdraw his statement and seek apology from the police. Chandigarh DSP Chandel dubbed Sidhu's remark as "shameful". "It is very shameful that such a senior leader uses these words for his own force and humiliates them," Chandel said. "This is the same force which protects him (Sidhu) and his family," he said in a video message. He even dared Sidhu to return his force deployed for his protection. "Without (security) force, even a rickshaw puller will not listen to him," he said. "I strongly condemn this remark and he (Sidhu) should not use such words for his force. The force has its own dignity and respect and it is our responsibility to maintain this dignity," he said. In a video message, Sub-Inspector Balbir Singh, posted in Jalandhar (Rural), said, "Such language was used by a senior leader against us, I strongly condemn it." He also requested the Punjab DGP not to allow the image of police to be affected. "We live with our families in the society and our children question us why such language is being used against us," Balbir Singh said. He said this remark was not against any 'thanedar' but against the entire police force. "I want to tell Sidhu Sahib that we are not cowards. We are brave and the whole country knows about the tales of our bravery," he said as he recalled the role of police against militancy. Without caring for their own lives, the personnel of the Punjab police provided food to the needy at their homes during the Covid-19 outbreak, he added. Commenting on the videos of the Chandigarh DSP and the sub-inspector, Ludhiana MP Bittu lauded the Punjab police for its role in eliminating terrorism from the state. Bittu, whose grandfather and the then chief minister Beant Singh died in a bomb blast in 1995, said, "Some videos of a DSP and sub-inspector have gone viral. First of all whatever has been said about the police, I seek apology," he said. "I know it is Punjab police personnel, from senior IPS officer to the constable level, which did not care for their own lives and curbed terrorism with iron hand," Bittu wrote on his Facebook page. Bittu said during the Covid-19 outbreak, the police force personnel took food to the homes of people. Referring to the Ludhiana court bomb blast, he said it was the Punjab police which reached the spot first. "How will they protect people if we use wrong words against them. It was very important that we stand by them," he said. "We are proud of you and we salute you," he said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sidhu-says-mlas-can-make-cops-wet-their-pants-police-officer-sends-defamation-notice-1065335.html
27-12-2021||North and Central||Previous regimes never told us about our heroes, taught us about Akbar and Babar instead, says Gorakhpur MP||Gorakhpur MP Ravi Kishan on Monday alleged that previous governments never told people about their revolutionaries and heroes and made them read about Akbar and Babar instead. He said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi's dream is to revive the stories of "our heroes and revolutionaries, the pages of which had been torn out of history books".  "The previous governments did injustice to us. They never told us about our heroes and revolutionaries. They obliterated our heroes. They taught us about Babar, Akbar... We were kept away from the truth," he said at the launch of the three-day Kashi Film Festival.  Uttar Pradesh's Minister for Tourism, Culture and Religious Affairs Neelkanth Tiwari said that Prime Minister Modi "put an end to four-five problems the country had been facing so that it could be taken towards Ram Rajya".  These issues, according to Tiwari, included triple talaq, Article 370, Ayodhya dispute and the lack of a provision to grant citizenship to refugees from Pakistan.  "Prime Minister Modi brought an end to the Ayodhya dispute which had been going on for 500 years. He ended Article 370 because of which Kashmiri Pandits, the owners of that land, became homeless... A large number of women in India had been bearing the brunt of the practice of triple talaq," he said. "The prime minister ended a problem that started at the time of Partition. A person who raised slogans of 'Vande Mataram' would be forced to say 'Pakistan Zindabad' (after Partition). He would get three choices -- either accept Islam, kill himself or leave the country. When he would come to his motherland, he won't get citizenship," Tiwari said. Kishan also tried to delink the film festival from the upcoming Uttar Pradesh polls, saying the Modi government inaugurates one thing or the other through the year. The film festival in the Lok Sabha constituency of the prime minister is also the first film festival in Uttar Pradesh.  Those who attended the inaugural function included Kishan, Anupam Kher, Raju Srivastava, actor-director Satish Kaushik, and filmmakers Madhur Bhandarkar, Rahul Mitra and Ashok Pandit. The Uttar Pradesh government is holding the film festival in collaboration with the Union Ministry of Information and Broadcasting.  Union minister Anurag Thakur will attend the festival on Tuesday. Mathura MP Hema Malini would give a cultural performance on its second day. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/previous-regimes-never-told-us-about-our-heroes-taught-us-about-akbar-and-babar-instead-says-gorakhpur-mp-1065336.html
27-12-2021||North and Central||'BJP to play role of senior partner in alliance with Amarinder, Dhindsa'||The BJP is likely to play the role of senior partner in its alliance with Amarinder Singh's Punjab Lok Congress and Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa's SAD (Sanyukt) in Punjab, and the coalition is unlikely to project any chief ministerial face in the run-up to the election, sources said on Monday. Former Punjab chief minister Singh and former Union Minister Dhindsa on Monday met the BJP top leadership, including Union Home Minister Amit Shah and party president JP Nadda here. After the meeting at Shah's residence, the BJP's Punjab incharge and Union Minister Gajendra Shekhawat formally announced that all three parties will contest elections and will come up with a common manifesto. "A meeting attended by Union Home Minister Amit Shah, BJP president J P Nadda, Amarinder Singh and Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa was held here. And it was decided that the BJP, Singh's party and Dhindsa's party will jointly contest upcoming assembly polls in Punjab," Shekhawat told the media after the meeting. Shekhawat said a joint committee will be formed comprising two leaders from each party to finalise a seat-sharing agreement and a vision document. Asked about the chief ministerial face of the coalition, Shekhawat later told PTI that the election will be contested "under the collective leadership of the alliance". "BJP usually contests election in the name of Prime Minister Narendra Modi," he said, adding that the party does not project any face for the post of chief minister. He also underlined that the seat-sharing agreement will not be based on the party's previous alliance with the Shiromani Akali Dal in Punjab. "BJP is a national party which has won two Lok Sabha elections back to back and its base has expanded across the country so the alliance in Punjab will not be based on the seat distribution formula of its previous alliance with the Akali Dal in Punjab," Shekhawat said. The minister also said the vision document will focus on all pending issues of Punjab and also of Sikhs. Sources in the party said the BJP will play the role of senior partner in the border state and may contest more than of half the 117 seats. BJP leaders expressed confident that with elections in Punjab becoming a five-cornered fight, with various farmer outfits having entered the fray in addition to the Congress, SAD and the AAP, will work in its favour. Singh formed his own party, the Punjab Lok Congress, days after he resigned as the chief minister and quit the Congress. Earlier, one of the BJP's oldest allies, the SAD, moved out of the NDA over the issue of farm sector laws.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-to-play-role-of-senior-partner-in-alliance-with-amarinder-dhindsa-1065348.html
27-12-2021||Oasis||The bigger picture in life||They were both successful and famous men, but this did not prevent them from taking regular lessons in humility. William Beebe, the naturalist, used to often visit President Theodore Roosevelt at Sagamore Hill. After an evening’s talk, the two men would walk across the lawn to look up at the starry sky. Gazing at the Great Square of Pegasus, one of them would recite, ‘That is the Spiral Galaxy of Andromeda, which is as large as our Milky Way. It is one of a hundred million galaxies. It is 2500,000 light-years away. It consists of one hundred million suns, many larger than our own sun.’ This was followed by a moment of silence, after which Roosevelt would grin and say, ‘Now, don’t you think we are small enough? Let’s go to bed.’ An inspiring experience, but it is not the prerogative of a fortunate few. Every clear night, the sky, the stars and the moon are waiting for the gaze of anyone who turns his or her head skywards. And what an extraordinary sight it is that confronts one – millions of mysterious beings, winking and blinking and arousing a multitude of thoughts and emotions! Two important factors however take centre-stage. First, the vast panorama that spreads itself out brings into focus the immensity of creation. Our personal, limited views of Life are overshadowed and dwarfed. We are catapulted into a new and wondrous plane of existence. Nature is much vast and greater than it appears in everyday, mundane living. Each one of us is a mere speck in this grand design of creation and pride in ourselves and what we have achieved has little relevance in the eternal scheme of things. Nothing so reminds us that it is only humility that brings us peace of mind. Second, we see the importance of interconnectedness. Nothing exists on its own. An invisible chain connects both living and non-living things. For instance, the sun it is that brings warmth and life and all the heavenly bodies stay in their orbits. Our status as a child, spouse or parent depends entirely on relationships. It is compassion and kindness that keep us going. Gazing at the cosmos shows us the truth of the bigger picture. It is mentally liberating and spiritually humbling!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/the-bigger-picture-in-life-1065010.html
27-12-2021||Opinion||Off the record: December 27, 2021||Din over debate and disruption There seems to be no ceasefire between the government and the Opposition over the suspension of 12 Rajya Sabha MPs even after the Parliament’s Winter Session is over. The war of words is on with the Rajya Sabha Secretariat and senior Ministers Piyush Goyal and Pralhad Joshi on one side and Congress Chief Whip Jairam Ramesh on the other. After Leader of Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge found fault with the government and Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu, there has been strong rebuttal from the ruling BJP. As Ramesh took command of the fightback, the government has singled him out in an official statement. The latest is a tweet from Joshi who tweeted a video of the “unruly” scenes in Rajya Sabha that led to the suspensions and said Ramesh’s colleagues chose disruption over debate. Ramesh was again quick to hit back saying the “illegal release” of CCTV footage was proving his point. “You mustn’t lose your way spreading lies to please NaMo... Repeating what I said on December 16 in the House — if the government is accommodative, then the Opposition is responsive,” Ramesh says. Shemin Joy, New Delhi Confluence of Manipuri-Tamil culture Manipur and Tamil Nadu governments have initiated steps to promote exchange between Manipuri and Tamil cultures. As part of the move, the art and culture department of Manipur on Sunday organised a function titled ‘Cultural Confluence of Tamil and Manipuri’ in Imphal East district to mark the death centenary of Tamil poet Mahakavi Subramania Bharati. Hidam Himachal and S Nabachandra Sharma of Manipur presented the prayer song written by Bharati and translated into Manipuri by Bijoykumar Tayenjam, Manipur Governor who took part in the function, La Ganesan said that the birth centenary celebration of M K Binodini of Manipur would be held at Chennai in February as a cultural exchange programme. Moreh, a town in Manipur, bordering Manipur has Tamilians. Sumir Karmakar, Guwahati ‘World Pheran Day’ and a filmy post ‘Pheran’ (a traditional woollen gown worn during the winters) is a dress of a unique type that is not found in other places in the country or world. In recent years, people in the Valley have celebrated December 21, the first day of ‘Chillai Kalan’ (the 40-day harshest winter period), as ‘World Pheran Day.’ However, this year, the celebrations were all over social media. It seemed almost as if many of those who celebrated the day were wearing pheran for the first time. Marking the occasion, actor Anupam Kher, who is a Kashmiri Pandit, also took to Instagram and shared a picture of him wearing ‘pheran’, taken from his upcoming film The Kashmir Files. Zulfikar Majid, Srinagar Mumbai’s ‘visionary’ Mayor! Ever since the Covid-19 pandemic broke out, Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar does perhaps have the most hectic schedule. As she turned 60, coinciding with Christmas, Pednekar, a former nurse, set an example for many to emulate. Kishori Tai, as he is popularly known, made a personal donation of Rs 1 lakh to the Vision Foundation of India (VFI) to perform free eye surgeries for 100 persons.“I turn 60 on 25 December…this year, I have been blessed with a grandson. In the spirit of serving the people as I am graced with the double joy, I have taken this step...” the senior Shiv Sena leader said. “The less privileged persons suffering from cataracts, glaucoma, poor eyesight or other vision problems shall get the necessary treatment at VFI without discrimination,” Pednekar said. Mrityunjay Bose, Mumbai Ajit Pawar’s postcard to President At a time when an email is considered the best mode of communion, Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister and senior NCP leader Ajit Pawar has sent a postcard to President Ram Nath Kovind, pressing on the long-pending issue of according the ‘classical language’ status to Marathi. The 62-year-old Dada, as he is popularly known, who is the nephew of NCP founder-president Sharad Pawar, often uses unconventional methods to make his point. In the neatly-typed postcard, Pawar has pointed out that although the Centre had taken the decision in 2004 — around 17 years ago — to confer the ‘classical language’ status to various languages, Marathi language has been ignored. “Marathi is not only an ancient language but also the state language, used by litterateurs, intellectuals, by people of religion besides the common masses, and ranks among the major languages in the world,” said Pawar, the No 2 in the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government. Mrityunjay Bose, Mumbai||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/off-the-record-december-27-2021-1065007.html
27-12-2021||Opinion||Deocha-Pachami coal mine: Industry, displacement and CPI(M)-TMC role reversal||"This land belongs to you, and if there is coal, gold or diamond underneath, that too belongs to you. None else has a right to it. Protect your land like you protect your children." Curiously enough, the recent statement is from a leader of the Communist Party of India (Marxist), a party that had pushed hard to acquire farmland for private industrial projects in West Bengal in 2006-07 during its seventh and final term in the government. The CPI(M)-led Left Front government lost its three and a half-decade rule primarily due to the anti-displacement movements led by Trinamool Congress (TMC) chief Mamata Banerjee. But the CPI(M) has never conceded that its industrialisation drive was a mistake. According to the review of the 2011 Assembly election debacle by the party's Central Committee, the Singur and Nandigram events were "used effectively against the CPI(M) and the Left Front by the TMC-led combine to propagate that the Left Front government would snatch away the lands of the farmers." It stated that "the administrative and political mistakes in this regard proved costly." The point, which needs noting, is that the review did not mention the word "ideological". Instead, in 2016, the CPI(M) candidate in the Singur assembly, also a member of its Central Committee, started his campaign riding a Nano car, ostensibly to remind voters of the opportunity they lost. In February 2021, ahead of the Assembly elections, another Central Committee member, Sujan Chakraborty, who was also the leader of the Left parliamentary party in the assembly (2016-2021), symbolically laid the foundation stone for an industry in Singur. "By this symbolic act of laying the foundation stone in Singur, I declare our pledge for taking the responsibility of industrialisation and employment (should we come to power)," Chakraborty said at the Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI) organised event. The DYFI is the CPI(M)'s youth wing. Fifteen years after Banerjee found in Singur the issue for her resurgence from political nadir, the CPI(M) has not changed its position on Singur. But its Rajya Sabha MP Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharya's recent speech addressing the tribal population of Deocha-Pachami echoed the tone and content of Banerjee's speeches of that time. "I want to tell the police that if they try to terrorise you (people), if goons are employed, I urge local women to make good use of their sticks. Thrash whoever comes to you. If there are police cases, I will take care of those. Keep your sticks close to your hands and use them to thrash anyone who comes to (threaten) you. It has now been decided that there will be no displacement," said Bhattacharya on December 18, 2021. He had served as the last CPI(M) mayor of Kolkata (2005-2010) and led the Left Front government's legal battle over Singur in the courts. The event was not organised under the party's banner but the "Save Democracy" platform, which the Left and Congress have backed. Veteran Congress leader Abdul Mannan, who served as the leader of the opposition in the last assembly, was also present. They addressed a gathering of the local tribal population on a field at Dewanganj village in Deocha-Pachami. The Mamata Banerjee government wants to build one of the country's largest coal mines at an investment of Rs 35,000 crore and possible international collaboration. Now, the TMC is keen on this project that would require the displacement of 21,000 people and the closure of 27 stone quarries and 285 crusher units where about 3,000 people work. The government has announced a Rs 10,000 crore compensation package, and many consider it better than the Left Front government's package during Singur-Nandigram. Unlike the Tata Motors' plant or the Salem group's chemical hub, which were entirely private industrial projects, this is a proposed public-private partnership project. Here the West Bengal Power Development Corporation Limited plays the leading role. The coal extraction is expected to meet the state's own power generation requirements and give it a surplus.  The TMC government has learnt lessons from the 2006-07 agitation and tried to preempt some of the points of concern. It has attempted to resolve issues related to disputed land ownership, the lack of documentation and updating of records over the past year. Apart from owners of houses, stone quarries, land and crusher units, the compensation and rehabilitation package has considered tenant farmers and seasonal agricultural labourers and the workers (mostly casual) at existing quarries and crusher units. Albeit, many consider this inadequate. It has offered a one-time payout of between Rs 10 lakh to Rs 13 lakh per bigha (0.33 acre), another Rs 5.5 lakh for relocation-related expenses, a 600 square feet home at a rehabilitation colony with all civic facilities, junior police constable jobs to one member from every family losing land or home and the families of tenant farmers engaged with those land plots. The number of job beneficiaries has been estimated at 4,942 persons. Nevertheless, there are many people who, due to a set of reasons, are unwilling to accept the package and relocate. Some are apprehensive about the promises, and their realisation, mainly due to people's experiences in areas like the Asansol-Raniganj mining belt of the neighbouring Paschim Bardhaman district. There is a general lack of trust regarding government promises, irrespective of the party in power. Issues like land price or size of the house at rehabilitation colony were matters of a bargain. Some had environmental concerns regarding open cast mining. "Even 300 metres deep mines cause incidents of caving-in in the neighbourhood of mines. Here, we hear it will be 800-100 meters deep. Even areas outside the mines will be affected," Harinsingha resident Dulal Mardi told this journalist.  The government, sensing this reluctance among the local people in relocating, has been buying time but certainly not wasting it. It has employed a strategy different from that of the Left during Singur-Nandigram. The TMC plans to leave the resistance leaderless by employing the age-old carrot and stick policy. It has inducted two of the key organisers of the resistance programme into the party and entrusted them with convincing people about the project's benefits. One of them is the influential tribal leader Sunil Soren. He had joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in 2019 and served as the general secretary of Birbhum district BJP's Yuva Morcha. The other is the local BJP leader Subhrangshu alias Khokan Choudhury, a general secretary of the BJP's Birbhum district committee. One reason these leaders switched camps is the BJP's reluctance to overtly back them in opposing the project because the Union government's policy is to increase annual coal production. But just like in Singur-Nandigram, smaller political, human rights and environmental organisations (mostly left-leaning) are coming together in support and solidarity with the local anti-displacement protesters. The CPI(M) appears keen to find a place among them, just like the TMC did in 2006-07. In response to the Save Democracy event, the TMC on December 23 organised a meeting and a rally at the same venue, with Sunil Soren seen in the front. The rally came under attack from local women opposed to the project, subsequent to which policemen allegedly lathi-charged the protesting women. The TMC's pro-industry rally at Dewanganj appeared similar to those conducted by the CPI(M) in Singur and Nandigram in 2006-07 as part of the 'area dominance exercise'. However, the reporting of the Dewanganj event in the CPI(M)'s Bengali mouthpiece, the daily Ganashakti, reflects sympathy, if not support, for the anti-displacement protesters.  Meanwhile, the police have filed a case of unlawful Assembly naming nine organisers of Deocha Pachami Adibasi Janajati Bhumi Raksha Committee for organising the event involving Save Democracy. "We have taken bail from the court. They can't silence us, neither with rewards nor threats," Sunil Murmu, one of those named in the police case, said. The TMC, by no means, wants this project stalled, even though the party does not want a repeat of scenes like Singur-Nandigram, especially since Banerjee is eyeing a bigger role in national politics. It remains to be seen how the government moves ahead with the project without reaching a flashpoint. (The writer is a journalist based in Kolkata) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/deocha-pachami-coal-mine-industry-displacement-and-cpim-tmc-role-reversal-1065125.html
27-12-2021||Panorama||The minimum age of marriage and challenge of unclear laws||On Dec 15, 2021, the Union Cabinet cleared the proposal for increasing the minimum age of marriage for women from 18 to 21 years. While the decision may be lauded from the point of view of equality as the legal age of marriage for a man and woman would become the same, there is a need to look at the practical implications of this decision as well.  The provision will accomplish little unless the issues under the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006 (PCMA) and personal laws are resolved, combined with the implementation of the existing laws. In 2006, the legislature, in order to curb this menace, enacted the PCMA. Section 2(b) of the PCMA provides that child marriage is one where either of the parties (male or female) is a child and Section 2(a) further defines a child as a male under 21 years of age and a female under 18 years of age. For practical reasons, the PCMA makes a child marriage voidable at the option of the party who was a child at the time of marriage, instead of making it null and void. According to UNICEF data, at least 1.5 million girls under the age of 18 get married every year in India. In 2020, the number of child marriages saw a surge of 50%, according to National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) data, with 785 cases registered under the PCMA. While the increase in reporting of child marriage is praiseworthy, the stark difference of actual and registered number of cases is clear. The majority of cases are not registered for several reasons, including acceptance of the solemnisation of child marriages, lack of legal awareness, non-cooperative authorities and some flaws in the law itself. The ramifications of child marriages are countless. The child bride is at risk of being subjected to domestic violence, abuse and sexually transmitted diseases. Pregnancy under the age of 18 puts both the mother and the infant at risk. A report found that women who get pregnant under the age of 18 have at least a 35% higher risk of delivering a preterm child. The Maternal Mortality Rate from 2016-18 was 113 per 1,00,000 live births in India. Complex and unclear laws According to the Hindu Marriage Act, 2005 (HMA), for a marriage to be valid, the bridegroom has to be a minimum of 21 years of age and the bride 18. At the same time, the HMA provides a contradictory provision wherein it allows a female married before the age of 15 to file for divorce under Section 13(2)(iv) of the HMA. A divorce can only be granted for a valid marriage. Moreover, the child bride has to repudiate the marriage between the ages of 15 to 18 years. This validation of child marriage by the HMA is in direct conflict with the provisions of the PCMA which makes it voidable. Fortunately, the Supreme Court in 2017 resolved the issue by holding that the PCMA would override the HMA in Independent Thought v Union of India and that child marriage will be considered voidable. The provision of Section 13(2)(iv) is similar to the concept of an option of puberty in Muslim law, wherein a child bride may repudiate her marriage if it was contracted when she was a minor. However, the general rule is that child marriage among Muslims is legal and was validated by the SC in the case of Shafin Jahan v Ashokan KM (2018), wherein the SC held that marriage among two Muslims on attaining puberty is valid and legal. In a recent case in Punjab and Haryana High Court, the court held a marriage between a 17-year-old girl and a 36-year-old man as valid. Therefore, while Independent Thought vs Union of India has cleared the position of PCMA vis-à-vis HMA, the status of special law like PCMA with respect to Muslim law is still unclear. The PCMA provides punishment for a male above the age of 18 years who contracts child marriage. This is highly problematic as this would mean that a male between 18 to 21 years of age would be punished if, in a rare instance, he tries to report his own child marriage. This shows the lack of logic and clarity in the PCMA. As far as the HMA is concerned, on the one hand, it validates child marriages but on the other, it provides punishment for it under Section 18, which is again contradictory and confusing. In fact, Section 18 was amended in 2007 to increase the punishment after the enactment of the PCMA. However, no other change was made in the status of such marriages. More than anything else, such ambiguities and contradictions add to the lack of understanding of legal provisions among common citizens which further makes justice inaccessible. The proposal is intended to empower women by giving them time to complete their education, decreasing the maternal mortality rate, improving reproductive health, etc. However, there is a dire need to understand the root cause of this continuing menace, which is societal perception. There is a need for awareness about the risks of child marriage, including the mother and infant mortality rate, and the dangers of domestic violence and abuse. Further, the laws need to be clearer, unambiguous and strictly implementable. (The writer is a student at National Law University, Jodhpur) Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/the-minimum-age-of-marriage-and-challenge-of-unclear-laws-1065009.html
27-12-2021||Right in the Middle||Silence, like cancer, grows||Recently in one of my WhatsApp groups, a friend had posted a newspaper article that was critical of the government. Another friend quickly endorsed some of its views, while lamenting the shrinking public space for free speech. Within a few minutes, there was a flurry of activities. A professor in the group said it would be better to stay off ‘politics and controversial' issues as he preferred to operate in a ‘safe zone’. Another professor, in tune with the former’s views, expressed his worst apprehensions. "Don’t forget, we are being watched… let’s discuss only art and literature, nothing more." My head started to reel, literally. As a teacher myself, I couldn’t fathom what was going on. This is a forum that has highly educated academics as members, teaching in some of the prestigious institutions in India. For one thing, the expression ‘safe zone’ (as if there’s any) baffled me. Secondly, the novel idea that art and literature could be discussed keeping politics at a distance was a new revelation. A barrage of questions hit me hard. How are literary and political theory courses taught? Surely George Orwell’s 1984 and Animal Farm are still a part of many literature courses in India. In addition, plenty of dystopian fiction is taught these days in many colleges and universities. Are Derrida, Marx, and Foucault still discussed in literature classes? Is postcolonialism taught keeping politics out of its purview? Can students grasp Jeremy Bentham’s idea of panopticon without grasping what is happening around them? How are students to make sense of Simone de Beauvoir or Arundhati Roy sans the politics behind their works? Was Toni Morrison wrong when she eloquently said “the best art is political and you ought to be able to make it unquestionably political and irrevocably beautiful at the same time”? Can art and literature really be apolitical? I was haunted by these questions all through the day. I began to reflect on the role of academics particularly of those in the arts and humanities stream. If in a private forum, teachers are fearful of freely expressing their views, how genuine will the classroom interaction be? Not connecting art and literature to the social realities of life, in my view, would be a big disservice to the profession and to the discipline itself. Sadly, the chasm between theory and praxis seems to be widening as a result of the latent fear within. Isn’t it ironic that academics who wax eloquence in class over Tagore’s Where the mind is without fear prefer to observe stoic silence outside? I think the time has come to recognize and appreciate the import and relevance of Elaine Showalter’s prophetic words “our role and subject are not cleanly detached from the world but messily entangled with it.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/silence-like-cancer-grows-1065003.html
27-12-2021||Second Edit||Karnataka govt should clear the air on number plates||The Karnataka government should immediately clear the confusion over high-security registration plates (HSRP) with an increasing number of motorists complaining of harassment by traffic police especially in Bengaluru. These registration plates are tamper-proof as they are fixed on vehicles with non-reusable snap-on locks and contain details of the engine and chassis number. While ensuring uniformity, HSRP makes theft difficult and tracking the vehicles easier. While in due course this rule will apply to all automobiles, as of now it is applicable only to vehicles registered after March 2019. However, constables insist on imposing fines even on old vehicles during routine checks often leading to arguments with motorists. Though Bengaluru Police Commissioner had issued a clarification last year following outrage on social media after Byatarayapura traffic police tweeted that HSRP would henceforth be mandatory for all vehicles, the confusion continues to persist. Additional Commissioner of Police (Traffic) B R Ravikante Gowda says action will be taken against policemen demanding fines from old vehicles if motorists lodge a complaint. But a better way of dealing with the issue would be to sensitise the personnel down the line to the applicability of the rule. It is also possible that policemen insist on implementing this non-existent rule for extraneous reasons, knowing its limitations fully well. Though the Home Minister and Police Commissioner have repeatedly stated that traffic police are not permitted to randomly flag down vehicles to check documents, this is followed more in the breach. With a high monthly target being set for the collection of fines, lower-rung officers complain that they have no option but to neglect their core duty of regulating traffic and instead station themselves at street corners to pounce upon unsuspecting motorists and book them for various violations. The confusion over HSRP appears to have only helped them hound motorists, particularly those who are not aware of the exact contours of the new rule. The state government has missed several deadlines to make HSRP applicable to all vehicles, though tenders were first floated nearly a decade ago. There is a need to evolve a comprehensive policy as changing the existing number plates of about 2.10 crore vehicles registered prior to March 2019 would only end in chaos unless all loose ends are tied up first. But for now, the government and the police should issue clear instructions so that the current rule is not misused to harass vehicle owners. It is also important that police personnel return to their basic responsibility of managing traffic instead of acting as mere fine collection agents of the government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/karnataka-govt-should-clear-the-air-on-number-plates-1065004.html
27-12-2021||South||Tamil Nadu doctors want education institutions to shift to online mode amid Omicron scare||The Tamil Nadu Government Doctors' Association has requested Chief Minister M K Stalin to shift school and college classes purely to online mode. In a representation to the Chief Minister, the association's president Dr K Senthil said that the Omicron variant of the Covid-19 is a super spreader and spreads four times faster than the earlier Delta variants. He said that school and college students attending classes physically would act as super spreaders and to prevent that, classes are shifted to online mode. The doctors' body said that this was the right time to bring in restrictions as the variant spreads fast and if not acted now, it would be late and the spread would leave a large number of people affected by the disease. The association also said that the health infrastructure at the present level may not be able to handle the heavy spread of disease if a super spread happens and called upon the government to prevent that. In the representation, the doctor's body said that safe distancing, wearing of masks and usage of sanitisers and frequent washing of hands with soap has to be continuously practiced and no lethargy be shown in any of these. The association also requested the Chief Minister to prevent all forms of gatherings, including marriage functions, religious celebrations, and attendance in death mourning and funerals to prevent the spread. It also welcomed the decision to provide booster doses or preventive doses to senior citizens, health care professionals, and Covid -19 front line warriors as well as children in the age group of 15 to 18 years. Dr K Senthil also called upon the government to stockpile all the essential medical infrastructure necessary to handle emergency situations including Oxygen cylinders, PPE kits for health care professionals and medicines for acting in tough situations. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-doctors-want-education-institutions-to-shift-to-online-mode-amid-omicron-scare-1065145.html
27-12-2021||South||6 Naxals killed in encounter on Chhattisgarh-Telangana border||At least six Naxals were killed in an encounter with security forces in the Chhattisgarh-Telangana border area on Monday morning, police said. The skirmish took place between 6 am and 7 am in a forest in the Kistaram area of Chhattisgarh's Sukma district, located over 400 km from the state capital Raipur, they said. Six ultras, including four women, were killed in the gun-battle with the special anti-Naxal Greyhounds unit of the Telangana Police, a senior police official posted in Bastar said. A joint team of the District Reserve Guard and the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) from Sukma was also out on the operation in the area as auxiliary support to the Greyhounds team, he said. “As per preliminary reports, bodies of six ultras, including four women, belonging to the Kistaram area committee of Maoists, were recovered from the spot,” the official said, adding that the operation is still underway. Terming the operation as a huge success, Sukma Superintendent of Police Sunil Sharma claimed security forces inflicted a heavy blow to the Kistaram area committee of Maoists, which had been instrumental in carrying out various deadly attacks in the past. “There are total five area committees of Maoists operating in Sukma. In the last six months, security forces have been successful in effectively controlling the activities of the Kerlapal and Konta area committees,” Sharma told PTI. Top cadres from the Kerlapal area committee surrendered in the last year while in August this year, a local organisation squad (LOS) commander and his deputy from the Konta area committee were killed in an encounter with the Sukma police, he said. "Now that the Kistaram area committee has been significantly decimated, the next target will be to neutralise two other committees - Katekalyan and Jagargunda," he added. Earlier in the day, Telangana's Bhadradri Kothagudem district Superintendent of Police Sunil Dutt said the ultras were killed in a joint operation of the Telangana and Chhattisgarh Police and the CRPF. He said they received a tip-off that Maoists were trying to attack the security forces and combing was stepped up in the area. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/6-naxals-killed-in-encounter-on-chhattisgarh-telangana-border-1065155.html
27-12-2021||South||MVA govt to take action against Kalicharan Maharaj for abusing Mahatma Gandhi||The Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government has assured to take action against Kalicharan Maharaj, a Hindu religious leader, for using abusive language against Mahatma Gandhi. Akola-based Kalicharan Maharaj, while addressing the conclusion session of  two-day 'dharma sansad' at Ravan Bhata ground in Raipur, the capital of Chhattisgarh, on Sunday, used derogatory language against Mahatma Gandhi, and also praised his assassin Nathuram Godse.  The issue figured in the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly with members from both Treasury and Opposition benches being unanimous over action against Kalicharan Maharaj.  “I assure that there would be action (against Kalicharan Maharaj)…the MVA government would gather information and strong action would follow,” Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar told the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly.The matter was raised in the lower House by state Minority Affairs Minister Nawab Malik of the NCP.  State Congress president Nana Patole, senior BJP leader Sudhir Mungantiwar and Relief and Rehabilitation Minister Vijay Wadettiwar of the Congress also spoke on the issue.  “The derogatory language made by Kalicharan Maharaj….the ‘farzi baba’ has gone viral on social media platforms. You can differ from Bapu’s ideology but how can the killer of Gandhiji be glorified…over the last seven years this is happening…temples (of Nathuram Godse) are being built…let's take action and set an example,” said Malik. "The farzi baba may have spoken elsewhere (Raipur)...but he is based in Akola in Maharashtra," he said and urged the Chair for action against Kalicharan Maharaj. “Mahatma Gandhi is ‘maha manav…there are statues of Gandhiji in 56 counties and such insulting language is used,” said Wadettiwar pointing out the incident.  “We agree that there should be strict action against such statements,” added Mungantiwar. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/mva-govt-to-take-action-against-kalicharan-maharaj-for-abusing-mahatma-gandhi-1065170.html
27-12-2021||South||50 migrant workers held over Christmas violence in Kerala||Fifty people were arrested in connection with the Christmas day violence in Kizhakkambalam area of Ernakulam district and produced before a magisterial court here, police said on Monday. On Saturday night, Christmas day celebrations by migrant labourers from the north east part of India at Kizhakkambalam turned violent, leading to several policemen being brutally assaulted and two police jeeps badly damaged, with one set on fire. Eight policemen, including a Circle Inspector, were injured in the violence and subsequently, police lodged two cases -- one for the assault on the officers which also includes attempt to murder charges and the other for destruction of property -- and arrested 50 people in connection with the incident. It had initially taken 150 people into custody on Sunday morning itself. Rural SP K Karthik had said that two cases have been lodged in connection with the incident on December 25 night and the investigation was going on to identify all those involved in it and to collect evidence. Visuals of the violence which went viral on social media showed a large group of people surrounding the police vehicles, climbing on top of them, pelting them with stones and then thrashing them with sticks, leaving the vehicles in shambles. Subsequently, after the policemen retreated to safety, the workers set fire to one of the vehicles. Kitex Managing Director Sabu Jacob, had later told the media over the phone, that "the workers had brutally assaulted the police officers, including a Circle Inspector, who had reached the spot to resolve the arguments between two groups of labourers on Saturday night." He had said that initially the camp security and the supervisors tried to intervene and resolve the issue, but they too were assaulted and thereafter, the police were called. However, when the police arrived, the "uncontrollable" workers brutally attacked the officers. Jacob had further said that there was no criminal intent behind what happened and claimed that drugs were brought into the camp and some of the workers were probably under its influence, leading to them becoming "uncontrollable". He had also said that his company would cooperate with the investigation. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/50-migrant-workers-held-over-christmas-violence-in-kerala-1065179.html
27-12-2021||South||Liquor worth Rs 65 crore sold on Christmas Eve in Kerala||Liquor worth Rs 65 core was sold in Kerala on Christmas Eve, which was Rs 10 crore higher than that of the sale on Christmas Eve in 2020. An outlet in Thiruvananthapuram city recorded the highest liquor sale on the day of Rs 73 lakh, followed by another shop at Chalakkuddy in Thrissur district that sold liquor worth Rs 70 lakh. Sources in the Kerala State Beverages Corporation, which is the sole liquor distributor in Kerala, said that the Rs 10 crore increase in liquor sales compared to that of previous year was mainly due to a price hike in liquor during this year. With regard to the quantity there was not much increase, details of which was only being compiled. In the coming days also the state will be witnessing high liquor sales in view of new year celebrations. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/liquor-worth-rs-65-crore-sold-on-christmas-eve-in-kerala-1065219.html
27-12-2021||South||Rajiv Gandhi assassination: Nalini Sriharan comes out on month-long parole||Nalini Sriharan, one of the seven convicts in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case, was on Monday released from the Central Prison in Vellore on month-long parole to take care of her ailing mother. Nalini was released from the prison on Monday morning, days after the Tamil Nadu government told the Madras High Court that it has decided to grant parole to the life convict based on a petition filed by her mother Padmavathi. Padmavathi had sought the presence of her daughter, Nalini, citing her ill-health. Nalini, whose husband Murugan is also a convict in the sensational case, will stay with her mother at a rented accommodation in Brahmapuram near Katpadi in the Vellore district. This is the second time Nalini has been granted ordinary parole after she spent 45 days with her UK-based daughter to discuss her marriage and find a groom for her. The release of Nalini on parole comes close on the heels of the Tamil Nadu government extending the parole of another convict Perarivalan, who is out of prison since May this year. Numerous petitions filed by Nalini seeking her early release citing her “good conduct” in jail have been rejected by courts in the past 15 years. The Tamil Nadu Cabinet headed by the then Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami had in 2018 recommended the release of the seven convicts but the then Governor Banwarilal Purohit sat on the file for two years before informing the Supreme Court that he has forwarded the same to the President. The release of the seven convicts is an emotional issue in Tamil Nadu with almost all regional parties supporting the cause, while Congress and BJP oppose the move. As there was no forward movement, Nalini moved the Madras High Court in October this year seeking her release from prison without waiting for the Tamil Nadu governor’s decision on the state cabinet resolution recommending the release of all seven convicts in the case. Filing a detailed affidavit last month, the Tamil Nadu government urged the Madras High Court to reject Nalini’s petition suggesting that the Governor’s nod is mandatory for her release. The government, in the affidavit, suggested that the approval of the Governor on the recommendation of the Cabinet was necessary for Nalini’s release from the jail. Chief Minister M K Stalin had in May this year written to President Ram Nath Kovind seeking his immediate decision on the release of the seven convicts. Rajiv Gandhi was assassinated by an LTTE suicide bomber on May 21, 1991 minutes before he was to address an election rally in Sriperumbudur. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/rajiv-gandhi-assassination-nalini-sriharan-comes-out-on-month-long-parole-1065239.html
27-12-2021||South||Kitex violence snowballs into political row against Twenty20 political forum in Kerala||The clashes and attack on police by a section of workers of the Kitex group of companies in Kerala seems to have come as a shot in the arm politically for the ruling CPI(M) and the opposition Congress as the mainstream political parties were quite concerned over the growth of the Twenty20 political forum initiated by Kitex group managing director Sabu M Jacob. While the police arrested 164 workers, mostly migrants, in connection with the clashes and attack on police at Kizhakkambalam on the suburbs of Kochi on Saturday night, the Congress demanded that the company's managing director Sabu M Jacob should be also held legally liable. The police imposed serious offences like attempt to murder police officials against the workers as five police personnel were attacked, one police vehicle torched and four other police vehicles damaged. Many workers were allegedly under the influence of drugs and liquor. Meanwhile Sabu Jacob alleged that only 13 workers were involved in the clashes and some of those arrested could not be identified by him. He also alleged that the government was trying to settle political scores with him by arraigning around 150 innocent workers. Those involved in the clashes coud be identified from CCTV camera footages, he said. Sabu Jacob had recently locked horns with the Left Front government as well as the opposition Congress. Agitated over frequent inspections from various government agencies at his firms on complaints like pollution and flouting of labour norms, Sabu alleged that Kerala was not investor friendly and backtracked from a Rs 3,500 crore investment proposal. The Congress had also raised allegations of pollution against Kitex group. But Sabu Jacob was maintaining that the CPI(M) and Congress were settling political scores over the growth of Twenty20. Twenty20 forum was initiated by the Kitex group as part of its CSR activities. It entered politics in 2015 by winning the Kizhakambalam panchayat. In the 2020 local body elections the forum won four more panchayats. It fielded candidates in seven Assembly seats and came third in two. While Twenty20 claims to have made much development in the Kizhakambalam panchayat, there were allegations that the developments were aimed at benifitng the firm and issues like pollution were being covered up. Concerns were also expressed against the growth of a political party controlled by a corporate firm. In this backdrop the CPI(M) and the Congress might be using the present violence by Kitex workers at Kizhakambalam panchayat as an opportunity to step up the fight against Twenty20. Congress MP Benny Behanan said that Sabu Jacob should be also held responsible as the anti-social elements nurtured by him unleashed the violence. A section of local people of Kizhakambalam was also raising protest against the frequent law and order problems created by the Kitex group workers, mostly migrant workers. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kitex-violence-snowballs-into-political-row-against-twenty20-political-forum-in-kerala-1065258.html
27-12-2021||South||1.19 kg gold concealed by passenger in rectum seized at Hyderabad airport, case filed||Customs officials at Hyderabad's Rajiv Gandhi International Airport on Monday recovered 1.19 kg gold from a passenger who had concealed it in his rectum. The male passenger arrived from Dubai to Hyderabad by flight number 6E-25. According to officials, the passenger had concealed the gold in a paste form inside his rectum. The gold, weighing 1.19 kg and valued at Rs 59.23 lakh, was recovered and seized. A case of gold smuggling was filed against the passenger. This is the latest in a series of gold smuggling cases detected at Hyderabad Airport this month. In all the cases, passengers had smuggled in gold from Dubai. This is the second case this month of smuggled gold concealed by passengers in their rectum. On December 10, the Customs officials recovered 7.3 kg gold, valued at about Rs 3.6 crore, from four Sudanese who had concealed it in their rectums. The passengers, including two women, had arrived from Dubai. On December 13, Customs officials had seized 316.40 grams of gold from a passenger who arrived from Dubai. The man had concealed the gold valued at Rs 15.71 lakh in a voltage up-down AC converter. The Customs officials had detected and seized 244.150 grams of gold, valued at Rs 12.04 lakh, from a male passenger who arrived from Dubai on December 18. The gold was concealed in check-in baggage. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/119-kg-gold-concealed-by-passenger-in-rectum-seized-at-hyderabad-airport-case-filed-1065263.html
27-12-2021||South||Kerala imposes night curfew from December 30 to January 2||Concerned by the spike in the number of Covid-19 Omicron cases, the Kerala government has decided to impose a night curfew from December 30 to January 2. So far, 57 Omicron cases have been reported in Kerala while the active Covid-19 caseload was 21,224, with 1,636 more positive cases being reported on Monday. In a Covid-19 review meeting, chaired by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, the state decided to impose the night curfew. New Year celebrations will not be also allowed beyond 10 pm, with hotels, clubs and bars allowed to accommodate only fifty per cent of the seating capacity. The curfew will last till 5 am. Apart from enhancing Covid-19 vaccination drives, steps to distribute ayurvedic and homoeopathic medicines that boost immunity would be also taken. Anticipating a surge in Covid-19 cases by January-end, steps to enhance oxygen production and storage were also being taken, said a statement from the CMO. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-imposes-night-curfew-from-december-30-to-january-2-1065284.html
27-12-2021||South||Slum tenement collapses in north Chennai, 24 families evacuated beforehand||Twenty-four families had a miraculous escape as the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board tenement they were living in collapsed on Monday morning. A major tragedy was averted as the families were evacuated from their houses minutes before the collapse, after the residents noticed cracks on the four-storied building.  The incident took place at the D Block of the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board (TNSCB) apartment complex in Tiruvottiyur of north Chennai on Monday morning, with the building coming down like a pack of cards. Residents said the building collapsed within a half-hour of their evacuation.  As the residents noticed cracks in the buildings, they informed the local DMK leader who alerted TNSCB officials, following which they were evacuated within a few hours. However, much of their belongings were damaged completely in the incident.  Chief Minister MK Stalin announced an aid of Rs 1 lakh each to the families. He also said the government will provide alternate accommodation to the 24 families soon. In a statement, the CM also said the government will examine the stability of old buildings of the TNSCB to ensure such incidents do not recur.  TM Anbarasan, Minister for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME), who was deputed by Stalin to oversee the rehabilitation of those affected, said the building was constructed in 1993 and sustained damage due to prolonged usage. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/slum-tenement-collapses-in-north-chennai-24-families-evacuated-beforehand-1065301.html
27-12-2021||South||Over 600 ended lives over lack of job opportunities since 2014, claims Telangana BJP chief||Telangana BJP chief Bandi Sanjay said that around 600 youngsters ended their lives over lack of job opportunities since the state's formation in 2014. Bandi threatened that the BJP cadres would lay siege to the state assembly if the K Chandrasekhar Rao government fails to issue job notifications for all vacant posts in the state by January-end. The Karimnagar Lok Sabha MP sat on a day-long protest 'Nirudyoga-deeksha' in Hyderabad on Monday, accusing the TRS government of driving the educated Telangana youth over the edge. “There is no Group-1 notification in the past seven years, not even one job offered in the past three years. And in reverse, CM Rao has removed 12,000 vidya volunteers, 7,000 field assistants and 22,000 sanitation workers,” the BJP leader said. Bandi stated that in 2014, the CM had announced in the assembly that there are 1.07 lakh vacancies in the state. Even the Biswal committee, constituted by Rao, had submitted that there are 1.92 job vacancies in Telangana. “Twenty-five lakh aspirants have registered with Telangana state public service commission for jobs. The integrated household survey earlier had shown eight lakh unemployed in the state. But Rao's son, IT and industries minister KT Rama Rao claims that the unemployment rate in Telangana is among the lowest in the country,” Bandi said. "During the elections, the CM baits youth with job notification promises but thereafter, they are forgotten. Many such men and women are supporting their families with meagre income sources by setting up tea stalls, eatable vends," Bandi said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/over-600-ended-lives-over-lack-of-job-opportunities-since-2014-claims-telangana-bjp-chief-1065330.html
27-12-2021||State||Karnataka’s first ever rollout of electric buses for public transportation||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Monday flagged off the state's first ever rollout of electric buses for public transportation. J BM Auto Ltd., will supply 90 electric buses to Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) for its first electric bus project. "The JBM ECO-LIFE electric buses will be running under the metro feeder services in the Smart City initiative. Earlier this year, JBM Auto had received an order of 90 non-AC electric buses for the city of Bengaluru," JBM said in a release. Stating that 25 buses have been flagged off today out of the first batch of 40 electric buses delivered by the company to BMTC, it said the remaining 50 e-buses will be delivered in the coming months. "This e-bus service marks the first ever rollout of electric buses in the state of Karnataka. These buses shall be operated from the Kengeri, Yeshwantpur and KR Puram bus depots," it added. Noting that the non-AC buses have a seating capacity of 33 passengers and a driver, JBM said these buses are equipped with six Lithium Nickel Manganese Cobalt Oxide (NMC) battery packs that make the buses compatible to cover a distance of 120 kms on a single charge with a maximum speed of 70 kmph. These buses incorporate all modern features like Real Time Passenger Information System (PIS), Panic Buttons for emergency, Automatic Bus Vehicle Location System, CCTV cameras, Public address system, Stop request buttons to name a few, it said. JBM’s ECO-LIFE electric buses have been running successfully for the last two years in Navi Mumbai under Navi Mumbai Municipal Transport Corporation (NNMT). A total of 30 ECO-LIFE buses are a part of the NNMT. Earlier this year, JBM supplied 90 and 15 electric buses in Ahmedabad and the Andaman and Nicobar Islands respectively.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-s-first-ever-rollout-of-electric-buses-for-public-transportation-1065339.html
27-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka MLAs frown as govt discards file tracking portal||An online portal that tracked movement of files in government departments has been taken down by the Bommai government, angering legislators who say they are having a hard time finding out the status of their pleas now. The Sachivalaya Vahini portal — which was put in place in October 2011 under the Online Digital Government Communication (ODGC) project — showed where and with whom every file and letter received by the government was.  The Sachivalaya Vahini's main beneficiaries were legislators, who are overloaded with requests from their constituents to keep tabs on tapals, a government parlance that refers to letters or mail. Personal assistants of MLAs would find out the officer concerned handling the file and follow up. The government has said that it is coming up with a new citizen portal that will replace Sachivalaya Vahini, but legislators are unhappy.  “Our PAs are the ones who track these and they’re not able to get any information,” Nelamangala MLA Dr K Srinivasamurthy, who raised this in the Assembly, said. As an example, he gave the example of the e-khata issue in his constituency. “There are properties that aren't able to pay tax because they aren’t being given e-khata,” he said, adding that his staff is not able to track letters sent to the government on behalf of citizens. “Sachivalaya Vahini was closed as physical files have no meaning now because of the implementation of e-Office,” Additional Chief Secretary (e-Governance) Rajeev Chawla told DH.  Under e-Office, all files are scanned and uploaded onto the system for further transactions. Besides saving reams of paper, e-Office cuts manual movement of files and ensures speedy clearances. All secretariat offices have moved to e-Office. From October 1, deputy commissioners, zilla panchayat chief executives and others started moving all files to government secretaries through e-Office only.  Former IT minister Priyank Kharge, who pushed the use of e-Office when he was in office, said ‘inexperienced’ PAs struggle to find out the status of files. “On top of that, there's a black box and we don't know what's happening now,” the Chittapur MLA said.  Seema KP, director, e-Office project, said the new portal is under development. “We have requested the NIC to provide the application programming interface,” she said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-mlas-frown-as-govt-discards-file-tracking-portal-1065051.html
27-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Dream big, 'reconvert' Pakistanis to Hinduism: Tejasvi Surya||Bangalore South MP Tejasvi Surya set social media abuzz as he asked Hindus to “dream big” and "reconvert" Pakistanis to Hinduism.  The BJP leader also said that temples and mutts should set a target of converting people of other faiths back to Hinduism. Speaking at the “Vishwarpanam” event at Krishna Mutt in Udupi, on Saturday, Surya said, “We should start dreaming big. We should start audaciously dreaming of the impossible and achieve it.” And “what is dreaming big?” “It’s not just reconverting those Muslims or Christians near our homes. It should be our priority to convert those Muslims in today’s Pakistan to Hinduism,” Surya said, adding that when it happens “we will have Pakistan back in our geography”. “This may seem impossible today as abolishing Article 370 and constructing Ram Mandir seemed earlier,” he said. Such ‘ghar wapsi’ drive, he said, should begin from Karnataka as the state had a history of stopping the “intrusion and invasion from Mughals and other external forces in South India”. Coming against the backdrop of the Assembly passing the controversial Anti-conversion Bill recently, these remarks went viral on social media on Sunday. JD(S) IT wing head Prathap Kanagal took a dig at the MP’s remarks, asking whether the Anti-Conversion Bill was not a hindrance to such a move. “Bangalore south, are you not ashamed for voting this man to Parliament. Clearly, education does not mean intellect!” wrote Twitter user Anand Srinivasan. “Tejasvi Surya is promising. He just needs to continue his hard work a(n)d gain more administrative skills. He has the possibility of becoming the future PM of India. If he does, it would be great,” wrote Nitin B. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/dream-big-reconvert-pakistanis-to-hinduism-tejasvi-surya-1065053.html
27-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Anti-conversion bill: Complaint lodged against Bommai, others||A complaint has been lodged against Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, state Home Minister Araga Jnanendra, Speaker Vishveshwara Hegde Kageri and all BJP legislators in connection with presenting of the controversial Karnataka Protection of Right to Freedom of Religion Bill, 2021 popularly known as the anti-conversion bill. The complaint has been lodged by a social activist R. Manaiah with Lingasugur police station in Raichur district, police said on Monday. The complainant has sought legal action against all state BJP honchos in his complaint. The complainant has stated that the ruling BJP while tabling the Anti-conversion Bill has shown the people of the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe communities in poor light. "The Anti-conversion Bill has shown the people of these communities as vagabonds, beggars and portrayed them to be the ones who get converted to other religions with the lure of money, cloth, enticements and acts of donations," the complainant stated. The complaint has sought action in this backdrop for portraying particular communities in bad light in the Karnataka Protection of Right to Freedom of Religion Bill recently presented in the Assembly session. When the Bill was presented by the state Home Minister Araga Jnaendra, all BJP MLA's banged on their desks in the Assembly welcoming the Bill in the House. The complainant has sought in the complaint that action should be initiated against the Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai and others. The complainant has asked for registration of the case against all of them under the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989. The controversial Anti-conversion Bill was passed by voice vote in the Assembly on December 23 in the recently concluded Belagavi winter session. The Bill is yet to be presented in the council. Law Minister Madhu Swamy has stated that the government has an option to get the Bill passed in the council during the next legislature session to be held in January or February of 2022. In case of delay of session, the option of promulgating the ordinance will be taken. The government can promulgate an ordinance of the pending Bill if it is not rejected in any of one of the two Houses. But, it must get the approval of the legislature for the Bill in the immediate next session after promulgating the ordinance. Meanwhile, the Congress has announced that it would do whatever it takes to defeat the Bill even after promulgation of the ordinance. The party has also stated that it would repeal the Bill as soon as it comes to power. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/anti-conversion-bill-complaint-lodged-against-bommai-others-1065108.html
27-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka man arrested for supplying drugs to girl, sexually exploiting her||A man who sexually exploited a girl for years by luring her with narcotics, was arrested on Monday in Surathkal in the district. The accused has been identified as Mohammad Shareef (47), a resident of Katippala near Surathkal. According to the police, after the victim's mother came to know about the exploitation, she lodged a complaint at the Surathkal police station. She alleged that Mohammad had been supplying her daughter drugs and sexually exploiting her for the last four years. On December 22, he had made a phone call to the victim and asked her to come near Big Bazar, close to Lalbagh area from where he took her to an undisclosed location and sexually exploited her again. Based on the complaint, the cops then arrested Mohammad. Sources close to the victim's family revealed that the police had been informed earlier also but no action was initiated against the accused person then. They said that the accused had tried to lure the victim into drug peddling and they have sought the help of the police and activists to bring her out of the nexus. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-man-arrested-for-supplying-drugs-to-girl-sexually-exploiting-her-1065227.html
27-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||World Bank to help Karnataka take up drinking water project in three cities||The World Bank has approved additional financing of $150 million to the ongoing Karnataka Urban Water Supply Modernisation Project (KUWSMP) in Hubballi-Dharwad, Belagavi and Kalaburagi cities. The project is aimed at providing piped drinking water supplies to households in these three cities. The World Bank’s partnership with the Government of Karnataka for urban water reforms started in 2004. Support of about $52 million was first extended to the state to bring continuous and reliable piped water supply to about 230,000 people in specific ‘demo-zones’ on the outskirts of three major cities: Hubballi-Dharwad, Belagavi and Kalaburagi. At this time only 34-60 per cent of residents in these cities were connected to piped water supply for about two hours every three days, and the water needed to be disinfected before being consumed said a statement from the World Bank. Further support of $100 million was extended under the KUWSMP to move towards a continuous (24x7) water supply for the entire population in these three cities. The additional finance will further help the state achieve its ambitious vision of becoming the first state in India with these cities having a city-wide reliable and continuous safe water supply, said the statement. “In Belagavi, Hubballi-Dharwad and Kalaburagi, the establishment of modern water utilities is aimed at ensuring universal and continuous access to water supply, regardless of income level and housing status, ” said Junaid Ahmad, World Bank's Country Director in India. The project aimed at benefiting more than 2.8 million people. Under the project, the municipal corporations in each of the three cities will establish a city water company which, in the long term, will be responsible for managing water services in the city. This will consolidate water sector responsibilities and ring-fence revenues. In addition, sanitation services will gradually be integrated into each city water company. “The Karnataka Urban Water Supply Modernization Project and the additional financing will ensure that this work will be scaled up city-wide.” Andreas Rohde, World Bank’s task team leader for the project said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/world-bank-to-help-karnataka-take-up-drinking-water-project-in-three-cities-1065253.html
27-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Dead lizard in sambar, 80 students fall sick in Karnataka||As many as 80 school children fell sick on Monday after consuming sambar in which a dead lizard was found in Venkatapura Tanda village near Ranibennur in Haveri district of Karnataka. The incident took place in the Government Primary school of Venkatapura Tanda. The children fell sick after consuming midday meal. All of them have been rushed to the government hospital in Ranibennur town. According to sources in the education department, the condition of two of the children is stated to be "critical". The rest 78 students have recovered after initial treatment. Eye witnesses have told authorities that when midday meal was being served to the students at the school, one of the boys was served sambar with a dead lizard. On seeing the lizard, the boy alerted others and immediately started vomiting. Soon, other students also started to fall sick. The district administration has directed the authorities to take appropriate action on negligence by the school authorities. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/dead-lizard-in-sambar-80-students-fall-sick-in-karnataka-1065259.html
27-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Congress will scrap anti-conversion law if voted to power: Siddaramaiah||Karnataka Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah on Monday said the Congress, if voted to power, will revoke the anti-conversion law that the BJP government wants to introduce in the state.  “Once we come to power, let there be no doubt that we will revoke the anti-conversion law within a week or in the first session of the legislature,” Siddaramaiah told reporters.  The Karnataka Protection of Right to Freedom of Religion Bill was passed in the Legislative Assembly and is awaiting clearance from the Legislative Council.  “The only intention behind the law is to polarize voters and emotionally mislead them away from burning issues like unemployment, corruption, hunger and poverty,” the Congress leader said, adding that IPC Section 295 is enough to curb ‘forced’ religious conversion.  The former chief minister also clarified that the Congress government did not go ahead with the draft of the Anti-conversion Bill, countering the BJP’s claim during the recent Assembly session.  “The law commission then prepared a draft. In 2015, I did sign the file asking the draft to be placed before the Cabinet. Later, when the file went to social welfare minister H Anjaneya, I asked him to reject the draft and got the file closed. The BJP is filled with liars,” he said.  It was the BJP government, in 2009, that initiated the process of this law based on a petition by RSS-linked leaders. “Former chief minister BS Yediyurappa had admitted that it was his government that took it up. And, RDPR minister KS Eshwarappa admitted that the law was brought at the behest of the RSS. So, what role could we have played,” he asked.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/congress-will-scrap-anti-conversion-law-if-voted-to-power-siddaramaiah-1065327.html
27-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid ex-gratia: Karnataka received 25,000 claims against 38,000-plus deaths||Out of 38,195 Covid deaths as on November 30 this year, Karnataka was able to elicit applications from the family members of only 25,601 (67%) for providing them with a compensation of Rs. 1.5 lakh (Rs. 1 lakh if BPL, 50,000 if APL). The Directorate of Social Securities and Pensions said the problem was profound in urban areas where the only link between the state and the deceased patient's family was the mobile number provided (which was untraceable) or just the name of the residence area provided without the full address. Out of the received applications, direct benefit transfer to bank accounts has happened in 23,821 cases. DH spoke with families of those who'd received the cheques. They spoke of starting small home businesses and funding their children's education with the money. Sathish Kumar DM, Director, Directorate of Social Security and Pensions, Revenue Department, told DH, "Irrespective of whether the family is below the poverty line (BPL) or above the poverty line (APL), they can get Rs. 50,000 as announced by the central government (to be paid from the state disaster relief fund). If it is a BPL family, they're eligible for Rs. 1 lakh from the state government." "So, totally, a BPL family has a chance to get Rs. 1.5 lakh. But out of 25,000 odd applications, some 3,000 or 4,000 applications came from the families themselves. All other applications were made possible after respective district officials themselves contacted these families," he said. He pointed out that districts with greater numbers of urban areas had fewer compensation claims while districts with higher numbers of rural areas had relatively more compensation claims. "In Bidar, for example, claims were received for all 356 deaths. In Bagalkot, out of 314 deaths, applications were received for 297. But in Bengaluru Urban out of 1,919 deaths, claims were received only for 584 deaths. In BBMP, out of 12,591 deaths, claims were received only for 7,977 deaths," he explained. Jayashree A, 37, a resident of Attiguppe, lost her husband A Diwakar to Covid on May 2. A security guard, his income provided for his daughters education who are in class 6 and SSLC currently. Jayashree works as a cook in a paying guest accommodation. She received a cheque of Rs. 1 lakh from CM Basavaraj Bommai on Monday.  "I took a loan of Rs. 3 lakh for my husband's Covid treatment which I am yet to repay. While I have to work and take care of that, this compensation will help with my daughters' school fee," she said, teary-eyed. Geetha G, a resident of Bapuji Nagar, lost her 56-year-old husband Mahendra, a welder, on May 6. While his younger daughter is a BCom student, his older daughter just began working in a mobile showroom as an accountant. She is also among the ones to receive a cheque of Rs. 1 lakh from the CM. "This will help me start a small home business of sarees," she told DH.   Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-ex-gratia-karnataka-received-25000-claims-against-38000-plus-deaths-1065332.html
27-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports 289 new Covid cases, four deaths||Karnataka logged 289 cases of Covid-19 and four deaths on Monday, taking the total number of infections to 30,04,876 and the toll to 38,316. The day also saw 254 discharges, taking the total number of recoveries in the state so far to 29,59,082. Bengaluru Urban continued to top the state in number of cases (172). The city also saw 155 discharges and two deaths. The total number of active cases in the state is now 7,449. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 0.49 per cent, the case fatality rate was 1.38 per cent. Besides the deaths in Bengaluru Urban, one fatality each was reported from Kodagu and Uttara Kannada. Among the districts, Kodagu reported 37, Tumakuru 15, and Dakshina Kannada accounted for 12 cases. Cumulatively a total of 5,60,56,875 samples have been tested in the state so far, out of which 58,495 were tested on Monday. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-289-new-covid-cases-four-deaths-1065354.html
27-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Wrong questions appear in II PU mid-term exams||The recently concluded mid-term examinations for II PUC reportedly had wrong questions in the question papers of several subjects. Following the objections and grievances raised by students at the district levels, the department of pre university education has decided to drop the wrong questions from the evaluation. The department has directed the deputy directors of pre-university education (DDPU) to drop wrong questions from the evaluation. As per the details available from the department, highest mistakes were in the question paper bundle supplied to Dakshina Kannada district. This year the department had set the question papers at the state level and supplied separate set of question papers to each district. All these years the question papers were set by the principals’ association and examination was conducted at the college level. “Most mistakes appeared in English, Accountancy, Mathematics and Chemistry subjects. The evaluation has been completed in some colleges and it is a double work for lecturers as they have to re-do it now,” said a principal of a private unaided college in Bengaluru. The annual II PU exams are likely to be delayed by a month. Following shortage of academic days to complete the syllabus, the department is thinking of conducting the examination in April. Every year the board exams used to be conducted in March. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/wrong-questions-appear-in-ii-pu-mid-term-exams-1065355.html
27-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||CM Bommai chooses traditional medicine for knee treatment||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai underwent traditional medicine (Naati) treatment for his knee pain for 10 days during the recently concluded winter session of legislature here, sources said. The photos and video clips of the chief minister availing of the alternative therapy at VTU guest house on the outskirts of Belagavi have gone viral. The Mysuru-based alternative medicine practitioner Lokesh Takel is said to have treated the CM for 10 days. Bommai will undergo Ayurveda (Vanaspati) treatment for next one month, sources said. Speculations are rife in the party circles that Bommai would travel to the United States, post-Sankranti, for his knee treatment. His Cabinet colleague R Ashoka, however, dismissing rumours of Bommai going abroad for knee treatment, said that the chief minister would avail of the treatment in Bengaluru itself. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cm-bommai-chooses-traditional-medicine-for-knee-treatment-1065357.html
27-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Cattle slaughter cases in Karnataka up by 67% since 2019||Karnataka has seen a 67 per cent rise in cases of illegal transportation of cattle to slaughterhouses since the BJP came to power in 2019, according to government data.  The rise in cases coincides with the enactment of stringent amendments to the Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Act earlier this year.  There were 245 cases in 2019, which went up to 354 in 2020 and 411 this year. These are cases related to transportation of cattle - defined as cow, calf of a cow and bull, bullock of all ages and he or she buffalo below the age of 13 years - for the purpose of slaughter. The new Act prohibits transportation of any cattle from any place within the state to any other place within the state or outside for slaughter. Transportation is allowed only for bona fide agricultural or animal husbandry purposes. According to data, many of these cases have been booked in Bengaluru Urban, Ramanagara, Mysuru, Mandya and Shivamogga among other districts.  “As soon as illegal transportation of cattle is reported, local revenue authorities are informed and the animals are taken to cattle sheds for safety,” Home Minister Araga Jnanendra said in a statement to the Legislative Council.  The new law imposes a blanket ban on the slaughter of cows in the state, forcing farmers to either take care of cows even after they become barren, or simply abandon them. The only slaughter allowed is of terminally-ill cattle. Also, buffalo above the age of 13 years can be slaughtered with permission. The government has promised one goshala in every district. So far, the government has identified land for the goshalas in 19 districts, whereas this process is still underway in the remaining 11 districts. Of the 19 districts where land has been made available, the largest goshala will be located on 98.45 acres in Dakshina Kannada, according to Animal Husbandry Minister Prabhu Chauhan. At present, there are 190 private goshalas.  Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cattle-slaughter-cases-in-karnataka-up-by-67-since-2019-1065359.html
27-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||2008 Bengaluru blast: HC dismisses pleas of 3 booked under UAPA||The high court has dismissed the petitions filed by two persons from Kerala and another person from Madikeri, in connection with two cases registered against them under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA), 1967.  The case against the petitioners was of threatening the complainants for giving evidence against People's Democratic Party (PDP) leader Abdul Nasir Madani and T Nasir, accused in the 2008 Bengaluru serial blast case. The criminal petitions were filed by K K Shahina, a resident of Kochi, Suber Padupu, a resident of Kasargod and Ummar Moulvi, a resident of Yalavidahalli in Madikeri taluk. The petitioners claimed that the sanction granted for their prosecution was defective. The Principal District and Sessions judge, Madikeri, had rejected their applications seeking discharge from the cases in 2018. The complainants K B Rafiq and Yoganand, both from Somwarpet taluk, stated that Shahina and her accomplices had threatened them on November 16, 2010 of dire consequences for giving oral evidence against Abdul Nasir Madani and T Nasir. Appearing for the state government, Additional Advocate General R Subramanya submitted that the sanctioning authority has perused the documents and other materials relied upon by the prosecution before according to the sanction order. The court dismissed the petitions noting that petitioners cannot go into the mind of the authority to say that they have not reviewed the material or the authority has not followed the procedure as mentioned under sub-section 2 of Section 45 of UAPA at the time of sanction. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/2008-bengaluru-blast-hc-dismisses-pleas-of-3-booked-under-uapa-1065360.html
27-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Power under Section 25 KLR Act only for revenue courts, not individual revenue officers: HC||The high court has said that a revenue officer cannot constitute himself as a revenue court just because he holds an office, not inferior in rank to that of a tahsildar.  A division bench observed this while passing an order in an appeal. The appeal was filed by Taluk Panchayat, Chamarajanagar, challenging the order passed by a single judge with a direction to make entries of the names in the record of rights by way of inheritance khata. The name of the owner of the property was abruptly deleted by the revenue authorities and proceedings were initiated for getting the names re-entered in the RTC. The deputy commissioner, Chamarajanagar district, sitting as a revenue court, ordered the restoration of the names in November 2006 under Section 136 (3) of the Karnataka Land Revenue Act. Subsequently, a succeeding deputy commissioner passed another order in June 2007 under Section 25 of the Act rejecting the revision application. A division bench, comprising Justice P S Dinesh Kumar and Justice P Krishna Bhat, observed that the order passed by the first deputy commissioner, under Section 136 (3) of the Act, was not challenged before the competent authority or court. The bench said that power under Section 25 of the Act is available to be exercised only by the ‘revenue court’ and not by individual revenue officers. The court said that exercising power under Section 25 of the Act must be for the determination of any question between the state government and any person or between parties to any proceedings. As there was no proceeding pending before the deputy commissioner for an inquiry he could not, in law, be a ‘revenue court’ in the case on hand, the court said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/power-under-section-25-klr-act-only-for-revenue-courts-not-individual-revenue-officers-hc-1065363.html
27-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka hospitality industry stares at Rs 500 crore loss due to New Year celebration curbs||The hospitality industry in the state stares at a whopping loss of around to Rs 500 crore between December 31 and January 1 due to the Covid restrictions imposed by the government. Starting December 28, night curfew will be in place from 10 pm to 5 am for 10 days in the state. During this period, hotels, pubs and restaurants will be permitted to operate at 50 per cent capacity. With more than 60 star hotels and hundreds of clubs, restaurants and resorts, Bengaluru stands to bear more losses than other districts. “Most resorts and hotels in and around the city are all fully booked. Now, the government has come up with these rules. We had requested the authorities to issue the guidelines at least three weeks in advance, but we got them too late. No representative from the industry was consulted before formulating these guidelines. We are unhappy with the notification and we hope the government will reconsider,” P C Rao, president, Bruhat Bengaluru Hoteliers’ Association, said. The hoteliers continue to ask why the industry is being targeted when movie theatres, malls and public transportation are all allowed to function with 100 per cent occupancy. “This is just an eyewash to show that the government is taking some action. We do not know how this will be of any help,” most of them said. “We usually close our restaurant around 10.45 pm. But this 50 per cent occupancy rule will impact us more. We have just started to recover our losses. This will hit the business again. If people are allowed to sit next to each other for hours in theatres and public transport, why not in restaurants for 30 mins?” Deepak D N of Hotel Aditya in Mahalakshmipuram sought to know.  The hoteliers also added that if the establishment should be shut by 10 pm, then they should take their orders as early as 9 pm, which is not convenient for theworking class. “Many officegoers, taxi and autorickshaw drivers come to dinner only after 9.30 and 10 pm. What are they supposed to do?” asked Krishna Raj of Nisarga Hotel on Nrupathunga Road. With the government guidelines making RT PCR tests mandatory for the hotel employees, the owners are concerned about the costs of these tests.  “We need to spend around 20,000 to get 50 workers tested. Our workers are already vaccinated as per the government rules. Now, how to bear this additional burden on top of taking a hit to the business”, the owners said. Bars to lose more While the restobars have accepted table bookings, the bars have stocked up liquor for the New Year parties. Excise transactions worth Rs 120 crore happen during this time, according to industry sources. “Most liquor sales happen between 10 pm and 11 pm only. At restobars, only 50 per cent seating is allowed. The curfew impacts the (liquor) business from all directions”, said Karunakar Hegde, secretary, Bengaluru Bar and Restaurant Association.   Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-hospitality-industry-stares-at-rs-500-crore-loss-due-to-new-year-celebration-curbs-1065366.html
27-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka government says night curfew preemptive, experts differ||The night curfew, set to kick off from 10 pm on Tuesday, is intended to preempt any surge in cases arising from celebrations for the New Year. However, the move is not without controversy. The curfew was recommended by the state’s Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) to “ensure that the present daily reporting of about 300 cases and the Test Positivity Rate (TPR) of 0.4 per cent are kept stable.” The TAC had recommended a four-night curfew from December 30 to January 2, from 7 pm to 5 am. The government has instead opted for a 10-night curfew from Tuesday night to January 7, from 10 pm to 5 am. Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar said that the curfew will help to determine how the virus will behave in the next 10 days. “The virus cycle runs for 10-14 days. We will see if cases increase during this cycle. Even though Omicron is said to be mild, if cases increase dramatically it could result in a bed shortage and we are trying to avoid that situation in the larger interests of the people,” he said. When asked if the curfew will prevent a surge in cases over the New Year, Dr M K Sudarshan, chairman of the TAC, said: “Yes, of course. In the west now, some are imposing lockdowns (of different types),” he said. Elaborating on this, another member of the TAC, Prof (Dr) Pradeep Badanur, head of the Department of Epidemiology at Nimhans, said that a night curfew will reduce the spread of infections and transmission. “It has the added advantage of signalling an alert to the public that they should be cautious,” he added, pointing out holiday revelry such as alcohol consumption in groups has the end result of diluting Covid Appropriate Behavior. However, not all agree that a night curfew is necessary at the moment. Noted public health expert and epidemiologist Dr Chandrakant Lahariya said that different stages of test positivity rate require different measures.  “At the moment, since December 2 till there have been 560-odd Omicron cases in India. In the same period, there have been some 1.75 lakh Covid-19 cases also recorded - most of which were likely caused by Delta. Cases may rise over the next few days, but a balance needs to be struck to ensure continued economic activity,” he said. European context Experts also noted that the idea of a night curfew has a European context where there is a thriving nightlife culture. “Such restrictions are not particularly useful in the Indian context, especially in rural areas. A better measure would have been the imposition of Section 144 to reduce crowds, instead of having a blanket curfew,” Dr Lahariya said. He added that night curfew represent a patronizing approach because the government believes it needs such measures to remind people about the dangers of Covid-19.  Dr Badanur said that the net effect of the curfew will only be seen in two to three weeks. “That is when we will know if it has been a success,” he said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-government-says-night-curfew-preemptive-experts-differ-1065367.html
27-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Medical aspirants exempted from penalty this year for late surrender of engineering seats||Thousands of undergraduate medical seat aspirants in Karnataka holding on to engineering seats will be luckier this time to escape the penalty charged by the government. Citing the delay in NEET-UG counselling due to an ongoing case in the Supreme Court, higher education department has decided to exempt these students from paying penalty for not surrendering engineering seats even after the last date.  Confirming this to DH, the sources from the higher education department said that an official order will be issued with this regard in a day or two. “The file regarding this is under process and official order will be issued soon,” said a senior official from the higher education department. As per the penalty clause introduced by the higher education department, the candidates who block engineering seats and surrender them after the casual vacancy round have to pay six times the course fees as penalty. During the 2020-21 academic year as many as 168 candidates have paid the penalty and the total penalty collected by Karnataka Examinations Authority (KEA) wasRs1.18 crore. This year the two rounds of seat allotment for undergraduate engineering courses have been completed and the KEA had set December 26 as deadline for surrendering seats. But the candidates cannot give up seats as they have no clarity about medical seats. “The candidates cannot surrender the engineering seats as the lapse is not from their side this year. The NEET-UG issue is pending with the Supreme Court and we have to consider exempting them from the penalty clause this year,” stated an official. This decision by the department of higher education has come as a great relief for thousands of candidates who are waiting for the NEET-UG counseling and opted engineering seats as well for the safer side. To avoid blocking engineering seats, the state government has introduced a penalty clause. Under this, the candidates have to surrender seats before the casual vacancy round of the counseling. Meanwhile, the KEA has also requested the government to conduct a mop-up round after the first round counseling of NEET-UG to avoid going of blocked engineering seats to management pool. As per the recent announcement by the state higher education department, the last date for admissions to engineering courses has been extended till December 31. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/medical-aspirants-exempted-from-penalty-this-year-for-late-surrender-of-engineering-seats-1065371.html
27-12-2021||West||13 students of Pune college test positive for Coronavirus||At least 13 students of an engineering college in Pune city of Maharashtra have tested positive for Coronavirus, an official from the institution said on Monday. All these students, currently in the third year of the engineering course, are "largely asymptomatic" and isolated at home, said Prashant Dave, registrar of the MIT World Peace University, to which the institution is affiliated. "As we follow strict measures, we screen our students at the main gate (of the institution). During the screening, one student was found to be having runny nose and he was immediately sent back and his parents were asked to get his RT-PCR test done," the official said. After the student's test report came out positive for the Coronavirus, his close contacts were traced, he said. "A group of 25 students, including the index case (the first student who tested positive), was part of a team which was preparing for a national level competition and working together on an all-terrain vehicle at the college workshop. So, all the close contacts were traced, isolated and subjected to the RT-PCR tests. So far, 13 students have tested positive, eight are negative and results of four students are awaited," the official said. All the infected students are in home isolation and they are largely asymptomatic, he said. "We are keeping a close watch on their health and are constantly in touch with the families," the official said. All the 25 students who underwent the tests were fully vaccinated, he said. As a precautionary measure, the offline classes of this particular batch have been shifted to the online mode, he added.  Check out DH's latest videos on Covid:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/13-students-of-pune-college-test-positive-for-coronavirus-1065159.html
27-12-2021||West||Sena seeks Nitesh Rane's suspension for 'meowing' at Aaditya Thackeray||The issue of BJP legislator Nitesh Rane’s “meow…meow” taunt aimed at state’s Tourism Minister Aaditya Thackeray last week rocked the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly on Monday with the Shiv Sena demanding the former’s suspension.  Aaditya, the son of Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, however, has maintained a dignified silence on the issue.  Nitesh is the son of Union Heavy Industries Minister Narayan Rane, the bete noire of Thackeray.  Last Thursday, when Aaditya was entering the Vidhan Bhavan, Nitesh, who was at the stairs with other legislators, taunted him by making “meow” sounds. However, Thackeray ignored him and went inside.  On Monday, the lower House saw an adjournment of 10 minutes as Shiv Sena members demanded his suspension.  The junior Rane, was, however, not present in the House.  The issue was raised by Suhas Kande of Shiv Sena. "Aaditya Thackeray, being a dignified man, walked away ignoring Nitesh Rane. We will not tolerate insult of our leader," Kande pointed out. Kande was supported by Shiv Sena MLAs Sunil Prabhu and Bhaskar Jadhav, and the latter demanded his permanent suspension. Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis, however, opposed the demand of suspension. “Nitesh Rane has been reprimanded…but, suspending a member for an incident that had happened outside the House is not right," he said, adding that he does not support Rane for what he did.  State BJP President Chandrakant Patil asked why the incident which happened outside was being discussed in the House. "Did Nitesh Rane take any name?" he asked.  However, NCP leader and state Minority Affairs Minister Nawab Malik said: “It is not just the issue of the House(s) but whatever happens in the Vidhan Bhavan complex comes under (the jurisdiction) of the Speaker (and Chairman),” he said.  However, the Presiding officer ruled that a meeting of all group leaders will be held on Tuesday to ensure such incidents do not take place again. Last week also, the issue was raised in the Maharashtra Legislative Council by Manisha Kayande who had demanded an apology from Nitesh for his misbehaviour. After this, Deputy chairperson Dr Neelam Gorhe has asked the Parliamentary Affairs Ministry to inquire into the incident and report to the Council Chairman Ramraje Naik-Nimbalkar. (With agency inputs) Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sena-seeks-nitesh-ranes-suspension-for-meowing-at-aaditya-thackeray-1065160.html
27-12-2021||West||Chidambaram's calculations on Goa are awry: TMC leader||For a former Union Finance Minister, P Chidambaram's calculations are awry, Goa Trinamool leader Kiran Kandolkar said on Monday, slamming the Congress Committee's senior observer's criticism of the All India Trinamool Congress. Chidambaram on Sunday had accused the Trinamool of fracturing the non-BJP vote in Goa while adding that despite desertions by its 'leaders', 99 per cent of the Congress workers had remained loyal to the party. "As a Finance Minister, his calculation should be correct. He says 99 per cent of Congress workers are with us. Congress workers have joined the AITC because they feel that the party is not serious about winning the 2022 Assembly polls and sending the BJP home," Kandolkar told reporters. "Ninety-nine per cent of the Congress workers remain with the Congress. I am not unhappy that Mr Reginaldo Lourenco defected to the TMC. The TMC has taken a losing candidate from our hands and, if it fields him in the election, he will remain a losing candidate," Chidambaram had said in an interview. Last week, Goa Congress working president Lourenco became the latest senior leader to quit the party to join the Trinamool. Lourenco's exit came days after the Congress had formally finalised his ticket to the Curtorim Assembly seat in South Goa. A total of 16 Congress MLAs have quit the party so far, reducing the legislative strength of the party to a mere two seats. "I condemn Chidambaram's statement. it is a foolish statement and not becoming of a senior leader," Kandolkar also said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/chidambarams-calculations-on-goa-are-awry-tmc-leader-1065185.html
27-12-2021||West||Gujarat BJP MLA shares videos of party-organised cricket tourney; crowd seen violating Covid norms||Amid a rise in Covid-19 cases and the threat posed by the highly transmissible Omicron variant, a Gujarat BJP MLA on Monday shared videos on Facebook of a night cricket tournament organised by his party in which a large part of the crowd could be seen without masks and not adhering to social distancing norms. MLA Saurabh Patel, however, defended himself saying there was no Covid-19 case currently in his constituency Botad, where the tournament was held. He also said the tournament was launched nearly a month ago when the number of cases was negligible. The videos were of the tournament final played on Saturday between two wards on the ground of a government high school, and in it spectators, many without masks, can be seen running onto the pitch as part of victory celebrations. Former India cricketer Munaf Patel, along with MLA Patel, handed over the tournament trophies. Patel claimed except for the final, few people turned up and all Covid-19 norms were followed during the other matches, adding that 140 teams from his Assembly area took part in the tournament. "There wasn't so much crowd in the previous matches. People turned up in large numbers for the final, which was beyond our expectations. We decided to complete the game (so as not to disappoint those who had come)," the MLA said. Gujarat has seen a steady rise in cases in the past few days, with the active tally now standing at 948. The state's caseload is 8,29,359, including 10,113 deaths, as on Sunday evening. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-bjp-mla-shares-videos-of-party-organised-cricket-tourney-crowd-seen-violating-covid-norms-1065209.html
27-12-2021||West||Goa CM accuses TMC, AAP of spreading 'banner pollution'||Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Monday accused the Aam Aadmi Party and Trinamool Congress of spreading "banner pollution" in the state in the run up to the Assembly polls scheduled for early next year. Sawant said he had asked authorities to take strict action against these parties for such banners that have been defacing properties and public areas in the tourism-heavy state. “One of the key differences Goa is witnessing in this election is the Banner Pollution started by @ArvindKejriwal and @MamataOfficial's political parties. Pasting stickers on Public and Private property is blatant disregard for authorities as well as Goa's beauty," Sawant tweeted. The CM said he was confident people of Goa would reject such forces in the upcoming polls. Both AAP and TMC have entered the political fray in the coastal state, which was so far dominated by the BJP, Congress and some regional outfits like the GFP and MGP.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-cm-accuses-tmc-aap-of-spreading-banner-pollution-1065217.html
27-12-2021||West||Photo of PM on vaccination certificate in wider public interest: GoI||Claiming that the Prime Minister Narendra Modi's photo published on the Covid-19 vaccination certificate is in wider public interest, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has argued that these decisions fall within his jurisdiction. The MoHFW’s response came in response to an RTI query filed by Mumbai-based activist Anil Galgali.  In his application, Galgali tried to find out in an RTI application about whether the decision was taken in the cabinet to publish the photo of the Prime Minister on the vaccination certificate or whether the directions had come from the Prime Minister’s Office.  In its reply, the MoHFW said that it is the moral responsibility of the government to ensure that such important messages are published in the most effective manner to reach the public.  The reply stated that the certificate is as per the WHO norms and it gives the message of Covid-appropriate-behaviour. “These have been decided keeping all these in mind and only in the larger public interest,” the reply said.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/photo-of-pm-on-vaccination-certificate-in-wider-public-interest-goi-1065224.html
27-12-2021||West||Maharashtra local body polls postponed||In a significant development, the Maharashtra Legislature on Monday unanimously passed a resolution postponing elections to the local bodies in the state in the absence of 27 per cent political reservation for the Other Backward Classes (OBCs). With the Treasury and Opposition benches unanimous on the issue, the resolution sailed through.  The issue of OBCs political reservation is a major issue for both the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi constituents - Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress besides the opposition BJP. In the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly, the resolution was tabled by Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar which was seconded by Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis. Later, Rural Development Minister Hasan Mushrif tabled the resolution in the Maharashtra Legislative Council. Chairman Ramraje Naik-Nimbalkar sought the opinion of the Upper House over the resolution. The Council members unanimously supported the resolution following which it was passed. The Supreme Court apex had maintained the reservation in favour of OBCs in local bodies in Maharashtra cannot exceed an aggregate of 50 per cent of the total seats reserved for the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and OBCs taken together. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-local-body-polls-postponed-1065255.html
27-12-2021||West||Active Covid cases cross 10,000 mark in Maharashtra||In what rings alarm bells in Maharashtra, the total number of active Covid-19 cases  including those fighting the Omicron variant jumped past the 10,000-mark on Monday.  Concerned over the situation, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray chaired a Cabinet meeting to review the emerging scenario. “On 8 December, we had 6,200 active cases whereas today we have over 10,000 active cases," Thackeray said ahead of the New Year festivities when large crowds are expected to be on the streets for celebrations.  On Monday, 1,426 cases and 21 deaths were reported, taking the progressive total to 66,59,314 and 1,41,454, respectively.  During the day, 26 cases of Omicron variant were reported taking the progressive total to 167.  The government may also rethink continuing schools in the wake of increasing cases. “The state government is currently monitoring the situation amid the Omicron Variant spread. The government will take a decision on the closure of schools only after the proper assessment of the situation,’’ said Tourism Minister Aaditya Thackeray. Meanwhile, the Hotel & Restaurant Association Western India (HRAWI) and Federation of Hotel & Restaurant Associations Of India (FHRAI) have pointed out that the industry is facing a crisis, however, they have done what was needed like vaccination of staff among other things. “People want to catch a break. After almost two years of restrain and being cooped up at home, everyone's looking forward to welcoming 2022, even if with not as much revelry. Families and friends want to step out and enjoy a little leisurely time at their favourite restaurant or hotel as they bid adieu to 2021. The hospitality industry, which has borne the brunt of Covid-19’s backlash through lockdowns and several restrictions for almost two years, shares the same sentiment,” said  Pradeep Shetty, Senior Vice President, HRAWI. “But the new announcement has come as a dampener to the plans people were making. The cancellation of New Year events means tremendous loss and disappointment to the industry. We want to reiterate that hotels and restaurants are fully aware of the CAB. The staff is vaccinated and we are following all the guidelines and protocols. The restaurants are operational as usual and ready to welcome its guests, added Shetty, who is also the Joint Honorary Secretary, FHRAI. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/active-covid-cases-cross-10000-mark-in-maharashtra-1065307.html
