28-12-2021||Comment||J&K delimitation: Everybody is unhappy, except BJP||The first draft proposal of the delimitation commission, shared with five MPs from Jammu and Kashmir who were associate members of the body during its meeting in New Delhi, is on expected lines, including accentuating the regional divide as it has left most of the stakeholders, with the exception of the BJP, displeased.  The commission has allocated six new Assembly constituencies to Jammu and one to Kashmir. Currently, Jammu province has 37 seats and Kashmir Valley 46.  Ladakh, which was part of Kashmir division, had four seats. Now, as per the draft proposal, Kashmir valley will have 47 seats, and Jammu 43.  The optics are revelatory as they indicate regional polarisation on the issue. Ethnic Kashmiri leaders rejected the proposal and called it divisive. According to them, the proposal is a negation of the mandate of the commission, which was to consider population as the criterion in the process of delimitation of Assembly segments. Kashmir valley’s population is nearly 1.6 million more than Jammu’s. The leaders of the People's Alliance for Gupkar Declaration, an alliance of varied parties whose leaders are all ethnic Kashmiris, have decided to jointly protest on January 1 in Srinagar — though the winter capital of J&K is Jammu, thus implicitly conceding the regional gulf. In Jammu, except the BJP, parties whose constituency is in the region, particularly the plains, have expressed displeasure. Their argument is that the area of Jammu is nearly double the size of the Valley and it should have been given the same seats as the Valley. According to them, some of the J&K Assembly segments, particularly in the urban parts of Jammu, are bloated. The two largest Assembly segments in J&K are in Jammu city, with 1.6 lakh voters in Gandhi Nagar and 1.5 lakh voters in Jammu West, whereas the third-largest Assembly segment is Batamaloo in Kashmir, with 1.2 lakh voters.  As both regions are engulfed in a war of words, the commission seems to have factored in the criteria of arduous geography and inaccessibility. The proposed increase in seats is in the hilly and remote districts, namely Kishtwar, Doda, Reasi and Kupwara, that often escape the public glare. The districts that have areas near the International Border in Kathua and Samba have also seen an increase in representation. The commission has incentivised the political contestants to reach out to remote areas as earlier they would concentrate only on densely populated areas. Without going into the debate whether the commission’s proposal is fair or not, it is not unexpected that there is general dissatisfaction about the proposals.  The root of the problem lies in the structure of J&K. Jammu & Kashmir, created in the 19th century by merging diverse cultural and geographical units, saw a major change in 1947. The population of Jammu was, as per the 1941 Census, 1.9 million whereas that of Kashmir was 1.7 million. The bifurcation of J&K in 1947 kept the Kashmir Valley more or less intact while dividing the more populous and religiously diverse Jammu. The fact is that the Valley is relatively more homogenous than Jammu geographically, and by religion and ethnicity. It has an advantage of plain geography as compared to hilly and inaccessible areas in Jammu.  Earlier, the homogeneity provided an edge to the winning political party from Kashmir Valley as it was able to win some seats in the Muslim parts of Jammu as well. This is no longer true as a variety of political forces are active now in Kashmir Valley. Thus, at the macro level, there is heterogeneity in both regions, and this has made government-formation a more competitive exercise. This has exposed the system to a greater regional, ethnic and even religious polarisation at the macro-level. The solution was to have devolution of powers with checks and balances at every layer of the power structure.  In the past, after considering the urges and aspirations of diverse stakeholders, a concrete proposal of regional federalism had been in the offing for at least six decades. Keeping in mind the peculiarity of J&K and by incorporating best practices of similar contexts from across the world, the proposal argued for a five-step devolution of power from the state to the regions to districts to blocks and panchayats, while upholding the integrity of secular identities of the three regions. Each layer in the five-step devolution structure should get allocation as per a given fair formula that factors in population, area, accessibility, public amenities and socio-economic indicators.  However, the narrow impulses of a section of the former ruling elite scuttled the proposal, sowing the seeds of regional, ethnic and religious division. This has progressively created a situation where the former state is now heading towards many layers of de-facto division.  Meanwhile, the delimitation draft has also suggested the reservation of nine seats for the Scheduled Tribes (STs). The main beneficiaries will be the Gujjars and Bakerwals. They are spread across J&K. In the last Assembly election, Gujjar candidates were elected in Lolab and Kangan Assembly segments in the Valley. In Jammu, the Assembly segments of Surankote, Mendhar, Rajouri, Gulabgarh, Darhal, Kalakote and Gool Arnas were represented by Gujjar candidates. As per the 2011 Census, the population of Gujjars and Bakerwals is around 9% of the total population of the former state. They had 10.8% representation in the previous J&K Assembly. Bakerwals are nomads and have flocks of goats and sheep, whereas the bulk of the Gujjars are settled and dairy farming is the main occupation for a part of the community. As per 2017 official figures, nearly 32% of the Gujjars and Bakerwals have nomadic and semi-nomadic characteristics. In this context, the political reservation for the Scheduled Tribes will permanently and constitutionally diversify the power structure of J&K. This will force us to look beyond the simplistic understandings of the Jammu and Kashmir discourse. (The writer is the author of two books on J&K, including ‘Across the LoC’, Columbia University Press)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/jk-delimitation-everybody-is-unhappy-except-bjp-1065321.html
28-12-2021||First Edit||Karnataka night curfew: Sudden and illogical change||The night curfew and restrictions imposed by the Karnataka government from December 28 to January 7 is illogical and ill-timed. The only effect of it might be to increase the burden on the hospitality sector, which is already reeling under heavy losses, while having no impact on the spread of the coronavirus. After issuing a notification just a week ago that there would be no major curbs on New Year eve, except on crowding at parties and celebrations in public places, the government has now made a U-turn, imposing a curfew from 10 pm to 5 am, while also restricting seating in restaurants to 50% capacity on four days. This only exposes the lack of foresight and reasoning in government, considering that the change of mind has occurred in the absence of any change in ground realities. According to the government’s own bulletin, Covid-19 is well under control: the test positivity rate (TPR) has been less than 1% for four months now, while it is around 0.3% in the current week; in a state with a population of nearly 6.5 crore, the number of active cases is around 7,500, while the recovery rate is 98%. The number of omicron patients is in two digits, with half of them having recovered.  Night curfew has been imposed in the past too, but the government has not been able to provide any data to prove that it helped check the spread of Covid-19. There is certainly no data, of course, to indicate that the virus becomes active after dusk, that too on certain specific days. If anything, such unscientific restrictions will have the opposite effect as shrinking the time window for celebrations could potentially lead to over-crowding, exposing people to greater risk. While the government targets the hospitality industry for these measures, cinema theatres are allowed to run at full capacity, and there are absolutely no restrictions on political rallies and religious events. Restaurants, clubs and pubs which had already made arrangements for New Year eve by paying advances to various vendors and had also sold tickets for parties are now in fix, with the government having thrown a spanner in the works at the last moment. Some BJP leaders themselves have speculated on social media that extraneous considerations could be behind the move. Instead of indulging in mere optics and trying to create a false sense of security, the government should deal with the real issues at hand by ensuring that the administrative machinery is in a constant state of readiness to tackle the third wave, if and when it occurs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/karnataka-night-curfew-sudden-and-illogical-change-1065274.html
28-12-2021||In Perspective||The World Inequality Report and Piketty’s fallacies||Over the last few decades, growing inequality in income has taken a centre stage in public debates and has posed challenges for policymakers as the wealthiest people in most parts of the world have seen their wealth soar relative to that of other sections of society. Recently, the World Inequality Report 2022 was released by the Paris-based World Inequality Lab (WIL). The report gives comprehensive data on global trends in inequality in income and wealth. The research is based on data compiled and written by leading economists of the world. The report, which includes a foreword by 2019 economics Nobel Prize laureates Abhijit Banerjee and Esther Duflo, was authored by Lucas Chancel and coordinated by French economist Thomas Piketty, among others. Chancel, who works at the Paris School of Economics, claimed that “The Covid crisis has exacerbated inequalities between the very wealthy and the rest of the population. Yet, in rich countries, government intervention prevented a massive rise in poverty. This was not the case in poor countries.”  The gist of the report is that the richest 10% of the global population currently earns 52% of global income, whereas the poorest half of the population earns 8.5% of it. While an individual from the top 10% of the global income distribution earns $122,100 per year on average, an individual from the poorest half of the global income distribution makes $3,920 per year. Wealth inequalities are even more pronounced than income inequalities. While the poorest half of the global population barely owns any wealth at all — owning just 2% of the total wealth — the richest 10% of the global population own 76% of all wealth. The report puts India among the most unequal societies in the world. While the bottom half of the population in India earns Rs 53,610, the top 10% earns 20 times more at Rs 11,66,520. India stands out as a poor and very unequal country, with an affluent elite. Incidentally, Thomas Piketty, who coordinated the report, wrote the book titled “Capital in the Twenty-First Century” in 2014. The book deals with wealth and inequality in Europe and the United States since the 18th century. The book's central thesis is that there will be concentration of wealth in a few hands when the rate of return on capital is greater than the rate of economic growth over the long term, and this will cause social tensions and economic instability. Piketty, therefore, recommends a global progressive tax system to help reduce inequality and avoid the vast majority of wealth coming under the control of a tiny minority. Though income and wealth inequalities have increased in almost every country since the 1980s, the increase has not been uniform, with some countries like the US, Russia and India experiencing remarkable increases in inequality while others like China and European countries experienced relatively smaller increases. Sadly, the report, just like the report of Oxfam (Oxford Committee for famine relief) focuses on inequalities based on income, which can be misleading. The larger question that needs to be answered is how economies should raise and distribute the incomes they generate. Piketty wants governments to tax the rich heavily and transfer this to the poor through social welfare schemes. In April 2012, Piketty’s socialist leanings were visible when he wrote an open letter along with 42 colleagues in support of the socialist party candidate Francois Hollande in the 2012 presidential elections in France. The moot point is, should organisations like Oxfam focus on more burning issues and whether fewer people are dying today due to hunger and famine compared with the past. Being rich and wealthy should not be seen as a vice or a sin as long as the wealth amassed is through legal means. Arthur Laffer, through the Laffer Curve, explained and proved that taxing the rich to increase revenues can be counterproductive since he felt that beyond a certain point, high taxes reduced the incentives for people to work more and earn more and discouraged businesses to invest more and earn more. The pertinent questions to ask are: Are low-income countries catching up with richer ones? Are racial and gender inequalities falling? Have the life expectancy and literacy rates of people across countries gone up in the last 50 years? Are governments worldwide intervening more and spending more on infrastructure, healthcare and education? Has the growth in global GDP led to increase in income levels of people within and across countries? The rich are getting richer no doubt, but the fact is, the poor are also getting richer. In the final analysis, the views of Oxfam or World Inequality Lab or economists like Thomas Piketty or Abhijit Banerjee on what constitutes inequality, based on income or wealth, need not be the holy grail or the last word. (The writer is a chartered financial analyst and a former banker and currently teaches at Manipal Academy of Banking, Bengaluru) Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/the-world-inequality-report-and-piketty-s-fallacies-1065340.html
28-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Hostel in Manipal's MAHE declared as Covid cluster||The district administration declared the Manipal Institute of Technology (MIT) hostel of Manipal Academy of Higher Education (MAHE) as a cluster zone after 18 people tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. District health officer Dr Nagabhushan Udupa told DH that 10 out of 18 Covid-19 positive people are from the MIT hostel. Those from MIT are primary contacts and are  isolated. Three students from the pharmacy college also had tested positive for Covid. If the number of cases increases, the area will be declared as a cluster, he added. 9 cases in Mandya Meanwhile, nine first-year MBBS students of Mandya Institute of Medical Sciences (MIMS) have tested positive for Covid in Mandya. Their throat swabs and samples have been sent for the lab for further test due to the Omicron threat. Of them, six are from Kerala. They visited Kerala on December 8 and returned on December 15. They tested negative during the Covid-19 screening before entering the State. They complained of fever on December 24 and were subjected to tests again. The tests revealed that they had contracted the virus. Initially, only five tested positive. Later, four others too tested positive. Now, all the 400 students are being tested for the Covid-19. MIMS Director Dr M R Harish said, "The Covid infected students are being treated separately and they are asymptomatic. As there is the Omicron threat, their swab samples have been sent for further tests." Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/hostel-in-manipals-mahe-declared-as-covid-cluster-1065702.html
28-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||HC pulls up inspector for forced captivity of a woman, child at center for victims of trafficking||The Dharwad bench of the Karnataka High Court has imposed a cost of Rs 1 lakh each on a police inspector and a rehabilitation center for victims of trafficking at Belagavi for forcefully housing a 22-year-old married woman and her three-year-old daughter. Coming down heavily on Sunil Balasaheb Patil, the police inspector of Mal Maruti police station in Balagavi for his act of impunity, Justice N S Sanjay Gowda said it is not for the police to barge into a marital relationship to engage in moral policing. The petition was moved by the woman when there was no action even after writing to the Belagavi commissioner of police. The petitioner was married in 2017 and after some differences with her husband she left home with her daughter May 3, 2021. Upon a person missing complaint filed by the husband, the inspector attempted to reconcile the differences. When she refused to go back to her husband, the inspector sent her to a shelter called “Ujjwala Scheme” for prevention of trafficking, rescue and rehabilitation of victims of trafficking for commercial sexual exploitation.  The petitioner was in the shelter for nearly five months. “It is quite shocking that an Inspector of Police decided to send a 22-year-old mother along with her 3-year-old daughter to a shelter which was meant to house victims rescued from trafficking and to those who were sexually exploited. This act of the Inspector indicates complete lack of sensitivity and humanity on his part,” the court said. It was also informed to the court that during a counseling session at the centre it was recorded that she had an affair with a neighbour. The court observed that the police officer was trying to prevent her from having access to the outside world, more importantly to the said neighbour. “It is to be kept in mind that if a spouse chooses to lead an adulterous life, the other spouse has been conferred with certain rights which can be enforced in a court of law. However, it is not for the police to barge into a marital relationship that was full of discord and try to impose its sense of justice and attempt to engage in moral policing,” the court said. The court however said that it is open for her husband to initiate appropriate action and seek to enforce his rights and that nothing expressed in the order shall be construed as rendering a finding on any aspect of the marital life. The court directed the registry to invest the cost amount in a fixed deposit in the name of the daughter of the petitioner until she attains the age of majority. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/hc-pulls-up-inspector-for-forced-captivity-of-a-woman-child-at-center-for-victims-of-trafficking-1065705.html
28-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Fake Nandini ghee case: Four held in Mysuru||The city police arrested four people in connection with the adulterated Nandini ghee case on Tuesday. Superintendent of Police R Chetan said the suspects were also marketing the adulterated products at other places. “Involvement of more people in the racket is suspected and search is on to nab them,” he said. While two are first-time offenders, two others have FIRs against them. They are residing in the city for several years. “We are gathering information on where and to whom the adulterated products were supplied,” the SP added. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/fake-nandini-ghee-case-four-held-in-mysuru-1065710.html
28-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Drunk man vandalises bust of Mahatma Gandhi in school||A man in inebriated state reportedly vandalised a bust of Mahatma Gandhi and statue of goddess Saraswathi installed in the premises of a government higher primary school at Harogolige in the taluk on Sunday night. The incident came to light a few days later. According to the school authorities, Govinda, a daily wage worker, had gone to the school and asked for drinking water when he was in an inebriated state. Noticing it, the teacher hesitated to give water to him. Enraged by it, he damaged the bust and statue installed in the school premises. He had also damaged flowers, vegetables, coconut and arecanut plants grown in the school premises.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/drunk-man-vandalises-bust-of-mahatma-gandhi-in-school-1065726.html
28-12-2021||Karnataka Politics||2-day BJP executive committee meeting to take crucial decisions on Karnataka leadership||Hubballi, popularly known as 'Chotta Mumbai' is all decked up to host a two-day BJP executive committee meeting after 11 years beginning from Tuesday. Considered as the bastion of the BJP party, the Lingayat heartland has turned saffron. The meet is going to discuss crucial issues of strategies for next elections, change of leadership, cabinet reshuffle and make major decisions to clear the confusions among the public. The executive committee will also discuss party organisation, defeat in Belagavi MLC polls, Hangal bypolls, regarding implications of the Cow Slaughter Bill, Anti-conversion Bill. The committee will also discuss how to take benefit of the ongoing rivalry between Opposition leader Siddaramaiah and state Congress President D K Shivakumar. All big wigs of the state party, including former Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, BJP National General Secretary C T Ravi, Arun Singh, and senior leader D Aruna, State President Nalin Kumar Kateel, all legislators and office bearers of the party are attending the meeting with Arun Singh and Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai. According to sources, the Chief Minister is much relieved after state BJP in-charge Arun Singh vehemently denied a change of leadership in the state and also announced that the ruling party would go to elections under Bommai's leadership. Likewise, state BJP President Nalin Kumar Kateel has also categorically stated that there is no talk of a change of leadership in the state and reiterated that the next Assembly elections will be fought under the leadership of CM Bommai. BJP President J.P. Nadda, who was supposed to attend the meeting, cancelled the visit at the last minute. Due to Covid reasons, the number of participants has been brought down from 600 to 300. Buoyed by the support of the party, CM Bommai had stated that there is perfect harmony between the government and the party and blamed the media for running baseless news on leadership change in the state. The executive committee will assess the performance of the CM Bommai government, strategies for upcoming BBMP and ZP-TP elections and strategise for upcoming 2023 general Assembly elections. The meeting will also decide on providing cabinet status to former Chief Minister Yediyurappa's son B Y Vijayendra and would also discuss the role of Yediyurappa and him in the upcoming Assembly elections. It is likely that the executive committee meeting would take a call on former minister Ramesh Jarakiholi facing alleged sex CD charges. Ramesh Jarakiholi has been demanding a cabinet berth either for himself or his brother BJP MLA Balachandra Jarakiholi. His brother Lakhan Jarakiholi won recently held MLC polls as an independent and defeated the BJP candidate causing severe embarrassment to the party leaders. The ruling party missed an opportunity to attain a majority by one seat in the Legislative Council. The party sources explain that the decisions in this regard would be carefully considered as the opposition Congress is waiting to reap political gains out of any discord as Ramesh Jarakiholi is a mass leader and any decision would affect the prospectus of the party in the border district of Belagavi. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/2-day-bjp-executive-committee-meeting-to-take-crucial-decisions-on-karnataka-leadership-1065482.html
28-12-2021||Karnataka Politics||No alliance with any party for 2023 Karnataka Assembly polls: BJP's Arun Singh||Amid rumours of change of leadership in Karnataka, the BJP is holding state executive and core committee meetings in Hubballi on December 28 and 29. The party announced its plan to discuss recent Legislative Council elections outcome and preparation for coming Zilla Panchayat and BBMP elections will be discussed in these meetings. BJP National General Secretary (in-charge Karnataka) Arun Singh spoke to DH's Ajith Athrady on a range of issues. Will BJP have an alliance with JD(S) or any other party in state for next Assembly elections? No. The BJP will have no alliance with anybody in Karnataka in the 2023 Assembly elections. We want to fight on our own as we have a strong base in every district. This is also the wish of our workers and state leaders. Wherever we are weak, we will strengthen our organisation. In South Karnataka, we will strengthen our party and fight elections in full force. In the Legislative Council election, you tried for alliance with JD(S)? No discussion of alliance held in Delhi for the Council election. I am not aware of anything. Maybe state leaders must have discussed the issue, I don’t know. What is BJP's strategy for to face the next Assembly polls ? After Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls, we will focus Karnataka. Soon, the party will also hold "Chintan Baitak " in the state in which ministers and core committee members will attend and discuss the government as well as the party. The party will make future strategy to strengthen the organisation and prepare roadmap to victory in the next Assembly polls. Is CM Basavaraj Bommai matching up to the organisational skills and personality of former CM B S Yediyurappa? No doubt that Yediyurappa is the most popular leader and successfully implemented several welfare programmes. Bommai is also giving efficient administration and will complete his term as the CM. There is no truth in media speculations about leadership change. Though the CM changed, it is a continuing government. Under the guidance of Yediyurappa, the BJP will face the next Assembly election in the leadership of Bommai. There is good co-ordination between the government and party under the leadership of Bommai. Is the recently held Legislative Council elections is a setback for the party? It is not a setback for us. The BJP gained 6 more seats. It is a victory for the party. Though we expected 13 seats, we got 11 seats. In Mysuru and Belagavi we lost though we hoped to win these two seats. In fact it is a setback to Congress and JD(S) as both parties have lost their seats. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/no-alliance-with-any-party-for-2023-karnataka-assembly-polls-bjps-arun-singh-1065594.html
28-12-2021||Karnataka Politics||Basavaraj Bommai chants unity mantra, vows to bring BJP back to power in Karnataka||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Tuesday chanted the unity mantra and said the BJP will go into the 2023 Assembly elections under a collective leadership. This came after BJP national general secretary Arun Singh, who is in charge of the party's affairs in Karnataka, said the party will face the next election under Bommai's leadership. "Delhi-level leaders have faith in me and I thank them. But, we are a team. It's always team work in the BJP. With unity and collective leadership, we will achieve results. [Singh] said that because I'm the CM," Bommai told reporters. Bommai's pitch for collective leadership is seen as a move to bring everybody in the party onboard ahead of the 2023 showdown. Bommai reiterated that there are good relations between the party and government. Meanwhile, Mudigere BJP legislator MP Kumaraswamy asked Bommai to work from home for 20 days so that he recovers from his leg pain. However, Bommai said he has decided to put in 15 hours every day. "I am not significant enough to tell CM what to do, but I'd like him to take rest for at least 20 days. Let him work from home. Citizens and officials shouldn't invite him to meetings. We wish he completely recovers from his leg pain," Kumaraswamy said. In response, Bommai said he has no plans to rest. "Kumaraswamy has much love for me. I have the strength to work 365 days tirelessly. I have decided to put in 15 hours a day," Bommai said. "My aim is to bring the BJP back to power in the 2023 Assembly elections and we've started working in that direction. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/basavaraj-bommai-chants-unity-mantra-vows-to-bring-bjp-back-to-power-in-karnataka-1065622.html
28-12-2021||Karnataka Politics||'Not welcome': Karnataka BJP Muslim leader to skip executive committee meeting||BJP's senior Karnataka leader Anwar Manippady on Tuesday said that he will not be attending the two-day state executive committee meeting being held in Hubballi, despite being a member, because of the attitude of the party leaders. "I am an invitee also. I am the executive committee member of the party. I just returned from Mangaluru and at the last moment, I thought I will not go (to the meeting) because the attitude of them is not welcoming for us to go there. So, I won't go there," Manipaddy told IANS. "I have written enough and I have passed on the message to the seniors of the party... they do not seem to be taking care. I am not bothered about being thrown out of the party. I have not come to politics to make money. I have been always an open person. I was never scared of anybody and in future also, I will be never scared of anybody," he said. Asked about the present BJP government in the state, he stated it has totally failed in the concept brought out by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. "The concept of 'Sab ka Saath, Sab ka Vikas' is totally been neglected and not happening at all... such a good concept has gone. In fact, they are going against it by totally neglecting minorities, especially Muslims." "I have umpteen examples of how they are harassing the Muslim minority by denying their rights for a decent burial. The burials which have been functioning for 10 to 12 years in Goonadka, Sulia in Dakshina Kannada district and Parappana Agrahara in Bengaluru and other places, hooligans with the help of police goondas in Sahakarnagar, stopped and locked up a functioning mosque," he claimed. "Everyone has got equal rights in this country. Sound pollution rules should apply to everyone. Why only mosques? In mosques, the maximum time taken for the offering of prayers is 15 minutes. There are some temples where kirtans/bhajans go on from morning till evening. That's bad. How do you expect harmony between majority and minority communities? On one hand, Prime Minister Modi is trying his best, in Karnataka successive regime of Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa and now Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai have done nothing about it," he said. Manipaddy also accused the state government of taking no action against encroachments of Wakf properties, despite the Supreme Court order to look into the report submitted to the government, and alleged the culprits have indulged in heavy bribery. "It has been brought to notice of party seniors umpteen number of times. But, there is no use and they don't even respond. Nothing substantial is happening. Karnataka is in a bad situation now. I think Karnataka people should wake themselves up and think of decent rule. This is such a rich and one of most developed state in the country, but we are going backwards and no progressive work has taken place at all," he said. He also said moral policing has going on for quite some time now. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/not-welcome-karnataka-bjp-muslim-leader-to-skip-executive-committee-meeting-1065666.html
28-12-2021||National||CDSCO panel recommends emergency use authorisation for Covovax, Corbevax Covid-19 vaccines||An expert panel of the country's central drug authority has recommended granting emergency use authorisation to Serum Institute of India's Covid-19 vaccine Covovax and Biological E's vaccine Corbevax with certain conditions, official sources said on Monday. The Subject Expert Committee (SEC) on Covid-19 of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) on Monday also recommended granting permission to manufacture and market anti-Covid pill Molnupiravir for restricted emergency use for treatment of adult patients with SpO2 93 per cent and who have high risk of progression of the disease, including hospitalisation or death, subject to certain conditions. All the recommendations have been sent to the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) for final approval. The SEC on Covid-19 of the CDSCO, which reviewed the emergency use authorisation (EUA) applications of Serum Institute of India (SII) for the second time on Monday, after detailed deliberation has recommended granting EUA to Covovax. "The committee noted that the vaccine is manufactured by technology transfer from Novavax and is approved by the European Medicines Agency for conditional marketing authorisation and also granted emergency use listing by WHO," an official source said. Prakash Kumar Singh, director, government and regulatory affairs at SII, had submitted an application to the DCGI in October for grant of market authorisation for Covovax for restricted use in emergency situations. The DCGI office had granted SII permission to manufacture and stock Covovax on May 17. Based on DCGI approval, till now, the Pune-based firm has manufactured and stockpiled the vaccine doses. In August 2020, US-based vaccine maker Novavax Inc had announced a licence agreement with SII for the development and commercialisation of NVX-CoV2373, its Covid-19 vaccine candidate, in low and middle-income countries and India. As for Biological E's Corbevax, in light of the recommendations of the SEC meeting held on December 10, the firm submitted proposal for grant of marketing authorisation to the vaccine for restricted emergency use in adults along with the updated interim safety and immunogenicity data of phase 2/3 clinical trial and updated interim safety and immunogenicity data of phase 3 active comparator trial. The committee noted that the firm has submitted six months safety follow up post second dose from phase-1 clinical trial, 90 days safety from the phase -2 part and 60 days safety data from phase 2/3 and phase 3 active comparator study. The firm has submitted interim immunogenicity data from phase-3 active comparator trial which showed superiority against the comparator with respect to viral neutralization antibody titres, the official source said. "After detailed deliberation, the committee recommended for grant of marketing authorisation permission of SARS-CoV-2 (Covid-19) Vaccine containing RBD antigen of SARS-CoV-2 for restricted use in emergency situation subject to various regulatory provisions," the source said. The vaccine should be administered intramuscularly in two doses of 0.5 ml each with interval of 28 days (Day 0 and 28) and has to be stored between 2 degrees Celsius to 8 degrees celsius,the source added. The SEC on Monday also recommended granting permission to manufacture and market anti- Covid pill Molnupiravir for restricted emergency use for treatment of adult Covid-19 patients with SpO2 93 per cent and who have high risk of progression of the disease, subject to certain conditions. Dr Reddy's Laboratories in consortium with Cipla, Mylan, Torrent, Emcure and Sun pharma had presented their proposal for approval of Molnupiravir 200mg capsules for approval in emergency situation along with various supporting documents. including clinical data in the country, official sources said. As per conditions, the drug should be sold by retail only under prescription of medical specialists. According to the conditions, the drug is not authorised for use in patients less than 18 years  and for initiation of treatment in patients requiring immediate hospitalisation due to Covid-19 at that stage. However, if it was initiated before hospitalisation due to Covid 19, it may be continued, sources said. It is not authorsied for use for longer than five consecutive days and for pre-exposure or post exposure prophylaxis for prevention of Covid-19 for pregnant women. The US Food and Drug Administration recently authorized Merck's Molnupiravir for treatment of mild-to-moderate Covid-19 cases in adults who are at risk for severe disease. Before that in November Britain granted conditional authorisation to Merck's coronavirus antiviral, the first pill shown to successfully treat Covid-19. The pill  is intended to be taken twice a day for five days by people at home with mild to moderate Covid-19. In a clinical trial of high risk people during the early course of illness,t he Merck's  drug was shown to reduce hospitalisations and deaths by around 30 per cent. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cdsco-panel-recommends-emergency-use-authorisation-for-covovax-corbevax-covid-19-vaccines-1065393.html
28-12-2021||National||CDSCO panel recommends restricted emergency use of Covid-19 pill Molnupiravir||An expert panel of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) on Monday recommended granting permission to manufacture and market anti-Covid pill Molnupiravir for restricted emergency use for the treatment of Covid-19 patients in the country, official sources said. The emergency use of the drug will be for adult Covid-19 patients with SpO2 93 percent and who have a high risk of progression of the disease including hospitalisation or death subject to certain conditions, they added. Dr Reddy's Laboratories in consortium with Cipla, Mylan, Torrent, Emcure and Sun Pharma had presented their proposal for approval of Molnupiravir 200mg capsules for approval in the emergency situation along with various supporting documents including clinical data in the country. "Considering the emergency and unmet medical need in Covid-19, the Committee recommended for grant of permission to manufacture and market Molnupiravir for restricted use under emergency situation in the country for treatment of adult patients with Covid 19, with SpO2 93 percent and who have high risk of progression of the disease including hospitalisation or death subject to certain conditions," a source said. As per conditions, the drug should be sold in retail only under the prescription of medical specialists. According to the conditions, the drug is not authorised for use in patients less than 18 years and for initiation of treatment in patients requiring immediate hospitalisation due to Covid-19 at that stage. However, if it was initiated before hospitalisation due to Covid 19, it may be continued, the sources said. The pill is not authorsied for use for longer than five consecutive days and for pre-exposure or post-exposure prophylaxis for prevention of Covid-19 for pregnant women, they said. Before that in November Britain granted conditional authorisation to Merck's coronavirus antiviral, the first pill shown to successfully treat coronavirus. The pill is intended to be taken twice a day for five days by people at home with mild to moderate Covid-19. In a clinical trial of high-risk people during the early course of illness, Merck's drug was shown to reduce hospitalisations and deaths by around 30 percent. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cdsco-panel-recommends-restricted-emergency-use-of-covid-19-pill-molnupiravir-1065416.html
28-12-2021||National||Metros, select cities to see launch of 5G services in 2022: Department of Telecom||Telecom operators have established 5G trial sites in Gurugram, Bangalore, Kolkata, Mumbai, Chandigarh, Delhi, Jamnagar, Ahmedabad, Chennai, Hyderabad, Lucknow, Pune and Gandhi Nagar, and these metros and big cities will be the first places for launch of 5G services in the country, in 2022, a DoT release said on Monday. In September 2021, a reference was sent to sector regulator TRAI, seeking recommendations for the 5G spectrum auction and various modalities such as reserve price, band plan, block size, quantum of spectrum to be auctioned, it said. "Process of assignment of frequencies to TSPs (telecom service providers) would be initiated at the earliest possible," Department of Telecom (DoT) said in a statement related to year end review. The statement further said that telcos including Airtel, Jio and Vodafone Idea have established 5G trials sites in locations such as Gurugram, Bangalore, Kolkata, Mumbai, Chandigarh, Delhi, Jamnagar, Ahmedabad, Chennai, Hyderabad, Lucknow, Pune, Gandhi Nagar cities, and added "these metros and big cities would be the first places for launch of 5G services in the country, next year". "In September 2021, a reference has been sent to TRAI, seeking recommendations for the auction of spectrum identified for International Mobile Telecommunications (IMT)/ 5G with regard to reserve price, band plan, block size, quantum of spectrum to be auctioned and conditions of auctions in 526-698 MHZ,700 MHZ, 800 MHZ, 900 MHZ, 1800 MHZ, 2100 MHZ, 2300 MHZ, 2500 MHZ, 3300-3670 MHZ and 24.25-28.5 GHZ bands for 5G public as well as private 5G networks, for meeting the spectrum requirements of captive 5G applications of the industry...," it said. The release also said that indigenous 5G Test bed project, funded by the Telecom Department, has reached final stages and the project is likely to be completed by December 31, 2021. Summing up the year 2021, the release by the DoT outlined the progress across various initiatives from BharatNet to installation of mobile towers in LWE (Left Wing Extremism) affected areas, as well the telecom reforms announced in September to ease financial stress in the sector. "Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) in telecom sector rose by around 150 per cent between 2014-2021 from Rs 62,386 crore in 2002 to 2014 to Rs 1,55,353 crore during 2014-2021," the release said On 5G Test bed, it informed that the indigenous 5G test bed project funded by the DoT has reached its final stages. The eight implementing agencies that is IIT Bombay, IIT Delhi, IIT Hyderabad, IIT Madras, IIT Kanpur, IISC Bangalore, SAMEER and CEWiT have been working over a period of 36 months. "Costing about Rs 224 crore, the project is likely to be completed by December 31, 2021, paving the way for end-to-end testing of 5G User Equipments (UEs) and network equipment by 5G stakeholders developing 5G Products/Services/Usecases, including indigenous start-ups, SMEs, academia and industry in the country," it said. The indigenous 5G test bed, a technology development project initiated in telecom space, will enable development, testing and proliferation of 5G technology system components, cross-sectoral usecases, besides setting up foundation for the development of `6G Technology landscape' in the country. A 6G 'Technology Innovation Group' or TIG has been constituted by the DoT with aim to co-create and participate in the development of 6G technology ecosystem through increased participation in capability description, standards development at global standard setting bodies. "This would be necessary to prepare India’s manufacturing and services ecosystem to capitalise on 6G opportunity," it said. 6G TIG, comprises members from government, academia, industry associations and Telecom Standards Development Society of India (TSDSI). In its first meeting on November 25, TIG members presented the future technology needs in different sectors of economy to enhance India’s contribution in global value chain. The rural tele-density has jumped from 44 per cent in March 2014 to 59 per cent in September 2021. Broadband connections have risen to 79 crores in June 2021 from 6.1 crore in March 2014. Giving further updates on the sector, the release said: "In order to provide mobile connectivity in the areas affected by Left Wing Extremism (LWE), the government has installed mobile towers at 2343 locations under Phase- I of this project and these towers are providing mobile services". Under the second phase of this project, the government has approved installation of 2542 towers for providing 4G mobile services and the project is under implementation. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/metros-select-cities-to-see-launch-of-5g-services-in-2022-department-of-telecom-1065421.html
28-12-2021||National||DH Toon | Psst! Tejasvi wants us to focus on 'Hindu revival'||Bangalore South MP Tejasvi Surya set social media abuzz as he asked Hindus to “dream big” and "reconvert" Pakistanis to Hinduism.  The BJP leader also said that temples and mutts should set a target of converting people of other faiths back to Hinduism. Speaking at the “Vishwarpanam” event at Krishna Mutt in Udupi, on Saturday, Surya said, “We should start dreaming big. We should start audaciously dreaming of the impossible and achieve it.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-psst-tejasvi-wants-us-to-focus-on-hindu-revival-1065436.html
28-12-2021||National||DH Radio: A chat with Miss Universe 2021 Harnaaz Sandhu||Hello and welcome to DH Radio, In this episode of DH Radio, Nina C George chats with Miss Universe Harnaaz Sandhu about a host of topics including how she overcame being a victim of body shaming, women's safety, transgender rights and more... Listen in...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-radio-a-chat-with-miss-universe-2021-harnaaz-sandhu-1065437.html
28-12-2021||National||India records 6,358 new Covid-19 cases, Omicron tally at 653||India logged 6,358 fresh Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, according to the Union Health Ministry data. Meanwhile the country has recorded 653 Omicron infections so far. The ministry said 6,450 persons who contracted the infection recovered in the last 24 hours. The active caseload currently stands at 75,456, The recovery rate is currently at 98.4 per cent. With the surge in Omicron cases, the Centre issued a fresh advisory to all states and union territories, asking them not to let their guard down. It also specifically asked governments of Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Goa and Manipur to ramp up vaccination and exponentially increase testing in order to contain the Covid-19 pandemic and avert a surge in infections during the forthcoming assembly polls in the five states. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-records-6358-new-covid-19-cases-omicron-tally-at-653-1065441.html
28-12-2021||National||Key conspirator of Ludhiana court blast arrested in Germany||Jaswinder Singh Multan, a top member of Sikhs for Justice (SFJ), has been arrested in Germany for allegedly being the main conspirator of the December 23 blast in the Ludhiana district court complex which killed one person and injured five others, sources said. He was arrested after India shared evidence to counter-terror agencies in Berlin. "We shared all the evidence that we gathered from the blast spot and also how the conspiracy by Multan was hatched," said one of the sources. Multan was conspiring to bring in more explosives from Pakistan in India through the international boundary and was also planning to carry out similar blasts in other parts of the country. It is also alleged that Multan was also behind pushing arms in the Khemkaran area of Punjab's Tarn Taran district in October this year. The Punjab Police and the Border Security Force (BSF) had recovered a huge cache of weapons near the India-Pakistan border in the Khemkaran area on October 20. They had recovered 22 pistols, 44 magazines and 100 rounds of ammunition and also a kg of heroin. The source said that Pakistan's Inter Services Intelligence (ISI) were in touch with Multan. On December 23, the explosion took place in a washroom on the second floor of the District and Sessions court complex in Ludhiana at around 12.22 pm. The counter-terrorism agencies probing the incident had claimed that it was the former Head Constable of Punjab Police, Gagandeep Singh, who planted the bomb at the court complex and died as it suddenly went off killing him on the spot. Gagandeep Singh, a former police head constable who was dismissed from the service for having links with drug dealer. He was booked under NDPS act and lodged in jail for two years in this connection in 2019. The probe agencies have also found that Pakistani's ISI were behind the blast and were in touch with Gagandeep Singh. During the probe, cops found the role of SFJ members Harvinder Singh and Jaswinder Singh Multan, who were based in Germany. They were in touch with SFJ president Avtar Singh Pannu and Harmeet Singh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/key-conspirator-of-ludhiana-court-blast-arrested-in-germany-1065446.html
28-12-2021||National||India approves Merck's anti-Covid pill, 2 new vaccines for emergency use||The Indian drug regulator on Tuesday approved emergency use of two new vaccines against Covid-19 besides allowing local manufacturing of a brand new Covid medicine by 13 drug companies in an effort to provide more weapons to doctors fighting the pandemic. Both the vaccines and the medicine were designed in the USA, but would be produced in India in collaboration with domestic vaccine and pharmaceutical companies that tied up with the original developers for further research and carried out necessary regulatory trials in India. The Central Drug Standards Control Organisation granted the emergency use authorisation (EUA) for a recombinant protein-based Covid-19 vaccine called Covovax. manufactured by the Serum Institute of India in partnership with the US firm Novavax. Similar approval was given to Corbevax, a protein subunit vaccine for which Biological E partnered with the Baylor College of Medicine, Houstan and Dynavax Technologies, for industrial development of a vaccine candidate developed at the US institute and to manufacture it following trials. Both are double dose vaccines that are stable at 2-8 degrees Celsius. Corbevax is more than 90% effective against the Wuhan strain and more than 80% effective against the Delta variant. The Covovax, on the other hand, has been found to be 90% effective. The first one is to be administered on zero and 28th day whereas Covovax is to be given on zero and 21st day. The Union Health Ministry in June signed a Rs 1,500 crore agreement with Biological E, pre-booking 30 crore doses of the vaccine as and when it would be ready. The DCGI also approved Merck's anti-viral drug Molnupiravir that inhibits replication of the novel coronavirus inside the body and is considered an early initiation therapy for Covid-19. The drug has been approved for manufacturing by 13 companies who have submitted their clinical trial reports to the Indian regulator. The companies are Dr Reddy's Lab, Natco Pharma, MSN, Hetero, Optimus, Aurobindo, Mylan, Strides, Emcure, Cipla, Sun Pharma, Torrent, and BDR. Earlier this month, the UK and USA regulatory agencies approved the medicine for treatment of mild to moderate Covid-19 in adults. The CDSCO permitted manufacture and marketing of Molnupiravir 200 mg capsule with a recommended dose of 800 mg twice daily for 5 days for restricted use under emergency situation for adult Covid-19 patients with blood oxygen level more than 93% and who have high risk of progression of the disease including hospitalisation or death. It would be sold as a prescription drug. Biological E Limited plans to complete production at a rate of 75 million doses per month, anticipating 100 million plus doses per month from February 2022, whereas SII is yet to come out with its production and roll out plans. Zydus-Cadila's Covid-19 vaccine ZyCoV-D, which received the regulator's nod in August, is yet to be used in the vaccination programme with the Union government ordering one crore doses – one fifth of what it intended to procure in 2021 – in November. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-approves-mercks-anti-covid-pill-2-new-vaccines-for-emergency-use-1065460.html
28-12-2021||National||Rajya Sabha MP Derek O'Brien tests positive for Covid-19||Trinamool Congress MP Derek O'Brien, who had attended the Winter Session of the Parliament that ended on December 22, tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. The Rajya Sabha MP said he had moderate symptoms and is isolating at home. Moderate symptoms. Isolating at home. If you have come into contact with me in the last three days, and have symptoms, please seek medical advice. More to follow... Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajya-sabha-mp-derek-obrien-tests-positive-for-covid-19-1065464.html
28-12-2021||National||'Modi govt targeting Christians': Congress over Mother Teresa's charity row||The Congress on Tuesday slammed the Centre for refusing to renew FCRA registration of Nobel Laureate Mother Teresa's Missionaries of Charity over "some adverse inputs". "Nothing can be more shocking than denying future foreign contributions to the Missionaries of Charity in Kolkata, West Bengal. This is the greatest insult to the memory of Mother Teresa who devoted her life to care for the 'poor and wretched' of India," Congress leader P Chidambaram tweeted. The MHA, he said, claims to have found "some adverse inputs". It should put to use its "Sherlock Holmes-like" skills to quell communal violence and terrorist activity, not to suppress Christian charity and humanitarian work. As the year 2021 ends, it is clear that the Modi government has found another target "Christians" to advance its majoritarian agenda, he added. The MHA claims to have found “some adverse inputs”. The MHA should put to use its Sherlock Holmes-like skills to quell communal violence and terrorist activity, not to suppress Christian charity and humanitarian work Dubbing the denial "shocking", party leader Anand Sharma said: "Shocked at the Government's action of freezing the accounts of Missionaries of Charity. Condemning the cruel, insensitive and inhuman decision which will hurt the ailing and suffering poor the most. Demand PM's intervention and immediate reversal." The Centre, on Monday, clarified that it has not frozen the bank account of Mother Teresa's Missionaries of Charity and that as per the State Bank of India, the MoC has requested for the same. The Ministry also said that the renewal application under the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA) for the renewal of FCRA registration of Missionaries of Charity (MoC) was refused on December 25 for not meeting the eligibility conditions under FCRA 2010 and Foreign Contribution Regulation Rules (FCRR) 2011. It also said that no request or revision application has been received from MoC for review of this refusal of renewal. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-govt-targeting-christians-congress-over-mother-teresas-charity-row-1065472.html
28-12-2021||National||Punjab Assembly polls: AAP announces 15 more candidates||The Aam Aadmi Party on Tuesday announced 15 more candidates for the next year's Punjab Assembly polls. It is the fifth list of the state's main opposition party and with this the total number of candidates announced by the AAP so far reached 88. Punjab has 117 Assembly seats and polls in the state are due early next year. Kulwant Singh will contest from Mohali, according to the latest list of candidates announced by the AAP. Kulwant Singh, real estate baron and former Mohali mayor, had joined the AAP on Monday. Gurdeep Singh Randhawa will fight from Dera Baba Nanak, Baldev Singh from Raja Sansi, Manju Rana from Kapurthala, Rattan Singh from Shahkot, Sheetal Angural from Jalandhar West, Jeet Lal Bhatti from Adampur and Kuljit Singh from Banga. Charanjit Singh will contest from Chamkaur Sahib, Rupinder Singh from Bassi Pathana, Rajinder Pal Kaur from Ludhiana South, Ranveer Singh from Ferozepur City, Jagroop Singh from  Bathinda Urban, Jaswant Singh from Amargarh and Gurdev Singh from Nabha.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/punjab-assembly-polls-aap-announces-15-more-candidates-1065478.html
28-12-2021||National||Congress flag falls from post as Sonia Gandhi tries to unfurl it||In a faux pas that left Sonia Gandhi fuming, the Congress flag fell off the flagpole on Tuesday when the Congress president unfurled it to mark the party's 137th Foundation Day at the party headquarters in New Delhi. The unfurling of the flag had to be repeated minutes later after a Congress worker fixed the problem on the flagpole even as leaders tried to play it down. Alhough Sonia made her displeasure known. The incident took place in the presence of senior leaders including Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi, AK Antony, Mallikarjun Kharge and Anand Sharma among others who had gathered at the Congress headquarters on Akbar Road for the function.   Sonia first unfurled the flag but it fell off the flagpole. Immediately, Sonia, Congress treasurer Pawan Bansal and Congress General Secretary (Organisation) K C Venugopal held it in their hands and displayed it. She then returned to the office while some Seva Dal workers attempted to string the flag from the pole. After around 15 minutes and several attempts, one of them managed to fix it. Sonia then returned to the courtyard and once again unfurled the flag but only after enquiring from a party worker whether the flag was properly fixed. While a senior leader said Sonia expressed displeasure at the incident and asked those in charge of the function to be more careful, Venugopal said that there was no need to make the incident a talking point as these kinds of small incidents happen in normal life.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-flag-falls-from-post-as-sonia-gandhi-tries-to-unfurl-it-1065479.html
28-12-2021||National||Who is Vikram Misri, the new Deputy NSA?||Seasoned diplomat Vikram Misri was appointed as Deputy National Security Adviser by the National Security Council Secretariat. The appointment of Misri, a 1989-batch Indian Foreign Service (IFS) officer, came after he served as the Indian ambassador to China for nearly three years. Misri was born in Srinagar in 1964 and completed his early education in Gwalior. He has an undergraduate degree in history from the Hindu College of Delhi University and an MBA from XLRI. Misri began his career as a diplomat from the 1989 batch of the Indian Foreign Service. During his early years, he served at the Indian missions in Brussels and Tunis. He was made India's ambassador to Spain in 2014, and Myanmar in 2016. He has also served in various Indian missions in Africa and North America. Misri has served as private secretary to three Prime Ministers - Inder Kumar Gujral in 1997, Manmohan Singh in 2012, and Narendra Modi in 2014. In his previous stint, he was ambassador to China, where he played a key role in Indo-China talks after the Galwan Valley clashes in 2020, and had advocated for cooperation between the two countries to expedite the development of a vaccine when the Covid-19 pandemic hit in 2020. During the Indo-China talks on the Galwan Valley clashes, Misri had called out the Chinese side for "shifting goalposts". "For long, the Indian and Chinese sides have adhered to a well-understood distinction between resolving the boundary question and managing border affairs," Misri said at the 4th High-level Track II Dialogue in September 2020. The Special Representatives mechanism, the Agreement on Political Parameters and Guiding Principles of 2005 and the three-phase framework were all designed to work on the boundary question, "which we agreed was a complex and sensitive issue requiring time to work through," Misri said. “This is the root cause of the tense situation along the borders. We advocate that we should address the boundary issue through peaceful negotiations and we don’t think that the border issue should be linked up to our bilateral ties," he said. He had also said that in an international community, where the two countries interact as equals, and as important major neighbours, it cannot be that only one side’s concerns are of relevance while the other side’s case goes unheard. As the Deputy NSA, Misri will report to National Security Adviser Ajit Doval. (With agency inputs) Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/who-is-vikram-misri-the-new-deputy-nsa-1065481.html
28-12-2021||National||Record foodgrain production likely in 2022; farm laws repeal, price rise bitter pills for agriculture sector||India achieved record foodgrain production this year but the withdrawal of three agri-reform laws and spike in cooking oil prices cast a shadow on the country's resilient agriculture sector that is on course for better harvest in 2022 despite pandemic blues. The Indian agriculture sector, which was among the few segments that remained robust amid the pandemic gales, is expected to register a growth rate of 3.5 per cent in the current financial year ending March 2022. Foodgrain production hit an all-time high in the 2020-21 crop year that ended in June at 308.65 million tonnes. The production could reach 310 million tonnes in the current crop year. The government procured huge quantities of wheat, rice, pulses, cotton and oilseeds at the Minimum Support Price (MSP) for the benefit of farmers. During 2020-21, paddy and wheat procurement reached a record 894.18 lakh tonnes and 433.44 lakh tonnes, respectively. Procurement of pulses touched 21.91 lakh tonnes, coarse grains 11.87 lakh tonnes and oilseeds 11 lakh tonnes, as per official data. As production and procurement continued smoothly, the farmers' agitation, which started in November 2020, finally ended this month after Parliament passed a Bill on the first day of Winter Session on November 29, to repeal the three contentious farm laws. The Supreme Court had stayed implementation of these laws in January itself. Farmers unions are claiming victory after they forced the Centre to accede to their demands. In contrast, economists and government officials see it as a setback in ushering in reforms in the agricultural marketing system. The jury is still out on the merit of these three laws. "We were expecting one-fifth of the country's farmers to benefit from the implementation of the three farm reforms. We completely lost that opportunity. However, I feel the setback is only temporary," Niti Aayog Member Ramesh Chand told PTI. Had farm laws been implemented, the Niti Aayog member said, "it would have helped achieve the target of doubling farmers income to a large extent. We had put nearly 20 per cent increase in income on implementation of the farm laws". The three laws, passed by Parliament in September 2020, were aimed at giving marketing freedom to farmers beyond notified mandis. A framework for contract farming and regulating supply of essential commodities only under extraordinary circumstances were the other main objectives. Chand said, the overall performance of the agricultural sector has been robust this year. "The agri-growth rate is intact. This year, we expect 3.5 per cent growth rate in agriculture by the end of March 2022, same as last year's level," he said. Record production of foodgrains helped the agriculture sector to maintain its growth rate. Agriculture Commissioner S K Malhotra said the country's foodgrain production could touch 310 million tonnes in the 2021-22 crop year (July-June). Good monsoon rains, adoption of new technologies and successful implementation of government schemes like PM-KISAN have aided the rise in production. Malhotra said crop productivity has been improving as farmers are adopting better seed varieties that give higher yields and are high in nutritional value, besides having resistance to diseases and adverse climatic conditions. The official also pointed out that the unseasonal rains affected perishable and horticulture produce in some parts of the country. As a result, prices of some commodities like tomatoes came under pressure. Despite bumper production of oilseeds crops, the edible oil prices skyrocketed to unprecedented levels on global cues. India meets about 60-65 per cent of the domestic demand of edible oils through imports, which jumped to a record Rs 1.17 lakh crore in 2020-21 season, ended October. Prices of mustard oil rose to around Rs 200 per litre and prices of other cooking oils also went up. During the year, the government reduced import duties of palm oil as well as other oils multiple times to ease domestic prices but rates are still ruling high. To keep the prices under control, the government also banned futures trading in many commodities and also imposed stockholding limits on traders and wholesalers. A sharp rise in rabi oilseeds acreage has given hope for a likely fall in cooking oil prices in the New Year. Among other developments, co-operative major IFFCO launched nano-urea in liquid form that promises to reduce India's import as well as subsidy bill. "We started producing nano urea commercially and we have so far produced 1.5 crore bottles of nano urea which helped save Rs 6,000 crore of government's subsidy," IFFCO MD U S Awasthi said and urged the government to support production of such innovative products. 2021 also saw huge investments in agritech startups that are working in the area of farm advisory, provisions of inputs and marketing support among others. New technologies like drones are being used in the farm sector. The government has already announced the setting up of a committee to address the key demand of protesting farmer unions -- a legal guarantee for Minimum Support Price (MSP) regime. Hopefully, an amicable solution on the MSP issue is expected in the New Year. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/record-foodgrain-production-likely-in-2022-farm-laws-repeal-price-rise-bitter-pills-for-agriculture-sector-1065494.html
28-12-2021||National||IT Minister 'welcomes' Intel to India after company executive lauds semiconductor incentives||IT Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw on Tuesday took to Twitter to "welcome" Intel to India following a post by Intel Foundry Services president Randhir Thakur lauding the semiconductor design and manufacturing incentives announced by the government recently. The move is expected to further India's ambitions to be self-reliant in electronics manufacturing, bring massive investments and result in 35,000 specialised jobs apart from indirect employment for one lakh people. IT Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw on Tuesday tweeted "Intel - welcome to India." This was in response to a tweet by Intel's Thakur which said, "Congrats to @GoI_MeitY @AshwiniVaishnaw @Rajeev_GoI for Semiconductor design & manufacturing incentives for India as hub for electronics & semiconductors". Thakur further wrote: "Glad to see a plan laid out for all aspects of the supply chain: talent, design, manufacturing, test, packaging & logistics". It is pertinent to mention here that under the Rs 76,000-crore scheme approved for the development of semiconductors and display manufacturing ecosystem by India, incentives have been lined up for companies engaged in silicon semiconductor fabs, display fabs, compound semiconductors, silicon photonics, sensors fabs, semiconductor packaging and semiconductor design. With the semiconductor incentive scheme in place, the government expects investments of around Rs 1.7 lakh crore and 1.35 lakh jobs in the next four years. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/it-minister-welcomes-intel-to-india-after-company-executive-lauds-semiconductor-incentives-1065496.html
28-12-2021||National||Covovax approval to strengthen Indian immunization: SII||Vaccine major Serum Institute of India (SII) on Tuesday said the approval for the Covid-19 vaccine 'Covovax' would strengthen immunization initiatives across India and various lower and middle income countries (LMICs) across the world. "The approval of Covovax by DCGI is a significant milestone in strengthening our immunization efforts across India and LMICs. We are proud to deliver a highly-effective protein-based Covid-19 vaccine of more than 90 per cent efficacy rate, based on clinical data demonstrating a favorable safety profile. "We are certain that as the repertoire of the Covid-19 vaccine increases, we will be poised strongly to save the lives of millions of people against the pandemic," SII CEO Adar Poonawalla said in a statement. He was responding to Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya's announcement that the Central Drug Authority, the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO), has approved the SII's vaccine Covovax for restricted use in emergency situations. Covovax is produced by Pune-based SII under licence from US-based vaccine maker Novavax Inc. In August 2020, Novavax Inc had announced a licence agreement with SII for the development and commercialisation of NVX-CoV2373, its Covid-19 vaccine candidate, in low and middle-income countries and India. Poonawalla also thanked Mandaviya for the approval. "Thank you Shri Hon. @mansukhmandviya for granting Emergency Use Authorization for COVOVAX in India. This is a highly effective vaccine and is a big step in India's fight against Covid-19," he tweeted. The Covovax/Novavax vaccine has recently received Emergency Use Listing (EUL) with the World Health Organisation (WHO), Emergency Use Authorization (EUA) in Indonesia and the Philippines. Novavax also announced regulatory filings for its vaccine in Australia, Canada, the European Union, New Zealand and the United Kingdom. Additionally, Novavax and SK bioscience have announced a Biologics License Application (BLA) submission in South Korea. Novavax expects to submit the complete package to the United States Food and Drug Administration (USFDA) by the end of the year. "We expect the authorisation of our vaccine to serve a vital need in India, helping to increase the vaccination rate in a country where a significant number of doses is needed to control the pandemic," Novavax President and Chief Executive Officer Stanley C Erck said. Novavax and SII continue to increase forward momentum, and the entities would carry on with their objective to deliver vaccines to those in India and across the globe, he added.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covovax-approval-to-strengthen-indian-immunization-sii-1065503.html
28-12-2021||National||India unveils 27 key roads, bridges near borders with China, Pakistan||India on Tuesday unveiled several strategic infrastructure projects along its disputed boundary with China and Pakistan, boosting its capability to mobilize troops expeditiously in the event of military conflicts. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh virtually inaugurated three roads and 24 bridges, built by the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) in two Union Territories and four States. The newly constructed bridges include a modular one built at an altitude of 11000 feet on the key road connecting Flag Hill with Dokala in Sikkim – near the scene of the Indian Army’s 72-day stand-off with the Chinese People’s Liberation Army in western Bhutan in June-August 2017. It is the first indigenous Class 70 140-feet Double-Lane Modular Bridge of India. The roads inaugurated by the Defence Minister included Chisumle-Demchok road at Umling La Pass at over 19,000 feet in Ladakh, not very far from the scene of the ongoing stand-off, which started between he soldiers of the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA in April-May 2020 and could not be resolved yet. The road holds the Guinness World Record of the highest motorable road in the world. Singh said that the road at Umling-La pass would enable faster movement of the armed forces, boost tourism and ensure socio-economic development of the region. “Roads in border areas cater to the strategic needs and ensure equal participation of the remote areas in the development of the nation,” he said, commending the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) for its perseverance in achieving the feat despite the challenges of sub-zero temperatures and high altitude. The Defence Minister said that the indigenous Double-Lane Modular Bridge in Sikkim was a shining example of ‘aatmanirbharta’ (self-reliance) and appreciated the fact that it had been developed at a much lower cost and could be dismantled, if needed. “It is a symbol of the resolve of the government to provide faster connectivity to border areas. It will also pave the way for the construction of more bridges in such areas,” he added. The 24 bridges inaugurated by the Defence Minister included nine in Jammu and Kashmir; five each in Ladakh and Himachal Pradesh, three in Uttarakhand and one each in Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh. The three roads inaugurated by him included two in Ladakh and one in West Bengal. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-unveils-27-key-roads-bridges-near-borders-with-china-pakistan-1065513.html
28-12-2021||National||Delhi's Covid-19 Omicron tally spikes to 165||The total number of Covid-19 Omicron cases recorded in the national capital has spiked to 165, according to data shared by the Union Health Ministry on Tuesday. Amid the Omicron scare, Delhi recorded 331 fresh coronavirus cases — the highest single-day rise since June 9 — and one death on Monday, while the positivity rate mounted to 0.68 per cent, according to data shared by the city health department. India has logged 653 cases of the Omicron variant so far, of whom 186 people have recovered or migrated, according to the Union Health Ministry data on Tuesday. At 167, Maharashtra accounted for the maximum number of Omicron cases, followed by Delhi at 165, Kerala 57, Telangana 55, Gujarat 49 and Rajasthan 46. According to officials of Batra Hospital, five Omicron patients are undergoing treatment while genomic sequencing results of seven patients, who have tested positive, are awaited. Seven others have been discharged after testing negative for Omicron variant, they said. Every patient is asymptomatic and all have a travel history. Of 14 patients the hospital has had, 11 had received three shots of the Pfizer vaccine, one person had got Johnson and Johnson vaccine, while one other was inoculated with Covishield and the other had received Covaxin vaccine, officials said. Four suspected cases of Omicron are admitted to the city hospital unit of Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, sources said. All four people have a travel history and are NRIs, and while two came from France, one each had arrived from the UK and Ghana, they said. The genome sequencing reports of these patients are still awaited. Delhi's first case of the Omicron variant — a 37-year-old man from Ranchi — was detected on December 5. He has been discharged. Amid a jump in Omicron cases reported in Delhi, doctors have warned that people should avoid all kinds of gatherings as it is a highly transmissible variant, and follow Covid-appropriate behaviour, failing which the situation may worsen. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhis-covid-19-omicron-tally-spikes-to-165-1065517.html
28-12-2021||National||Parliament panel finds fault with MHA for not finalising IPC amendments to tackle custodial torture||A Parliamentary panel has come down heavily on the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) for not finalising amendments in Indian Penal Code to tackle custodial torture, an assurance it gave to the Parliament five years ago, saying it is "evasive" and lacks seriousness in dealing with the issue. It said the MHA's response to the panel for the delay in realising the assurance given to Parliament was an "attempt to deflect and divert attention to technical and procedural aspects" after five years of pendency of the assurance given to Parliament and it reflected "non-seriousness". According to statistics tabled by MHA in Rajya Sabha earlier this month, 5,569 people -- 348 in police custody and 5,221 in judicial custody -- had died in custody, though all of those cannot be branded as due to custodial torture. The criticism of the MHA on the issue came in a report tabled by Rajya Sabha's Committee on Government Assurances tabled in the recently concluded Winter Session of the Parliament. The panel headed by senior AIADMK MP A Navaneethakrishnan recommended that the MHA should take the issue seriously and expedite the legislation on the amendments to sections 330 and 331 of the IPC. It made the remarks after looking at the implementation report submitted by the MHA on three questions raised on May 11, 2016 (starred question), November 30, 2016 and December 7, 2018 (unstarred question). The questions raised included whether the government has prepared guidelines to prevent torture and inhuman treatment to individuals in custody, details of the framework, and the agreement of the United Nations Convention Against Torture. The government had responded to the MPs who raised the questions, saying that a proposal to suitably amend the Section 330 and 331 of Indian Penal Code to define 'torture' and 'public servant' is under "active examination" of the MHA in consultation with other ministries. In its implementation report, the MHA said that a "comprehensive legislation to amend the criminal laws is a complex and lengthy exercise given the spectrum of divergent views of stakeholders like state governments, etc". It also said that the proposed amendments are "debated and deliberated intensely to arrive at a required consensus" and the entire procedure, therefore, is a "long drawn out one and no time limit can be fixed or given for this legislative process". Not buying the argument over the delay in coming out with a legislation, the panel took a "very serious view" of the matter and said instead of addressing the issue of "such significant public importance in right earnest", the implementation report was an "attempt to deflect and divert attention to technical and procedural aspects". "Surprisingly, such an evasive reply comes after almost five years of the pendency of the assurance which reflects non-seriousness of the Ministry towards the assurance. The Committee is of the view that the police are custodian of public order, safety and they are expected to be most accessible," it said.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parliament-panel-finds-fault-with-mha-for-not-finalising-ipc-amendments-to-tackle-custodial-torture-1065518.html
28-12-2021||National||'Girls should know how to draw line': JNU's circular on sexual harassment triggers row||Amid the rise in a number of sexual harassment complaints from the university, Delhi's Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) took the initiative to organise sexual harassment counselling sessions. However, JNU’s internal complaints committee’s circular (ICC) on the matter was found to be ‘misogynistic’ by many. ICC has uploaded the circular on the varsity's website saying that it will organise a counselling session on sexual harassment on January 17. It also said that such sessions will be organised on a monthly basis. Under the subhead "why is the counselling session required," the circular said that it will make students aware of what consists of sexual harassment. "ICC came across a number of cases where sexual harassment takes place among close friends. Boys generally cross (sometimes advertently, sometimes inadvertently) the thin line between friendship's bantering and sexual harassment. Girls suppose to know how to draw a tangible line (between them and their male friends) to avoid any such harassments (sic)," the circular read. Listing out the benefits of these sessions, the varsity said that "the number of sexual harassment cases will be reduced for sure" and "dissipate any confusion related to sexual harassment”. “It is important for both boys and girls to know where the line has to be drawn… Girls also need to say it before the matter goes out of hand if they don’t like it (being touched or hugged). These things have to be conveyed clearly. Otherwise, how will the person know what you want? These are small things which we will tell them about along with all the rules and regulations of ICC,” Kumari told the publication. "The ICC in JNU makes a blatant victim-blaming remark where it asks 'women to draw a tangible line to not get harassed by their male members'. The ICC time and again in JNU has passed such regressive remarks or conducted itself in a way to moral police the survivor," JNU Students' Union president Aishe Ghosh said in a statement. "Such a remark creates a space where harassment in such lines will become rampant and will lead to becoming an unsafe space for women," Ghosh said. The JNU administration replaced the Gender Sensitisation Committee against Sexual Harassment (GSCASH) with the ICC in September 2017 in its 269th executive council meeting, a move which was extensively criticised by student and teacher bodies, apart from women's rights organisations. (With agency input.) Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/girls-should-know-how-to-draw-line-jnus-circular-on-sexual-harassment-triggers-row-1065520.html
28-12-2021||National||President's Secretariat denies info on ordinances extending tenure of CBI, ED directors||The President's Secretariat has denied information regarding the circumstances that necessitated the promulgation of two controversial ordinances to extend tenures of directors of CBI and Enforcement Directorate up to three years, citing that Cabinet Note is exempt from disclosure under Right to Information Act. Transparency activist Anjali Bhardwaj had sought "all the records, material, information and facts relied on by the President regarding the circumstances rendering it necessary" to take the immediate action to promulgate the two ordinances. The government had promulgated two ordinances -- The Central Vigilance Commission (Amendment) Ordinance 2021 and The Delhi Special Police Establishment (Amendment) Ordinance 2021 -- on November 14, a fortnight before the commencement of Winter Session of Parliament, with Opposition claiming that it was meant to give extension to ED director Sanjay Mishra who was otherwise superannuating from the post. In response, Under Secretary Usha Shashidharan said, "the information as sought cannot be provided as it includes Cabinet note which is exempted from disclosure under Section 8(1)(i) of the RTI Act, 2005." Responding to the denial of information, Bhardwaj said that the information sought are "especially relevant and of public interest" as it "appears the ordinance regarding the amendment to the CVC Act was brought in to allow for extending the tenure of the incumbent ED director Mishra before his term came to an end on November 18". Subsequent to the ordinance, she said the government through an office order on November 17, a day before his term was ending, extended the tenure of Mishra for a period of one year. She also referred to a Supreme Court order in September this year which had held that Mishra should not be granted any further extension, and the ordinance and the subsequent orders were brought in after the apex court’s order. Disclosing that the non-disclosure of information is being challenged in an appeal, Bhardwaj said Section 8(1)(i) of the RTI Act provides exemption for the disclosure of cabinet papers including records of deliberations of the Council of Ministers, Secretaries and other officers, till such time that the matter is under consideration and is not complete, or over. "However, the information was sought after the matter of the ordinances was complete as the Ordinances were promulgated and published in the Official Gazette and also came into effect on 14 November, 2021. Further in any case, there is no provision under the RTI Act for denying access to records merely because it may include some portion which the PIO considers to be exempt under section 8. In such cases, the PIO must disclose the non-exempt portions," she said. During the Winter Session, the government got two Bills passed during the Winter Session providing for a fixed tenure of two years and a maximum of three extensions of one year each to those serving in the post of directors of CBI and ED. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/presidents-secretariat-denies-info-on-ordinances-extending-tenure-of-cbi-ed-directors-1065523.html
28-12-2021||National||Covering topics from Indian history to Aryan civilisation, IIT Kharagpur's 2022 calendar in eye of the storm||IIT-Kharagpur has made news, not with scientific discovery, but with its official calendar for 2022, with each page challenging concepts ranging from the 'Aryan Civilisation' to the "dubious nature" of Indian history. In its introduction, the calendar states, “The current Chronology of Indian Civilization and history is dubious and questionable. A long evolutionary sequence of literature, and cultural and spiritual texts are evident prior to the birth of the Buddha and the Mahavira...the long chronology has suffered suppression, compromises, contractions, and distortions.” The calendar, titled ‘Recovery of the Foundation of Indian Knowledge Systems’, covers subjects such as the Indus civilization, cyclic time, space-time causation, non-linear flow and changes, Aryan sages, unicorn, aeons of time, cosmic symmetry, semantics and semiotics, and world wars. Social media was quick to pounce on the release, with the publication facing a barrage of questions amidst a sprinkling of praise. However, not all was gloom and doom. This 2022 calendar by IIT Kharagpur is a goldmine of knowledge. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covering-topics-from-indian-history-to-aryan-civilisation-iit-kharagpurs-2022-calendar-in-eye-of-the-storm-1065541.html
28-12-2021||National||Net-zero emissions and other commitments: Major climate change pledges by India in 2021||Placing climate change at the centre of its environmental policies, India took bold pledges in 2021 with Prime Minister Narendra Modi asserting at the crucial international climate summit COP26 that it is the only country delivering in "letter and spirit" the commitments under the Paris Agreement. From pledging to become a net-zero emitter of carbon by 2070 to achieving 500 gigawatts non-fossil energy capacity by 2030, India led from the front on environmental issues this year, grabbing eyeballs across the world. At the UN climate meet, India once again highlighted that developed nations have not only failed to meet the $100 billion goal annually of support to developing nations since 2009 but also continue to present it as the ceiling of their ambition all the way to 2025. Addressing the world leaders at United Nations COP 26 at Glasgow, Modi listed out five commitments of India to combat climate change with a bold announcement that it will achieve the target of net zero emissions by the year 2070, achieving 500 giga watt non-fossil energy capacity by 2030, fulfilling 50 per cent of its energy requirements from renewable energy sources by 2030. India also launched 'One Sun, One World, One Grid' (OSOWOG) at the conference with an aim to harness solar energy wherever the sun is shining, ensuring that generated electricity flows to areas that need it most. Towards the end of the summit, the country drew sharp criticism from several nations for allegedly watering down the global commitment to cut down use of coal in the climate pact adopted at COP26 by using the term "phase down" instead of "phase out" of coal in the Glasgow pact. However, India countered the criticism and denied making the amendment saying it had only read out the text at COP26 and had not authored the text. India also pressed the issue of emission reduction to combat climate change at the 16th G20 Summit held in Naples, where it urged the G20 countries to bring down per capita emissions to global average by 2030 in view of the "fast-depleting available carbon space". Speaking to PTI, Bhupender Yadav, who took charge as the Union Environment Minister in July and led the Indian delegation at the climate summit in Glasgow, said that India successfully represented the developing nations and put forward a strong front. Listing and lauding the initiatives taken by his ministry, Yadav said it was more successful in curbing stubble burning this year compared to 2020. "Since the time I became the minister, our 14 tiger reserves have got CA|TS accreditation, 47 sites have been declared as Ramsar protected sites, 10 beaches have got Blue Flag certification... We have established a new commission for Delhi's pollution for which we brought a new legislation, we have amended the biodiversity and wildlife laws, regional conferences under NCAP have begun in Mumbai and Guwahati. We will do it across India. "Process of public opinion and consultation on amending Forest Conservation Act has been completed. We have been more successful in curbing stubble burning this year compared to the previous year," he said. The year also saw several initiatives being taken by the government to tackle the menace of toxic air in the capital and adjoining areas. India entered into Climate Action and Finance Mobilization Dialogue (CAFMD) with the US under India-US Climate Clean Energy Agenda 2030 aimed to provide both the countries an opportunity to renew collaborations on climate change while addressing the financing aspects. The Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) was established after a bill was passed by the Parliament which initially also provided for penalizing farmers for causing pollution by burning stubble. However, this provision was later withdrawn. Bio-decomposer solution was introduced in the city and neighbouring states to decompose the stubble left after the harvest. India also launched a campaign 'Plastic Hackathon 2021' to ensure that the country becomes free of single-use plastic by 2022. The beginning of the year saw environment activists expressing disappointment with the Supreme Court's nod to the government's ambitious Central Vista Project saying the project is harmful for the environment and is an encroachment of public places. Several reports also made headlines in 2021, bringing India's pollution and climate situation under scanner. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change's (IPCC) Sixth Assessment Report 'Climate Change 2021: The Physical Science Basis' warned that the Indian Ocean is warming at a higher rate than other oceans and that India will witness increased heat waves, heavy rainfall and flooding, which will be the irreversible effects of climate change. The World Air Quality Report, prepared by a Swiss agency, found that 22 of the top 30 most polluted cities in the world are in India with Delhi ranked as 10th most polluted city and the top polluted capital city in the world. Eyebrows were raised when a report by Greenpeace India revealed that Delhi saw a spike of 125 per cent in air pollution due to nitrogen dioxide in April compared to the same month last year. Another report claimed that 39 lakh people in India were displaced in 2020 due to climate disasters and conflicts, making it the fourth worst-hit country in the world to have such a high number of internal displacements. A report by the Centre for Science and Environment raised concern that Ozone is becoming more widespread in Delhi and the National Capital Region (NCR) across all seasons. Soon after the report, the government gave its nod for ratification of the Kigali Amendment for phase down of hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs) by India under the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/net-zero-emissions-and-other-commitments-major-climate-change-pledges-by-india-in-2021-1065552.html
28-12-2021||National||Optimus Pharma to launch Covid drug Molnupiravir shortly||Optimus Pharma on Tuesday said it would be launching its frontline Covid-19 medication Molnupiravir in the Indian market in a day or two, as the drug maker has received permission from the Drug Controller General of India for restricted emergency use for virus. Optimus Pharma in a press release said it successfully completed the Phase 3 Clinical Trial on 1,218 subjects across 29 geographical study sites all over India. "We want to cover maximum demographic diversity into our trial in order to obtain data across the different geographical regions of the country and conclusive evidence that Molnupiravir is able to bring about viral load reduction over 5 days of treatment duration," Chairman and Managing Director of Optimus Pharma, D Srinivasa Reddy said. The firm has developed the API (active pharmaceutical ingredient) in house at its R&D centre here. Optimus Pharma has revealed highly promising results of the drug in its ability to reduce viral load and bring out significant symptomatic improvement in patient's health. The Clinical Trial, Molnupiravir was administered to the subjects along with Standard of Care (SoC) medication as per the approved protocol by the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation, it said.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/optimus-pharma-to-launch-covid-drug-molnupiravir-shortly-1065568.html
28-12-2021||National||Precaution dose: No prescription required for senior citizens||Senior citizens will not have to produce doctors' prescriptions when they go for a “precautionary shot” of the Covid-19 vaccine from the second week of January, the Union Health Ministry clarified on Tuesday. Chairing a review meeting with the states, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said doctor's prescription or certificates were not mandated to be produced at the vaccination centres for the jab and there were no such directives from the government. Doctors advice, according to a ministry statement, is an indication for the 60 plus persons to consult with their physicians before opting for a precaution dose. The senior citizens who completed nine months of the second dose would be eligible for the shot from January 10 onward. The same criteria would also be applicable for healthcare and frontline workers, who were among the first two groups of people to have received the Covid-19 shots when vaccination began in January. People who would be on election-duty in the five poll bound states – Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Goa and Manipur - are to be included in the frontline worker category so that they can be administered an additional dose for precaution. Bhushan said the Co-WIN platform would send reminder messages to all those eligible for precaution dose and such doses would be reflected in the digital vaccination certificates. However, there is still no clarity on the choice of vaccine for the precautionary shot. According to an estimate by the Union Health Ministry, there are more than 2.75 crore elderly people having one of the comorbidities, of which 37 lakh are in Uttar Pradesh. Karnataka has 15 lakh such persons. Bhushan also wrote to the states detailing what needed to be done while expanding the vaccination for adolescents (15-18 years), elderly, healthcare workers and frontline workers in the first two weeks of January following Prime Minister Narendra Modi's announcement on Christmas Day. The adolescents have not been given any choice with the vaccine for the time being with the Centre deciding on home grown Covaxin for the 15-18 years. The states have been told to open up separate vaccination centres for the youngsters. If the same centre is used for vaccination of children and adults, then separate rooms, vaccination teams and queues have been suggested to avoid confusion and the chances of vaccine mix up. There are an estimated 7.4 crore adolescents between 15-18 years of which more than 1.4 crore are in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh. Karnataka has nearly 32 lakh such adolescents. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/precaution-dose-no-prescription-required-for-senior-citizens-1065570.html
28-12-2021||National||Right to equality applies to those left with 'no choice': Supreme Court||The Supreme Court has stressed that the right to equality guaranteed under Article 14 of the Constitution would also apply to a man who has "no choice" or "no meaningful choice". It said the fundamental right cannot be denied to those who had no option but to give his assent to a contract or to sign on the dotted line in a prescribed or standard form or to accept a set of rules as part of the contract, however unfair, unreasonable and unconscionable a clause in that contract or form or rules may be. A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao and B R Gavai emphasised on the legal principle while allowing a plea by an army personnel, Pani Ram, who was denied disability pension on the basis of a document signed by him at the time of re-employment in Territorial Army (TA). The petitioner has joined TA after serving 25 years in Infantry of Regular Army. After 10 days of leave, when he was coming back to join duty, he met with an accident on April 24, 2009, resulting into amputation of his right leg. The court rejected the plea by the Centre that the petitioner had signed the document, saying he would not be entitled for enhanced pension. "Can it be said that the mighty Union of India and an ordinary soldier, who having fought for the country and retired from regular army, seeking re-employment in the Territorial Army, have an equal bargaining power," the bench asked. Going through the rules, the court said an individual who is invalided out of service on account of disability, which is attributable or aggravated by military service in non-battle casualty and is assessed 20% or more, would be entitled to disability pension. "When the appellant is enrolled as a member of ETF (Ecological Task Force) which is a company for 130 Infantry Battalion (Territorial Army), we see no reason as to why the appellant was denied the disability pension. Specifically so, when the Medical Board and COI have found that the injury sustained by the appellant was attributable to the Military Service and it was not due to his own negligence," the court said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/right-to-equality-applies-to-those-left-with-no-choice-supreme-court-1065579.html
28-12-2021||National||Play Indian music in flights, airports: Aviation ministry||The Ministry of Civil Aviation on Tuesday asked all airlines and airports to consider playing Indian music in their flights and terminal premises. The Indian Council of Cultural Relations (ICCR) had on December 23 requested Aviation Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia to promote Indian music in flights operated by Indian carriers.  Therefore, the ministry wrote a letter to all airlines and airports on Monday stating that music played by most of the airlines across the globe was in quintessential of the country to which the airline belongs, for example, Jazz in an American airline or Mozart in an Austrian airline and Arab music in an airline from the Middle East.  "But, Indian Airlines seldom play Indian music in the flight, whereas, our music has a rich heritage and culture and it has one of the many things every Indian has a reason for truly proud of it," the ministry noted. India has a rich diversity of traditional music, it noted.  "Owing to India's vastness and diversity, Indian music encompasses numerous genres in multiple varieties and forms, which include classical music, folk, light vocal, instrumental music, etc," it mentioned.  India has a history spanning several millennia and developed over several geo-locations spanning the sub-continent, it said. Music in India began as an integral part of the socio-religious life, it noted. The ministry said it is in receipt of request from ICCR for playing Indian music in the aircraft being operated in india and also at airports. "It is, therefore, requested to kindly consider playing Indian music in the aircraft being operated in India and at airports following the regulatory requisites," the ministry stated. Scindia had on December 23 visited the headquarters of the ICCR here and met its president Vinay Sahasrabuddhe.  The ICCR, which works under the Ministry of External Affairs, had said on Twitter that various suggestions were made during the meeting "including promotion of Indian music in flights operated by the Indian air companies". Eminent artists and musicians, including Malini Awasthi, Anu Malik, Kaushal S Inamdar, Shounak Abhisheki, Manjusha Patil K, Sanjeev Abhyankar, Rita Ganguly and Wasifuddin Dagar were also present during the meeting, it added. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/play-indian-music-in-flights-airports-aviation-ministry-1065585.html
28-12-2021||National||India may see surging cases within days as Omicron spreads||By Bhuma Shrivastava India may see a spurt in the Covid-19 growth rate within days and head into an intense but short-lived virus wave as the highly-infectious Omicron variant moves through the crowded nation of almost 140 crores. “It is likely that India will see a period of explosive growth in daily cases and that the intense growth phase will be relatively short,” Paul Kattuman, professor at the Judge Business School at the University of Cambridge which has developed a Covid-19 India tracker, wrote in an email. “New infections will begin to rise in a few days, possibly within this week,” he said, adding that it was hard to predict how high the daily cases could go.  Kattuman and his team of researchers, developers of the India Covid tracker, are seeing a sharp rise in infection rates across India. The tracker spotlighted six states as a “significant concern” in a Dec. 24 note, with adjusted growth rate of new cases exceeding 5%. This had expanded to 11 Indian states by Dec. 26, according to the tracker, which corrects for “day of the week effects” and other variations. India added 9,195 Covid cases Wednesday --the highest new daily cases in three weeks -- pushing the total confirmed tally to 3.48 crore infections. The total number of fatalities so far is 4,80,592 deaths. The country is already gearing up to prevent another massive outbreak even though only 781 cases of the highly-mutated Omicron have been identified so far. Last week, it allowed booster shots and included teenagers aged 15 to 18 in the inoculation program. Two more vaccines as well as antiviral pill molnupiravir, developed by Merck & Co. with partner Ridgeback Biotherapeutics LP, were approved by the local drug regulator Tuesday. These policy decisions underscore hard lessons India learned after a deadly Delta-led virus wave in April and May that pushed infections to a record-beating 4,00,000-plus each day. It overwhelmed the country’s hospitals and crematoriums and left its citizens pleading for oxygen and other medical resources on social media platforms. The Cambridge India tracker had correctly called the peak of this devastating second wave in May and also forecast in August that India would see a slow burn in its Covid infections curve until the vaccination coverage was sufficiently high. India crossed 100 crore administered vaccine doses in October and new cases plunged in tandem with that milestone. --With assistance from Sudhi Ranjan Sen and Alpana Sarma Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-may-see-surging-cases-within-days-as-omicron-spreads-1065608.html
28-12-2021||National||Dharam Sansad organiser condemns comments on Mahatma Gandhi||The organiser of the recent 'Dharam Sansad' in Raipur of Chhattisgarh has condemned Sant Kalicharan’s remarks made against Mahatma Gandhi at the event and claimed that all 'sants' (seers) who were to speak at the event had been told well in advance not to talk out of context. “We had told all sants that there will be no political discourse from the stage, nor will there be any view expressed for or against any political party. We had said that you speak only about 'sanathan dharma', and don’t speak anything against any other religion,” Neelkanth Tripathy, the organiser of the 'Dharam Sansad' told Deccan Herald. Tripathy, besides working for the cause of 'sanathan dharma', is also associated with Nationalist Congress Party. Tripathy claimed that the objective of the two-day congregation December 25 and 26 was to bring together different factions of 'sanathan dharma'. “Youngsters call themselves Hindus but they don’t know what’s 'sanathan dharm'. The programme was for sants to give guidance,” Tripathy said.  The programme, claims Tripathy, went well till Kalicharan started speaking, using inapt language in reference to Mahatma Gandhi. Later, another speaker, Mahant Ramsundar Das condemned the same, and dissociated himself from the 'Dharam Sansad'. The programme had around 150 participants, 10-15 of them being from other states. Mohan Markam, Chhattisgarh Congress president, alleged that such comments are intended at disturbing peace. “We are demanding action and there will be action,” Markam told Deccan Herald. Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel, in a tweet, has stated that a complaint has already been registered against Sant Kalicharan at a police station in Raipur. “I have already offered my statement to police and have told them that I am ready to assist, as needed,” Tripathy said. Chhattisgarh BJP, however, claimed that the programme had the patronage of the Congress, and if the chief minister is promising action against Sant Kalicharan, then action should be taken against the organisers also. “Whenever anything happens they try to blame the BJP, the RSS. What Kalicharan has said is not right and we condemn it. But we demand that action be taken against those who were associated with organising the event,” Vishnu Deo Sai, state president, BJP, told Deccan Herald. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dharam-sansad-organiser-condemns-comments-on-mahatma-gandhi-1065639.html
28-12-2021||National||Centre planning series of plays about Dara Shikoh, the 'tolerant' Mughal prince||Continuing its efforts to build the image of Mughal prince Dara Shikoh, the Centre is planning a series of plays on his life and spiritual legacy.  The plays will be on the lines of the minority affairs ministry’s Hunar Haat plays on Mahabharata, wherein actors such as Puneet Issar and Gufi Paintal from BR Chopra’s much-celebrated series on the epic essay key roles onstage, and will run for two hours. Talks are ongoing with prominent writers and directors.  Minority affairs minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi told DH that Shikoh’s place in Indian history as a cultural icon was ignored. “Dara Shikoh translated the Upanishads in Persian. He took along the Sikh dharma gurus, and built a bridge between different religions based on strong religious and cultural ties,” said Naqvi.  On Tuesday, Naqvi was also part of a conference on the life of the Mughal emperor Shah Jahan’s eldest son at the Aligarh Muslim University. The conference, 'Why Dara Shikoh Matters Today: Remembering His Works and Personality', was attended by RSS Joint General Secretary Krishna Gopal as well.  Also present at the conference were AMU Vice-Chancellor Prof Tariq Mansoor, Jamia Millia Islamia University Vice-Chancellor Prof Najma Akhtar, Maulana Azad National Urdu University Vice-Chancellor Prof Ainul Hasan, and Cultural Counsellor of Iran Dr Mohammad Ali Rabbani. At the conference, Naqvi said that “prejudice politics” created a “misconception on the legacy” of Shikoh. “Dara Shikoh remained the torchbearer of social harmony and religious unity his entire life,” Naqvi said during the conference.  The Aligarh Muslim University had in 2019 instituted a chair, the Dara Shikoh Centre for Interfaith  Understanding and Dialogue, on Shikoh’s name to research on peace studies.  These efforts are part of the BJP and RSS’s attempt to build the idea of Dara Shiloh as a good Muslim, and place him in contrast to his brother Aurangzeb. Four years after he was named the Crown Prince in 1655, his younger brother Aurangzeb assassinated him in 1659.  The RSS has, for long, attempted to draw a binary between the lives of the brothers, painting Dara as the tolerant Muslim and his brother as an Islamic oppressor.  As part of these efforts, the ministry of culture had constituted a seven-member committee in December 2020 to locate his grave, a quest that has confounded experts, archaeologists and Mughal history enthusiasts.  In March this year, the committee submitted in its report to the government supporting the findings of an engineer of the South Delhi Municipal Corporation who said that he combed through 150 graves in Delhi’s Humayun Tomb Complex and found it between the graves of princes Murad Mirza and Daniyal Mirza, both sons of Mughal emperor Akbar, grandfather of Shah Jahan. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-planning-series-of-plays-about-dara-shikoh-the-tolerant-mughal-prince-1065655.html
28-12-2021||National||Over 2 crore women benefitted from maternity scheme: Govt||The number of beneficiaries of the Centre’s maternity benefit scheme has more than 2 crore, the government said in a year-end release. The ministry of women and child development said that as on December 24, 2021, over 2.17 crore women have benefitted from the Pradhan Mantri Matru Vandana Yojana Scheme. A total amount of Rs 9,457 crores has been disbursed under the scheme, the ministry said. Aimed at reaching pregnant and lactating mothers, the scheme is a conditional cash transfer one for pregnant women and new mothers over the age of 19 years. A cash incentive of Rs 5,000 is provided to the women in three installments, and the amount is sent directly to the bank or post office account of the pregnant woman or lactating mother in DBT mode during pregnancy and lactation. “It is a measure for women empowerment through wage compensation and promotion of health seeking behaviour,” the WCD ministry said in its release. The scheme, initially brought in place in 2010, was revamped by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in May 2017, during which the Centre brought down the beneficiaries from the first two children to the firstborn. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-2-crore-women-benefitted-from-maternity-scheme-govt-1065667.html
28-12-2021||National||RBI extends restrictions on PMC Bank for 3 months till March 2022||The restrictions on Punjab and Maharashtra Cooperative (PMC) Bank has been extended for another three months till the end of March next year. Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has extended the restrictions as further action on the draft scheme for the takeover of the crisis-hit bank by the Delhi-based Unity Small Finance Bank (USFB) is in process. The central bank had prepared a draft scheme of amalgamation and the same was placed in the public domain on November 22 as part of seeking suggestions and objections, if any, from members, depositors and other creditors of PMC Bank and USFB. The deadline for submitting the comments was till December 10. "Further action with regard to sanction of the scheme is under process," RBI said on Tuesday as it extended the restrictions for another three months till March 31, 2022, subject to review. In September 2019, RBI had superseded the board of PMC Bank and placed it under regulatory restrictions, including a cap on withdrawals by its customers, after detection of certain financial irregularities, hiding and misreporting of loans given to real estate developer HDIL. The restrictions have been extended several times since then. The directions were last extended in June this year and are in place till December 31. The draft scheme of amalgamation envisages a takeover of the assets and liabilities of PMC Bank, including deposits, by USFB, thus giving a greater degree of protection for the depositors, RBI had said last month. USFB, promoted by Centrum Financial Services along with Resilient Innovation Pvt Ltd as 'joint investor', was granted a banking licence in October 2021. USFB started functioning on November 1.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rbi-extends-restrictions-on-pmc-bank-for-3-months-till-march-2022-1065689.html
28-12-2021||National||Soon, soldiers guarding India's icy borders to get indigenously developed clothing to beat cold||The soldiers guarding India’s borders with Pakistan and China in the icy heights of the Himalayas may soon have indigenously developed special clothing to keep themselves warm and fighting fit even in sub-zero temperatures. The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) on Tuesday handed over the indigenously developed technology for manufacturing the Extreme Cold Weather Clothing Systems or ECWCSs to five domestic companies. The Indian Army has so far been importing the ECWCSs and several Special Clothing and Mountaineering Equipment (SCME) items to protect its soldiers deployed in Siachen Glacier and other high altitude forward posts along the country’s borders with Pakistan and China in the Himalayas. After the military stand-off between the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) in eastern Ladakh, India had to urgently import ECWCSs from the United States to protect the large number of soldiers it had deployed along the Line of Actual Control to counter the move by China to change the status quo along the disputed boundary and push it westward. The ECWCS designed by the DRDO for indigenous production is an ergonomically designed modular technical clothing with improved thermal insulation and physiological comfort based on the insulation required at various ambient climatic conditions in Himalayan regions during different levels of physical activity. The ECWCS embodies physiological concepts related to reduction in respiratory heat and water loss, unhindered range of motions and rapid absorption of sweat while providing waterproof, windproof features with adequate breathability and enhanced insulation as well as strength features required for high altitude operations. The three-layered ECWCS is designed to suitably provide thermal insulation over a temperature range of +15 to -50° Celsius with different combinations of the layers and intensity of physical work, the DRDO stated in a press release. The DRDO chairman G Satheesh Reddy formally handed over the technology for the indigenously developed ECWCSs to the representatives of five companies based in India. He stressed the need for developing indigenous industrial base for ECWCSs or SCME, not only to cater to the existing requirements of the Indian Army, but also to tap its potential for export to other countries. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/soon-soldiers-guarding-indias-icy-borders-to-get-indigenously-developed-clothing-to-beat-cold-1065732.html
28-12-2021||National Politics||Trouble for BJP in Nagaland after Oting shooting||Trouble is brewing for the Bharatiya Janata Party in Nagaland, with the party's prospects within the Konyak community turning bleak over the shooting of civilians in Oting village in Mon district on December 5. The party’s local unit is in disarray and local workers allege indifference on part of senior leaders of the party.  Local party workers from Mon, including Mon district BJP president, said that on one hand they are facing the wrath of the people, and on the other, indifference by the BJP's senior party members.  On December 4, security forces fired at civilians – coal mine workers returning home in a pick-up van – suspecting them to be insurgents. The shootings took place at Oting under Tizit sub-division of Mon district. Following that, clashes broke out between the armed forces and local civilians, and in all 15 people lost their lives.  The local BJP workers are facing the brunt of the anger of the local population, who blame the ruling BJP for trying to whitewash the incident. Home minister Amit Shah’s address at the Parliament that the workers were shot at after they tried to flee had led to a lot of anger. Workers alleged that no senior BJP leader, either from the state of the Centre, has visited the place after the shooting. And complaints to senior BJP leaders have fallen on deaf ears.  A senior state unit leader from the Konyak community, requesting anonymity, said that they are “demoralised”. Unhappiness against the party is brewing in almost five districts, the leader said. These include Mon and its neighbouring districts of Tuensang and Longleng, among others.  “There was no show in this hour of crisis. The state leadership did not come, and during the funerals representatives of the Congress, Nationalist Democratic Progressive Party, National People’s Party, and Rising People’s Party were there. But sadly none from our party,” said the leader.  The leader said that the absence of state party president Temjen Imma Along is a flashpoint, and that Along’s request for a meeting with the Central leadership in Delhi in the aftermath of the shooting is yet to materialise. Along was unavailable for comment.  “We need someone who understands the tribal dynamics,” said the leader.  Mon district BJP president Nyawang Konyak told DH that no calls, no visits and no condolence messages has reached the district from the party leadership in the state as well as the Centre. He said that he has written to Nalin Kohli, the party’s prabhari (in-charge) for the state.  “I told him that after the killing of 15 people on a mistake, the state president did not visit here to console the people, but left for Delhi to give his own representation. Naga people are angry, the situation might get out of hand and there will be mass desertion. The image of the party is totally spoiled,” Konyak told DH. Kohli could not be reached for comment.    Incidentally, P Paiwang Konyak, BJP’s lone legislator in 2013 and minister in the current government, won from Tizit assembly seat, under which Oting village falls. He was given the ticket on the insistence of Oting residents.  The Konyaks are electorally the community with the highest voters, and are the largest tribe in the state, followed by Ao, Tangkhul, Sema, and Angami. Of the 15 who lost their lives, 14 are from the Konyak tribe. Check pout latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/trouble-for-bjp-in-nagaland-after-oting-shooting-1065434.html
28-12-2021||National Politics||Will the atmosphere of Parliament change in 2022?||In a democracy like India which is based on the parliamentary ruling system, one of the most burning questions in 2022 is whether Parliament will be able to function smoothly? Will the work in both the Houses of Parliament take place in a peaceful manner in the coming year instead of the constant din and ruckus by the opposition parties? Will the ongoing bitterness between the ruling party and the opposition finally end in 2022? Will all parties together agree to run the House smoothly or not? Given the current political atmosphere in the country and the recent developments taking place, all these questions do not seem to evoke a positive response. Talking about the sessions of Parliament in 2022, the first session will begin with the Budget Session. For the last several years, the Budget Session now begins in the last week of January which proceeds with the President's address followed by the presentation of the Union Budget on February 1. Normally this session is held in two phases till May. The first phase of the session begins with the President's address followed by debate on the Union Budget presented by the Finance Minister and then the Union government gets it passed on the floor of the House. The Union government makes all requisite efforts to run Parliament with the cooperation of all parties present in the House. Although many times in the past such efforts have failed and the uproar by the opposition has continued. Amid the din, the government has been able to pass the Budget as well as the motion of thanks to the President's Address. Even as the Budget session is on, the poll campaign will also be at its peak in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Manipur and Goa. All party leaders across different party lines would be levelling allegations and counter allegations against each other. In such a situation, the elections are likely to dominate the proceedings in Parliament as well. In view of this, it can be said that in the first phase of the first session of Parliament (Budget session) in 2022, if the political parties do not agree, then there is bound to be a ruckus. However, if the election results are in favour of the ruling party BJP, then the second phase of the Budget Session can go on peacefully. The second session of Parliament, known as the Monsoon Session, is usually held in July-August. The impact of the Presidential election to be held in July and the Vice-President's election in August 2022 will have bearing on the Monsoon Session of Parliament. A few months after the formation of new governments in all the five poll-bound states, the impact of the election results will also be clear during this session. If the poll results come in favour of the BJP, the opposition is bound to appear weak and if the results go against the BJP, the opposition will be seen aggressively cornering the government in Parliament. The construction of the new Parliament House is likely to be completed by November 2022 and hence the last session of Parliament, i.e., the Winter Session in 2022 will be held in the new Parliament House. During this session, the state Assembly elections in Gujarat and Himachal Pradesh will be at its peak and its impact will be visible in both the Houses of Parliament. There has been a lack of communication and trust between the ruling government and the opposition parties which was clearly evident during the recent Parliament session. Therefore, despite the consensus reached many times during the Business Advisory Committee meetings regarding the functioning of the House, there was ruckus on the floor of the House. How big a challenge it is to run Parliament smoothly in 2022 can be gauged from the recent statement given by Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla on December 22, the last day of the recently adjourned Winter session of Parliament. He had said that Parliament must become the centre of discussion and dialogue so from time-to-time he will keep interacting with all the parties. Sometimes the treasury and opposition benches reach a consensus while at other times they don't. The Lok Sabha Speaker said that he would continue to make efforts to run the House without ruckus and hoped that it would yield positive results in the future. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/will-the-atmosphere-of-parliament-change-in-2022-1065467.html
28-12-2021||National Politics||No compromise on divisive ideologies anchored in hate and prejudice: Sonia Gandhi||Electoral ups and downs are inevitable but Congress will not compromise with “divisive ideologies anchored in hate and prejudice” playing “havoc” with the country’s secular fabric and “rewriting history” to give themselves a “role they do not deserve”, party president Sonia Gandhi said on Tuesday. Sonia, who made the remarks in a 3:30 minute video address on the occasion of 137th Congress Foundation Day, did not mention BJP by name but made it clear that the party will leave no stone unturned in its fight against those who “inflame passions, instill fear and spread animosity”. In an apparent reference to the stalemate during Parliament’s Winter Session, she said the “finest traditions of our parliamentary democracy are being deliberately damaged” and the Congress will fight these “destructive forces with all might at its command”. “Divisive ideologies anchored in hate & prejudice and which had no role whatsoever to play in our freedom movement are now causing havoc on the secular fabric of our society. They are rewriting history to give themselves a role they do not deserve. They inflame passions, instill fear and spread animosity,” Sonia said. “Let there be no doubt on our steadfast resolve. We have never and will never compromise on our fundamental beliefs that are part of our glorious legacy. Electoral ups and downs are inevitable but what is enduring and lasting is our commitment to the service of all people of our diverse society,” she said. She reminded party men it was on this day 136 years ago that the Indian National Congress was founded and over the decades, it has “confronted” several challenges and it has always “demonstrated its resilience”. “Today, we rededicate ourselves to the ideals, values and principles of our organisation that have been shaped, guided and inspired by some of the greatest, noblest and most selfless Indians of the 20th century,” she said. Earlier at the Congress headquarters, Sonia unfurled the party flag. The function was attended by former party president Rahul Gandhi and senior leaders like Mallikarjun Kharge, AK Antony, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, Pawan Bansal, Anand Sharma, K C Venugopal and Mani Shankar Iyer among others. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/no-compromise-on-divisive-ideologies-anchored-in-hate-and-prejudice-sonia-gandhi-1065477.html
28-12-2021||National Politics||Dinesh Mongia, Fateh Bajwa join BJP ahead of Punjab Assembly polls||Ahead of the Punjab Assembly election, former India cricketer Dinesh Mongia and sitting Congress MLA Fateh Singh Bajwa joined the BJP here on Tuesday in the presence of Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat. Bajwa, MLA from Qadian, is the brother of senior Congress leader Pratap Singh Bajwa. Besides Bajwa, Balwinder Singh Laddi, sitting MLA of Congress from Punjab, also joined the BJP on Tuesday. These joinings came a day after former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh and former Union minister Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa met the BJP top brass after which an announcement for a formal alliance was made between the BJP and the parties of these two leaders. Welcoming the leaders into his party fold, Shekhawat said leaders from other parties are joining the BJP as it is gaining ground in Punjab. From the past several days, the BJP has been roping in leaders and renowned personalities from Punjab to strengthen its position in the state where it has always been a junior partner in the alliance. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dinesh-mongia-fateh-bajwa-join-bjp-ahead-of-punjab-assembly-polls-1065495.html
28-12-2021||National Politics||Kanpur trader raided by I-T department a BJP worker: Akhilesh Yadav||Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav on Tuesday claimed that the Kanpur perfume trader, who was raided by the Income Tax department, was a BJP worker even as he sought to corner the Yogi Adityanath government over "corona mismanagement, unemployment and stray cattle". While addressing a public meeting at Unnao, Akhlesh, who had been in self-isolation for a few days after his wife and children tested positive for Covid-19, expressed confidence that the SP would form the next government in the state after the forthcoming Assembly polls. "The BJP government wanted the I-T to raid some other perfume trader but then one of its own workers, who was also a perfume trader, was raided," Akhilesh said. He also targeted the Adityanath government for failing to provide adequate medical facilities to the people during the second wave of coronavirus. "So many people lost their lives owing to lack of oxygen and shortage of beds in the hospitals. Bodies were seen floating in the rivers yet this government says that no one died from shortage of oxygen. Nothing can be a bigger lie," Akhilesh said. "BJP is certain to be wiped out in the polls. The chief minister claims that his government has provided jobs to the people. If that is so then why are lakhs of youths unemployed?," he asked. The SP supremo said that the state government's claim of development was confined only to the advertisements, hoardings and posters. Apparently targeting the BJP government over the menace of stray cattle, the SP supremo promised to pay a compensation of Rs five lakh to the next of kin of those who were killed in attacks from stray cattle in the state. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/kanpur-trader-raided-by-i-t-department-a-bjp-worker-akhilesh-yadav-1065507.html
28-12-2021||National Politics||Former cricketer Dinesh Mongia, two Congress MLAs join BJP||Former Indian cricketer Dinesh Mongia on Tuesday joined BJP. Two Congress MLAs Balwinder Singh Laddi, Fateh Jung Singh Bajwa and 13 others also joined the BJP on Tuesday along with cricketer Mongia. Mongia, Laddi, Bajwa and others joined BJP at the party national headquarters here in the presence of Union Minister and election in-charge of Punjab Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, national general secretary and state in-charge Dushyant Gautam and Rajya Sabha member and national media department head Anil Baluni. Left hand batsman Mongia had represented India in 57 ODIs and one T20 international match. Laddi and Bajwa have won from Shri Hargobindpur and Qadian on Congress ticket in 2017 Punjab assembly polls respectively. Others who joined BJP are former Lok Sabha member Rajdev Khalsa, senior Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD leader and three time MLA Gurte Singh Gudhiyana, President of United Christian Front of Punjab Kamal Bakshi, lawyer Madhumeet, jagdeep Singh Dhariwal, Praveen Deol, Jarnail Singh, Pradeep Singla, Gulsan Kumar, Vicky Mangla, Jagjeet Singh, Sukhvinder Singh and Buta Singh Dhaliwal. Shekhawat said that joining these leaders will strengthen the party and ensure formation of a BJP led alliance government in Punjab. "Bajwa family is a big name in Punjab. His father was three times minister and four times MLA. His father fought against terrorism and sacrificed his life while fighting against terrorism," Shekhawat said. The BJP has on Monday announced an alliance with former chief minister Amarinder Singh's Punjab Lok Congress and Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa's Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukt) to jointly contest the Punjab assembly polls. Punjab election will be held in February -March next year along with Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Manipur and Goa. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/former-cricketer-dinesh-mongia-two-congress-mlas-join-bjp-1065516.html
28-12-2021||National Politics||PM Modi uses I-T raid on Kanpur trader to target rivals, says previous regimes 'wasted time'||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday sought to put his rivals on the mat by seeking to connect them with the recent I-T raid on a perfume trader at Kanpur in which Rs 284 cash was allegedly recovered as he appealed to the people to give another chance to the BJP in the forthcoming assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh. "Unke bhrastchar ka itra uttar pradesh mein faila tha woh bahar aa gaya hai...noton ka pahar hi unki uplabdhi hai" (the perfume of their corruption in UP has come out...the mountain of notes is their only achievement), Modi said, apparently referring to the I-T raid. "The previous regimes only looted the public money. Whenever they came to power they only thought about filling their own coffers," he added. The prime minister listed the achievements of the NDA government at the Centre and the BJP government in the state and said that UP was poised to to rid itself of the stigma of 'backward state' under the 'double engine' government. Modi also invoked the famous Hanuman Temple at Panki in Kanpur and said that the people of the town had been blessed as they now could travel by Metro Rail. He also referred to one of the iconic sweet shop in the town 'Thaggu ke Laddoo' to strike an emotional chord with the people. He heaped praise on UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath for improving the law and order situation in the state and said that it had encouraged flow of investment in the state. Earlier the prime minister attended the 54th convocation ceremony of the Indian Institute of Technology-Kanpur (IIT-K) and asked the students to "choose challenges instead of comfort". "Many will tell you about shortcut, but don't choose comfort - choose challenge," he added. Stating that the 21st century was technology driven, Modi exhorted the students of the IIT to use their training and skill to make a mark in the world and make India self-reliant. The prime minister also launched the blockchain driven system to deliver educational degrees. Modi told the students not to ignore 'human values' while making innovations. The PM's rally at Kanpur came under attack from the opposition parties, which accused the UP government of misusing state machinery to ferry the crowd for the meeting. The district administration of Kanpur had asked different government departments to bring people at the rally. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-modi-uses-i-t-raid-on-kanpur-trader-to-target-rivals-says-previous-regimes-wasted-time-1065557.html
28-12-2021||National Politics||Arvind Kejriwal a self-proclaimed 'aam aadmi,' least bothered about interests of commoners: Channi||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Tuesday targeted AAP leader Arvind Kejriwal, alleging he is a self-proclaimed "aam aadmi" (common man) who is least bothered about the interests of commoners. "A person who is having a lavish lifestyle, how can he know about the agonies of the common man," Channi said, targeting the Delhi chief minister. Addressing a rally at a grain market here, the Punjab chief minister asked Kejriwal which common man stays in sprawling and expensive hotels. Channi said only a person like him who has faced hardships can understand the problems of the people, according to an official statement here. Channi termed Kejriwal and his allies “East India Company” and said Punjab leaders are “ignored” by Kejriwal and an “outsider” is just projecting himself on posters as the leader of Punjab which, he added, the Punjabis will not tolerate. The chief minister slammed Kejriwal for indulging in “theatrics” by sitting in auto-rickshaws and going to someone's house whereas he lives in a big bungalow in Delhi and stays in expensive hotels during his Punjab visits ahead of the assembly polls due early next year. He further said that most MLAs of the Aam Aadmi Party have left the party as their “fake propaganda of projecting themselves as common man is exposed.” Targeting the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), Congress leader Channi further said the Badals and Bikram Singh Majithia would not be spared as they “looted Punjab for their personal gains”. The chief minister said Majithia has gone into hiding because of fear of arrest. Majithia has been booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act on the basis of a 2018 report of a probe into a drug racket in Punjab. Accusing the Badals of running a “transport mafia” in the state, Channi said his government ended this mafia within just three months. He said, "We are strong and capable enough to take strong decisions to stop all kinds of mafias in the state whereas the AAP convener (Kejriwal) has given a written apology to the Majithia.” Channi said that as all AAP leaders have left Kejriwals 'Khas party', only Bhagwant Mann is siding with Kejriwal and not speaking anything against “wrong doings” of the Delhi chief minister due to his ambition of becoming the chief minister. He once again reiterated that his government will not bow down and deal with all mafias with an iron hand and put all the big fish in the drug trade behind bars. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/arvind-kejriwal-a-self-proclaimed-aam-aadmi-least-bothered-about-interests-of-commoners-channi-1065601.html
28-12-2021||National Politics||Chandigarh Municipal Corporation polls: BJP trying to poach AAP councillors, says Raghav Chadha||The Aam Aadmi Party on Tuesday accused the BJP of offering money to his party's three municipal councillors from Chandigarh to poach them. AAP leader Raghav Chadha made the allegation a day after the results of the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation polls threw up a hung verdict, with AAP winning 14 of 35 wards and BJP bagging 12. The Congress got eight seats and the Shiromani Akali Dal one. Addressing the media here on Tuesday, Chadha accused the BJP of indulging in horse trading and claimed that some BJP leaders have contacted and even visited the houses of winning AAP candidates and offered them money. "Two of them were offered Rs 50 lakh and one was offered Rs 75 lakh by BJP's senior leaders on Monday evening" for leaving AAP and joining the BJP, claimed Chadha without disclosing the names of the councillors. He said as a "precautionary measure", AAP has decided to install cameras at the residences of his party's councillors, who have also been directed to record the conversation if any BJP leader visits or contacts them. He said they would make camera footage and call recordings public if any BJP leader approaches or contacts AAP councillors. Chandigarh BJP president Arun Sood has dubbed Chadha's claims as “baseless and lies.” AAP leader Chadha even claimed that some central ministers called up AAP's councillors for fixing a meeting with the Union Home Minister and the BJP president. The AAP leader said his party would not allow the BJP to succeed in its attempt to “steal” the mandate of the people of Chandigarh. Asked if the party would take any legal action in the matter, Chadha said they will move the state Election Commission on this issue. He further said Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal will meet the party's municipal councillors soon. A party needs 19 votes to have its councillor elected as Mayor. Besides 35 councillors, the Chandigarh MP, who is an ex-officio member in the MC house, has a voting right. At present, BJP's Kiron Kher is the MP from Chandigarh. To a question on Punjab Congress MLA Fateh Jang Bajwa joining the BJP, Chadha said the Congress party is “completely finished” in the state and more MLAs and ministers will leave the Congress in the days to come. Earlier this month also, the AAP had accused the BJP of trying to poach its lawmakers from Punjab, with MP Bhagwant Mann claiming he was offered money and a place in the Union Cabinet if he joined the saffron party ahead of the assembly elections. The BJP had dismissed the allegations as baseless. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/chandigarh-municipal-corporation-polls-bjp-trying-to-poach-aap-councillors-says-raghav-chadha-1065602.html
28-12-2021||National Politics||Perfume triggers scent of electoral war between BJP and SP||Recovery of hundreds of crores in cash and gold and silver during an Income Tax raid from a perfume trader in Kanpur has triggered an electoral war between the Samajwadi Party (SP) and the BJP, with both claiming that the trader was connected to the other. An IT team had raided the offices and residence of Peeyush Jain a few days ago. The raid that continued for several days yielded Rs 284 crore in cash, 25 kilograms of gold and 250 kilograms of silver. The trader was later arrested on charges of tax evasion. The BJP leaders were quick to claim that Jain was connected to the SP and also that the trader had accumulated huge wealth during the tenure of Akhilesh Yadav. From Prime Minister Narendra Modi to Union Home Minister Amit Shah, as well as UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, the BJP launched scathing attacks on SP supremo Akhilesh Yadav after the raids. Addressing a public meeting at Kanpur on Tuesday, Modi said that the ''perfume of their corruption in UP has come out...the mountain of notes is their only achievement'' referring to the raid. ''Will they take credit for the boxes of notes? They are silent now,'' Modi said. While Modi did not nake Akhilesh, Shah was forthright. ''Akhilesh is in pain as the IT raided a businessman close to his party and a huge amount of cash was recovered from him,'' Shah said, addressing a public meeting at Hardoi on Tuesday. Adityanath also attacked Akhilesh over the raid and said that the recovery was proof of large-scale corruption during the SP's regime. Akhilesh, however, hit back claiming that the trader had links with the BJP leaders. "The BJP government wanted the IT to raid some other perfume trader but then one of its own workers, who was also a perfume trader, was raided," he said, claiming that the cell phone records of the trader could reveal names of several prominent BJP leaders. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/perfume-triggers-scent-of-electoral-war-between-bjp-and-sp-1065609.html
28-12-2021||National Politics||BJP got its own businessman raided by mistake: Akhilesh on perfume trader's arrest||SP chief Akhilesh Yadav categorically denied any link between his party and Kanpur-based perfume trader Peeyush Jain on Tuesday, and mockingly said the BJP got "its own businessman" raided "by mistake". He also wondered that "when all the resources are with the BJP today, who else can have such a huge amount of cash" and claimed that the CDR (call detail record) of the businessman's phone would reveal the names of several leaders of the saffron party, "who were in touch with him". Peeyush Jain was arrested after hundreds of crores of rupees, besides gold, silver and sandalwood oil, were recovered and could not be accounted for. Jain was sent to judicial custody for 14 days on a Kanpur court order on Monday. The details of cash withdrawal from banks would bring out the truth, the Samajwadi Party (SP) president said. "By mistake, the BJP got its own businessman raided. Instead of SP leader Pushpraj Jain, it got Piyush Jain raided," Yadav told reporters before the start of the 'Samajwadi Rath Yatra'. He also claimed that Samajwadi Attar (perfume) was launched by SP MLC Pushpraj Jain and not Piyush Jain. Taking a swipe at the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the former Uttar Pradesh chief minister said, "Due to the mistake of Digital India, it got its own businessman raided." The union finance ministry on Monday said the recent seizure of more than Rs 177 crore unaccounted cash from the perfume trader's Kanpur house was the "biggest ever seizure of cash" by an enforcement agency. With months to go for the 2022 Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls, BJP leaders have been attacking the SP over Jain's arrest, claiming that the perfume trader had links with Yadav's party. The SP, however, has been denying any links. "Even television channels that were flashing the news that the house of an SP man has been raided when the raids started realised by afternoon that it was not true and hence, stopped saying it," Yadav said. He added that the seizure of the huge amount of cash from the Kanpur-based businessman proved that demonetisation and the Goods and Services Tax (GST) have failed. Addressing a rally at the GIC ground here, the former Uttar Pradesh chief minister said Unnao is the land of Hasrat Mohani, who had given the call for "inquilab" (revolution) during the freedom struggle. "The entire state is witnessing a similar situation today... Inquilab will happen again and there will be a change of government in the state in 2022," Yadav, who has been crisscrossing Uttar Pradesh as part of his party's 'rath yatra' ahead of the crucial Assembly polls, said. Taking a swipe at Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, he mocked that a "yogi" (seer) never lies. "Tell us how many people have been given jobs by you. How many youngsters have received tablet computers and smartphones?" Yadav asked. He accused the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh of gross mismanagement during the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic and referred to bodies floating in the Ganga during the period. The former chief minister said if the SP returns to power in the state, it would give a compensation of Rs 5 lakh in the event of the death of a bicycle rider in an accident. The bicycle is the poll symbol of the SP. Yadav also claimed that Kanpur Metro is a contribution of the SP, which had launched the project when it was in power in Uttar Pradesh. He said the future SP government would extend the Kanpur Metro project to Unnao. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-got-its-own-businessman-raided-by-mistake-akhilesh-on-perfume-traders-arrest-1065646.html
28-12-2021||North and Central||Punjabis don't need outsider like Kejriwal: Channi||Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi on Monday said Aam Aadmi Party chief Arvind Kejriwal should not take Punjabis for granted and understand that they are capable of leading their own state and do not need an "outsider" like him. Channi said this during his visit to Rohno Kalan village near Khanna, where he inaugurated a sports park and a panchayat building, an official statement said. "Proud Punjabis will never let an outsider like Kejriwal rule them," he said. Channi said his government is implementing the common man's agenda while people like Kejriwal are promising "the moon to people in Punjab, rather than working for the betterment of the common man in Delhi". "Kejriwal is best at rolling out bundles of lies before the people of Punjab," he said. "It is the same Kejriwal who before the 2017 Punjab Vidhan Sabha elections had given a guarantee that he would throw (SAD leader) Bikram Singh Majithia behind bars for his relations with the drug mafia," he said. "And when AAP failed to form government in Punjab, the same Kejriwal offered unconditional apology to Majithia in the court, that too on AAP letterhead. Families who have lost their sons due to the drug menace will never forgive Kejriwal," he said. Channi said his government has set the wheel in motion by not only booking Majithia but raids are also underway to arrest him. He said the "chacha-bhateeja" relationship between former chief minister Amarinder Singh and Bikram Singh Majithia "is now an open secret as the former has been issuing statements in favour of the Akali leader". At a separate event in Moga, Channi assured people that the previous SAD-BJP alliance government in the state will be made accountable for the "betrayal" committed against Punjab and its people during its "decade-long misrule". He said people of the state owe an explanation from Akalis "for pushing the youth into drugs, sacrilege cases and bringing the state on the brink of an economic disaster". The beginning has already been made with the registration of an FIR against former Akali minister Bikram Singh Majithia, he said. Majithia had been booked under the NDPS Act. Alleging that Majithia "became a brand of drugs", Channi said the former minister would be soon put behind the bars. Channi alleged that the SAD leadership is in cahoots with the BJP government at the Centre for the implementation of three "black" farm laws. He said Harsimrat Kaur Badal was the part and parcel of the Central cabinet, which was "instrumental" in getting these "draconian" laws framed and finally she was forced to quit the Cabinet in the wake of widespread angst of people, especially farmers. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjabis-dont-need-outsider-like-kejriwal-channi-1065401.html
28-12-2021||North and Central||Several injured as doctors, police clash in Delhi over delay in NEET-PG 2021 counselling||Protest by a large number of resident doctors in Delhi over the delay in NEET-PG 2021 counselling on Monday took a dramatic turn, as medics and police personnel faced off in streets, with both sides claiming several persons suffered injury in the ensuing melee. The stir, led by the Federation of Resident Doctors' Association, has been going on for several days, and FORDA also said that several of its members were "detained" when they tried to hold a protest march from Maulana Azad Medical College (MAMC) to Supreme Court. FORDA president Manish claimed that resident doctors of a large number of major hospitals on Monday "returned their apron (lab coat) in a symbolic gesture of rejection of services". "We also tried to march from the campus of the Maulana Azad Medical College (MAMC) to Supreme Court, but soon after we had started it, security personnel did not allow us to proceed," he said. Manish also alleged that several doctors were "detained" by police force, and taken to police station premises, before being released after some time. He also alleged that "police force was used and many doctors were injured" during their dramatic face-off. However, police denied allegations of lathicharge or use of abusive language from their end, and said, 12 protestors were detained and released later. In a statement issued later, FORDA said it was a "black day in the history of the medical fraternity". "Resident doctors, the so-called 'Corona Warriors', protesting peacefully to expedite NEET PG Counselling 2021 were brutally thrashed, dragged and detained by the police," it alleged "There will be complete shutdown of all healthcare institutions from today onwards," the statement said. In an official statement issued later, Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (Central) Rohit Meena said, on Monday, a group of resident doctors "without having any authorised permission" blocked the BSZ Marg, main road between ITO and Delhi gate, and jammed the traffic for more than six hours". "They deliberately created nuisance on the main road and blocked both carriageways, causing hardship and harassment to commuters and general public," he claimed in the statement. Subsequently, they were "addressed by DG Health" who gave them the assurance of fulfilling their demands, the senior police officer was quoted as saying in the statement. However, they became "aggressive and even after pacifying them, they blocked the road", he claimed. "After requesting them again to leave the road, they became aggressive and manhandled our personnel when efforts were made to detain them lawfully. Seven police personnel got injured while detaining them. They also broke the glass of police bus," he alleged. FIR has been registered under relevant sections of Indian Penal Code for Covid violations, rioting and damage to public property among others, police said. Later in the night, a large number of resident doctors gathered outside the Sarojini Nagar police station. But, no one has been detained as of now, police said. However, doctors claimed that a large number of protestors were detained by police when they tried to march from Safdarjung Hospital to the official residence of Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya. "They are protesting and we are facilitating their protest...they are on a sit-in here. Let them first settle down and then we will initiate talks with them. It's likely that any immediate meeting could be arranged with officials concerned at night but we are trying are best to sort it out," a senior police officer from southwest district of the Delhi Police said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Southwest) Gaurav Sharma said that "Doctors were protesting and they were reconciled through negotiations. They were peacefully handled and sent back to their hostels." In a video released by FORDA, a group of protestors can be seen singing the national anthem outside a police station, while one doctor can be seen telling a group that they should prepare to camp there all night to protest. Later, a resident doctor said, after all detained doctors been released, "injured will go to hospitals, and rest all will be heading back, to regroup again tomorrow". Senior Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra also shared video clip of the face-off between the doctors and police personnel, and extended support to protesting resident doctors. As the protest continued on Monday, patient care remained affected at three Centre-run facilities -- Safdarjung, RML and Lady Hardinge hospitals -- and some of the Delhi government-run hospitals. Last Tuesday, a group of doctors had thrown flowers on security barricades, and clanged utensils and clapped in front of the Nirman Bhawan here, saying they were symbolically "returning" the adulation showered on them for being Covid warriors. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/several-injured-as-doctors-police-clash-in-delhi-over-delay-in-neet-pg-2021-counselling-1065425.html
28-12-2021||North and Central||Kejriwal to hold high-level meet on Covid-19 situation in Delhi||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal will discuss the existing Covid-19 situation with top officials at a high-level meeting on Tuesday during which a decision is also likely to be taken on implementing the Graded Response Action Plan in Delhi, officials sources said. The chief minister will chair the meeting at 12 noon. It will discuss the rising number of Covid-19 cases and threat posed by its new variant Omicron. Besides, the meeting may decide on sounding the 'Yellow' alert and restrictions according to the GRAP, according to the sources. The 'yellow' alert is sounded when Covid positivity rate stays over 0.5 per cent on two consecutive days. It involves restrictions like night curfew, closure of schools and colleges, alternate day opening of shops of non-essential items and halved seating capacity in Metro trains and public transport buses among others. Delhi on Monday recorded 331 fresh Covid-19 cases, the highest single-day rise since June 9, and one death while the positivity rate mounted to 0.68 per cent, according to data shared by the city health department. On Sunday, Delhi recorded 290 cases with a positivity rate of 0.55 per cent and one fatality, according to official figures. In view of the rising number of Covid-19 cases, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) has already imposed night curfew that will remain in force in the city from 11 pm to 5 am, till further orders.     Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kejriwal-to-hold-high-level-meet-on-covid-19-situation-in-delhi-1065455.html
28-12-2021||North and Central||PM Modi to inaugurate Kanpur metro, attend IIT-K convocation on December 28||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate the completed section of the Kanpur metro rail and Bina-Panki multi-product pipeline project, and also attend the 54th convocation ceremony of the Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur (IIT-K) on Tuesday. The Bina-Panki multi-product pipeline will be operated by Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited (BPCL). The 356-km pipeline originates from Bina Refinery in Madhya Pradesh and terminates at Panki Depot in Kanpur. Established at the cost of Rs 1,524 crore, it will cater to the demand for petroleum products from northern states and has a capacity of 3.5 million metric tonnes per annum. The pipeline is equipped with the state-of-the-art supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA) system, ensuring the supply of petrol and diesel to Kanpur, Lucknow, Aonla, Shahjahanpur, Baitalpur and Gonda. Meanwhile, the completed nine km-long section of the metro rail project is from IIT-Kanpur to Moti Jheel. PM Modi will also inspect the project and undertake a metro ride from the IIT metro station to Geeta Nagar. The entire length of the project in Kanpur is 32 km and is being built at a cost of over Rs 11,000 crore. The Prime Minister will also attend the 54th convocation of IIT Kanpur as the chief guest while Uttar Pradesh governor Anandiben Patel and Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath will be the guests of honour. IIT-K will be hosting a physical convocation after a year as it was held virtually last year. The institute has created a bio bubble to ensure safety amid the Covid-19 pandemic. IIT-K spokesperson Girish Pant said, "Bio-bubble is a concept developed recently in the field of sports, especially in cricket, where a bio-secure environment is created to minimise contamination risks from the novel coronavirus. "Although the concept has now spread to many sectors, it is probably the first time that a higher educational institute has adopted such measures for its convocation. "The institute had conducted RT-PCR tests of all the attendees on Monday and a subsequent rapid antigen test will also follow on the convocation day prior to the opening of the gate to the venue of the event." On the occasion, a total of 1,723 students will be receiving their degrees and 80 prizes and medals will also be given. Twenty-one students will also be awarded the "Outstanding PhD Thesis Award" in the second session of the convocation. During the convocation, all the students will be issued digital degrees through an in-house blockchain-driven technology developed at the institute under the National Blockchain Project. The Prime Minister will launch the blockchain-based digital degrees. These digital degrees can be verified globally and are unforgeable. Moreover, three honorary doctorate degrees will also be given to three eminent personalities namely Prof Rohini M Godbole, Senapathy 'Kris' Gopalakrishnan, and Pandit Ajoy Chakrabarty. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-modi-to-inaugurate-kanpur-metro-attend-iit-k-convocation-on-december-28-1065456.html
28-12-2021||North and Central||Delhi's striking resident doctors call for total medical service shutdown||Protesting resident doctors have called for total shutdown of medical services in Delhi hospitals after the police action against them on Monday afternoon. The resident doctors, who have been protesting against delay in PG NEET counselling, were marching towards the Supreme Court when they were stopped by the police near ITO in the afternoon, and claimed that over a thousand of them were detained by the police. Calling it a "black day" in the history of the medical fraternity, the Federation of Resident Doctors' Association (FORDA) said: "There will be a complete shutdown of all healthcare institutions today onwards. We strongly condemn this brutality and demand immediate release of our FORDA representatives and resident doctors." "A Black Day in the history of Medical fraternity of the nation. Resident Doctors, the so called 'Corona Warriors', protesting peacefully to Expedite NEET PG Counselling 2021 in Delhi were brutally thrashed, dragged &amp; detained by the cops. The medical fraternity of the nation must condemn this act in strongest words &amp; come forward in support. We urge all State RDAs of the nation to join the agitation! We all stand united in this fight against injustice," the statement said. Talking to IANS, RML Hospital RDA Vice President, Dr Ajay Kumar, said that over a thousand doctors have been detained by Delhi Police, and they want an apology "for such barbaric action". Meanwhile, protesting doctors gathered at the Safdarjung Hospital in late evening to march towards the residence of Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya to protest. However, they were stopped on the way and taken to Sarojini Nagar Police Station. RML Hospital RDA General Secretary Dr Survesh Pandey told IANS that they were detained at the Sarojini Nagar Police Station while on the way to the Health Minister's residence but released in the late night. The doctors are holding a midnight meeting to intensify their protest. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhis-striking-resident-doctors-call-for-total-medical-service-shutdown-1065458.html
28-12-2021||North and Central||Explained | Why are Delhi resident doctors protesting over NEET-PG 2021 counselling?||Resident doctors in Delhi, led by the Federation of Resident Doctors' Association (FORDA), have been protesting against the repeated delay in the NEET-PG 2021 counselling for the last 10 days, boycotting all medical services including emergency services across hospitals in the national capital. The agitating doctors have also threatened mass resignation if the government doesn't expedite the matter on NEET-PG counselling listed in the Supreme Court. As the protest continued on Monday, the evening took a dramatic turn with both medics and police personnel claiming several injuries in the ensuing melee. What led to the violence on Monday night? While FORDA claims that several of its members were "detained" when they tried to hold a protest march from Maulana Azad Medical College (MAMC) to Supreme Court, the Delhi Police has denied allegations of lathicharge or use of abusive language from their end, and said, 12 protestors were detained and released later. In a statement issued later, FORDA said it was a "black day in the history of the medical fraternity" and warned of a complete shutdown of all healthcare institutions from today onwards if their demands are not met. "Resident doctors, the so-called 'Corona Warriors', protesting peacefully to expedite NEET PG Counselling 2021 were brutally thrashed, dragged and detained by the police," the statement said. Why are the doctors protesting? The RDAs across the nation have been protesting since November 27 against the multiple postponements of the NEET-PG 2021 counselling and the subsequent admission of the fresh batch of resident doctors in medical colleges. They had boycotted the emergency and the routine services in hospitals from December 6 but had suspended their agitation for a week "in view of the developments over the issue in the last few days and the death of Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat and others in a copter crash". As the protest continues, resident doctors of Centre-run Ram Manohar Lohia, Safdarjung and Lady Hardinge hospitals have been boycotting all routine and emergency services, as part of the nationwide protest, affecting patient care. The admissions for NEET-PG have been delayed due to the dispute over revising the income criteria for the Economically Weaker Sections (EWS) quota from the current upper limit of Rs 8 lakh a year. The RDAs have urged the Union Government and the Supreme Court of India to take note of the grievance of resident doctors of the nation and to take necessary measures for expediting the NEET-PG 2021 counselling as well as admission process and to fast-track the court proceedings on an urgent basis.  What is the Delhi Police saying? Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (Central) Rohit Meena told PTI that a group of resident doctors "without having any authorised permission" blocked the BSZ Marg, main road between ITO and Delhi gate, and jammed the traffic for more than six hours... causing hardship and harassment to commuters and the general public".   They were "addressed by DG Health" who gave them the assurance of fulfilling their demands but they became "aggressive and even after pacifying them, they blocked the road", the senior police officer was quoted as saying in the statement. FIR has been registered under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code for Covid violations, rioting and damage to public property among others, police said. (With agency inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/explained-why-are-delhi-resident-doctors-protesting-over-neet-pg-2021-counselling-1065459.html
28-12-2021||North and Central||IMD forecasts rain for Delhi, AQI 'very poor'||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Tuesday forecast the possibility of light rain or drizzle in the national capital with a generally cloudy sky throughout the day, while the air quality marginally improved to the 'very poor' category. As per the weather department, the light rain or drizzle is the result of a Western Disturbance seen as a cyclonic circulation over East Afghanistan and adjoining Pakistan and an induced cyclonic circulation that lies over southwest Rajasthan and the neighbourhood at lower tropospheric levels. "Under the influence of the above systems, light to moderate scattered to fairly widespread rainfall/snowfall very likely over Western Himalayan Region till December 28; light rainfall at isolated to scattered places very likely over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi, Rajasthan till December 28 and scattered to fairly widespread over Uttar Pradesh during December 27 to 29," the IMD forecast said. Delhi-NCR received rain on Sunday evening, and according to the Safdarjung Observatory, 1.4 mm rainfall was recorded in the area between 5.30 p.m. to 8.30 p.m. Meanwhile, the maximum and minimum temperatures for Tuesday have been pegged at 20 and 9 degrees Celsius, respectively. This week, the minimum temperatures may drop to 6 degrees Celsius and the maximum will continue to hover around 20 degrees Celsius. The relative humidity at 8.30 am was recorded at 90 per cent. Meanwhile, the Air Quality Index (AQI) was 347 on Tuesday morning, a slight improvement after it deteriorated to 'severe' at 433 Monday. The level of PM10 (287) and PM2.5 (181) pollutants in the air were recorded in 'poor' and 'very poor' categories, respectively. The System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR) said that from Tuesday onwards, slight improvement in the air quality is likely due to relatively high wind speeds and on Wednesday "significant improvement is expected due to high easterly winds at height of 700-800 m as well as at 10 m that results in strong ventilation of pollutants". The air quality is likely to remain in the poor category for the subsequent five days. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/imd-forecasts-rain-for-delhi-aqi-very-poor-1065463.html
28-12-2021||North and Central||PM Modi attends IIT Kanpur convocation ceremony, launches blockchain-based digital degrees||Prime Minister Narendra Modi attended the 54th convocation ceremony of the Indian Institute of Technology here on Tuesday as the chief guest. The prime minister launched blockchain-based digital degrees at the ceremony. Uttar Pradesh Governor Anandiben Patel and Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath attended the function as guests of honour.   The students were issued digital degrees through an in-house blockchain-driven technology developed at the institute under the National Blockchain Project. These digital degrees can be verified globally and are unforgeable. IIT-K is hosting a physical convocation after a year as it was held virtually last year. According to a statement from the premier institute, students can attend the ceremony either in person or virtually on the online platform made available for this purpose.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-modi-attends-iit-kanpur-convocation-ceremony-launches-blockchain-based-digital-degrees-1065476.html
28-12-2021||North and Central||'Yellow' alert sounded in Delhi as Covid-19 cases rise||A yellow alert has been sounded in Delhi and some restrictions imposed under the Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP) in view of rising number of Covid cases in the city, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Tuesday. The yellow alert entails restrictions like night curfew, closure of schools and colleges, opening of non essential shops based on an odd even basis, halved seating capacity in Metro trains and buses among others. The chief minister, after reviewing the Covid situation at a high level meeting, said virus cases were rising fast in Delhi but there was no need to panic as most people have mild symptoms. Kejriwal said it was unfortunate that people were visiting markets and malls without masks, and appealed to them to follow Covid appropriate behaviour. He said although cases were rising in Delhi, there was no increased consumption of medical oxygen or increased demand of beds and ICU facilities which meant most people were getting treated at home. He also said that his government is 10 times more prepared than earlier to deal with rise in Covid cases in the national capital. The list of restrictions under the yellow alert will be made public later on, he said. What is a 'Yellow' alert? The 'Yellow' alert is sounded when Covid positivity rate stays over 0.5 per cent on two consecutive days. It involves restrictions like night curfew, closure of schools and colleges, alternate day opening of shops of non-essential items and halved seating capacity in Metro trains and public transport buses among others. Delhi on Monday recorded 331 fresh Covid-19 cases, the highest single-day rise since June 9, and one death while the positivity rate mounted to 0.68 per cent, according to data shared by the city health department. On Sunday, Delhi recorded 290 cases with a positivity rate of 0.55 per cent and one fatality, according to officials figures. In view of the rising number of Covid-19 cases, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) has already imposed night curfew that will remain in force in the city from 11 pm to 5 am, till further orders. (With PTI inputs) Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/yellow-alert-sounded-in-delhi-as-covid-19-cases-rise-1065480.html
28-12-2021||North and Central||Road accident deaths three times more than militancy in Jammu and Kashmir||Traffic accidents claimed over 700 lives in 2021 in Jammu & Kashmir, a figure which is more than three times than those killed due to militancy. A total of 5,036 road accidents occurred in the Union Territory between January 1-November 30 this year, in which 713 people died and 6,447 were injured, Traffic department data shows. While 3,278 accidents took place in the Jammu region, in which 521 persons were killed and 4,241 injured, in Kashmir, 1,758 accidents took place in which 192 persons were killed and 2,206 injured. The figures reveal that last year 728 people were killed and 5,894 were injured in road accidents in J&K while the number was 996 deaths and 7,532 injured in 2019. In 2018, 984 people had died in road accidents and 7,845 were injured while the number was 926 deaths and 7,419 injured in 2017. The figures also reveal that nearly 10,000 people died in J&K due to road accidents and nearly 87000 were injured in the last 10-years. As per the Union Ministry of Road Transport and Highways, J&K ranks second across India in the tally of 10000 vehicles with an average of 900 deaths every year. By contrast, like previous years also, the number of deaths in Kashmir due to militancy is much less in 2021 than road accidents. According to official figures, 220 people including 40 civilians, 35 security forces personnel and 145 militants were killed in militancy-related incidents in Kashmir in the first 11 months of this year. Superintendent of Police (Traffic) Manzoor Ahmad Mir, blamed reckless driving and violation of traffic rules as the main reason for the rising accidents and deaths. “People resort to rash driving and often resort to violation of traffic rules which ultimately result in accidents which at times turn fatal,” he said. “Jumping of signals is one of the biggest reasons responsible for accidents.” Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/road-accident-deaths-three-times-more-than-militancy-in-jammu-and-kashmir-1065483.html
28-12-2021||North and Central||Chaos at Delhi's hospitals as resident doctors shut OPD counters||The ongoing protest of the resident doctors on Monday caused chaos like situation across hospitals in the national capital as all OPD counters were shut for the patients. The protesting doctors had called for a total shutdown of the medical services in the hospitals after the police action on Monday. The doctors are demanding an apology for the action taken by the Delhi Police against them. The Centre-run Safdarjung Hospital, which has been the epicenter of the ongoing stir, witnessed chaos as the OPD counters remained shut. The doctors protested outside the emergency ward and all emergency services were obstructed. Even the ambulance services have been disrupted by the agitating doctors. Delhi's Chacha Nehru Children Hospital was also badly affected as the protesting doctors closed the main doors to stop the patients from visiting the hospital. The doctors at the Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital also stopped the OPD and other medical services for some time. However, after a brief suspension, the OPD services at Safdarjung Hospital resumed with senior doctors and consultants attending to the patients. Meanwhile, the resident doctors' association of AIIMS has also withdrawn all non-emergency work from Tuesday if no steps are taken by the government against the violence faced by doctors during their protest on Monday. The protesting doctors started a march from the Safdarjung Hospital towards the Union Health ministry's office to register to protest against the police action on agitating doctors during the protest on Monday. The RDAs across the nation have been protesting since November 27 against the multiple postponements of the NEET PG Counselling 2021 and the subsequent admission of the fresh batch of resident doctors in the medical colleges. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chaos-at-delhis-hospitals-as-resident-doctors-shut-opd-counters-1065485.html
28-12-2021||North and Central||PM Modi launches section of Kanpur Metro||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday inaugurated the completed section of the Kanpur Metro Rail Project. The prime minister, who arrived here in the morning, inaugurated the nine-km long section from IIT Kanpur to Moti Jheel completed in a record two years time. Improving urban mobility has been one of the key focus areas of the prime minister and the metro project is yet another step in this direction, officials said. Modi also inspected the Kanpur Metro Rail Project and undertook a metro ride from the IIT metro station to Geeta Nagar. The entire length of the project in Kanpur is 32 km and it is being built at a cost of over Rs 11,000 crore, they said.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-modi-launches-section-of-kanpur-metro-1065500.html
28-12-2021||North and Central||Excel in technology but remember human element: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday asked the students and the youth to excel in technology but not to forget the human element. Speaking at the 54th convocation of IIT Kanpur, the Prime Minister said, "Technology has its own strength but you should not forget the human element. Do not become a robotic version of yourself. Do not forget emotions and there should be no password for kindness. Artificial intelligence is fine but human intelligence must also be given importance." He said that in life, there will be a choice between comfort and challenge but you must always opt for challenge because that is what will take you forward. "It is a great moment that when India will celebrate 100 years of Independence, you will be a part of its journey. In the past seven years, there have been startups, stand-ups and Atal Innovation Mission that provides immense opportunities. We have removed policy blockades. Today, India is the second biggest nation with 50,000 startups and third with 75 unicorns." The Prime Minister said that nearly every sector today is driven by technology and you have a vast canvas to realise your dreams. You can give direction and momentum to the nation. "You can play a key role in the future of the country. Now is the time to be 'aatmanirbhar'-even your parents will want you to stand on your own feet," he said. The Prime Minister conveyed his good wishes to the students for a bright future and said that his government would be ever ready to help them. The students were issued digital degrees through an in-house blockchain-driven technology developed at the institute under the National Blockchain Project. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/excel-in-technology-but-remember-human-element-pm-modi-1065501.html
28-12-2021||North and Central||Jabalpur collector orders to withhold salary over pending complaints||Irked by the delay in disposing of a large number of pending complaints of citizens on the chief minister's helpline, the collector of Madhya Pradesh's Jabalpur district has ordered to withhold his own salary along with that of a few other officers for the month of December, an official said on Tuesday. As per a release issued on Monday, District Collector Karamveer Sharma directed the district treasury officer to carry out the order to this effect. The collector also directed to withhold the salaries of officers for this month for keeping complaints pending for over 100 days, it was stated. Sharma issued the directives while conducting a department-wise review of pending complaints made on the chief minister's helpline during a meeting held at the District Panchayat office on Monday, the official said. The collector instructed officers to be sensitive and dispose of the complaints within the time limit. Not a single complaint should be left unattended, he had stated. Sharma further instructed to withhold the salaries of deputy municipal commissioners for negligence in dealing with matters related to cleanliness and the helpline. The collector instructed to withhold the increment of some tehsildars for negligence in disposal of revenue cases and the executive engineer PIU (Project Implementation Unit) for lethargy in dealing various cases, the release said. A show cause notice was also issued to a district marketing officer for not attending the meeting, it was stated. Sharma directed officials to dispose of all complaints, either related to the CM Helpline or Samadhan, within the time limit, and instructed them to dispose of the complaints pending for over 100 days by December 31, the official added. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jabalpur-collector-orders-to-withhold-salary-over-pending-complaints-1065515.html
28-12-2021||North and Central||Yogi 'scared': Congress holds 'women marathon' in Lucknow||A large number of women turned up to take part in the 'women marathon' organised in the state capital on Tuesday by the Congress as part of its 'ladki hoon lad sakti hoon' (I am a girl and I can fight) campaign in the state ahead of the forthcoming assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh. The marathon was scheduled to take place on Sunday but it was rescheduled for Tuesday after the district administration denied permission to hold the same citing prohibitory orders in the district. Buoyed by the impressive turnout, UP Congress president Ajay Kumar Lallu said that the women of the state had made up their minds to show the exit door to the BJP. ''This crowd (women) is proof that the BJP is certain to lose the next poll,'' he said. He also said that chief minister Yogi Adityanath was 'scared' of the ''women power'' and had therefore had denied permission to the Congress to hold the marathon on Sunday. ''The CM is scared.....the women of the state have rallied behind Priyanka Gandhi,'' Lallu said. The Congress leaders claimed that the party sponsored women's marathons at Jhansi and Agra and other places in the state were a 'huge success''. ''We are getting very good responses from the women....it is a sign that the women have realised their power,'' said another state Congress leader here while speaking to DH. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who is also the state party in-charge, has pinned her hopes on the women for reviving the electoral fortunes of her party in the state. She had earlier made a slew of promises to the women, including 40 per cent reservation for them in government jobs, setting up 'Mahila Chaupal' in every village of the state, 40 per cent tickets to them in the forthcoming assembly polls, increasing the wages of the Anganwadi and Asha workers and three free gas cylinders among others, if her party forms the next government in the state. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/yogi-scared-congress-holds-women-marathon-in-lucknow-1065519.html
28-12-2021||North and Central||Power Minister R K Singh asks Joshi to act against officers who gave wrong info on coal stocks||Union Power Minister R K Singh has asked Coal and Mines Minister Pralhad Joshi to take action against concerned officers who gave him wrong information on coal dispatches. In a letter to the Coal Minister dated December 9, 2021, Singh said, "Your officers who told you that they had large stocks but the Gencos were not lifting gave wrong information. If they had the stock, why did they not load the rakes? They seem to have inflated the production figures. Proceedings need to be initiated against the concerned officers. "We have checked up from the Generation Companies (GENCOS). Contrary to what your officers have told you, none of the major GENCOS were supplied the quantum of coal which they had indented. We have the data of 22 major GENCOS for the period April - October 2021, which was the critical period. They had indented a total of 67,098 rakes out of which the coal companies endorsed to supply 55,155 rakes and the railways sanctioned 55,055 rakes but the actual coal supply from coal companies was 34,620 rakes only," Power Minister Singh said in the letter. Singh added that the demand is going to increase again from mid-March 2022 onwards. "Am constrained to point out that the number of rakes which were promised to be dispatched per day in the meetings with the Home Minister, Cabinet Secretary and PMO are not being dispatched." The Power Minister added in the letter that "the coal crisis situation has been overcome for the present, and the average coal stocks at power plants have improved somewhat to 20.2 Million Tonnes (MT). However, this is only 10 days stock, whereas our revised stocking norms prescribe a reserve of 15 days at pithead and 24 days at non pithead stations. "This is the time to take corrective action keeping in mind our past experience so as to avoid a recurrence of the crisis in future. The estimates of likely power required for the year 2021-22 and the resultant coal requirement were conveyed to the Ministry of Coal in April. These estimates were accurate," Singh said. "We had assessed that the power generation from April to October 2021 from coal-based units shall be 649 Billion Units (BU). The actual generation was 642 BU. Accordingly, we had projected the coal requirement of 446.4 Million Tonnes (MT). The actual consumption was 439.4 MT. But the supply from coal companies was only 418.80 MT - a shortfall of 21 MT. This led to draw down in the stocks which dropped to a low of 7.24 MT on 08.10.2021," he added in the letter. Singh said that unless the coal companies dispatch the rakes as promised, the Gencos will not be able to meet the stocking requirements, he added. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/power-minister-r-k-singh-asks-joshi-to-act-against-officers-who-gave-wrong-info-on-coal-stocks-1065521.html
28-12-2021||North and Central||'Yellow' alert: 50% occupancy at Delhi restaurants, metros; schools shut||With rising cases of Covid-19 and positivity rate remaining above 0.50% for two days, the Delhi government on Tuesday announced yellow alert in the national capital under the the Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP), shutting schools, cinemas and gyms with immediate effect as well as allowing shops in malls to operate only on odd-even basis. The announcement of putting the capital on yellow alert was made by Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, who said that there was no need to panic but asked people to be "responsible" by adhering to Covid-19 appropriate behaviour like wearing masks, washing hands at regular intervals, avoiding crowding of places and maintaining physical distancing. After a review meeting prior to the announcement, he said Covid-19 cases are rising in the capital but there was no cause for worry as most people had mild symptoms. Although cases were rising in Delhi, he said there was no increased consumption of medical oxygen or increased demand for beds and ICU facilities. Under the GRAP, there are four levels of alert -- yellow, amber, orange and red. The yellow alert is imposed when the Covid positivity stays above 0.50 % percent for two consecutive days or 1,500 cases for a duration of seven days or 500 oxygen bed occupancy for seven days. A detailed order was issued on the restrictions placed in the capital. There will be night curfew in the capital from 10 pm to 5 am. Earlier the government had announced night curfew from Monday night 11 AM to 5 PM. Schools, cinemas, gyms will remain shut in the capital while shops in malls will be allowed to operate on odd-even basis. Delhi Metro and buses will operate at 50% of seating capacity with no standing passengers. The shops and establishments of non-essential goods and services and malls will open based on odd-even formula from 10 am to 8 pm. Marriages and funerals will be allowed with attendance of just 20 persons while all other types of gathering related to social, political, cultural, religious and festival events are prohibited. Only one weekly market per zone with 50% will be allowed to open while restaurants will be permitted with 50% from 8 am to 10 pm. Bars will be allowed to operate with the same capacity, but from 12 noon to 10 pm. Religious places will be open but visitors will not be allowed. Kejriwal said the Delhi Government is fully prepared to tackle the rising numbers of Covid case this time and is personally monitoring all developments taking place regarding the pandemic situation in the capital. "I want the public to note that these restrictions are for their own safety. While I understand that people are frustrated with having dealt with Covid-19 restrictions time and again for over two years now. But we have no choice but to take these measures to protect our health and our lives," he said.   Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/yellow-alert-50-occupancy-at-delhi-restaurants-metros-schools-shut-1065522.html
28-12-2021||North and Central||Protesting doctors demand apology from Delhi Police||The resident doctors protesting across the national capital to expedite the counselling of NEET-PG 2021, on Tuesday demanded an apology from Delhi Police over cops' "stern action" during their Monday's Supreme Court march. "We want respect. This is now our foremost demand. We want an apology from the police over their brutality on our fellow doctors," a protesting doctor told IANS. On Monday, a protest march was held by the resident doctors towards the Supreme Court, however, they were stopped mid way by the Delhi Police. As the doctors were not allowed to continue their march, they surrendered their medical apron on the road to register the protest. The doctors said they were thrashed and dragged during their march to the apex court. The police said that seven of their personnel were injured during the chaos. It also said that two buses were damaged at that time. "We detained 10-12 doctors but later released them in an hour," Additional DCP (Central district) Rohit Meena had told IANS. Presently, the doctors are protesting outside the emergency ward of the Safdarjung Hospital. All emergency services, including ambulance services were briefly obstructed due to the agitation. As the healthcare facilities have been drastically affected due to the ongoing protests, the resident doctors said they are the first to get affected by the pain of the patients. "We feel their pain but until and unless we are treated with dignity, like a human being, we won't stop this agitation," said a doctor. As per latest reports, talks between the doctors association representatives and Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya are currently underway at the Nirman Bhavan in the national capital. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/protesting-doctors-demand-apology-from-delhi-police-1065543.html
28-12-2021||North and Central||Lot of time wasted already, begin work on new India: PM to IIT graduates||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday asked IIT graduates to choose challenge over convenience and urged them to start working for the kind of India they want in the next 25 years, saying as a lot of time has already been wasted. Addressing the 54th convocation ceremony of the Indian Institute of Technology-Kanpur, Modi told the fresh graduates that they have to take over the reins of the country. He said India too had started its new journey after Independence.“By the time 25 years were completed, a lot of work should have been done for standing on our own feet but a lot of time has been wasted,” he said. “The country has lost a lot of time, two generations have gone by and so we should not miss even two moments now," he said. He told students that they have to take over the reins of the country’s development and start work on it right now. “It is the responsibility of all of you to give direction to the country for the next 25 years, to give momentum to the country," he said. He said the country is standing on the threshold of “immense opportunities”, and urged students to take up the responsibility of making use of them. The prime minister launched blockchain-based digital degrees at the ceremony, also attended by Uttar Pradesh Governor Anandiben Patel and Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. The students were issued digital degrees through an in-house blockchain-driven technology developed under the National Blockchain Project. These degrees can be verified globally and can't be forged. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lot-of-time-wasted-already-begin-work-on-new-india-pm-to-iit-graduates-1065546.html
28-12-2021||North and Central||J&K: Income Tax collection in 2020-21 sees dip from previous years||As Covid-19 and political uncertainty continue to engulf Jammu and Kashmir, income tax collection in the region has seen a dip in the financial year 2020-21 compared to previous years. During 2020-2021, the Income Tax department collected Rs 1,110 crore from Jammu and Kashmir which was over Rs 450 crore less than 2018-19 when Rs 1,563 crore was collected. Based on data by the Central Board of Direct Taxes, in comparison to the previous year, the tax collection in J&K has shown a slight dip which officials attribute to the economic meltdown post-Covid-19. According to official figures, in 2017-18, Rs 1,302.6 crore was collected as income tax from J&K while in 2016-2017, the amount was Rs 1,091.08 crore. The dip in income tax collection during 2016-2017 was due to prolonged summer unrest in Kashmir following militant commander Burhan Wani’s killing and subsequent street protests for four months. In 2013-14, income tax collection in J&K was Rs 1,459 crore which came down to Rs 1,284 in the next financial year. The reason for the decline, according to the officials, was devastating floods which hit the Kashmir region in September 2014. In 2015-16, the tax collection again went up with Rs 1,383.96 crore collected. Principal Commissioner of Income Tax (PCIT) Srinagar, MP Singh advised people of J&K to pay their taxes diligently and come under the tax ambit without any fear. “Economic development without financial discipline cannot bring self-respect among people. The first step towards financial discipline is to pay their due taxes and file their ITRs which is a very essential process,” he said. He reiterated that there is no scope of any bias or harassment anymore under the new transparent and accountable tax regime. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-income-tax-collection-in-2020-21-sees-dip-from-previous-years-1065551.html
28-12-2021||North and Central||GST evasion: Revenue intelligence joins probe against businessman||A team of Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) officials on Tuesday reached the premises of Kanpur businessman Peeyush Jain in Uttar Pradesh's Kannuj where a raid of the Director General Supplies and Transport (DGST) is still under way. According to information, the DRI is mulling to file a separate case against Peeyush Jain, and will help GST officials in fixing the overall value of gold recovered during the raid. "On Monday, 23 kilograms (kg) of gold and 600 kg of sandalwood oil hidden in an underground storage, having a market value of about Rs 6 crore were seized from his office and factory premises. Since the gold recovered is having foreign markings, the DRI was roped in for necessary investigations," a GST official said. The DRI officials, when contacted, didn't divulge more details. However, they said they will be able to comment once the raid is over. A six-member team of DRI reached Jain's premises on Tuesday morning. Jain was on Monday remanded to 14-day judicial custody by a special court. The Ahmedabad unit of Directorate General of GST Intelligence (DGGI) had on December 22 initiated search operations in Kanpur at the factory premises of manufacturers of Shikhar brand pan masala and tobacco products. They conducted raids at the office godowns of M/s Ganpati Road Carriers, Transport Nagar, Kanpur, and the residential/factory premises of M/s Odochem Industries, suppliers of perfumery compounds at Kanpur, Kannauj and Mumbai. Four trucks full of goods without GST papers were intercepted by officials. The actual stock kept at the factory was tallied with the stocks recorded in the books and the GST officials found a shortage of raw materials and finished products. This further corroborated that the manufacturer was indulging in the clandestine removal of goods with the help of a transporter who used to issue fake invoices. The GST officials have recovered 200 such invoices so far. The manufacturers of the Shikhar brand of pan masala products admitted that they deposited an amount of Rs 3.09 crore towards their tax liability. GST officials said that till Tuesday afternoon, the total amount of unaccounted cash recovered and seized was Rs 186.45 crore. This is the biggest ever seizure of cash by the CBIC officials. The documents seized from the premises are under scrutiny, said officials. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/gst-evasion-revenue-intelligence-joins-probe-against-businessman-1065556.html
28-12-2021||North and Central||Delhi protests: Mandaviya to meet doctors' delegation||Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya will meet the representatives of doctors' association at Nirman Bhawan on Tuesday, a day after the police crackdown on the protesting doctors. A 13-member team, comprising three doctors from Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital, two from Lady Hardinge, one from LNJP, two from Safdurjung Hospital, two from GTB Hospital, two FORDA and one from FIAMA, will meet the minister over their ongoing protest against the delay in NEET PG counselling 2021. The doctors are also demanding an apology from the police for their action against them on Monday during the protest. Earlier, the doctors' protest created a chaos-like situation across hospitals in the capital city as all counters were shut for the patients. On Monday, the protesting doctors had called for a total shutdown of medical services in the hospitals after the police action. The protesting doctors had started a march from the Safdarjung Hospital towards the health ministry's office to register their protest against the police action on agitating doctors during the protest on Tuesday morning. However, they were stopped by the police. Meanwhile, the resident doctors association (RDA) of AIIMS has decided to withdraw all non-emergency services from Tuesday if no steps are taken by the government. The RDAs across the nation have been protesting since November 27 against the multiple postponements of the NEET PG Counselling 2021 and the subsequent admission of the fresh batch of resident doctors in the medical colleges. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-protests-mandaviya-to-meet-doctors-delegation-1065559.html
28-12-2021||North and Central||'For Samajwadi Party, it's A for Apraadh, C for Corruption': Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Tuesday targeted the Samajwadi Party, alleging that the opposition party's lexicon starts with 'Apraadh' (crime), 'Bhaai-Bhatijavaad' (nepotism) and 'Corruption'. Addressing a rally here, the BJP leader also alleged that the SP, BSP and the Congress made numerous efforts to stop the construction of the Ram temple at Ayodhya and asserted that they "will not succeed even if they unleash their full force". He took a swipe at the SP over the income tax raids against a Kanpur-based perfume trader allegedly linked to it. ''The A, B, C, D of Samajwadi Party is itself all wrong where 'A' is for 'Apraadh aur Aatank' (crime and terrorism), 'B' is for 'Bhaai-Bhatijaavaad' (nepotism), 'C' for 'Corruption' aur 'D' means 'Dangaa' (riots). "The Bharatiya Janata Party has wiped out this A, B, C,D," the former BJP president said at the Jan Vishvas Yatra here. Hardoi has been a stronghold of the Samajwadi Party and the family of Naresh Chandra Agarwal, who joined the BJP in 2018. "A few days ago, there were income tax raids. Why was (SP chief) Akhilesh having an upset stomach over raids, and he said that the raids were done with political malice," Shah said.  "Can anyone tell me whose Rs 250 crore were found at the place of the person making Samajwadi Attar? Today, they (SP) are unable to give an answer," Shah said. In multiple raids by the Income Tax department and the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs, were seized from perfume trader Peeyush Jain'saround Rs 257 crore in cash, 25 kg of gold and 250 kg of silver house in Kanpur as well as from his house and factory in Kannauj. The Finance Ministry on Monday said it was the "biggest ever seizure of cash" by an enforcement agency. BJP leaders have sought to link the perfume trader with the SP claiming he had launched the 'Samajwadi Attar (perfume)' with Yadav's support recently. However, Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav on Tuesday categorically denied any links between his party and Peeyush Jain, and mockingly said the BJP got "its own businessman" raided "by mistake". He also claimed that 'Samajwadi Attar' was launched by SP MLC Pushpraj Jain. "By mistake, the BJP got its own businessman raided. Instead of SP leader Pushpraj Jain, it got Peeyush Jain raided," Yadav told reporters in Unnao. Hitting out at the political rivals, Shah said, "The SP, BSP and the Congress had made numerous efforts to stop the construction of the temple of Lord Ram. Today, I want to tell them that they can unleash their full force if they want. In a few months, a grand temple of Lord Ram touching the sky will be built." He accused the SP and the BSP of neglecting development when in power. "When the SP came (to power), development of only one caste took place, while the development of another caste took place when the BSP came (to power). When Modijee came, then 'sabkaa saath-sabkaa vikaas' is taking place," the Home Minister said Shah also spoke on the law and order situation prevalent in the state before the BJP came to power in 2017. "There was a time when mafia would rule. Mothers and sisters used to reach their homes before sunset. Today, under Yogiji's rule, all the mafia have been wiped out (from UP)," the BJP leader said. Currently, Hardoi is represented in the UP Legislative Assembly by Nitin Agarwal (son of Naresh Chandra Agarwal) who is an SP MLA and was elected Deputy Speaker of the UP Assembly with the BJP's support. Naresh Chandra Agarwal won the assembly seat for the first time as an independent candidate in 1989, then from 1991 to 1996, he was the Congress MLA from this seat. He won the seat in 2002 and 2007 on an SP ticket. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/for-samajwadi-party-its-a-for-apraadh-c-for-corruption-amit-shah-1065592.html
28-12-2021||North and Central||Hyderpora civilian killings: Building owner used as human shield by militant, says SIT probe||The probe by a special investigation team (SIT) of Jammu and Kashmir police into a controversial encounter in Hyderpora area of Srinagar on November 15 that killed four persons has revealed that the building owner was used as a human shield by a foreign militant. The police had said that on the evening of November 15, four persons were killed, including a foreign militant – Bilal Bhai, in a joint operation by the police, Army and CRPF. Other than the civilian Altaf Bhat, the police described Dr Mudasir Gul, a dentist, and Muhammad Amir Magarey as ‘militant associate’ and ‘hybrid’ militant. After protests by the families saying that three of the four killed were civilians and public outcry, J&K Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha ordered a magisterial inquiry, by additional district magistrate rank, into the incident on November 18. The police had also formed a SIT to probe the incident. “The SIT constituted for the Hyderpora operation established a few things – 2 pistols, 4 magazines, etc., were seized from the initial site. During site inspection, 2 bodies of a local terrorist and building owner were recovered at the building’s entry,” Deputy Inspector General (DIG) of Police, Sujit K Singh, told reporters, here. Singh, who was the head of the SIT, said CCTV footage and other evidence show that Amir Magray had accompanied Bilal Bhai during Jamalata Srinagar attack. “Amir would often travel to Bandipora and Gurez, an angle which is still under investigation,” he said. “The CCTV footage and other evidence show that building owner Altaf Bhat was used as a human shield by the foreign militant Bilal Bhai, who was living in Gul’s chamber along with Magray.” “Prima-facie evidence shows that Mudasir Gul was shot dead by the foreign militant (Bilal) on the directions possibly from across (border),” the SIT chief said. “The investigations reveal that building owner Bhat was made human shield by foreign militant and that he was killed in a crossfire,” the DIG, who was flanked by Director General of Police (DGP) Dilbagh Singh and IGP Kashmir Vijay Kumar, said. He said that the family of the killed building owner hasn’t given them proper responses as to who was living on the rent, what was their rent payment system, rent deed etc. “There are no satisfactory details from Altaf’s family,” he said. Meanwhile, J&K Home department on Tuesday said it has received an inquiry report into the Hyderpora encounter and the same has been sent to the concerned judicial magistrate for approval before it can be made public. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hyderpora-civilian-killings-building-owner-used-as-human-shield-by-militant-says-sit-probe-1065606.html
28-12-2021||North and Central||Sachin Pilot criticises hate speech at 'Dharam Sansad', slams BJP||Congress leader Sachin Pilot has criticised the rhetoric around "threat to Hinduism", and controversial remarks made on Mahatma Gandhi at the 'Dharam Sansad,' a religious conclave held in Uttarakhand's Haridwar recently. During the conclave, Hindu seers expressed concern over the "threat" to Hinduism, to which Pilot said, "The country's Parliament hardly functions... but in the name of religion, such statements are made at Dharma Sansad. Mahatma Gandhi is insulted and his assassin Nathuram Godse is praised." During an interaction with IANS, the former deputy chief minister of Rajasthan said that such remarks are being made to create division in society. "Such statements should be condemned... and action should also be taken. You cannot call yourself a religious guru if you insult the Father of the Nation, Mahatma Gandhi," Pilot said. Asked if such statements were made keeping in mind the upcoming assembly elections in five states, including Uttar Pradesh, the Congress leader said, "Whenever elections are around the corner, such statements can be heard. And that happens because they are unable to garner votes on the plank of development." "You may say anything to grab headlines, and provoke people and divert their attention from the core issues. However, people nowadays understand everything. They won't let divisive elements come into the play, and would cast votes over the issues that matter," he said. On the meeting between the Election Commission (EC) and Health Ministry amid the growing concerns over the new Omicron variant of Covid-19, Pilot said, "The decision to postpone polls rests on the EC. The poll panel should appear as an independent body." "We all have seen what happened during the second wave of Covid-19. That cannot be overlooked. EC's decision would be followed. People's health and safety are also important." The Congress leader also said the Bharatiya Janata Party is losing its ground in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand. He further sounded critical over "restrictions" on Congress rallies. "... but Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath get permission to hold rallies anywhere, and thousands of people attend them," Pilot said. He asserted that the Congress is in a position to offer "a better option" to people. "We are working really hard," he said. "Under the leadership of Priyanka Gandhi Vadra (party general secretary and UP in-charge), we are about to deliver stunning results." Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sachin-pilot-criticises-hate-speech-at-dharam-sansad-slams-bjp-1065626.html
28-12-2021||North and Central||Apollo Hospitals to set up 250-bedded facility in J&K||In a major development which could prove a huge relief to hundreds of patients, Jammu and Kashmir government on Tuesday signed a MoU with Apollo Hospitals for the establishment of a multi-specialty hospital in Jammu region. The Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) was signed between Ranjan Prakash Thakur, J&K Principal Secretary Industries and Commerce department and Dr. Preetha Reddy, Executive Vice Chairperson, Apollo Hospitals Enterprise Ltd in presence of Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha. The proposed super-specialty hospital having an initial capacity of 250 beds is expected to generate direct employment of more than 1000 persons and can be a huge relief for the patients from J&K who had to travel to Delhi and other parts of the country for such treatment facilities. Well-known for clinical excellence, Apollo has a robust presence across the healthcare ecosystem, providing high-quality, patient-focused medical care. Speaking on the occasion, LG Sinha observed the MoU is another major milestone for J&K. “We have embarked on a new journey of development and socio-economic growth, which will take J&K UT to levels never seen before”, he said and added with greater industry engagement and greater investment, J&K will grow from strength to strength in the years to come. Sinha said that J&K was the only UT/State in the country with universal health insurance coverage for up to Rs. 5 lakh per family. “We are also having an extensive budget for the health sector,” he said and added more healthcare projects and MoUs are in the pipeline to ensure best healthcare within the reach of every citizen of the UT. On the occasion Dr Reddy shared the vision of the Apollo hospitals to establish state-of-the-art health facilities in the UT. “We understand that the health sector creates vast job opportunities and this project will also generate more than 1000 direct employment. That is the responsibility which all of us collectively have set forth to discharge,” he said. “Apart from this, it will also become the training centre not only for doctors, but also for the nurses, paramedics, technicians, and allied healthcare workers. Tomorrow when J&K would become a hub for healthcare tourism, people from the rest of the world can also be treated here. In a way, this project will help us heal the world,” she said. “We are committed to bring specialists in various healthcare sectors on board. Trained health personnel are required to efficiently look after the people in need of medical attention. We are happy to bring a good standard of training, learning and skill in the health sector to J&K,” Dr Reddy added. On August 5, 2019, the BJP government at the Center had justified the revocation of erstwhile state’s special status saying it had acted as an impediment to the development of J&K. The move to end J&K’s special status has created an opening for private players to invest in real estate and other developmental projects in the UT. Watch the DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/apollo-hospitals-to-set-up-250-bedded-facility-in-jk-1065627.html
28-12-2021||North and Central||Hyderpora killings: PAGD calls J&K police SIT probe a 'cover up'||The People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) on Tuesday termed the probe report of special investigation team (SIT) of the Jammu and Kashmir police in Hyderpora encounter as repetition of old story. In a statement a PAGD spokesperson said the alliance firmly believes that nothing short of a credible judicial probe will clear the doubts about the incident. “Today’s press briefing of J&K police about last month’s Hyderpora tragic incident is only a repetition of an old story. It does not even slightly give any objective picture of this shocking incident,” he said. “There is a strong public perception that the civilians killed in the incident were made human shields by the security forces and the latest statement of the police seems to be a concocted cover up story,” the statement said and added it will not suffice the legitimate concerns of the people at large and family of the slain victims. The PAGD, an alliance of six mainstream political parties, was formed in October 2020 by Kashmir-centric leaders with the pledge towards restoration of the special status of J&K, which was revoked by the Centre on August 5, 2019. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hyderpora-killings-pagd-calls-jk-police-sit-probe-a-cover-up-1065640.html
28-12-2021||North and Central||PM likely to address rally in Punjab on January 5, may share stage with Amarinder||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to sound the BJP's poll bugle in Punjab on January 5 and share the stage with the party's new ally and former chief minister of the state Amarinder Singh, sources said on Tuesday. The prime minister is scheduled to inaugurate a satellite centre of the Chandigarh-based Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) in Punjab's Ferozepur and is likely to address a rally after the event, the sources in the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) said. The rally will be the first to be addressed by the prime minister in Punjab after the repeal of three contentious farm laws of the Centre. Farmers staged protests against the laws at the borders of Delhi for almost a year and called off the agitation on January 11 after the legislations were repealed in the winter session of Parliament. Modi's rally will kick off the campaign of the BJP and its new allies in Punjab for the 2022 state Assembly polls, the sources said. Singh, whose Punjab Lok Congress has stitched up an alliance with the saffron party for the Punjab polls, may also attend the rally, they added. If Singh attends the rally, this will be the first time that he and Modi will share the stage after the former Punjab chief minister quit the Congress. Besides Modi, Union minister and the BJP's poll in-charge for Punjab Gajendra Shekhawat, his cabinet colleagues Hardeep Puri and Meenakshi Lekhi are also expected to take part in the rally.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-likely-to-address-rally-in-punjab-on-january-5-may-share-stage-with-amarinder-1065648.html
28-12-2021||North and Central||'Bachpan ka Pyaar' singer Sahdev grievously hurt in road accident||Sahdev Dirdo, a 10-year-old boy who shot to fame after a video of him singing 'Bachpan ka Pyaar' song went viral on the Internet, was on Tuesday injured when the motorcycle on which he was riding pillion skidded on the road in Chhattisgarh's Sukma district, police said. The accident took place at around 6:30 pm in Shabri Nagar area here and Dirdo, who was not wearing a helmet, fell and suffered a grievous head injury, while the rider sustained minor bruises, said Sukma Superintendent of Police Sunil Sharma. The boy was rushed to the district hospital and after preliminary treatment was shifted to Jagdalpur Medical College hospital, Sharma added. On being alerted about the accident, Sukma Collector Vineet Nandanwar and Sharma visited the district hospital and enquired about his condition. Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel instructed Nandanwar to provide best medical aid at the earliest to Dirdo, an official statement said. Dirdo, a native of tribal-dominated and Naxal-hit Sukma district, became an Internet sensation in the middle of this year after a video of him singing 'Bachpan ka Pyaar' in school uniform went viral. The video was reportedly shot in 2019 inside his classroom by his school teacher. He also featured along with rapper Badshah in a new version of the song, a video if which was released in August. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bachpan-ka-pyaar-singer-sahdev-grievously-hurt-in-road-accident-1065660.html
28-12-2021||North and Central||Hackers replace 'Allahabadi' with 'Prayagraj' on UP education commission's website||The website of UP Higher Education Service Commission was hacked on Tuesday with the hackers replacing the last name “Allahabadi” of some renowned poets with “Praygaraj” in an "apparent resentment" of the change of the name this historical city, an official said. The Prayagraj-based Commission, however, was able to restore its Hindi website and the work is on to restore its English portal, Commission chairman Ishwar Charan Vishvaarma told PTI. A complaint about the incident has been lodged with the Cyber Cell of the city police to nab the culprits, Dr Vishvakarma said. "It was evidently a handiwork of some miscreants expressing their apparent resentment over the change of name of Allahabad," Dr Vishvakarma said, taking pains to explain that the Commission had no role in corrupting the website. The renowned poets and litterateurs whose last name "Allahabadi" was replaced by “Prayagraj” included Akbar Allahabadi, Tej Allahabadi and Rasheed Allahabadi, the Commission’s chairman said, adding these names have been corrected in the Hindi website and the work is on to correct them in the English portal of the Commission. The names of renowned poets and litterateurs had figured on the portal in one of its sections on the city of Allahabad whose name was recently changed to Prayagraj. The litterateurs whose names figured on the Commission’s website included Syed Akbar Hussain alias Akbar Allahabadi, Noor Narbee, Teg Allahabadi, Shabnam Naqvi and Rasheed Allahabadi. Reacting to the incident, Prayagraj-based journalist Dhananjay Chopra, also a noted litterateur, said the city of Allahabad is recorded in the pages of history. “The writers and poets like Akbar Allahabadi and Rasheed Allahabadi have lived in the city, experiencing its life and times and that is why they suffixed their names with Allahabadi. Changing the name of Allahabad to Prayagraj is akin to changing the history,” he asserted. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hackers-replace-allahabadi-with-prayagraj-on-up-education-commissions-website-1065690.html
28-12-2021||Oasis||Discipline, the driving force||Some time ago, I was skimming through this snippet of rather staggering news. It was about two girls in a women’s hostel, managed by a warden, who was a true-blue martinet. The lynx-eyed warden, it seems, would always be on the lookout for those who flouted the hostel rules. Upon finding them, she’d then mercilessly make them do all menial jobs like mopping floors etc, as a mean penalty for their misdemeanours. No wonder, she was like the dreadful bête-noire, detested by everyone around her.  Once, the aforesaid hostel girls, in high-jinks, tried hoodwinking her, by hopping outside hostel gate in the forbidden night hours, just to have some fun. But lo! As luck would have it, they got mugged by some men, who not only grabbed all their money and mobiles but also tried molesting the girls who somehow managed to flee from there. This spine-chilling incident had sent shock waves among the hostel residents, making them slowly realise the reason behind their warden behaving like a ruthless disciplinarian. The discipline was, after all, for their own safety and security. Here, I’m reminded of my yesteryear college principal, a deadly dynamic lady, who despised those students, displaying dereliction in their student duties. Behind her bellowing voice and browbeating presence was a beautiful persona, brimming over with compassion. During her stint, she succeeded in sculpting the success stories of several students. That was when students discerned it was her stringent discipline that had made them surge ahead in life. Be it at home, at the workplace, at various offices, it is the discipline that makes things work in a decidedly organised fashion. Imagine the roads without traffic signals/lane discipline, or the banks sans a queue system! It would be a pandemonium galore! Not to discount, the food and fitness discipline for a holistic, healthy lifestyle. Whether it is in the student’s life, professional or personal life, ‘discipline’ is kind of synonymous with a structured routine, systematic working pattern, super-efficiency, and at times, even safe, secured and successful life. Without this, life would indeed be rudderless!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/discipline-the-driving-force-1065237.html
28-12-2021||Opinion||A sinister Christmas carol||Growing up in Kolkata in the 1970s, one of my favourite annual rituals was to go to New Market — the most upscale shopping centre in the city at the time — a few days before Christmas to choose a Christmas tree. There were masses of artificial Christmas trees on display, and my mother and I would spend a pleasurable hour or two selecting one. We would pick up some decorations to go with it, too: glittery gold and silver stars and bells, shiny green wreaths, little red plastic berries, and, of course, a cheery red-and-white Santa Claus figure to be placed at the base of the tree along with clumps of white cotton wool to simulate snow. My mother and I would decorate the tree, she almost as enthusiastically as I, and there would be a "special" Christmas lunch at home — not necessarily with roast turkey — but one that was always finished off with some rich, fruity Christmas pudding that Mom had made. Though I belonged to a Hindu family, we celebrated Christmas with as much gusto as we did our multifarious pujas for our multifarious Hindu gods and goddesses and all the religious and cultural traditions associated with them. If listening to Birendra Krishna Bhadra's Chandipaath at dawn on All India Radio was a must-do on Mahalaya (the first day of Devi paksha), so was listening to Christmas carols sung by Jim Reeves on Christmas (the long-playing record at home would often play on the loop that day); if sitting down for a feast of bhog at a relative's family Durga Puja, or tucking into my mother's heavenly pithey and nolen gurer payesh on Makar Sankranti, were much-anticipated food events, so was stuffing one's face with plum pudding on Christmas or with the biryani and seviyan that dad's Muslim friend sent over to us on Eid. And we weren't the only celebration-agnostic family I knew. Most of my friends and relatives, who were predominantly Hindu, participated in cultural activities associated with other religions. And it was done without much thought — not for the sake of any lofty, politically-correct principle, but simply because we enjoyed Christmas and Eid festivities as much as we did our Hindu religious and cultural rites. The inclusivity was as natural as breathing, and as instinctive. At the convent school I went to, one was required to attend daily chapel, sing Christian hymns, and recite the Lord's Prayer. Neither I nor any of my schoolmates converted to Christianity as a result. Nor were our parents ever apprehensive that we would. We sang a reverential 'How Great Thou Art', or a full-throated 'Onward Christian Soldiers' at morning chapel, and went back home and maybe prayed to Goddess Saraswati to give us a leg-up at the annual exams. The one did not exclude the other, and neither were they considered to be at odds. Rather, they went together, along with countless other influences, to make up one's cultural identity as an Indian and a citizen of the world. So how did things change so drastically? How did Christianity, Christians and Christmas Day itself become objects of the violent hate that they are now? This past week has been a lesson in how far we have come from the time when Christmas was just another joyous occasion in India's crowded festival calendar. This Christmas, members of Bajrang Dal, a Hindu fundamentalist group, burnt effigies of Santa Claus in Agra. Leading the charge against the mythical figure of Santa Claus, aka Father Christmas, the loveable and fictional bearer of gifts for children, Ajju Chauhan, regional general secretary of Bajrang Dal, thundered, "As December comes, the Christian missionaries become active in the name of Christmas, Santa Claus and New Year. They lure children by making Santa Claus distribute gifts to them and attract them towards Christianity." That wasn't all. On Christmas eve, right-wing miscreants allegedly stormed into a church in Pataudi in Haryana and disrupted the prayers, shouting 'Jai Shri Ram' slogans; in Assam's Silchar, Bajrang Dal members shut down Christmas celebrations at a church, declaring that they would not let Hindus participate in the proceedings. Christmas celebrations were also disrupted at a Gurgaon school. And on Sunday, unknown persons desecrated the Holy Redeemer Church in Haryana's Ambala district. All this comes in the wake of frequent attacks on Christian prayer meetings in Karnataka, a state which has recently passed an anti-conversion bill. Raising the bogey that the church is luring Hindus into its fold has become an effective ploy to whip up hatred against Christians. It's not unlike the way Muslims have been sought to be demonised — by projecting them as intent on slaughtering cows (elevated to an unprecedented level of sacredness) or forcibly marrying Hindu girls. Clearly, Hindu majoritarian muscle-flexing, on the rise since the right-wing Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government came to power in 2014, is widening its target area. Call it the inclusivity of hate, the finding of ever newer enemies on which majoritarian wrath can fizz and feed. The ideology of Hindutva rides on the paradoxical conviction that while India's Hindus are mighty in their majority status, they are also under severe existential threat from Muslims and Christians (who constitute 14.2 per cent and 2.3 per cent of the country's population, respectively, according to the last available figures). And as in the case of Muslims, the attacks against Christians are also subtly validated by the powers that be. This Christmas Day, for example, the home ministry declined to renew permission to the Missionaries of Charity (MoC), an organisation set up by Mother Teresa, to receive funds from foreign donors under the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act. All MoC's bank accounts have reportedly been frozen as well. The messaging, especially on Christmas, couldn't have been clearer. The MoC has, of course, long been accused of carrying out conversions. But let us remember that proselytisation is a part of Christianity. And let us also remember that whatever the number of people who may have converted to the Christian faith in recent years, it has made no difference to the percentage of Christians in India's total population. But fanatics do not deal in reason and logic. Hate is their only fodder and their sole raison d’être. The scattered incidents of attacks against Christians are now gathering force and coalescing into a focused onslaught. Much is being lost in this toxic flood. Not least the sense that you were once part of a culture that owned and celebrated a multiplicity of religious traditions and lived the principle of pluralism in your daily life. As one more fractious, pandemic-ravaged year comes to an end, here's wishing for a new year where we may start building the path to reclaim that lost world. (Shuma Raha is a journalist and author) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/a-sinister-christmas-carol-1065531.html
28-12-2021||Panorama||What keeps me going? The will to win: Kidambi Srikanth||Since bursting onto the scene in the early part of the last decade, Kidambi Srikanth has seen it all — reaching exhilarating highs and plummeting to excruciating lows, badgered by a persistent knee injury and niggles. The 28-year-old tells DH's Sandeep Menon how he had to recalibrate following his Olympic-miss. Luckily for him, it all came together over a week in Huelva, Spain. A World Championship silver, a first for an Indian male shuttler, to add to his already impressive resume. How does it feel to end the season on such a high? It's nice to win that medal. In a way, the World Championship being the last tournament of the year, I definitely don't feel like it's the end of a season, because we have another championship. So, it's not like the end of the season, but yeah, it's always nice to be on the podium and win a World Championship medal. It was always a dream for me, so I feel very happy. I would have loved to win the gold. I tried and I actually think I played well. It's just a few mistakes, a point here and there would have made a big difference. I definitely want to push myself another step the next time I play the World Championship. I'm happy with the way I played and with winning silver, but I want to push myself for the gold next time. Was the fact that you missed the Olympics an extra motivator? Yeah... I always wanted to get better and do well and win tournaments. I always pushed myself in every match I could. Because of some injuries, I couldn't push myself that much (during the Olympic qualification period). But then I got better and played well and the tournaments got pushed and cancelled because of Covid-19. I knew there would be the World Championship and Super Series (events). So, I wanted to be fit and continue training. I trained well for 3-4 months. But again, I took time to get used to it and couldn't perform that well the first time I got back. I'm just happy with the way the 8-9 days went for me during the World Championship. You got tough draws in Thomas Cup and Denmark Open when you were trying to play yourself into form. Did that hamper your rhythm? I would have loved to play more matches in those tournaments but I was unseeded. So, you can't expect good draws for every tournament. In fact, I almost won against (Kento) Momoto (former World No 1) in the French Open in the first round. I was leading 19-17 in the third set. If I had 2-3 matches before that, maybe I could have pulled it off. I always need to play more tournaments to get the feel, the rhythm of it and the tournament feel. So, I need to play more games. That has helped me during this period (last few weeks) also, I feel. But whatever has happened has happened. I'm just happy with the progress. During that three-month period, I managed to learn something (from every match) and what went wrong.  A few years ago, you had a knee injury and then some ankle issues. What does it take for an athlete to come back from such injuries? For me personally, my body took some time to recover. That's fine, everyone's body type is different. It took more time than usual. But it's tough to come back because every time you do a particular movement, you're a little scared because of that injury history and you stop yourself from doing it. But that is the challenge. For a sport like badminton, you have to be agile and quick. There are a lot of jumps. There is a lot of pressure on the knees. So, I kind of took a little more time than usual, but at the moment I am very happy. I feel I’m able to move the way I want.  You’ve been World No 1 and won big trophies. What is the motivation that keeps you going? I want to win more tournaments. I won silver at the Commonwealth Games so I want to push myself to win that gold. I want to win a medal at the Asian Games. I won the Indian Open before, in 2019 I lost, so I want to win that tournament and push myself to do that. That is the motivation. The will to win is what pushes any player. I don't really have any offseason now because there are a lot of tournaments (coming up). So basically, just maintain and try and improve that 5-10%, whatever possible, during tournaments and in between matches. Now you are a senior player and with the success you have had, are there more expectations? Do you feel more pressure? Frankly, for the last 7-8 years, I’ve been the highest-ranked player from India. Since 2014, when I won the China Open, people started expecting better results and praying and wanting me to do well. That is something I am used to. So, there is no pressure. But I am happy that people want me to perform well. I also push myself and those expectations also give me a push. I take all that in a positive way. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/what-keeps-me-going-the-will-to-win-kidambi-srikanth-1065329.html
28-12-2021||Panorama||An indigestible palate politics||The inauguration of a hotel at Anand of Gujarat turned out to be the epicentre of protest. Protesters demanded the hotel’s removal as it was adjacent to three Hindu temples and two-thirds of the hotel was owned by Muslims. With a banquet, restaurant, and hotel rooms that do not serve non-vegetarian food, the hotel owners constructed the establishment, keeping in line with the sentiments of the people of Anand. Neither of the Muslim owners wore any clothing that suggested their religion, yet it was enough for the protestors to feel uncomfortable with the hotel’s launch. It is stunning, yet true. It is deeply disturbing to know that the communal incident occurred at a place where India’s largest milk cooperative took birth. In yet another incident, a company popular for selling idli and dosa batter was under controversy some time ago with a misleading WhatsApp forward and a communal tweet online. The information alleged that the company mixed cow bones in its batter composition, and highlighted that the company is ‘halal-certified’ and ‘hired Muslims’. However, the company explained through an official statement that it used vegetarian ingredients for its batter. A few months ago in Mathura, a Muslim dosa vendor was attacked by a group of extreme right-wing vigilantes. The vendor’s crime was that he named his stall after a Hindu God and not after Allah. His act was termed an ‘economic jihad’. However, two decades back, the situations were in contrast. The protests for food were more health-related than communal. In the 1990s, millions of farmers in Karnataka protested seeking the removal of the internationally-loved fast-food chain that they suspected would threaten Indian food habits and challenge sustainable agriculture. They reasoned that the expansion of the meat industry and compulsion of newer Western farming methods may have negative impacts on the domestic market. The arrival of Western fast-food companies earned the wrath of environmentalists as they claimed India could not afford a meat-based diet, especially when feeding chickens required higher maintenance. Other arguments were that the grain would increase in price as the supply cannot meet the demands. There were many health concerns over Western yield-increasing techniques to meet the demand for the enormous amounts of chicken they would need. This meant subjecting animals to cruelty and a host of food additives and antibiotics, typically met with negatively among Indians. Similarly, a protest against a Coca-Cola plant in the Palghat district of Kerala twenty years ago generated a lot of friction. The plant was found to be pumping out huge amounts of water while manufacturing the cold drink. The plant began dumping the affluent in the open, where, after the essence reached the bottom of the soil and polluted the wells of the small village. The water was tested as unfit for drinking and led to several deaths and illnesses. Palghat villagers soon turned to the media to oust the soda-making company as it was overusing water resources, contaminating the community’s groundwater, and incurring estimated losses of 216 crores to the community. Two decades later, there is a shift in the mentality towards food protests. Now, it is no more about the food affecting our health but whether the food will ‘pollute’ our beliefs and culture. Food is now being used to categorise people into various sections instead of using it to bring solidarity among cultures. It is used as an instrument of oppression and terror, in the name of religion. If the communal attitude continues, it would be detrimental to the cultural fabric of India. The media needs to strike a right chord between the facts and perceptions that the Hindus have of Muslims. Exposure to correct media coverage can remove the doubts and fears harboured towards the religion. Learning to use gastronomy as a bridge between the apparent culture divide in our country is the need of the hour. Let’s keep the cuisine out of communal corners. (The writer is a masters student  in Mass Communication at Symbiosis Institute of Media and Communication (SIMC), Symbiosis International (Deemed University), Pune.) Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/an-indigestible-palate-politics-1065276.html
28-12-2021||Right in the Middle||When I wanted to be a newsreader||To find employment in those days was as difficult as it is today. I had my choices, of course, my first preference being a career as a newsreader on All India Radio (AIR). The glamour of a newsreader’s job had me hooked and I decided to get an interview at AIR. Since I worked in the Accounts Office as a stop-gap, the interview part was easy as the Accounts Office was in the same building that housed the AIR.  A day and a time were fixed for my audition which left me all worked up. I could hardly pay attention to the files piled up on my table, pending disposal. Those were the days before TV and the internet when AIR was the only mode of breaking news. Since my teachers in school had always commended me on my voice and I had also won a prize in the elocution contest in college, I was convinced the job would be mine. I look back now with a wry smile at my youthful naiveté. The day before the audition I practised a passage from Longfellow’s poem Hiawatha’s Wooing… ‘As unto the bow the arrow is, so unto man is woman.’ This was the very passage for which I had got the prize. Also, I spent some time gargling with salt water to clear my throat in preparation. To steal up to the AIR office at 10.30 am did not come in the way of my accounts job. We had a strict section officer who took his rounds at noon sharp but then I would be back in my seat well before that. I forget what passage I was given to read. But I vaguely remember the padded, enclosed room where I was isolated. I sat at a table with a mike in front of me and through the dividing glass, I discerned the program assistant who with a wave of his hand started me off. The whole exercise hardly took ten to fifteen minutes. The guy came round and said, ‘come tomorrow at the same time and we’ll let you know.’ That was it. Had I failed? I could not make out anything from his expression. I knew I had the voice. But the accent? The icing on the cake?  The next morning I climbed the stairs with a thudding heart. I sat waiting when he bustled in with a bundle of papers in his hand. He looked at me questioningly having forgotten who I was and why I was there. ‘About the audition…’ I started timidly, my ever-reliable voice sinking to the soles of my Bata chappals. ‘Ah yes, I remember, you want to be a newsreader, well, well right now we are not appointing anyone. Maybe you can try again next year…’ he said crisply, not looking at me. All that was some decades ago. As they say, the more things change, the more they remain the same.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/when-i-wanted-to-be-a-newsreader-1065275.html
28-12-2021||Second Edit||Concerns remain over fragile ecosystem||The Supreme Court’s recent order allowing the government to widen three hill stretches in Uttarakhand that are part of the Char Dham Highway project — Rishikesh to Mana, Rishikesh to Gangotri, and Tanakpur to Pithoragarh — has disappointed environmentalists. A three-member bench of the court modified a September 2020 order that had limited the width of the carriageway to 5.5 metres as per guidelines prescribed in 2018. The court said that it “cannot second guess the infrastructural needs of the armed forces,’’ making it clear that its order was based on its assumption that the government’s contentions about the width of the road are in good faith. The court thus accepted the argument that the armed forces needed wider roads to transport arms and equipment to the border with China from where there is a threat to national security.  The verdict was in response to an application filed by the Ministry of Defence (MoD) for modification of the September 2020 order. An NGO, Citizens for Green Doon, had argued that disaster-resistant roads of smaller dimensions would serve the armed forces better. It should be noted that the Rs 12,000-crore highway expansion project was envisaged in 2016 to provide all-weather roads in the Char Dham circuit, covering Uttarakhand’s four major shrines — Badrinath, Kedarnath, Gangotri and Yamunotri — to promote pilgrimage and tourism. The defence angle entered later when the plan was challenged, but then that was made out to be main reason for the project. The head of the high-powered committee (HPC) appointed by the Supreme Court to examine the issues involved in the project reported that there was “no convincing argument to ignore and override the profound and irreversible ecological damage to the Himalayas that will impact each and every one of us and generations to come”.  It is known that the Himalayan region is environmentally very fragile and has witnessed many natural calamities. While it was contended that a wider road would facilitate quicker troop deployment and transport of supplies, it was pointed out that widening the roads would make the slopes more unstable and endanger the roads. The HPC had pointed out that “a disaster-resilient road is much more critical” than a wider road “prone to frequent blockages, landslides and recurring slope failures”. Widening the road would require more slope-cutting, blasting, tunnelling, dumping and deforestation. While allowing the widening of the road, the court said that “it takes note of the environmental concerns and the unanimous recommendation of the HPC for taking remedial measures’’. It appointed an oversight committee to implement the remedial measures but it is anybody's guess how effective such a mechanism will be.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/concerns-remain-over-fragile-ecosystem-1065273.html
28-12-2021||South||12 more Omicron cases reported in Telangana||Twelve more Omicron cases have been reported in Telangana, taking the total number of cases of the new coronavirus variant in the state to 55, the Health department said on Monday. Of the 12 cases, 10 were passengers who arrived at the international airport from countries other than those declared "at risk" by the Centre, while two were contacts of patients who tested positive for the variant earlier, it said in a bulletin. According to the bulletin, 10 among the 55 have recovered from the infection. It said 19 samples are awaited with regard to their Omicron status. Meanwhile, Telangana on Monday reported 182 new Covid-19 cases, pushing the tally to 6,80,844, while the death toll rose to 4,023 with one more fatality. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) accounted for the most number of cases with 90, followed by Ranga Reddy (17) district, a state government bulletin said, providing details as of 5.30 PM on Monday. It said 181 people recovered from the infection on Monday. The cumulative number of recoveries till date was 6,73,404. The number of active cases was 3,417, the bulletin said. It said 37,839 samples were tested on Monday and the total number of samples tested till date was 2,95,54,306. The samples tested per million population was 7,94,043. The case fatality rate in the state was 0.59 per cent. The recovery rate in Telangana was 98.90 per cent. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/12-more-omicron-cases-reported-in-telangana-1065427.html
28-12-2021||South||Shashi Tharoor joins opposition to Kerala semi-high speed rail project||Congress MP Shashi Tharoor seems to be falling in line with the stand of the Congress on the Kerala semi high-speed rail project. Tharoor, who was maintaining that he requires time to study about the project before objecting to it, was said to have conveyed to Kerala opposition leader V D Satheesan of Congress that he was agreeing with the party's stand against the proposed rail project. Satheesan told reporters that he had explained to Tharoor the reasons why Congress was opposing the project. The Congress-led United Democratic Front had conducted a detailed study about the project. That report was also given to Tharoor. Afterwards, he conveyed that he too agrees with the reasons why the Congress was opposing the project. Tharoor had earlier caused embarrassment to the Congress as he kept off from signing on a memorandum submitted by Congress MLAs to union railway minister opposing the project. He maintained that he need to study on the project. Later, Tharoor also backed the development initiatives of Vijayan and CPI(M) leaders. Many senior leaders had flayed Tharoor's stand and Kerala PCC president K Sudhakaran even stated that if Tharoor was not following the Congress's line then he would have to opt out of the party. The Thiruvananthapuram - Kasargod rail project aimed at reducing travel time to less than four hours is feared to cause severe ecological impact, huge financial burden to government and massive displacement of people. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/shashi-tharoor-joins-opposition-to-kerala-semi-high-speed-rail-project-1065506.html
28-12-2021||South||Puducherry reports first two cases of Omicron||An 80 year-old man and a 20 year-old woman, both of whom did not have a travel history, have been infected with Omicron, the first two cases reported in the Union territory, a senior health department official said here on Tuesday. Director of Health G Sriramulu told PTI that the old man was a resident of the territory, while the woman was a college student and staying in a hostel. These were the first two cases reported in the Union territory, he said. "Health department personnel visited the areas from where the two patients hailed and are trying to find out whether they had a contact history," he said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/puducherry-reports-first-two-cases-of-omicron-1065549.html
28-12-2021||South||War of Words in Tamil Nadu over scrapping of NEET||A war of words has erupted in Tamil Nadu over scrapping of the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) with the ruling DMK and its allies expecting Governor R N Ravi to give assent to the bill passed by the state Assembly for scrapping the exam. The Tamil Nadu government is expecting a favourable response from the Governor as it feels that the new bill is based on proper data that could be quantified as well as provision for a reservation to Government school students for admission to Medical colleges. DMK leader and state health minister Ma Subramanian, while speaking to IANS, said: "We had constituted a commission headed by Justice (retd) A K Rajan of the Madras High Court, and the report by the commission is based on proper data as to why NEET is to be scrapped." However, the AIADMK is not impressed and former chief minister and Leader of Opposition in the Tamil Nadu Assembly Edappady K Palaniswami have questioned the wisdom of the state government in cancelling NEET which is a national level competitive examination. In a statement on Monday, the former chief minister called upon the state government to conduct more coaching classes for NEET so that government school students of the state are also able to crack the examination by attending proper training classes. In a related development, Puthiya Thamilagam founder leader and former MLA Dr K Krishnaswamy has written a letter to the Governor requesting him not to give assent to the NEET exemption bill. He said that the general public, including students and parents, have welcomed the bill and only certain vested interests were against it. PMK founder leader Dr S Ramadoss has called upon the state government to immediately convene a meeting of all political parties to discuss the steps to be taken to get approval for the NEET exemption bill before the commencement of the next academic year. NEET issue is turning into a major controversy in Tamil Nadu with the DMK getting flak from the opposition for not being able to implement one of its major electoral promises. AIADMK leader and former Chief Minister O Panneerselvam, in a statement, said that the DMK knew fully well that NEET could not be scrapped and that it had used the subject as a political tactic to garner votes by misleading the public. He also said that the people of the state have seen through the game plan of the DMK and the present government and the hollowness of the promises made by the ruling party. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/war-of-words-in-tamil-nadu-over-scrapping-of-neet-1065558.html
28-12-2021||South||SDPI activist arrested in connection with RSS worker's killing in Kerala||Police probing the killing of a RSS worker in Kerala's Palakkad district on Tuesday arrested an SDPI activist allegedly involved in the crime. He was nabbed from the Cherpulassery area in the district, police said. "The arrested person is directly involved in the killing. He hacked the victim using a sword. He is an activist of the SDPI", District Police Chief R Viswanadh told reporters here. With this the number of persons arrested in connection with the case has reached six. This includes two Popular Front of India (PFI) office bearers who are also allegedly involved in the killing. The police have also issued lookout notice for four persons in connection with the killing of the RSS worker A Sanjith. The identity of the man arrested today has not been disclosed as the investigation team wanted to carry out an identification parade. The victim's wife, who was witness to the murderous attack on her husband, had said she could identify the people who came in a car and killed her husband. The 27-year-old man was hacked to death on November 15 while he was taking his wife to her workplace. His wife had recently moved the the Kerala High Court seeking a CBI probe into the killing. The High Court has directed the state to file a report on the status of investigation. The BJP and Sangh Parivar organisations have alleged that the activists of Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI), the political offshoot of Islamist outfit PFI, were behind the broad daylight murder.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sdpi-activist-arrested-in-connection-with-rss-workers-killing-in-kerala-1065611.html
28-12-2021||South||Tamil Nadu CM M K Stalin asks parties to get ready to 'teach a lesson' to BJP||Terming the April 2021 elections to the Tamil Nadu Assembly as one that taught lessons to “fascist BJP” and “slave AIADMK”, DMK president and Chief Minister M K Stalin has stressed the need to replicate the success achieved in the state by the alliance at the national level. At an event to unveil the portrait of late CPI veteran D Pandian here on Monday evening, Stalin said everyone should take a pledge to “teach a lesson” to those who should be “taught” nationally while heaping praise on the “ideological friendship” between the DMK and the Left parties. Stalin’s assertions against the BJP came days after he endorsed a suggestion put forward by ally Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi (VCK) chief Thol. Thirumavalavan that the DMK president should not endorse an anti-BJP front sans Congress and instead bring all Opposition parties under one roof before the 2024 elections. Hailing Pandian as a leader “who always held his head high”, Stalin recalled the late CPI leader’s last public speech in Madurai days before his death during which he issued a clarion call to the people of Tamil Nadu to defeat the AIADMK-BJP alliance. “In the same meeting, I had termed the Assembly elections as one that would teach a lesson to fascist BJP and salve AIADMK. The people of Tamil Nadu have taught the right lesson. Everyone present here should take a vow to teach the right lesson to those who need it at the national level (read BJP),” Stalin said in his speech. Stalin’s renewed attack against the BJP also comes days after the DMK endorsed Congress MP Rahul Gandhi’s distinction between “Hindu” and “Hindutva”. DMK has also given hints that Congress should lead the Opposition front to defeat the BJP. DMK and Congress have been in an alliance since 2004, except for three years from March 2013 to February 2016. Stalin has taken a strident anti-BJP stance since he took over as DMK president in 2018 after his father M Karunanidhi’s death. Pandian, who was grievously injured in the blast that killed former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi in 1991, is a veteran CPI leader known for his fiery oratory skills, impeccable command over Tamil, and a strong subscriber of the Communist principles till his last breath. Pandian was seriously injured in the blast that killed Rajiv Gandhi in Sriperumbudur on May 21, 1991, as he accompanied the former Prime Minister to translate his speech from English into Tamil. Pandian, who was then with the UCPI and won the subsequent election from North Chennai, was a witness in the sensational case. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-cm-m-k-stalin-asks-parties-to-get-ready-to-teach-a-lesson-to-bjp-1065612.html
28-12-2021||South||11 more test positive for Omicron in Tamil Nadu||Genomic sequencing of 11 samples of Covid-19 patients have returned positive for the Omicron variant, taking the number of those infected with the variant in Tamil Nadu to 45. Of the 11 fresh cases, seven returned from foreign countries and four are their contacts. The number of persons infected with the Omicron variant is expected to rise in the next few days as s-gene dropout has been noticed in at least 50 other samples of Covid-19 patients. With the number of persons infected with Omicron on the rise, the state government has made seven-day home quarantine mandatory for all international travellers and increased the random testing from 2 per cent to 10 per cent for those coming from “non-risk countries.” The state has said that the spread of the Omicron variant of Covid-19 among close contacts and in closed unventilated rooms is “significantly and extremely high”, quoting preliminary data from contact tracing of those infected with the Omicron variant. Officials said the spread was “quite high” in closed spaces as contact tracing of another Omicron-infected person showed that he had transmitted the virus to people with whom he interacted for just a few minutes. The state has so far reported 45 Omicron cases. On the vaccination front, 85.8% of the eligible population partially and 58.1% are fully vaccinated in the state. The government has also asked district collectors “not to let down their guard” as increased transmissibility of the variant might lead to an increase in caseload though validation of clinical progress would take some more time. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/11-more-test-positive-for-omicron-in-tamil-nadu-1065628.html
28-12-2021||South||Expert committees to evaluate TNSCB tenements ||Tamil Nadu Urban Habitat Development Board, formerly known as the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board, has constituted five expert teams to evaluate over 17,000 tenements built by it that are over 25 years old.  The decision to evaluate the tenements constructed under 62 schemes comes a day after 24 families had a miraculous escape as a tenement they were living in collapsed. A major tragedy was averted as the families were evacuated from their houses minutes before the collapse after the residents noticed cracks on the four-storied building in Tiruvottiyur in north Chennai. In a meeting on Tuesday, the TNUHDB decided that five expert teams with an expert from the prestigious Anna University in each will be evaluating the vulnerability of the tenements. All 17, 734 tenements are over 25 years old, and they need to be inspected immediately, officials said.  “The Technical Evaluation Committee has been asked to evaluate the tenements and submit reports on or before December 31, 2021,” a senior official said. He said an evaluation exercise conducted earlier had identified 20,453 tenements that need to be reconstructed.  Chief Minister M K Stalin had on Monday announced Rs 1 lakh each as aid to the families that lost their dwelling units and that the government will provide alternate accommodation to the 24 families very soon. T M Anbarasan, Minister for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME), who was deputed by Stalin to oversee the rehabilitation of those affected, said the building was constructed in 1993 and it sustained damage due to prolonged usage.  Watched the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/expert-committees-to-evaluate-tnscb-tenements-1065662.html
28-12-2021||South||Death of two children with deformities aggravates endosulfan victims||The death of two children with deformities at Kasargod in Kerala has aggravated the resentment of endosulfan victims and their parents over the continuing neglect towards their plight by the state government. Alleging that Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, who attended several functions at Kasargod recently event, denied an opportunity to meet their representatives, the endosulfan victims are even planning to come down to the state capital Thiruvananthapuram to get attention for their plight. Even as Health Minister Veena George announced last month that a neurologist would be posted in the district, which has been a long-standing demand of endosulfan victims, health department officials said it was in the "process". Owing to the lack of adequate medical facilities in the district, major chunk of the people depend on hospitals in nearby Mangaluru. An 11-year-old boy, who was on the endosulfan victims' list, and a five-year-old boy, whose request to get included in the endosulfan victims' list was pending for a couple of years, died in the district on Monday. Owing to the lack of adequate medical facilities for treating those with deformities in Kasargod district, parents of the five-year-old child had to take the child to a hospital in Thiruvananthapuram with the support of an NGO. Even then, the efforts to save life failed. Endosulfan victims' forum leader Ambalathara Kunhikrishnan said that a medical camp to revise the list of endosulfan victims was not conducted over the last four years. The remediation cell for endosulfan victims is remaining defunct for over one year. As a result requests of hundreds of endosulfan victims to get included in the list of endosulfan victims were long pending. He also said that since the chief minister did not meet them, the victims were now planning to go down to Thiruvananthapuram to meet him, he said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/death-of-two-children-with-deformities-aggravates-endosulfan-victims-1065664.html
28-12-2021||South||BJP holds rally against Jagan's 'anti-people governance'||BJP leaders have accused chief minister Jaganmohan Reddy government of failing to deliver his election promises and pushing Andhra Pradesh into a crisis situation. The state BJP had on Tuesday organised a rally in Vijayawada named “Praja-agraha sabha” against the “anti-people policies” of the YSRCP government. “We are witnessing a ruinous administration in Andhra Pradesh now. Jagan had promised to ban liquor but now the government is selling liquor for revenue. Environmental etc clearances were given to Polavaram years back but till now the project has not been completed. And the YSRCP and TDP are fighting over the capital location,” alleged former union minister Prakash Javadekar while addressing the meeting. AP BJP chief Somu Veerraju charged the Jagan government of using its name stickers on Narendra Modi government's schemes. BJP leaders exuded confidence that their party would come to power in AP. The saffron party has no representation in the state assembly at present.  Ruling YSRCP leaders have termed the BJP’s public meeting "as farce, organized according to the script and direction of TDP."Information and public relations minister Perni Venkataramaiah said that no section in AP is unhappy with Jagan's administration.Asserting that the YSRCP government is committed for the welfare and development of farmers, the minister said that the BJP, on other hand, is implementing anti farmer policies. Perni dared the BJP leaders to speak “on the increasing urea, fuel, essential commodities prices, AP's special category status, privatization of Vizag steel plant.” Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bjp-holds-rally-against-jagans-anti-people-governance-1065672.html
28-12-2021||South||Telangana extends liquor shop timings for New Year Eve||At a time when several states imposed night curfew and other restrictions in view of threat posed by Omicron, the Telangana government has decided to extend timings for bars, pubs and liquor shops on New Year's Eve. The state government on Tuesday issued an order, allowing Director, Prohibition and Excise Department to permit license holders of bars, licensees of event permit managements, and in-house licensees of Telangana Tourism Development Corporation (TTDC) to serve liquor up to 1 a.m. on the intervening night of December 31, 2021 and January 1, 2022. Relaxing the rules, the government also allowed liquor shops to sell liquor till 12 midnight of December 31 on the eve of New Year celebrations. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar issued an order to this effect. This comes at a time when states like Delhi, Maharashtra, Karnataka, and Uttar Pradesh imposed restrictions including night curfew in view of Covid-19 situation. Telangana on Tuesday reported seven new Omicron cases including three who had no travel history. The new cases pushed the state's tally of the new variant of Covid-19 to 62. Earlier, Health Minister T Harish Rao sought to justify the government not imposing restrictions in view of the low positivity rate. He said the Centre advised only those states who have 10 per cent or higher Covid positivity rate to impose curbs. "Our positivity rate is only 0.6 per cent and in fact it has come down compared to last week," he said. The state government on December 25 issues orders banning rallies and public meetings in the state till January 2. The orders were issued following the direction of the Telangana High Court to imposing curbs on public gatherings. However, the state has not banned New Year celebrations. The High Court on December 23 had directed the state government to impose curbs during festivals and New Year celebrations in view of Omicron.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-extends-liquor-shop-timings-for-new-year-eve-1065675.html
28-12-2021||South||68-year-old tries to sexually assault woman, killed by her minor daughters in scuffle||A 68-year-old man was killed, suspected in a scuffle with two minor girls, at Wayanad in Kerala after he tried to sexually assault their mother. The incident that took place on Tuesday morning at Ambalavayal, around 20 kilometres from Kalpetta town, was reported after the minor girls, aged around 15, reported the matter to the police. The body was found in a nearby pit. According to the local police, the deceased was a close relative of the girls, who were staying with their mother in a small accommodation close to the man's house. The sisters stated that on Tuesday morning he tried to sexually assault their mother. In their attempt to thwart the man, a scuffle broke out in which they hit him with an axe. As he died on the spot, the sisters and their mother covered the body using a sack and threw it in a nearby pit.  The two girls and their mother were learnt to be in police custody. Their father was staying away from them. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/68-year-old-tries-to-sexually-assault-woman-killed-by-her-minor-daughters-in-scuffle-1065680.html
28-12-2021||State||Three women among five held over flesh trade ||Police nabbed five persons including three women on charges of running flesh trade at Ujjanipura village in Bhadravathi taluk on Tuesday.  Acting on a tip-off, the team rushed to the village and raided a house. Two women were rescued. Condom packets, mobile phones and other valuables worth Rs 30,000 had been seized from the accused. A case has been registered against six persons. Of them, one escaped from the spot. A woman who was alone at home decided to run the flesh trade to make money easily. She had appointed two women to bring customers to the house. Bhadravathi Rural Police registered a case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/three-women-among-five-held-over-flesh-trade-1065683.html
28-12-2021||State||Karnataka may hike relief for families shifting from protected forest areas||In a move that will help thousands of families living in protected forest areas that are not declared as tiger reserves, the Forest Department has proposed to enhance the relocation package per family from Rs 10 lakh to Rs 15 lakh. The voluntary relocation of families living in core areas began under Project Tiger, in an effort to reduce man-animal conflict in areas declared as tiger reserves under the Wildlife Protection Act. As per the guidelines issued by the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA), families choosing to move out of a core area can opt for a financial package or accept the rehabilitation arranged by the Forest department. In 2017, the state government enhanced the funding from Rs 10 lakh to Rs 15 lakh per each family living in tiger reserves. However, those living in protected areas but not declared as tiger reserves continued to receive only Rs 10 lakh. Karnataka has five national parks and 33 sanctuaries, including five tiger reserves. As relocation/rehabilitation is voluntary, officials had a hard time convincing people protected areas to accept the Rs 10 lakh. “The department has submitted a proposal to the government to enhance the funding on a par with the package given to families in tiger reserve. We hope to get the approval soon,” Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (PCCF) Sanjai Mohan told DH. Activist Giridhar Kulkarni, who has been writing to Forest Minister Umesh Katti and officials of the department, said enhancing the compensation will benefit thousands of families. “In Bhimgad sanctuary alone, there are about 550 families. A few of them in Talewadi village have come forward for relocation. Considering the inflation, enhancing the package will help them during rehabilitation,” he said. An official in the department said enhancing the package was win-win situation. “Providing basic infrastructure to villages in protected areas involves many challenges, in addition to the cost. The extent of core forest area has declined in the last three decades. In the long term, voluntary relocation not only helps keeping the core areas safe, but also increases the chance of villagers to access job market and join the mainstream,” he added. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-may-hike-relief-for-families-shifting-from-protected-forest-areas-1065720.html
28-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Sriki case: Don't scuttle probe, CID told CCB||Did the Central Crime Branch (CCB) try to scuttle the investigation by the Cyber Crime Police Station (CCPS) of the CID into complaints registered against hacker Srikrishna Ramesh alias Sriki? Documents accessed by DH hint at the possibility. On January 12, 2021, the CID wrote to CCB with a request to “provide proper information” of hard disks and other devices seized from the hacker. “...you are intimated to provide necessary details accurately without hampering and scuttling our investigation,” the letter read, attached in the charge sheet filed by the CCPS in connection with the hack of state government’s e-procurement portal. The CID wrote this after realising that the forensic image copies of the hard disks provided by CCB were encrypted and the passwords were incorrect. CID first sought details on the devices seized from the hacker in December. CCB shared copies of the devices seized in January. However, perusal of data by CCPS --the premier agency of the state government investigating such crimes -- found that “all forensic image copies of the hard disk, provided in hard disk No.3 (file name HARDDISK_SRIKI.001) is encrypted. The password shared by your staff is incorrect,” the letter read. Forensic image copies of three other hard disks -- Sriki MacJ, sriki-Damaged and MacBook Silver -- were also encrypted. This prompted CID to seek “necessary details” from CCB “accurately without hampering and scuttling our investigation”. CCB responded by asking the CCPS to depute an officer to its technical centre so that the hard disks can be copied and verified on the spot, before using it for investigation. The chargesheet also reveals that CCB dilly-dallied in sharing details. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sriki-case-dont-scuttle-probe-cid-told-ccb-1065400.html
28-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||15 Omicron patients discharged in Karnataka; Health department treads cautiously||In a great relief to the Karnataka Health department, which is in a battle mode in taking preventive measures to ensure the new SARS-CoV2 variant Omicron doesn't spread across the state, as many as 15 students affected with the Omicron variant have fully recovered and been discharged from the designated hospitals. The data is confirmed by the Union Health ministry. The rest of the patients are also in good stead and none are showing any severe symptoms. However, the Karnataka state government has already initiated measures to tackle the possible Omicron variant implications in the state. The department has made arrangements for 7,051 ICU beds in the state and 30,000 beds with an oxygen facility. Earlier, the number of ICU beds was 3,860. Karnataka was the first state to report Omicron variant cases in the country. One was a South African national with an international travel history and another was a local doctor without travel history. The case without travel history panicked people and authorities as it gave clues on the presence of the new variant in the community. However, the doctor recovered from the infection and in fact, he came on live on social media to explain that he is hale and hearty at the designated hospital. Later, as many as seven Omicron variant, positive cases were found last Saturday taking the tally to 38 in the state. According to data available, eight states -- Delhi, Maharashtra, Kerala, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Telangana, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka -- have reported 93 per cent of all 538 cases of Omicron reported in India. Maharashtra has seen the most number of discharges at 42. As many as 30 Omicron tested positive patients have recovered and were discharged in Rajasthan, followed by Delhi (23) and Karnataka (15). The Karnataka government, though relieved that Omicron affected persons are not showing severe symptoms, is taking no chances and imposed a ban on nightlife during the New Year celebrations in the state. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/15-omicron-patients-discharged-in-karnataka-health-department-treads-cautiously-1065457.html
28-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||2021: Yediyurappa's exit as CM and heart-wrenching Covid scenes in Karnataka||Change of guard that saw BJP’s seasoned oarsman in south of India, B S Yediyurappa, finally relenting and making way for Basavaraj Bommai as the Chief Minister and scenes of ambulances with dead bodies of Covid-19 victims waiting in front of crematoriums during the second wave of the pandemic -- 2021 was truly an eventful year for Karnataka. The ruling BJP managed to pass a contentious anti-conversion bill in the state Assembly in December amid stiff resistance from Opposition but is yet to have its way in the Legislative Council where it lacks majority. The year saw the state being battered by torrential downpour, for the fourth year in a row, the covid surge in May, the emergence of India's first set of Omicron cases of coronavirus and inter-state disputes with Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu over different issues. For Yeddiyurappa, the BJP’s "comeback man" in Karnataka, there however seems to be no "closure". He stepped down from the post on July 26, coinciding with his government completing two years in office. It is also too early to write a political obituary of the 78-year-old Lingayat strongman who has been the face of the party in the state for decades but could never complete a full term in office despite becoming the chief minister four times, as he continues to enjoy clout. That he ensured his loyalist Bommai succeeded him in the BJP's southern citadel on July 28 is a testimony that Yeddiyurappa continues to hold sway. For the architect of the BJP's first-ever government to the south of Vindhyas, age was seen as a primary factor for his exit from the top job, with an unwritten rule in the saffron paty of keeping out those above 75 years from elective offices; also the high-command wanted to make way for new leadership, ahead of the assembly polls, likely by mid-2023, according to some analysts. According to BJP sources, rumblings within the party with complaints about his "authoritative" style of functioning, his younger son and state vice president B Y Vijayendra’s alleged interference in the administration and allegations of corruption, may also have contributed to his exit. Even as Bommai is trying to navigate the choppy waters of politics and making efforts to manage "natives" and "migrants" factions of the party, speculation surrounding his possible exit by early next year has rocked the ruling party, despite Union Home Minister Amit Shah announcing that the CM would lead the BJP in the 2023 polls. Though BJP leadership and Bommai himself have rejected such speculations, rumours regarding his possible exit refuse to die down, citing his knee ailment, and also certain allegations of irregularities like the bitcoin scam and 40 per cent commission charge by government contractors. BJP losing Hangal assembly segment, which is Bommai's neighbouring constituency and a not-so-great performance in the recent MLC polls under his leadership seem to have added to his worries. Congress too was in the news as political one upmanship between its top two faces -- Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah and state President D K Shivakumar -- overshadow developments in the party, with MLAs and supporters of both openly projecting their leaders as the party's CM face. With the next assembly polls seen as crucial for the party's future, JD(S) started preparations this year by holding a series of training sessions for workers aimed at independently coming to power in the assembly polls, by winning a minimum of 123 seats, even as several of its leaders are looking at jumping the ship. On the pandemic front, Covid-19 continued to haunt the state this year too, with daily infections and death peaking to over 50,000 cases and nearly 350 fatalities in May, which resulted in the government imposing strict curbs including lockdown in the state. With infections peaking, the system's preparations to tackle the pandemic were put to test as shortage of beds in hospitals and ICUs affected the treatment of critically ill patients. In a shocking incident 24 Covid patients allegedly died due to oxygen shortage in May, in Chamarajanagara district. Heart-wrenching scenes were witnessed during the months of April-May, as ambulances carrying dead bodies of covid victims were seen waiting outside overburdened crematoriums in the city. This had forced the government to set up open crematoriums. In the fag end of the year, the country's first two Omicron cases were detected in Karnataka on December 2, one of them being a local and the other an international traveller from South Africa. Recently there has been a steady increase in the number of covid-19 clusters in the state as well as Omicron infections, forcing the government to impose "night curfew" for 10 days from December 28 and to ban all New Year parties and gatherings in public places. After the anti-cow slaughter legislation last year, the government passed the Protection of Right to Freedom of Religion Bill, 2021, in the Assembly, prohibiting unlawful religious conversion by misrepresentation, force, undue influence, coercion, allurement or by any fraudulent means and has penal provisions. While the government cleared the Assembly hurdle amid stiff resistance from the Congress and JD (S), the fate of the legislation now hangs in balance since it has to pass the Council test where the ruling dispensation does not enjoy majority. For the fourth consecutive year since 2018, most parts of Karnataka were affected by flooding and landslides, due to torrential rains, causing damage to life and property. According to the government, at least 42 people died in floods and rain in October and November, and crop losses have been estimated at 9.90 lakh hectares. The overall estimated damage is said to be at Rs 11,916.30 crore, while the state has sought Rs 1,281 crore as relief from the centre, as per norms, for the damage caused. Certain incidents during the year such as e-commerce giant Amazon selling bikinis having colours of the Karnataka flag and emblem on its Canada site, tech giant Google's search result showing Kannada as India's "ugliest language", and alleged "imposition of Hindi" by the Centre, created a widespread social media outrage in the state and saw resurgence of regional pride in some way. There were disputes with neighbouring states like Tamil Nadu regarding the implementation of Mekedatu project over Cauvery river, and with Maharashtra on the border issue following recent incidents of defacing of statues of national icons Shivaji Maharaj and Sangolli Rayanna in Bengaluru and Belagavi and burning of Kannada flag in Kolhapur. The gang-rape of a college girl by six men near Chamundi Hills in Mysuru sent shock waves across the state. Kannada cinema's reigning star, Puneeth Rajkumar, died in October at the age of 46, leaving his fans shell-shocked and the state mourning.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/2021-yediyurappas-exit-as-cm-and-heart-wrenching-covid-scenes-in-karnataka-1065468.html
28-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka government to implement 'e-RUPI' for cashless education scholarship fee payment||The Karnataka government's e-Governance department has partnered with the National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI) and State Bank of India (SBI) for enabling and implementing 'e-RUPI', a cashless and contactless payment solution to students under its scholarship programme. e-RUPI will be used to ensure a leak-proof delivery of education fees of eligible students by paying digitally to the college or institute by the Karnataka government. The Karnataka government will get e-vouchers delivered to the mobiles of eligible students. The voucher code can be received on the feature phone also. The students will be able to redeem e-RUPI at the identified colleges or institutes for the intended purpose of fees payment, NCPI said in a release. For redeeming e-RUPI, the identified institutes will scan the QR code or SMS string displayed by the students using an Application or POS machine, and this process will remove the requirement of any physical token delivery for the students to avail of the scholarship, it said. "e-RUPI is indeed a very powerful tool for governments to use as it allows direct transfer of the benefits to the targeted beneficiary, with safety and security. The instrument ensures that the beneficiary gets the benefit as per the guidelines of the scheme. Under this initiative, each transaction is mapped with the beneficiary and the institution ensuring that the e-Voucher can be redeemed by the college where the student has enrolled," Additional Chief Secretary, DPAR (e-governance) Rajiv Chawla said. The Karnataka government has on-boarded around 176 schemes of 35 departments of the state government on the Direct Benefit Transfer Platform. Following the successful implementation of this pilot project, the state is examining the use of e-RUPI Voucher in other schemes such as seed distribution, fertiliser distribution, micro irrigation schemes, issue of laptops to students, and Imparting skilled training, the release said. "We believe e-RUPI is a revolutionary initiative in the direction of ensuring a convenient and leak-proof delivery of schemes. This is a win-win for both students and colleges. While students receive the voucher, they can redeem it only for payment of fees to colleges/Institutes," NPCI Chief of Products Kunal Kalawatia said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-government-to-implement-e-rupi-for-cashless-education-scholarship-fee-payment-1065542.html
28-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports 356 new Covid cases, 2 deaths||Karnataka on Tuesday reported 356 new cases of Covid-19 and two deaths, taking the total number of infections to 30,05,232 and the death toll to 38,318. The day also saw 347 discharges, taking the total number of recoveries to 29,59,429. Of the new cases, 269 were from Bengaluru Urban, as the city saw 209 discharges and one death. The total number of active cases in the state are 7,456. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 0.50 per cent, the Case Fatality Rate was at 0.56 per cent. Of the two deaths reported on Tuesday, one each is from Bengaluru Urban and Hassan. Apart from Bengaluru Urban, Udupi accounted for the second-highest number of new cases at 20, Dakshina Kannada and Mysuru 10 each. A total of 5,61,26,868 samples have been tested, of which 69,993 were tested on Tuesday alone. As many as 2,85,571 Covid-19 vaccine doses were administered on Tuesday, taking the total vaccination doses given so far to 8,52,38,653. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-356-new-covid-cases-2-deaths-1065699.html
28-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka has to vaccinate 31.75 lakh teens, 15.31 lakh comorbid elderly||Karnataka has a target of vaccinating 31,75,000 teenagers, aged 15 to 17 years, and jabbing 15,31,600 senior citizens, aged above 60 years with comorbidities. After attending a detailed video conference with the Union government on Tuesday afternoon, Health Commissioner D Randeep said any student ID would suffice for pre-registration of adolescents on CoWIN portal and that the education department data would be used for ascertaining the number of dropouts. He said decisions have not been taken on how to identify children who have never been a part of the education system. The target of vaccinating 31,75,000 children in the specified age group was arrived at by taking into account the census projections for 2021 and 2022, he explained. “The whole focus is to first kick start the vaccination drive for teens in conjunction with the education department. The department also has details of students who have dropped out. We are yet to take a call on those who’ve never been a part of the education net,” Randeep said. “Initially, we will focus on doing on-site vaccinations where we will go to schools in the presence of the school principal and education department officials. Once we start with off-site vaccinations, we will need a larger endorsement that a particular child is a student of a particular institution,” he added. Asked about obtaining consent letters from parents for vaccinating kids, he said, “Parent-teachers’ meetings will be held where the subject will be formally placed for discussion and dates will be fixed for vaccination. This will be considered deemed consent. There is no specific Government of India mandate that written consent should be taken from parents. If someone explicitly says he/she doesn’t want to be vaccinated, he/she won’t be.”     He explained that the Centre arrived at the number of elderly with comorbidities by calculating 20 per cent of the fully vaccinated among senior citizens. “As many as 60 lakh elderly have taken the second dose in the state. Twenty per cent of this is 12 lakh. This is the minimum target we have to achieve. They are eligible for the precautionary dose after nine months of having taken the second dose,” he said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-has-to-vaccinate-3175-lakh-teens-1531-lakh-comorbid-elderly-1065701.html
28-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Mock drills at Karnataka oxygen plants in hospitals expose tech issues||Mock drills at the state’s 192 newly commissioned oxygen generation plants turned out to be an eye-opener as several districts reported issues with inadequate oxygen purity, pressure and concentration. At Jayanagar General Hospital in Bengaluru, the concentration of oxygen did not go up to the required levels till around 4 pm though the mock drill started at 11 am. The drill went on till 6 pm. “The old gas in the storage tank should be let out first and only after that, the tank should be filled up with oxygen. Our hospital staffer failed to do that. Ideally, concentration should be 93% to 96%, but now it has come up only to 90%. In the atmospheric air, oxygen is only 21%. The rest is nitrogen and other gases. Nitrogen is let out through a zeolite filter and oxygen is concentrated. This is then directed to the storage tank. Now it is picking up,” Jayanagar General Hospital medical superintendent Dr Ramakrishnappa said. He said the oxygen generator had a capacity of 1,000 litres per minute. The hospital had received the equipment two months ago and wasn’t installed until now as civil works were going on. Patients were not affected as the hospital had liquid medical oxygen besides oxygen cylinders. Patients shifted Two oxygen-dependent in-patients were shifted to K C General Hospital beforehand as there will be a shut down of oxygen in the hospital on Wednesday for commissioning of their systems. “Tomorrow (Wednesday) oxygen connection will be given and we will be ready,” he said.  Bengaluru District Health Officer Dr Srinivas G A, said, the oxygen generation plant at Yelahanka General Hospital did not work initially and showed varying readings of oxygen concentration. “Sometimes the reading says 93, then 58 and then 66. The oxygen concentration should ideally be 93%. The plant capacity is 500 litres per minute. A biomedical engineer in Hyderabad was later consulted online and it was rectified,” Dr Srinivas said.  The hospital has two liquid oxygen storage tanks of two kilolitres each that will take care of oxygen-dependent in-patients, he said.  Scene at other places In Ballari and Vijayanagara districts, out of seven oxygen plants, only four are ready to use. District Health Officer Dr H L Janardhan said, “In the district hospital, there were issues with oxygen purity. It wasn’t coming up to 97%. In Hosapete taluk, there was inadequate oxygen pressure, which picked up later on. In Hoovinahadgalli of Vijayanagar district, there was inadequate pressure in the general hospital. There were issues with purity and saturation.” Hospitals are currently using liquid medical oxygen in storage tanks or cylinders. After the dry run on Tuesday, biomedical engineers will be called to fix the plants before hooking up patients to the medical gas pipeline system connected to the newly commissioned plants. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/mock-drills-at-karnataka-oxygen-plants-in-hospitals-expose-tech-issues-1065703.html
28-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||50% capacity rule won’t apply to hotel rooms, clarifies government||Chief Secretary P Ravi Kumar clarified on Tuesday that the 50% seating capacity rule will not apply to room occupancy at hotels.  “There is no restriction on room occupancy in hotels,” Kumar stated in a clarification. “Hotels are free to operate the rooms’ accommodation as per the approved capacity. The 50% capacity is only for eating places of the hotels where food and beverages are served to the guests,” Kumar stated.  The government has said that restaurants, hotels, clubs and pubs should function with 50% seating capacity from Dec 30 to Jan 2. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/50-capacity-rule-won-t-apply-to-hotel-rooms-clarifies-government-1065711.html
28-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||KSRTC passes for differently abled||KSRTC will begin issuing concessional passes to physically challenged persons starting from January 17. Eligible persons should apply for a pass through the Seva Sindhu portal. The passes issued in the year 2021 will be valid up to February 28, 2022, the KSRTC said in a press release. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ksrtc-passes-for-differently-abled-1065712.html
28-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Soon, a helpline to address hostel complaints in Karnataka||The state government will soon launch a helpline to redress grievances in the hostels run by the Social Welfare and Backward Classes departments.  Social Welfare Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary told reporters here on Tuesday that the government had entered into a pact with the BSNL for setting up this helpline. “It will be operational before January 10 and Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai will launch the helpline,” the minister said.  He said Karate teachers would be appointed to the hostels and residential schools next year. There had been a demand for increasing the accommodation in hostels. The chief minister has directed to open two-three new hostels in every district, he added. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/soon-a-helpline-to-address-hostel-complaints-in-karnataka-1065714.html
28-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Border row: Maharashtra Congress chief Patole worried over Bommai's remark||Maharashtra Congress president Nana Patole on Tuesday said the state government should take serious note of Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai's remark that 40 villages from Jat tehsil in the border district of Sangli were welcome to join the southern state. Speaking in the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly, Patole said the state government needs to understand the problems being faced by these villages. "Bommai has spoken about it in the Karnataka Assembly and we need to take it seriously. He also said Karnataka will not part with even an inch of Belagavi and other Marathi-dominated areas in that state," the Congress leader said. Maharashtra and Karnataka are locked in a border dispute for several decades and the matter is pending before the Supreme Court. Maharashtra stakes claim to Belagavi, Karwar and surrounding areas which have a sizable Marathi-speaking population and are part of the southern state. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/border-row-maharashtra-congress-chief-patole-worried-over-bommais-remark-1065718.html
28-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka BJP executive body backs Bommai, warns against speculation||The executive body of the Karnataka BJP on Tuesday threw its weight behind Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai’s leadership, sidelining speculation on his premature exit ahead of the 2023 Assembly polls. Such was the relief Bommai got that the state executive, which will meet on Wednesday as well, endorsed his style of functioning by hailing his “simplicity” while expressing gratitude for some of his recent welfare measures. Significantly, the party said it has nothing to do with recent statements made by ministers KS Eshwarappa and Murugesh Nirani. While Eshwarappa had projected Nirani as the future CM, Nirani predicted that Bommai will be elevated as a union minister - both fuelling speculation on leadership change. “The meeting has sent out a clear message that there’s no question of any change in leadership,” BJP spokesperson P Rajeev said, briefing reporters.  BJP national general secretary Arun Singh, who handles the party’s affairs in the state, warned leaders against speculating on Bommai’s removal or making any statements that would hurt the party’s organisation. "Both (Union Minister) Pralhad Joshi and Singh said action will be taken on those who speak about the CM changing," senior MLA Basanagouda Patil Yatnal told reporters separately. "This has left some people disappointed. I can't say who, but there were a few who walked around the corridors of the Suvarna Vidhana Soudha during the recent legislature session." The meeting stressed on the need to strengthen the party-government ties. Also, it was decided to constitute a fact-finding committee to review the party's embarrassing defeat in the Legislative Council election from the Belgaum local authorities' seat. The party's candidate Mahantesh Kavatagimath lost whereas former BJP minister Ramesh Jarkiholi's brother Lakhan won as an Independent. It is said that Kavatagimath met Singh earlier in the day and sought against the Jarkiholi brothers. Rajeev said that 19 members did not attend the meeting and that they had sought permission. The absentees included former chief minister BS Yediyurappa and his sons - BJP vice president BY Vijayendra and Shimoga MP BY Raghavendra. Yediyurappa and Raghavendra are in Dubai. The Jarkiholi brothers also skipped the meeting amid talks that the executive would discuss the Belgaum seat fiasco.  The executive meeting lauded the decisions of the Bommai government, especially granting extra flood relief aid and renaming the Mumbai-Karnataka region as Kittur Karnataka. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-bjp-executive-body-backs-bommai-warns-against-speculation-1065731.html
28-12-2021||West||Use of drones in farm sector can generate 50 lakh jobs: Gadkari||Union minister Nitin Gadkari on Monday asserted that use of drones in the farm sector can generate about 50 lakh jobs in the vast rural segment in one year alone. Gadkari said he has discussed with his two cabinet colleagues the need to draft a policy on using drone technology in the farm sector. He was addressing farmers and others present at the closing ceremony of 'Agrovision' exhibition in Nagpur. The Lok Sabha MP from Nagpur is the chief patron of Agrovision, an annual summit on agriculture. Union MSME minister Narayan Rane visited the exhibition on Monday, while Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar had attended the inaugural function of the four-day event on December 24. Gadkari, talking about various opportunities in the agriculture sector, said, "I discussed with Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar and Union MSME minister Narayan Rane (the need) to work on preparing a policy on (use of) drones in the farm sector." "Drone is related with agro and MSME, and drones alone can generate about 50 lakh jobs in the rural sector in one year. Besides, it will benefit farmers too," he maintained. The minister, citing his own example of deploying drones in his farm, stressed on cutting down on mechanised spraying of pesticides. Gadkari said a drone, powered by lithium-ion battery, would cost around Rs 6 lakh, while the same unmanned aerial vehicle with flex engine and run on ethanol fuel, would come at much cheaper price of around Rs 1.5 lakh. The Road Transport and Highways Minister said spraying of pesticides from drones will need 'pilots' for operating them and this will open up huge job prospects. L ast week, Tomar had released a set of standard operating procedures (SOPs) for the use of drones in the farm sector, including for spraying pesticides as well as other soil and crop nutrients. The adoption of drone technology is the need of the hour and it will benefit farmers, Tomar had said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/use-of-drones-in-farm-sector-can-generate-50-lakh-jobs-gadkari-1065399.html
28-12-2021||West||Goa will trounce Bengal-based political parties, like in football: Kamat||Goa will trounce West Bengal-based All India Trinamool Congress (AITC) in politics, just like Goan football teams have defeated football giants from the eastern state, according to former Congress Chief Minister Digambar Kamat. "We are not concerned about political parties which are outsiders. There are people coming here from Bengal. Bengal is known for football. Goans can play football too," Kamat said late on Monday. "Whenever Bengal and Goa play against each other, Goans have scored goals and sent them back to Bengal. I am confident that this time too, Goans will put Bengal in its place," the former Chief Minister also said.' Kamat was referring to the heady rivalry between West Bengal-based football clubs like Mohun Bagan, East Bengal, Mohammedan Sporting and Goa-based clubs like Dempo FC, Salgaocar FC, Churchill Brothers, etc., over the last few decades before the emergence of the Indian Super League. The Trinamool and the Congress have been at loggerheads ever since the West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee-led party announced its electoral foray in Goa three months back. The Trinamool Congress has inducted several Congress leaders over the last three months, the top picks including former Chief Minister Luizinho Faleiro and a sitting Congress MLA Aleixo Lourenco. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-will-trounce-bengal-based-political-parties-like-in-football-kamat-1065448.html
28-12-2021||West||Second Covid wave, Omicron kept Maharashtra's health sector on tenterhooks in 2021||Maharashtra's health sector came under severe strain in 2021, as it faced the onslaught of the ferocious second wave of Covid-19 led by the Delta variant, reporting a record number of daily infections and deaths, and towards the year-end saw the emergence of a high number of Omicron cases. As Maharashtra struggled to handle the rising Covid-19 cases, it was hit by incidents of fire at some hospitals, claiming lives of several patients and children, which kept the state government and health officials on tenterhooks and raised questions over safety measures in medical facilities. Earlier this year, the state also reported a large number of cases of mucormycosis, also known as the 'black fungus', and patients struggled to get its costly medicines, which were in short supply for some months. On the greener side, Maharashtra was the second state to administer the highest number of vaccines since the nationwide rollout of the inoculation campaign in January, and also earned praise from the Bombay High Court, which recently said the state was “one of the pioneers” in successfully tackling the crisis that arose because of the Covid-19 pandemic. As on December 26, over 11 months since the country started the inoculation drive against Covid-19, Maharashtra had administered 13,10,21,074 doses (including 7,95,56,437 first doses and 5,14,64,637 second doses) — second highest in the country after Uttar Pradesh which tops the list among states and Union Territories. Earlier this year, the Delta variant of Covid-19 triggered the deadly second wave in the country, including Maharashtra, and killed several people daily between March and May. The state has a high population density in cities like Mumbai, Thane, Palghar, Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad, Nashik, Nagpur, and the rapid virus spread was largely in urban pockets. The second wave was more widespread, not just concentrated to hotspots like Mumbai, Pune and Thane, but touched almost every part of the state. "During the second wave, the state reported around 60,000 deaths in two months of April and May. Then, cases started declining again. However, if you look at the figures now, the numbers have started increasing again," state surveillance officer Dr Pradeep Awate told PTI. The Delta strain went on to trigger another wave of infections in other parts of the world until the recent emergence of the Omicron variant. Till December 27, a total of 167 cases of the Omicron variant of SARS-CoV-2 were detected in the state. As the year comes to an end, dealing with the pandemic has been a mixed bag for healthcare officials and the Maharashtra government. If the first wave taught some hard-learnt lessons, the second wave made dealing with it more resilient. But in the New Year, the challenge lies in tackling Omicron, which initial studies suggest transmits faster than the Delta and other variants and escapes immunity generated by vaccines. Dr Awate said it appears that though the new variant does spread faster, there have been little hospitalisations. "We hope this trend continues. If this happens, Omicron will act as a natural vaccination and may help in its (Covid-19) progression towards the endemic stage," he said. Like last year, Maharashtra was one of the states that consistently reported the highest number of Covid-19 cases during its second wave which saw a massive surge in infections from March to May this year. According to the health ministry data, from February 19 to April 28, Maharashtra contributed the highest daily infections to the country's Covid-19 tally. Between February 18 to March 3, the state reported 48.5 per cent of the total cases in the country; rising to 59.5 per cent between March 4 an 17, and 60 per cent between March 18 and 31. Between April 1 and 14, it reported 43.2 per cent of the total cases in the country and 21.6 per cent between April 15 and 28. Unlike last year, to prevent the transmission of the coronavirus infection, the state did impose restrictions, but not as harsh as seen during the first wave. However, there was opposition from the business community and officer-goers in Mumbai as well as its satellite cities as travel by local trains was restricted. As cases spiralled, especially between March and May, many people even struggled to secure admission in hospitals as health facilities were overwhelmed with patients. There were also reports of alleged deaths due to lack of oxygen supply — from Palghar and Nashik, but the state government ruled it out. The state government also faced flak over the death of a number of patients in fires at hospitals in Ahmednagar, Buldhana, Palghar and at a mall in Mumbai. While there were reports of alleged deaths due to lack of oxygen supply in other states, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) was lauded by the Supreme Court for oxygen management during the second wave. But, like other parts of the country, a number of people in the state struggled to secure critical medicines, like Remdesivir and Tocilizumab injections. Earlier this year, Maharashtra was one of the non-BJP-ruled states which targeted the Centre over shortage of vaccines during the peak of the second wave of the pandemic. The ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi in Maharashtra — comprising the Shiv Sena, Congress and NCP — had accused the Centre of not providing adequate doses to the state. Some Maharashtra ministers also accused the Union government of prioritising BJP-ruled states over Maharashtra. Refuting the charge, the then Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan had lashed out at Maharashtra and some other states, accusing them of trying to cover their "failures" in containing the pandemic by making "deplorable" attempts through "irresponsible" statements to distract attention and spreading panic among people. Amid the rise in Covid-19 cases again, Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope recently said fresh lockdown will be imposed in the state only if the demand for medical oxygen touches 800 metric tons per day. The state government recently banned assembly of more than five persons in public places between 9 pm to 6 am and restricted the number of people allowed at public functions.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/second-covid-wave-omicron-kept-maharashtras-health-sector-on-tenterhooks-in-2021-1065450.html
28-12-2021||West||At 167, Maharashtra tops India's tally of Omicron cases||India has logged 653 cases of the Omicron variant of coronavirus across 21 states and UTs so far out of which 186 have recovered or migrated, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. Maharashtra recorded the maximum number of 167 cases followed by Delhi at 165, Kerala 57, Telangana 55, Gujarat 49 and Rajasthan 46. With 6,358 people testing positive for coronavirus infections in a day, India's total tally of Covid-19 cases rose to 3,47,99,691. The active cases have declined to 75,456, according to the data updated at 8 am.  The death toll has climbed to 4,80,290 with 293 fresh fatalities, the data stated. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been recorded below 15,000 for the last 61 days now. The active cases have declined to 75,456 comprising 0.22 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.40 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. A decrease of 385 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of  24 hours. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.  India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/at-167-maharashtra-tops-indias-tally-of-omicron-cases-1065461.html
28-12-2021||West||As international tourism plummets, domestic tourists keep Goa afloat amid Omicron fears||Even as the tourism industry in Goa crosses its fingers over the increasing footprint of Omicron, both in India and the source market, Europe, industry stakeholders have demanded a more relaxed tax regime as well as streamlining of GST and tax structures for travel agents and tour operators. According to Savio Messias, former president of the Travel and Tourism Association of Goa, the state's oldest industry body, "while the foreign tourists' footfalls could plummet due to the increasing number of Covid cases in Europe, domestic footfalls, for now, we're seeing the trade through in the run-up to New Year." "But the rise in Omicron cases and a crackdown on movement in metros could soon put paid to the surge in domestic tourism in the state," he added. "The domestic season has been excellent. (But) now we have to see. Three to five per cent cancellations are coming in these days. Nobody knows what is going to be the position in the next few months," Messias said. "The Maharashtra government has declared night curfew, they may introduce day curfew too. Delhi has also come out with strong measures. Our source market is Mumbai, Delhi, Bengaluru, Hyderabad," Messias said. At its peak before the pandemic, nearly eight million tourists visited the state annually, but the arrival of the pandemic and the subsequent restrictions on travel and Covid-related protocol have led to tourist footfalls taking a hit. The slackening in Covid cases across the country as well as quick vaccination of the eligible population in the country had led to a surge in tourist arrival numbers to Goa over the last three months. Messias also said that the foreign tourist season, which traditionally lasts from October to March, had flattered to deceive tourism industry stakeholders this year, due to the uncertainty surrounding government policy related to Covid. "Initially we were happy that the charters were starting, but it does not look promising. The situation looks fluid. Nobody knows when the government will introduce stronger SOPs. We do not know when flights will be cancelled. As it is, ahead of New Year lots of international flights were cancelled. So it does not look very exciting. We have to wait and watch and hope that the fourth wave does not affect the business," he said. In November, Goa did witness the first few charter tourist flights from Kazakhstan, but that too Messias said, had petered out. And expecting tourists to fly from Russia, which has been severely hit by the fourth Covid wave, was out of the question. "Situation is bad in Europe. We do not know what's going to happen in India. The only charters are coming from Kazakhstan, but we do not know what is going to be the situation in Kazakhstan in a few days time. So it is very very fluid. We just have to keep our fingers crossed and hope that things improve," he said. "Russia is out of the question now, because Russia is very badly hit by the pandemic and other countries also. The British bookings were very encouraging in the beginning. In fact they were thinking of five flights in a week. They had already confirmed two. But now they have had to cancel their flights," he said. Traditionally, Russia and the UK account for the highest component of foreign tourists to the coastal state. "Sixty to seventy flights were coming in international flights in a week (pre-pandemic). Whereas now, we have only one or two a week," he said. Meanwhile, travel and tourism industry stakeholders also met Union Minister for Tourism and Culture G. Kishen Reddy here, along with Union Minister of State for Tourism Shripad Naik seeking sops for the industry. "We have asked for less restriction from the Excise and police departments for the tourism industry during elections as well as simplification of Goods and Services Tax and tax collection at source for travel agents and tour operators," current president of the Travel and Tourism Association of Goa Nilesh Shah said. "We have also sought extension of free visas beyond five lakh international passengers as well as smoothing of procedure for random Covid testing at the Goa airport for international passengers," he also said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/as-international-tourism-plummets-domestic-tourists-keep-goa-afloat-amid-omicron-fears-1065488.html
28-12-2021||West||Decks clear for tree-top walkway in Malabar Hill||A tree-top walkway, a first-of-its-kind project, would come up in Malabar Hill, the nature-rich locality of India’s financial capital of Mumbai.  The BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has been working on the project and now it has reached the stage of execution.  The project is expected to cost around Rs 22 crore. The proposal will now be tabled before the Standing Committee of BMC. The BMC had invited tenders for this project back in August 2021, with an estimated cost of the project being Rs 12 crore. However, now there has been an escalation of cost given the nature of the project.  Malabar Hill is one of the prominent residential areas in the city. Known for housing Walkeshwar temple and Banganga tank, this hillock is situated at a height of 50 metres, highest point in South Mumbai.  Malabar Hills is home to mansions for many celebrities and business tycoons. The area also houses the Raj Bhavan, Varsha - the  Chief Minister’s Residence and Sahyadri Guest House.  The elevated walkway along the tree canopy will pass over the Malabar Hill and end near the slope of Kamala Nehru Park overlooking the Arabian Sea. The walkway will be around 700 metres long, 1.5 metre in height and 2.5 metre in width.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/decks-clear-for-tree-top-walkway-in-malabar-hill-1065524.html
28-12-2021||West||Under fire, Hindu seer stands by his comments on Mahatma Gandhi||Hindu religious leader Kalicharan Maharaj, who is facing FIRs in Chhattisgarh and Maharashtra for using derogatory words against Mahatma Gandhi, remained defiant and said he does not have any remorse for his utterances. In a video message, the seer claimed his statements were correct and said he hates Mahatma Gandhi. Raipur Senior Superintendent Police Prashant Agrawal said they have received information that Kalicharan Maharaj has released a video. The police are conducting a probe into the case and efforts are on to arrest him, the official said. In the video, the seer said, "An FIR has been registered against me for making derogatory remarks on Gandhi, but I do not have any remorse for it." He also made several claims and allegations against Mahatma Gandhi and held him responsible for Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel not becoming the country's prime minister (after independence) and for "encouraging the Nehru-Gandhi dynasty". "Had Sardar Patel been the prime minister, the country would have been more powerful than America," he claimed, and said he does not consider Mahatma Gandhi as the Father of the Nation. He also hailed Mahatma Gandhi's assassin Nathuram Godse. On Sunday, an FIR was registered against Kalicharan Maharaj in Raipur for using derogatory words against Mahatma Gandhi. A similar case was also registered against him at Akola in Maharashtra on Monday. During the conclusion of the two-day 'dharma sansad' (religious parliament) at Ravan Bhata ground in Raipur on Sunday evening, the seer had used abusive words against Mahatma Gandhi, and asked people to elect a staunch Hindu leader as the head of the government in order to protect the religion. His comments drew flak from leaders of the ruling Congress in Chhattisgarh and the issue was also raised in the Maharashtra Assembly, where the Shiv Sena-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government assured stern action against the Hindu seer, who hails from the western state. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/under-fire-hindu-seer-stands-by-his-comments-on-mahatma-gandhi-1065540.html
28-12-2021||West||Malegaon blast: Witness claims ATS forced him to take names of Yogi, RSS leaders||A witness in the 2008 Malegoan blast case, whose statement had been recorded by Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad, claimed in a court on Tuesday that the ATS had threatened him to take the names of Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and four other RSS leaders. Notably, former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh, currently facing multiple cases of extortion, was posted as additional commissioner of the ATS, when it probed the Malegaon blast case. The witness deposed before the special NIA court on Tuesday. His statement had been recorded by the ATS when it probed the case, before the National Investigation Agency (NIA) took over the case. During his deposition, the witness told the court that the then senior ATS officer Param Bir Singh and another officer had threatened him to take the names of Yogi Adityanath, the present UP CM, and four other Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) leaders, including Indresh Kumar. He claimed the ATS tortured him and made him sit (in the ATS office) illegally. After his deposition, the court declared the witness hostile for making allegations against the ATS and denying that he made any statement before the anti-terror agency. As many as 220 witnesses have been examined in the case till now and 15 of them have turned hostile. On September 29, 2008, six people were killed and over 100 injured when an explosive device strapped on a motorcycle went off near a mosque in Nashik's Malegaon town, located about 200 km from Mumbai. The accused in the case include Lok Sabha member Pragya Singh Thakur, Lieutenant Colonel Prasad Purohit, Shudakar Diwedi, Major Ramesh Upadhyay (retired), Ajay Rahirkar, Sudhakar Dwivedi, Sudhakar Chaturvedi and Sameer Kulkarni, all of whom are out on bail. They are facing trial under provisions of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) and the Indian Penal Code.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/malegaon-blast-witness-claims-ats-forced-him-to-take-names-of-yogi-rss-leaders-1065576.html
28-12-2021||West||Narayan Rane claims his son being falsely implicated in murder bid case||Amid speculation about BJP MLA Nitesh Rane's possible arrest in an attempt to murder case, his father and Union minister Narayan Rane on Tuesday claimed his son was being falsely implicated in the case and the MVA government in Maharashtra was misusing its power. Addressing a news conference in Maharashtra's Sindhudurg district, Narayan Rane said this was being done ahead of the Sindhudurg District Cooperative Bank elections. A win in the cooperative bank polls will help "cover up" the past irregularities committed by leaders of the Maha Vikas Aghadi (comprising the Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress) in the cooperative bank, the Union minister alleged. He questioned why the top police brass, including the Director-General of Police, have been camping in the district. "Nitesh is being falsely implicated in a case. (IPC) Section 307 (attempt to murder) has been invoked in a case where the complainant had bruises. Nitesh was not there when the incident occurred,” he told reporters. “This is being done ahead of the Sindhudurg District Cooperative Bank elections. The state government is misusing its power.” Nitesh Rane, who represents Kankavli Assembly seat in Sindhudurg district of Konkan region, had filed an anticipatory bail application in the attempt to murder case to seek relief from any coercive action against him. The complaint is linked to the alleged attack on a person, Santosh Parab (44). Notably, Shiv Sena leaders recently demanded that MLA Nitesh Rane be suspended over his alleged inappropriate behaviour towards State Environment Minister Aaditya Thackeray. Raising the issue in the state Assembly on Monday, Sena MLA Suhas Kande had alleged that last week, Nitesh Rane, while sitting on the Vidhan Bhavan premises, made "meow" sounds in the direction of Thackeray, who he was going inside the building. Asked about Nitesh Rane's behaviour, Narayan Rane refuted the allegations. "He did a very good job as an MLA in the House which has irked the MVA government. We are not the ones who are going to be afraid of such actions,” he said. Narayan Rane quit the Shiv Sena in 2005. The Konkan region has seen an intense rivalry between him and Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, who is also the present Shiv Sena president. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/narayan-rane-claims-his-son-being-falsely-implicated-in-murder-bid-case-1065588.html
28-12-2021||West||Election for Maharashtra Legislative Assembly's Speaker postponed ||Avoiding a confrontation with Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari and legal tangles, the Maha Vikas Aghadi government decided to put off the election to the post of Speaker of Maharashtra Legislative Assembly.  The MVA was contemplating holding the elections on Tuesday, the last day of the winter session, however, they decided to put it on hold. The elections to the Presiding Officer of the Lower House would now be taken in the budget session of the Maharashtra Legislature.  According to available information, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray had a word with NCP founder-President Sharad Pawar, the chief architect of the MVA, and took a final call.  Thackeray and Pawar had also spoken to Advocate General Ashutosh Kumbhkoni. The senior MVA leaders - from Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress also met at the Vidhan Bhavan complex.  The MVA had earlier sent a letter to the Governor over the amendment in the Legislative rules  of holding the Speaker's election through voice vote instead of secret ballot.  Koshyari, however, has not cleared it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/election-for-maharashtra-legislative-assemblys-speaker-postponed-1065596.html
28-12-2021||West||Maharashtra Covid-19 cases see a massive jump||The financial capital of Mumbai and the rest of Maharashtra registered a massive jump in Covid-19 cases pushing the daily cases to 2,000-plus on Tuesday. It may be mentioned that the last time, this year, the state reported 2,000-plus cases on 15 October.  However, no cases of the Omicron variant were reported.  The state reported 2,172 cases and 22 deaths taking the progressive total to 66,61,486 and 1,41,476, respectively, according to the Public Health Department.  The financial capital of Mumbai reported 1,377 cases while the same for the Mumbai metropolitan region was 1,680 cases.  Mumbai-MMR accounted for more than 75 per cent of the state’s cases - making the financial capital the hub yet again.  Pune city and the Pune metropolitan region accounted for 283 cases. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-covid-19-cases-see-a-massive-jump-1065636.html
28-12-2021||West||Mundra Port heroin haul: NIA court rejects Chennai woman's bail plea||A special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court on Tuesday rejected the bail application of a Chennai woman who is behind bars in connection with the seizure of 3,000 kg of heroin worth over Rs 21,000 crore at Mundra port in September. The special court, while denying the bail, held that prima facie she "appeared to have been involved in a grave and serious offence having far-reaching implications." The special judge Subhada Krishnakant Baxi rejected the bail plea of Govindaraju Durga Purna Vaisali, a resident of Chennai, who is among the eight accused, including her husband Machavaram Sudhakar arrested in this case till date. Baxi observed in the order, "in the opinion of this Court, the prima facie involvement and role of the present applicant-accused in committing the alleged offence, is clearly established. The present applicant having conspired with other co-accused, prima facie appears to have been involved in a grave and serious offence having far-reaching implications." The Chennai couple was the first set of accused to be arrested by the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI), which busted the smuggling racket at Mundra port in September. Later, the central government transferred the investigation to the NIA. So far, eight accused have been arrested in this case. DRI had found that Vaisali and Sudhakar had imported the consignment in the guise of talc power through their firm Aashi Trading Company from Afghanistan. They had registered their firm in Vijayawada in Andhra Pradesh allegedly to dodge suspicion. Vaisali's name is registered in the papers as its proprietor. In her bail plea, she stated that there was no direct evidence against her, nor had the NIA discovered or recovered "any incriminating material/documents, money trail etc." She also said that NIA hasn't been able to find a person named Amit "who is more actively involved and instrumental in commission of the present offence." She stated that her husband had told the name of Amit during their interrogation "but to her surprise," he hasn't been arrested by the NIA. Special Prosecutor Amit Nair, representing NIA, argued that Vaisali had "full knowledge of routine affairs of her firm Aashi Trading Company, and therefore, she had absolutely full knowledge of the contents of the imported illegal consignments." The NIA court order has quoted Nair as arguing, "...based on pria facie true evidences collected by the DRI and NIA, the present applicant-accused was found to be an active member of international drug cartel, who having connived with her husband accused-1 in furtherance of a larger conspiracy hatched with other co-accused, has been involved in a commission of the present offence." Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mundra-port-heroin-haul-nia-court-rejects-chennai-womans-bail-plea-1065656.html
28-12-2021||West||RSS leader demands apology from Manmohan, Sonia after Malegaon blast witness' statement||After a witness in the 2008 Malegaon blast case deposed that he had been threatened to take the names of BJP and RSS leaders, senior RSS leader Indresh Kumar on Tuesday alleged that a dirty political conspiracy was hatched by the Congress during the UPA rule to implicate them in false cases of so-called saffron terror. He demanded an apology from Congress leaders - former prime minister Manmohan Singh, party chief Sonia Gandhi, former Home Minister P Chidambaram, Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, Digvijay Singh and Salman Khurshid - for assassinating the character of BJP and RSS leaders. Kumar's reaction came after a witness in the 2008 Malegaon blast case turned hostile and deposed in a court in Mumbai earlier in the day that the then senior ATS officer Param Bir Singh and another officer had threatened him to take the names of Yogi Adityanath, who is the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh at present, and four other RSS leaders, including Indresh Kumar. Singh, who is facing extortion and other cases, was suspended this month. " It (deposition of the witness) has proved that all the cases of saffron terror (lodged) at that time were a conspiracy hatched by the Congress as part of its dirty politics," the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) leader said in an audio message. Kumar also slammed the other political parties and their leaders, "who are now sitting in Opposition", saying they had also committed "a big sin and a crime" as they stood by the Congress and its coalition government's "dirty politics and conspiracy to falsely implicate the BJP and the RSS leaders" in the so-called saffron terror cases. In his deposition, the witness claimed the ATS tortured him and made him sit in its office illegally. After his deposition, the court declared the witness hostile for making allegations against the ATS and denying that he made any statement before the anti-terror agency. As many as 220 witnesses have been examined in the case till now and 15 of them have turned hostile. The then UPA regime applied "all might" to drag BJP and RSS leaders in the so-called saffron terror cases but could not list "our names in any of the FIRs" because they didn't have any evidence, Kumar claimed. The Congress party and its government, though, kept on playing "dirty politics" of assassinating "our character" in the name of saffron terror, he charged. "Manmohan Singh (former Prime Minister), (Congress leaders) Sonia Gandhi, P Chidambaram, Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi, Salman (Khurshid), Digvijay Singh--all of them should apologise for committing such a big sin and a crime," he demanded. Kumar, who is RSS national executive member, also appealed to the people to "democratically" teach a lesson to all those parties and leaders who were involved "in the creation of saffron terror" or supported "such an inhuman politics". "It is the height of their shamelessness that they have not yet even apologised for hatching such a political conspiracy intended to commit atrocities (on the BJP and RSS leaders)," he charged. On September 29, 2008, six people were killed and over 100 injured when an explosive device strapped on a motorcycle went off near a mosque in Nashik's Malegaon town, located about 200 km from Mumbai. The accused in the case include Lok Sabha member Pragya Singh Thakur, Lieutenant Colonel Prasad Purohit, Shudakar Diwedi, Major Ramesh Upadhyay (retired), Ajay Rahirkar, Sudhakar Dwivedi, Sudhakar Chaturvedi and Sameer Kulkarni, all of whom are out on bail. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rss-leader-demands-apology-from-manmohan-sonia-after-malegaon-blast-witness-statement-1065658.html
28-12-2021||West||No curfew in Goa yet, can't disturb tourist season: CM||Despite a surge in Covid cases in Goa and a spike in the positivity rate, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant late on Tuesday said that he cannot impose a curfew or enforce strict restrictions because such measures would "disturb" Goa's tourism business, which has peaked during the Christmas and New Year festivities. "There is a lot of business due to the tourist season leading up to December 31. We will have to take tough decisions after the meeting (of the task force) on January 3 (Monday), if cases increase like this," Sawant told a press conference late on Tuesday. "The government is ready to take strict action from next Monday," Sawant said, adding that stringent measures could not be put in place because the state government did not want to "disturb the tourism business". Thousands of tourists have landed in Goa for Christmas and New Year celebrations in the state, which is known for its year-end festivities. Over the last one week, the positivity rate has risen to 4.03 per cent and on Tuesday, Goa recorded its highest daily count of new Covid cases in months, with 112 persons testing positive for the virus. Only one case of Omicron has been detected in the coastal state so far. The Chief Minister attributed the spike in Covid cases to two weddings where the guest-list included visitors from UK and Germany. "Increase in cases have occurred due to a wedding, where guests had arrived from London and Germany. The case clusters have emerged following two such weddings. We will have to take precautions regarding weddings," Sawant said, urging the tourism industry stakeholders to desist from holding large events in air conditioned halls. The Chief Minister also said that the government was mulling making it mandatory for persons who have taken the first Covid dose to opt for the second jab. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/no-curfew-in-goa-yet-cant-disturb-tourist-season-cm-1065665.html
28-12-2021||West||Goa CM takes on Karnataka, Opposition on Mahadayi issue||Sending a clear message to Karnataka and his detractors over the Mahadayi water dispute issue, Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said that the state government was serious about contesting Karnataka's claims over the river water both in the Supreme Court and with the Centre, while also underlining its importance to the ecosystem in Goa. Sawant was speaking at the inauguration of barrage and upgradation of water pumping station at Ganjem in North Goa, where nearly 25 MLD water is expected to be lifted from the river basin and filtered to be distributed to four constituencies in both North and South Goa districts. "The Opposition criticises us for not being serious about Mahadayi and Karnataka levels allegations that all the fresh water from the Mahadayi river mixes with the salt water belt (near the Arabian sea). They also say that you have no provisions (to harvest fresh water) or do anything to prevent it," Sawnat said at the inauguration function on Tuesday. "But I want to say that this government does not just talk. We are serious about Mahadayi. This barrage is proof that we need the (Mahadayi) water for drinking purposes," the Goa Chief Minister said. Sawant also said that the new plant was facilitated by a lift irrigation scheme in 28 locations along the Mahadayi river in Goa. "That is why we refer to the Mahadayi as a lifeline. 60 per cent of the state is dependent on the water from the Mahadayi river. So is the flora and fauna. The Mahadayi wildlife sanctuary exists on account of the river. That is why it is important that water from the Mahadayi river flows downstream from Karnataka to Goa," he said. "We are pursuing the issue of diversion of water by Karnataka with the Supreme Court and the central government. Our environment and the area (around the river) will be preserved if we get adequate share of river water," he added. With the state headed for polls, the state government is coming under fire from the Opposition and civil society groups for mishandling the Mahadayi issue, with the Opposition accusing the ruling BJP of compromising with the BJP-led Karnataka government. Apart from an SLP challenging the contents of the Mahadayi Water Dispute Tribunal's award, the Goa government has also filed two other contempt petitions against Karnataka for illegally diverting water from the Mahadayi river basin. The state government has also formed a special cell to oversee affairs related to the river dispute. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-cm-takes-on-karnataka-opposition-on-mahadayi-issue-1065674.html
