29-12-2021||Comment||A Better Way: Raise self-esteem of girls, not age of marriage||Raising the age of marriage for girls in India from 18 to 21 is not a simple step that will bring all-encompassing goodness in terms of health and development. The claims of the government that this is in the interest of the girl child are not convincing, given that little concern has been shown about a host of other related health issues.  For instance, the latest round of the National Family Health Survey (NFHS-5 for 2019-20) tells us that anaemia among children as well as adults, men as well as women, pregnant as well as non-pregnant women, has increased over numbers recorded in NFHS-4 (2015-16): 57% of all Indian women in the age group 15-49 were reported anaemic in NFHS-5 over 53.1% in NFHS-4. This points to the work that needs to be done in the area of women and child development, and raises many questions on how and why anaemia has worsened over the years.  Some other indicators have improved, but not all is well. The number of women in the 20-24 age group who were married before the age of 18 has declined from 26.8% (NFHS-4) to 23.3% (NFHS-5). But this also shows how much still needs to be done to implement the requirement of the age of marriage to be 18.  In the midst of these challenges, the proposal to raise the age to 21 means the government is driving into more areas of regulation and policing that are contentious. If all that development required was the passing of a law, then India would have been a developed country by now, given the plethora of laws that governments have passed over the years. Each of these laws in some way expands the role of the State, and in a poor country like India, it has the downside of State coercive power being wielded against the weakest class of citizens.  Worse, there is already societal pressure in the area that restrains freedom and stops young girls and boys from discovering life on their own, bringing in aspects of moral policing and State intervention on some pretext or another.  In a city like Mumbai, there have been situations where people have raised objections, the police intervened, and a kind of campaign was run to stop couples spending time together. People visiting a quiet, green spot have run into moral vigilantes. Colleges don’t like holding hands, parks often offer trouble rather than tranquillity to young couples, and many parents are still uncomfortable if boys and girls spend some time socialising even in larger groups.  If this is the state of affairs in Mumbai, imagine what transpires in the interiors of India, where prejudice and moral norms can be overwhelming. Social media has many images and videos of young couples being beaten up, the girl dragged away to be taught a lesson at home and the boy warned never to be seen around again. In this climate, the little agency that girls might have, whenever and wherever they are in a position to do so, gets taken away by this new proposed law because the act becomes illegal and submission to a paternalistic household becomes more ingrained. Think of the girl being forced to continue to be under the care of her parents and brothers, doing their bidding and unable to make a choice.  In many Indian families and for a variety of reasons, a daughter is looked upon as the property of the husband and his family, waiting to be sent off — the concept captured in the words ‘paraya dhan’. Will this legal raising of the age of marriage stop the family, or will they not still look for ways to seal an alliance and then explore ways in which the girl will work with more controls and walk a tricky balance while she waits to get married and move to the husband’s house, as tradition decrees? Will this reduce demands for dowry and allow the girl child to continue her education? Or will it torment her as she is pushed into preparing for her matrimonial home?  What is not seen in this change is that the State has suddenly given itself more powers to intervene in families, in personal choices, and brought the discourse of development into conflict — one more of the many situations when conflict seems to be the most favoured method of negotiating an issue or effecting change. This is the biggest blow and the greatest risk to the idea of human development. When a large number of people do not trust the action and are not sold on the idea of change that has aspects of being intrusive, then it is best to defer the action. Discuss, debate, and set the stage for change rather than rush into effecting the change.  Union Minister for Women & Child Development Smriti Irani’s speech in the Lok Sabha on the move was not a great presentation of a development paradigm at work. So, the best thing that can be said about the move is that the government has agreed to send the bill to a parliamentary select committee for a proper debate.  There is no need to rush the move in any case. As it is, the average age of marriage for women in India is already 22.1 years, according to a 2019 report by the Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation. If there is still a need to change the age of marriage, more options must be examined. If equality is desired, then one way to achieve it is to lower the age of marriage for boys to 18 instead of raising that of girls to 21. It is a fair point that citizens who can vote, be tried for any crime as adults, should have the right to marry.  It is important to raise the self-esteem of girls, to support them to make their own decisions rather than force them into a tyrannical legal system where a new phase of their life begins with a police case or a courtroom.  (The writer is the Managing Editor of The Billion Press)(Syndicate: The Billion Press)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/a-better-way-raise-self-esteem-of-girls-not-age-of-marriage-1065663.html
29-12-2021||First Edit||PM, BJP, make your stand clear||A terrible red line was crossed with an open call to exterminate Muslims at a conclave in Haridwar, attended by a number of Hindu religious leaders. Such an open call to genocide is shocking and outrageous, but it is equally shocking that there has been no response from the Narendra Modi government and the BJP to it. What was articulated at Haridwar was the dream of a ‘Hindu Rashtra’ where the minorities are not just reduced to non-citizens but are eliminated. The speakers also called for war against the Government of India and the Constitution to achieve their goal. It is difficult to believe that such fantasies exist, and the most terrifying part of it is that it is real for many people.  Similar views and ‘resolutions’ have been expressed in other places, though it was done most blatantly in Haridwar. Someone said he had wished he were Godse and could kill former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh. There were other provocative statements too, of drawing inspiration from the ethnic cleansing of Muslims in Myanmar, and an invocation of the mass killings in 1857. There has been action, too. Christian churches were attacked in many places during Christmas. Muslims have for many weeks been prevented from doing namaz at a place in Gurgaon. All this is the culmination of a culture that has grown in the last few years, but it shows the worst is yet to come. Many of those who are not seen to belong to the Hindutva paradigm have been abused, threatened, lynched and jailed, and the victims range from minorities to activists to journalists to comics and academics to anyone thought to be critical of the majoritarian ideology and practices.  These are not stray expressions of hatred by fringe elements. The fringe is at the core now — the Hindu Yuva Vahini, the organiser of the conclave, was founded by UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath — and there is little resistance from those who are sworn to preserve and protect the Constitution. The Uttarakhand police have cared to file only a single FIR for all the hateful speeches made at Haridwar and have been very reluctant to initiate any action against the so-called religious leaders. The full force of the law should have been employed to book those who violated all the values and norms of a lawful State and society. But the issue involved is not just a violation of laws. No senior functionary of the State or leader of the BJP, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, has condemned the vile pronouncements as yet. Refusal to denounce such open incitement to violence amounts to tacit approval. That would mean that the government and the party are complicit in this project, which can set off a fire that can engulf the whole country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/pm-bjp-make-your-stand-clear-1065652.html
29-12-2021||In Perspective||India awaits the next CDS||India lost its first Chief of Defence Staff (CDS), Gen Bipin Rawat, in a tragic accident. Reports suggest that the government has started the process of identifying the next CDS by inviting a panel of senior officers from all three Services, which would be taken to the Appointments Committee of the Cabinet for approval. As CDS for nearly two years, Gen Rawat is believed to have worked towards bringing convergence in the functioning of the three Services and to restructure military commands for optimal resource utilisation, integration and modernisation. Hence the delay in the appointment of the next CDS has been called out with concern by the strategic community. The CDS in India is not the Commander-in-Chief of all three Services, as some vernacular media has been ignorantly reporting. For the Indian military establishment, which has functioned without a CDS for more than 70 years, the non-availability of a CDS for a brief period will not affect operational preparedness. But reforms initiated by Gen Rawat as CDS may lose momentum if the next incumbent doesn’t take over soon. Having set an ambitious target of not only attaining self-reliance but also achieving defence exports of Rs 35,000 crore by 2024-25, it is necessary for the entire defence apparatus of the country, including the defence PSUs and the ordnance factories to come together as one. With the Service Chiefs continuing to be busy with training, equipping and operational planning of their respective Services, the CDS would provide the necessary impetus in synergising joint planning and, more importantly, directing the use of strategic assets, when necessary. Being senior-most among the three Service Chiefs, the appointment of Army Chief Gen Naravane as the next CDS would have been an easy decision for the government. Interestingly, the government has chosen to wait, giving space for speculation. As per some analysts, this would have upset the succession plan in the Army because the current Vice Chief of Army Lt Gen CP Mohanty and Northern Army Commander Lt Gen YK Joshi would be in contention for the Army Chief’s post. So, has the government chosen to wait until Jan 31, 2022, when both officers of the same batch retire? Gen Naravane has now been appointed Chairman of the Chiefs of Staff Committee, a post which was held by Gen Rawat, indicating that the government is in no hurry to appoint the new CDS. If the government chooses to wait until he retires in April 2022, then it would have two options open – one, for his appointment as the CDS post-retirement, as was the case with Gen Rawat; and two — choose another officer on merit. On the retirement of Gen Naravane, Air Chief Marshal V R Chaudhari would be the senior-most among the Service Chiefs and his elevation as the CDS would make tactical sense on two accounts. For optics, it would bring a truly tri-service character to the post of CDS, which is supposed to be held in rotation among the three Services. But more importantly, it may influence the IAF to be more amenable to the creation of theatre commands since it is believed that the IAF has been resisting their creation fearing distribution of its limited combat assets among theatres in the North and West, which in all likelihood would be functioning under the command of Army officers. Whatever be the time frame the government has in mind for appointing the next CDS, it must use this period to resolve the hierarchical anomalies observed in the last two years. For instance, the CDS being a four-star ranked officer is entitled to a higher status as per the Warrant of Precedence, than the Secretary of any department. However, Gen Rawat was accorded the rank of Secretary when he was heading the Department of Military Affairs (DMA), along with other four Secretaries in the Ministry of Defence (MoD). In another such anomaly, the second senior-most officer in the DMA, who is a three-star ranked military officer, is assigned the status of an Additional Secretary in the MoD, lowering his status. For the sake of argument, the Warrant of Precedence may be ceremonial in nature, but in such high-ranking appointments, the protocol becomes an irksome issue that should be avoided. The ideal option would be to move the DMA out of the MoD and make it an arm of the Integrated Defence Staff. The Chief of Integrated Defence Staff to the Chairman-Chiefs of Staff Committee (CISC) and the three-star ranked officer in the DMA could report to the CDS, strengthening his role with adequate resources and inputs. This would make the CDS truly independent in fulfilling his responsibilities as the Principal Military Adviser to the government. The nation awaits the next CDS.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/india-awaits-the-next-cds-1065668.html
29-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Sprinter Machettira Raju Poovamma marries boyfriend in Mangaluru||After a brief courtship, sprinter Machettira Raju Poovamma married her boyfriend, Malayali athlete Jithin Paul, at a wedding ceremony organised at Adyar Garden in the city's outskirts on Wednesday. The reception is being planned in Chalakudy in Kerala on January 1. Povamma, a native of Mangaluru, specialises in 400m running and is presently serving in ONGC Mangaluru. In the Asian Championship, Povamma had won two medals in 2013, two medals in 2015, one medal in 2017 and three medals in 2019. In the Asian Games she won two medals in 2014 and two medals in 2018. She has represented India twice in Olympics and four times in the World Championship. Jitin Paul, a champion in the 400m hurdles, had represented India in the Asian Games and the Commonwealth Games. He had won silver in the 400m hurdles on the SAF Games. He’s at the moment working in the Revenue Tax Division in Pune. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/sprinter-machettira-raju-poovamma-marries-boyfriend-in-mangaluru-1065823.html
29-12-2021||Karnataka Politics||Arun Singh 'reconfirmed' BJP High Command's stance to keep Bommai as CM||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Wednesday stated that BJP National General Secretary and party in-charge of Karnataka has reconfirmed the party high command's stand on him continuing as the CM. "The High Command had clarity about it since the beginning and Arun Singh reconfirmed that during the State BJP executive committee meeting," Bommai said. "I thank the party's senior leaders and executive committee members for having confidence in our government and for encouraging us to go ahead. We would make united efforts to strengthen the party and to enhance government-party coordination to ably face next elections and other political developments, as per their expectations," he said. He said that the cabinet expansion issue is not discussed here and no instruction on this issue has come from the high command. When asked about former minister Ramesh Jarkiholi's visit to Delhi, Bommai said, "All have the freedom and they can go anywhere." In the wake of speculation about MLA Arvind Bellad's move to quit from BJP Hubballi-Dharwad city district unit, Bommai expressed ignorance about the issue and said he would ask Bellad himself. Clarifying that he had no plan to visit Delhi immediately, Bommai said he would focus on administrative works like holding meetings of ZP CEOs and deputy commissioners over the next couple of days.  In reply to a query over objection to night curfew, he said he is observing and would take a decision after going to Bengaluru. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/arun-singh-reconfirmed-bjp-high-commands-stance-to-keep-bommai-as-cm-1065798.html
29-12-2021||Karnataka Politics||Ready to stepdown if party decides: K S Eshwarappa||Rural Development & Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa said he would be the first person to resign as a minister if the party's central leadership decides to remove senior ministers. "If I am removed, I would still happily work for the party," he said, in reply to MLA M P Renukacharya's views about the "need" for senior ministers to resign and have fresh blood in the Cabinet. When asked if he is ready to resign voluntarily, Eshwarappa said, "Only those who are in politics know how good or bad it is to be in power". "State BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel has already given me the responsibility of the Backward Classes Morcha, and future activities of the Morcha would be decided in its executive committee meeting to be held in January 5 in Shivamogga," he added. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/ready-to-stepdown-if-party-decides-k-s-eshwarappa-1065827.html
29-12-2021||Karnataka Politics||Need to tell people about wrongdoings by Congress govt: Arun Singh||BJP National General Secretary (Karnataka in-charge) Arun Singh on Wednesday stated that awareness among people has to be created about 'corruption' and 'anti-Hindu' acts that took place during the Siddaramaiah-led Congress government. "Who can forget expensive watch issue, suicide of officials and suspension of engineers along with continuous corruption charges during the Congress government? Hindus were killed and PFI had a free run when Congress was in power. These issues should be taken to the people," he said, after attending the State BJP executive meeting. The meeting also discussed how to further strengthen the party from the booth level. Our goal is to win 150 seats in the next Assembly polls, and BJP would come back to power, Singh added. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/need-to-tell-people-about-wrongdoings-by-congress-govt-arun-singh-1065834.html
29-12-2021||Karnataka Politics||Law soon to free temples from restrictions: Karnataka CM Basavaraj Bommai||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Wednesday said his government will bring in a law to “free Hindu temples” from state control, which is a long-pending demand of Sangh Parivar groups.  “Before the next budget session, our government will give shape to this law. We will free our temples,” Bommai said at the state BJP executive committee meeting in Hubballi.  Bommai noted that the BJP government took just a week’s time to introduce a law to protect shrines illegally occupying public places. “This is our ideological commitment.” “I've been told by my seniors that prayer spaces belonging to different faiths are safe under various laws. They have freedom. But, our Hindu temples are subject to several regulations and government regimen. Temple revenues are to be used only after the permission of some officer sitting on top. We will free our temples. There will be only regulation and they will be free to run with complete freedom,” he said, to which he was greeted with the ‘Bharat Mata Ki Jai’ chant.  This move is seen as Bommai pushing the Hindutva plank further ahead of the 2023 Assembly polls, after bringing the anti-conversion bill.  Karnataka has 34,563 temples under the Muzrai department. Of them, 205 are in the ‘A’ category with annual revenue of over Rs 25 lakh. There are 139 temples in the ‘B’ category (Rs 5 lakh and Rs 25 lakh). The remaining 34,219 temples are in the ‘C’ category.  The Banashankari temple in Bengaluru, the Kollur Mookambika temple in Udupi and the Kukke Subramanya temple in Dakshina Kannada temples are some famous temples under Muzrai.  Temples in the ‘A’ and ‘B’ categories earned Rs 1,383.63 crore between 2018 and 2020. A senior official in the chief minister’s office said most of this money is used for development of the temples.  In 2008, the then chief minister BS Yediyurappa, who headed the first full-fledged BJP government in Karnataka, took the Mahabaleshwara temple in Gokarna out of Muzrai control and gave it to the Ramachandrapura Mutt, a move that ended up in litigation.  Terming Bommai’s announcement as “extremely important”, Bangalore South MP Tejasvi Surya said: “It is paradoxical that a secular state involves itself in the business of running temples. Freeing up temples will further strengthen our traditional institutions. Temples can't be treated as sources of revenue, especially when those of other faiths are not seen that way.” But, former revenue minister RV Deshpande of the Congress is not convinced. “There are many temples already free from government control. It's only the big temples that are monitored by the endowment department. It’s better that it remains that way as administration is streamlined. There’s no harm in temples being under the control of the Muzrai department." Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/law-soon-to-free-temples-from-restrictions-karnataka-cm-basavaraj-bommai-1065910.html
29-12-2021||Karnataka Politics||JD(S), Congress lock horns on Mekedatu padayatra||KPCC president D K Shivakumar and former JD(S) chief minister H D Kumaraswamy, once political allies, have locked horns on the Mekedatu issue. Meanwhile, Shivakumar maintained that his party’s Mekedatu campaign is apolitical, and that he had invited film actors and pontiffs to join. Training guns at the Congress, Kumaraswamy said the DPR on the Mekedatu project is stuck with the Centre for technical and legal reasons. “The Centre has already told Karnataka earlier to get Tamil Nadu’s support for the project. When such is the case, will a mere padayatra solve the issue,” he asked. Instead of the padayatra, the Congress must be looking at putting pressure on the Centre through an all-party delegation, he said. During the JD(S)-Congress coalition government, he had met Prime Minister Narendra Modi in this regard several times. “But what has the Congress done till now?”  Meanwhile, Shivakumar maintained that the Congress initiative was apolitical. He had reached out to those in the film industry, seers, colleges and even apartment associations to join the struggle for Mekedatu. People can join out of their own volition. Let the JD(S) and the BJP people too join, he invited. In response to Kumaraswamy’s criticism, Shivakumar said it was surprising that the JD(S) leader was against the idea of padayatra when his own party had taken up several such initiatives. “Even former prime minister H D Deve Gowda has taken part in padayatras,” he said. Some of these struggles see success, while others do not, he stated, reiterating that the Mekedatu struggle was for the benefit of the people. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/jds-congress-lock-horns-on-mekedatu-padayatra-1066042.html
29-12-2021||National||False declaration of educational qualification by poll candidate can be corrupt practice: HC||The Delhi High Court has said that a false declaration with regard to a poll candidate's educational qualification can be brought within the ambit of corrupt practices under the Representation of the People Act, 1951. The court said that a bare reading of Section 123(4) of the Act shows that a corrupt practice included the publication of any false statement by a candidate with respect to his candidature, including information concerning his educational qualification. It stated that while the Supreme Court has unambiguously held that voters have the fundamental right to know the antecedents of candidates, another bench of the high court has also ruled that non-disclosure pertaining to educational qualifications would constitute a corrupt practice. “A false declaration made, qua educational qualification can be brought within the four corners of Section 123(4) of the 1951 Act,” said Justice Rajiv Shakdher in a recent order passed in a plea by AAP MLA Vishesh Ravi seeking the rejection of BJP candidate Yogender Chandolia's election petition, challenging his nomination. Chandolia was contesting against Ravi in the last Delhi assembly elections. “The expression 'in relation to candidature' should, in my view, include information concerning the educational qualification of a candidate, since the Supreme Court has unambiguously held that voters have the fundamental right to know the antecedents of the candidate,” it added. In the election petition, the BJP candidate alleged that amongst other things, the AAP MLA from Karol Bagh concealed his educational qualification in his nomination affidavit filed for the last year's assembly polls. Ravi, in his plea, argued that the election petition ought to be rejected as it did not disclose a cause of action. The court refused to reject the BJP candidate's objections at this stage as it observed that the election petition showed that there were assertions to demonstrate that the MLA “has been taking inconsistent stands concerning the highest educational qualification secured by him”. “It is averred that as per form-26 filed in 2013, the applicant/respondent no.1 (Ravi) claimed that he had obtained a degree in B.Com in 2008 from CCS University, whereas in Form- 26 filed in 2015, the applicant/respondent no.1 claimed that he was pursuing a B.A. (Programme) from IGNOU, Delhi; which is also claimed to be the highest educational qualification attained by him, at that juncture,” the court noted. “In contradiction, in Form-26 filed in 2020, the applicant/respondent no.1 claims his highest educational qualification as Class X pass in 2003, via NIOS,” it said. “Given the material on record, I am unable to persuade myself that merely because the May 2002 Academic Examination Result for Class X, concerning the applicant/respondent no.1, does not align with the assertion made in the petition that the application/respondent no.1 did not pass the examination of Class X in 2003 would not be a good enough reason to reject the petition. The averments made in this behalf have to be read in their entirety, and, therefore, the matter, in my view, needs to be tried,” the judge said. In the order, the court also said that the law required a candidate to disclose his past convictions including fines imposed, imprisonments suffered, acquittals and discharge, if any, at the stage of nomination as well as information qua pending criminal case where a person if convicted, can be sentenced to imprisonment for two years or more, albeit, where charge is framed or cognizance is taken by a court of law. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/false-declaration-of-educational-qualification-by-poll-candidate-can-be-corrupt-practice-hc-1065765.html
29-12-2021||National||India logs 9,195 new Covid-19 cases; Omicron tally at 781||India has recorded 781 cases of the Omicron variant of coronavirus across 21 states and UTs so far out of which 241 people have recovered or migrated, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on  Wednesday. Delhi recorded the maximum number of 238 cases followed by Maharashtra at 167, Gujarat 73, Kerala  65 and Telangana 62. With 9,195 people testing positive for coronavirus infection in a day, India's total tally of Covid-19 cases rose to 3,48,08,886, while the active cases increased  to 77,002, according to the data updated at 8 am.  The death toll has climbed to  4,80,592 with 302 fresh fatalities,the data stated. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been recorded below 15,000 for the last 62 days now. The active cases comprise 0.22  per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.40 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said.  An increase of 1,546 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of  24 hours. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 0.79 per cent. It has been less than two per cent for last 86 days. The weekly positivity rate was also recorded at 0.68  per cent. It has been below one per cent for the last 45 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,42,51,292, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.38 per cent.  The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 143.15 crore.  India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.  India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 302 new fatalities include 244 from Kerala and 22 from Maharashtra. Of the 244 deaths in Kerala, 38 were recorded over the last few days and 206 designated as Covid-19 deaths after receiving appeals based on the new guidelines of the Centre and the directions of the Supreme Court. A total of 4,80,592 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,41,476 from Maharashtra, 47,066 from Kerala, 38,318 from Karnataka, 36,750 from Tamil Nadu, 25,107 from Delhi, 22,915 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,733 from  West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-logs-9195-new-covid-19-cases-omicron-tally-at-781-1065786.html
29-12-2021||National||Biological E gets DCGI nod to conduct booster dose trials for Corbevax||Indigenous vaccine maker Biologocial E Limited’s Corbevax received the Drug Controller General of India's (DCGI) approval to conduct trials as booster shots, sources told ANI. Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin also sought to conduct trials for booster doses after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the rollout of Covid-9 booster doses from January 10. The Subject Expert Committee (SEC) granted Biological E the permission to conduct proposed phase three trials as Covid-19 'booster dose' on two conditions. The company is asked to study the administration of booster dose in two cohorts of six and nine months with age-wise stratification. Also, 50 per cent of subjects should be of high risk or comorbidity condition. The company is required to extend safety follow-up of up to nine months after the administration of the booster dose. Biological E plans to complete production at a rate of 75 million doses of its Covid-19 vaccine Corbevax per month, anticipating over 100 million doses per month from February 2022 which will enable it to deliver 300 million doses as promised to the Centre, the company said in a statement on Tuesday. “Corbevax has completed two Phase III clinical trials involving more than 3,000 subjects between the ages of 18 and 80 at 33 study sites across India. The vaccine was found to be safe, well-tolerated and immunogenic," Mahima Datla, Managing Director, BE limited told PTI. Corbevax is India's first indigenously developed protein sub-unit vaccine against the virus that received approval from the Drugs Controller General of India (DGCI). (With PTI inputs) Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/biological-e-gets-dcgi-nod-to-conduct-booster-dose-trials-for-corbevax-1065788.html
29-12-2021||National||Rahul slams Centre as India-China trade crosses $100-bn mark||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday took a swipe at the Centre over India-China trade crossing the $100-billion mark despite a military standoff, saying the country is waiting to see the current dispensation step down. He said in a tweet in Hindi, "Jumlo Ki sarkar hai, Jhoot Dhong Dikhawa apar hai, desh ko ab jhola uthne ka intezar hai."(This is a government of rhetoric, the pretence of falsehood is immense and the country is waiting for their bags to be packed). Gandhi was commenting on India's trade with China as after the Chinese incursion, the Centre had banned Chinese apps as amidst repeated domestic boycotts of Made-in-China, trade volume between India and China hit a record high of $100 billion by November, the Global Times reported citing the latest data from the Chinese General Administration of Customs. Chinese state media pointed out that while there are those in India who are concerned about the trade deficit advocating not to rely too much on trade with China, the data speaks for itself. "Whatever the political considerations of these people, seeing China as India's enemy should not be an option for India and one that India cannot afford to make. Further increasing cooperation is the right choice," the Global Times report said. India has long hoped to reduce its trade deficit with China, but making bilateral trade more balanced cannot be done by curbing Chinese exports to India, which would only hurt the Indian economy. Further boosting China's imports from India is the right way to go, and there is room for coordination between the two sides in this regard, and it should be a joint effort, the report said. The record two-way trade provides the best evidence of the two countries' economic complementarities and the strong resilience of bilateral economic relations. In particular, by importing Chinese products at relatively low prices, India has saved more foreign exchange reserves and improved capital efficiency, Global Times reported. Also, India's large imports of machinery and electronics from China and Chinese investment in the country's smartphone sector have greatly served the needs of the Indian people and boosted Indian exports to third countries, it added. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rahul-slams-centre-as-india-china-trade-crosses-100-bn-mark-1065811.html
29-12-2021||National||Maybach added to Modi's security detail routine replacement||Amid speculation on the price and other details of the Mercedes Maybach added to Prime Minister Narendra Modi's security detail, government sources said on Wednesday that the new cars are not an upgrade but routine replacement as BMW had stopped making the model used for him earlier.  "The cars cost much less than the media speculation, in fact it is about one-third of the price quoted in the media," an official source said.  The price quoted for a Maybach car in a section of the media is over Rs 12 crore.  Official sources said the SPG security detail has a six-year norm to replace vehicles used for the protectee, and the previous cars were used for eight years under Modi, leading to an audit objection and comment that it was compromising the life of the protectee.  "The decisions relating to security detail purchases are based on the threat perception to the protectee. These decisions are taken independently by the SPG without taking views of the protectee.  "The widespread discussion on the security features of the protectee's car is not in national interest as it puts in public domain a lot of unnecessary detail. This only threatens the life of the protectee," the source added.  Officials asserted that Modi has not given any preference on which cars to use and noted in this context that Congress president Sonia Gandhi in the past used Range Rovers which were actually procured for the then prime minister. Cars manufactured by BMW are among those used by the prime minister over the years. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maybach-added-to-modis-security-detail-routine-replacement-1065831.html
29-12-2021||National||NCP MP Supriya Sule, husband test positive for Covid-19||NCP Lok Sabha MP Supriya Sule on Wednesday said she has tested positive for Covid-19. Sule (51), Lok Sabha MP from Baramati and daughter of NCP chief Sharad Pawar, said her husband Sadanand Sule has also been detected with the infection. Sadanand and I, both of us have tested positive for COVID - 19. We do not have any symptoms. Requesting everyone who has come in contact with us to get themselves tested. Take Care. "Sadanand and I, both of us have tested positive for COVID-19. We do not have any symptoms. Requesting everyone who has come in contact with us to get themselves tested. Take Care," she tweeted. Sule, Sadanand and their children live with her parents Sharad Pawar and Pratibha Pawar in their south Mumbai residence Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ncp-mp-supriya-sule-husband-test-positive-for-covid-19-1065833.html
29-12-2021||National||Vaccines, boosters and variants: A year Covid kept world on its toes with surprises aplenty||The optimism of a year that started with the Covid-19 vaccine rollout, seen as the beginning of the end of the pandemic, has petered out as 2021 winds to a close. The SARS-CoV-2 virus is still around, and more infectious than earlier. As the Omicron strain spreads across the globe and questions on vaccine inequity dominate discussions, scientists are still scrambling to learn more about emerging variants of the deadly virus that has claimed millions of lives and crippled economies. “The pandemic is very much still ongoing at the end of the year as it was at the beginning of the year,” immunologist Satyajit Rath, formerly with the National Institute of Immunology (NII), New Delhi, told PTI. Discussing the Omicron variant, Rath said the emergence of newer virus strains is natural, normal, and familiar from the influenza example. "That is one of the many reasons why expecting the pandemic to 'end' abruptly was and is unrealistic.” “We have learnt how similar SARS-CoV-2 is to other viruses that cause respiratory diseases as well as are now understanding the ways in which it is different and can continue to surprise us,” added Gautam Menon, professor, Departments of Physics and Biology, Ashoka University. Menon said the Omicron variant is the “end-of-year twist” that will dominate the first several months of the new year. “That such a highly mutated variant could appear and turn out to be far more transmissible and immune evasive than Delta was always possible but thought of as unlikely,” he added. Covid-19 vaccines largely showed good efficacy against the variants that emerged in late 2020 and early this year. These included Alpha, Beta, and Gamma. But then the Delta variant emerged. In March, the variant caught India napping. The country at the time was yet to make much progress in its vaccination campaign, and the Delta variant overwhelmed hospitals and health systems, leaving a trail of deaths in its path. The highly transmissible variant then spread across the world. Studies showed vaccines generally protect people infected with Delta against severe Covid-19, but are less protective against it than earlier variants. "I hope we have learnt our lessons from the devastating second wave due to the Delta variant and will not see images again of desperate patients and their families trying to locate ICU beds and oxygen cylinders that we saw across May of this year,” Menon said. Just when the disease seemed under control, a variant more transmissible than others seen so far struck the world. In November, Omicron, the latest variant of concern, was identified in Botswana and South Africa. Early studies suggest Omicron evades vaccine immunity significantly but may be less severe than Delta, and a booster shot may provide considerable, if not absolute, protection. Virologist Upasana Ray noted that viruses mutate continuously, so does SARS-COV-2. So, some variants were more transmissible and few were even escaped antibodies. "However, we have seen that people who suffered from natural infection or were vaccinated mostly had reduced severity even if they experienced a second infection,” Ray, a senior scientist at Kolkata's CSIR-Indian Institute of Chemical Biology (IICB), told PTI. In mid-2021, many countries began to seriously consider rolling out third doses of Covid-19 vaccines, leading to debates among researchers and public health experts whether such a step was warranted. Data suggested that vaccine immunity was waning in the face of the highly transmissible Delta variant, but the preventives were still protecting people from hospitalisation and death. “How diseases unfold and affect individuals are as much a property of the host affected by the disease as well as the pathogen that causes the disease. There are vaccines that confer life-long immunity and there are others that offer only a temporary solution,” Menon said. "That we're understanding more about how our bodies respond to vaccinations against Covid-19 just speaks to the immense complexity of human immunology and the fact that we still need to understand much more about immune response at the individual level to a SARS-CoV-2 infection,” he added. Despite the researchers and the WHO advising wealthy nations to hold off boosters for everyone until more people in low-income countries get vaccinated with first doses, some went ahead anyway. Israel was the first to roll out the third vaccine dose to its population in June. With Omicron spreading far and wide, real-world data from the country and elsewhere showed that boosters lower people’s chances of getting sick with Covid-19. Many experts are also now urging vaccinated adults to get booster shots, but have warned that new variants will continue to evolve in infected individuals when only a fraction of people in low-income countries have received a single dose. The case in point is Africa where millions still are to be inoculated and have a huge population of immunocompromised people. Rath noted it is “quite true” that rapid global vaccination would have led to the slower emergence of new variants and strains. “Global, equitable vaccination on the one hand and evidence-driven deployment of supplementary 'booster' vaccine doses, on the other hand, need not have been and should not have been an either-or issue,” he said. One reason for the emergence of Omicron, Menon concurred, is very likely vaccine inequity that led to large parts of the world having low levels of even one dose of vaccine currently, even as developed countries hoard vaccines and provide boosters to their own citizens. “Where cases can spread in populations, especially ones which contain some fraction of those who are immunocompromised, we run the risk of new variants,” he added. Ray noted that to prevent more variants that can escape antibodies, it is important that the transmission chain is blocked. “To achieve that, detection, isolation and rapid vaccination all are important irrespective of which nation we are talking about as we can't seal borders permanently,” she added. Experts are calling for an increase in vaccine supplies globally so that there is no need for a trade-off between boosters and equity. "The ethics of vaccine equity should be discussed openly as an ethical and moral issue and governments must be called upon to explain their stands in these, and not commercial, terms,” Menon noted. As global leaders figure out these modalities and come up with new policies to fend off variants, the Covid-19 pandemic is expected to end sometime in the latter half of next year, unless we allow opportunities for new variants to arise. In that case, the world might need entirely different vaccines and therapies as the current preventives and drugs may be rendered useless in the face of a more mutated virus. “I think the story of the beginning of next year will be very much focused on Omicron and the development of new vaccines and therapeutics for Covid-19 that may help specifically with multiple variants,” Menon added. In India, the government has given the nod to a third “precaution” shot for healthcare and frontline workers and those above 60 with co-morbidities. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vaccines-boosters-and-variants-a-year-covid-kept-world-on-its-toes-with-surprises-aplenty-1065838.html
29-12-2021||National||Railways strove hard in 2021 to be back on track||The story of Indian Railways in 2021 was one of recovery and putting its house in order after a forced hiatus from the tracks for the first time in its history due to the coronavirus outbreak. The Railways has been completely dependent on its freight revenues for sustenance over the last two years, with the passenger segment running in loss in 2020 and gaining momentum only slowly with the removal of restrictions during the first half of this year. Financial situation: A recent report of the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) has noted that the Indian Railways' operating ratio of 98.36 per cent in 2019-2020 does not reflect its true financial performance and if the actual expenditure on pension payments is taken into account, the ratio will be 114.35 per cent. The CAG also noted that the national carrier needs to revisit the passenger and other coaching tariffs so as to recover the cost of operations in a phased manner and reduce losses in its core activities. This comes at a time when the national transporter has targeted to reduce its operating ratio to 95 per cent. Last year, the Railways was able to lower its expenditure and make up for the shortfall in traffic through revenue generated by freight operations. A fall in pension liabilities also helped with the Railways' massive pension bill of more than Rs 51,000 crore in the current financial year has been converted into a loan by the finance ministry. While the Railways also saved money by not restoring most concessions, it earned through "marginally" raised fares of special trains and hiked prices of platform tickets. Till December 18, its revenue from goods traffic has been Rs 98,075.12 crore while its target for the 2021-22 fiscal is Rs 1,37,,810 crore. In the passenger segment, the Railways has earned Rs 26,871.23 crore while its projected target is Rs 61,000 crore for the FY. Railways' big ticket projects: The year was also marked by struggle to address issues causing delays and resulting in missed deadlines for big ticket projects. The Rs 81,000 crore Dedicated Freight Corridor, the Railways' single-largest developmental project currently underway, was scheduled to be completed by December 2021. The new deadline is now June 2022, which officials said could be further delayed. Then there is the ambitious bullet train project between Ahmedabad and Mumbai. Mired in land acquisition issues and then the pandemic, the project has now been hit with cost escalations. While the project had a December 2023 deadline, it has now been pushed to 2026. Another key project of the railways to handover certain routes to private entities has fizzled out due to lack of interest from the sector. The ministry scrapped the Rs 30,000 crore bids for private trains around four months ago after it received only two offers - one from IRCTC and another from Megha Engineering and Infrastructure. Initially, the national transporter had planned to introduce private trains on its network in phases, with the first dozen due to start running in the 2023-24 financial year and all 151 by 2027. However, sources indicate that the national transporter will give the plan one more try and has begun deliberations with the private sector on it. The introduction of state-of-the-art trains like the Vande Bharat have been delayed due to cancellation of tenders and gained momentum only when Prime Minister Narendra Modi promised the nation 75 such trains by August 15, 2023 in his Independence Day speech. So, even as passengers were envisioning travelling on the swanky new trains, the Railways has just issued fresh tenders, this time for 58 such trains. The prototype of one such trains is expected to hit the tracks in April 2022.   Passenger pains: When will the concessions for senior citizens be restored? Will waiting list end? Will we get bedrolls? These are some of the queries that passengers have for the Railways. While the national transporter has restored the facility of serving cooked meals on board trains, it is yet to restore concessions in most categories. Between March 22, 2020 and September 2021, around 4 crore senior citizens have undertaken journeys on trains without concessions. During this period, train services remained suspended for several months due to the coronavirus lockdown. The concessions, which were suspended from March 2020, have remained suspended to this day. The Railways which has recently restarted serving meals on board trains is yet to take a call on providing bedrolls or concessions for senior citizens, stating that precautions need to be taken in view of the coronavirus crisis. Another issue that has remained a perennial complaint for passengers is waitlisted tickets and in the first six months of FY 2021-22, over 52 lakh passengers who were on the waitlist after finalisation of seat reservation charts could not travel by trains according to official figures, indicating a need for more trains on busy routes. As far as new trains are concerned, the Railways has introduced just over 800 new trains in the last five years.   Recruitment blues: Job seekers have now taken to social media sites like Twitter to protest the delay in the recruitment process by the Railway Recruitment Board. "One crore plus students had applied for Railway exam in 2019 .It's been 3 years , the exam hasn't happened .I demand government not to play their future.. Railway should declare Group D exam date immediately," tweeted an aspirant.   What next: The gamechanger for the Railways will be the commissioning of the Dedicated Freight Corridor. The DFC, with its advantages of speed and higher carrying capacity, can also help reduce freight charges by as much as 50 per cent. Officials say that the lower haulage charges will be passed on to customers, and that the plan is to generate Rs 15,000 crore in revenue every year. It will also connect the hinterland with industrial hubs and make railways the go to cost-effective mode of transport for goods across the country. As for passenger experience, the Vande Bharat trains would provide a whole new travel experience and bring in a feeling of style in rail travel. The new AC three tier coaches introduced in some trains this year, will also provide a never seen before experience for those looking for pocket friendly yet comfortable journey in the days to come. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railways-strove-hard-in-2021-to-be-back-on-track-1065855.html
29-12-2021||National||Jharkhand govt cuts petrol price by Rs 25/litre for two-wheelers||Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren Wednesday announced concession of Rs 25 per litre on petrol and diesel prices for two wheelers owned by the poor in the state from Republic Day next year. Soren made the announcement on it on the completion of two years of the JMM-led coalition government in the state. The concession will be given for 10 litres of petrol for every month, a statement by the state government said later. "To provide relief to the poor and middle class families of the state who are impacted by the increased fuel prices, the government has decided to a give relief of Rs 25 per litre on petrol to two-wheeler owners from January 26, 2022," Soren said. The statement quoting Soren said, "A poor person, having a motorcycle in the house, is unable to drive it due to lack of money to buy petrol ... An amount of Rs 25 per litre would be transferred to the bank account of poor ration card holders ... This system is going to be implemented from January 26 next year. A poor family can get this amount up to 10 liters of petrol per month." It said, "Jharkhand government is working fast to bring its action plans on the ground ... Prices of petrol and diesel are sky-rocketing. This has adversely impacted the poor and middle class families". The Centre had on November 3 cut excise duty on petrol and diesel by a record Rs 5 and Rs 10 per litre to help bring down rates from their highest-ever levels. It had become effective from November 4. This was the highest-ever reduction in excise duty and rolled back a part of the Rs 13 and Rs 16 per litre increase in taxes on petrol and diesel effected between March 2020 and May 2020 to avoid passing the high rates to consumers despite the the sharp fall in international oil prices. Later many states had further slashed taxes on the two fuels to make them cheaper, including Haryana and Karantaka. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jharkhand-govt-cuts-petrol-price-by-rs-25/litre-for-two-wheelers-1065858.html
29-12-2021||National||Sourav Ganguly stable, maintaining 99% oxygen saturation on room air: Hospital||BCCI president and former India skipper Sourav Ganguly continues to remain “stable”, the hospital where he is undergoing treatment said on Wednesday. “On the second day of admission, Sourav Gangly, BCCI President and former Indian cricket captain, remains haemodynamically stable, afebrile and maintaining oxygen saturation of 99% on room air. “He slept well last night and has had breakfast and lunch,” Dr Rupali Basu, MD & CEO of Woodlands Hospital, said in a statement. The 49-year-old had received Monoclonal Antibody Cocktail therapy' on Monday night. “The medical board is keeping a close watch on his health status,” the statement read. Ganguly was admitted to hospital twice earlier this year and underwent emergency angioplasty after having some cardiac issues. His elder brother Snehasish Ganguly had also tested positive for Covid early this year. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sourav-ganguly-stable-maintaining-99-oxygen-saturation-on-room-air-hospital-1065864.html
29-12-2021||National||India's non-permanent membership provides 'much-needed' balance at UNSC in 2021||As India began her two-year tenure as a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council in January 2021, New Delhi’s presence at the horse-shoe table provided the "much-needed" balance at a time when the powerful organ of the world body grappled with major geo-political crises, including in war-torn Afghanistan. When India took up the seat at the 15-nation Council in the beginning of the year, the world was still reeling with the Covid-19 pandemic that ravaged nations and slaughtered economies. Just as economies and nations were beginning to open up, the Omicron variant’s lightning-speed spread across the world has given more reason to worry. "I am deeply worried. If things do not improve - and improve fast - we face even harder times ahead. Covid-19 is not going away. It is becoming clear that vaccines alone will not eradicate the pandemic," UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres said at his end of the year press conference recently. "Vaccines are averting hospitalisation and death for the majority who get them and slowing the spread. But transmissions show no sign of letting up. This is driven by vaccine inequity, hesitancy and complacency,” he said. With India wrapping up the first year of its two-year tenure as a non-permanent member, the year saw New Delhi providing the "much-needed" balance vis-a-vis the powerful UN body’s five permanent members and their inter-se fissures. New Delhi has also been the bridge to ensure the Council’s polarisation does not affect its ability to take a well-considered view. In his address to the high-level 76th UN General Assembly session in September, which reconvened in a physical format after going virtual last year due to Covid-19, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that countries with "regressive thinking" that are using terrorism as a "political tool" must understand that it is an equally big threat for them also, in a veiled attack on Pakistan which is often accused by its neighbours of providing safe havens to terrorists. He also called for ensuring that no country “tries to take advantage of the delicate situation in Afghanistan and use it for its own selfish interests.” "It is very important to ensure that the soil of Afghanistan is not used for spreading terrorism and terrorist attacks,” he said. Modi also said that “When the right work is not done at the right time, time itself destroys the success of that work. "If the United Nations has to keep itself relevant, it has to improve its effectiveness, increase its reliability," he said, adding that a number of questions are being raised at the UN today. "We have seen this during the Climate and Covid crisis. The ongoing proxy war in many parts of the world- terrorism and the crisis in Afghanistan have deepened these questions.” He gave a clarion call to "constantly strengthen the UN for the protection of the global order, global laws and global values." When India assumed the rotating Presidency of the Council on August 1, not many had expected the unravelling of Afghanistan, which fell into the hands of the Taliban on August 15, leaving nations around the region and the world worried about the fate of the war-torn country and giving rise to fears that a seizure of power by the Taliban will erase the human rights gains of the past two decades. "We are in the Security Council at a very significant juncture where we are not only grappling with the unprecedented COVID pandemic, but also dealing with fissures, both in the Security Council and outside, which need to be bridged through greater collective action rather than individual initiatives,” India’s Permanent Representative to the UN Ambassador T S Tirumurti had told PTI. A country the size of India with its independent foreign policy has been a welcome entrant into the UN Security Council, providing the "much-needed" balance vis-a-vis the powerful UN body's five permanent members and their inter-se fissures, he had said ahead of its Presidency of the Council in August. India said that as a neighbour of Afghanistan, the situation in the country is of “great concern” to it and hoped there is an inclusive dispensation, which represents all sections of Afghan society, underling that a “broader representation" would help the arrangement gain more acceptability and legitimacy. It was under India’s Presidency of the Council that the 15-nation body adopted a significant resolution demanding that territory of Afghanistan not be used to threaten any country or shelter terrorists and that it expects the Taliban will "adhere" to commitments made by it regarding the safe and orderly departure from the country of Afghans and all foreign nationals. This was the first resolution adopted by the powerful Council on the situation in Afghanistan following the takeover of Kabul by the Taliban and came on the penultimate day of India's Presidency of the Security Council for the month of August. Tirumurti, in an explanation of vote in favour of a UN Security Council resolution to grant exemption from sanctions for humanitarian assistance to Afghanistan, reminded the Council that while the situation in Afghanistan is in flux, the expectations of the international community vis-a-vis Afghanistan were set out clearly in the Security Council resolution 2593. The UN Security Council, under India’s Presidency, also unanimously adopted two significant outcome documents on the issue of peacekeeping, with External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar underlining that India believes in "walking the talk" when it comes to the safety and security of UN peacekeepers. Jaishankar, as President of the Security Council in August, hosted an open debate on peacekeeping under the theme of ‘Protecting the Protectors’. During the meeting, a Resolution on ‘Accountability of Crimes against UN Peacekeepers’ as well as Presidential Statement on ‘Technology for Peacekeeping’, the first such UN Security Council document on this topic, was adopted. The Resolution on accountability for crimes against UN Peacekeepers, drafted by India, was co-sponsored by all the members of the Security Council, and a total of over 80 UN Member States, signifying the support of the international community to the issue of peacekeeping, which India had highlighted as one of the priority areas during its Presidency of the 15-nation body. On the occasion, India in coordination with the UN also announced the roll-out of the UNITE Aware Platform, which Jaishankar said is an initiative “based on the expectation that an entire peacekeeping operation can be visualised, coordinated, and monitored on a real-time basis.” In August, the UNSC, led by India, underlined the primacy of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) which sets out the legal framework applicable to activities in the oceas, including countering illicit activities at sea”, sending a strong message to China. The Presidential Statement (PRST), adopted unanimously by the Security Council reaffirmed that "international law, as reflected in the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea of 10 December 1982 (UNCLOS), sets out the legal framework applicable to activities in the oceans, including countering illicit activities at sea." This is highly significant since it marks the first-ever outcome document by the UNSC on the issue of maritime security. Also for the first time in the PRST there are references to UNCLOS, a convention over which China has had long-standing reservations and objections. In 2016, an international tribunal ruled against China's claims to rights in the disputed South China Sea. Beijing dismissed the ruling that favoured the Philippines and said it would not be bound by it. Modi also became the first Indian Prime Minister to preside over a UN Security Council Open Debate as he chaired the high-level session on ‘Enhancing Maritime Security - A Case for International Cooperation’ on August 9. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-non-permanent-membership-provides-much-needed-balance-at-unsc-in-2021-1065868.html
29-12-2021||National||India approves two new Covid-19 vaccines, an oral pill: All you need to know||Expanding India's basket of Covid-19 vaccines, the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) has approved Serum Institute of India's (SII) vaccine Covovax, Biological E's jab Corbevax and anti-Covid pill Molnupiravir for emergency use. The announcement by Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya Tuesday came a day after the Subject Expert Committee (SEC) on Covid-19 of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) recommended granting emergency use authorisation (EUA) to the Covid-19 vaccines Covovax and Corbevax with certain conditions. The committee also had recommended granting emergency approval to the drug Molnupiravir for treatment of adult patients with Covid-19 and who have a high risk of progression of the disease. With this approval, the number of Covid vaccines which have received EUA in the country has increased to eight. Six Covid-19 vaccines — Serum Institute's Covishield, Bharat Biotech's Covaxin, Zydus Cadila's ZyCoV-D, Russia's Sputnik V and the US-made Moderna and Johnson and Johnson — had already received EUA from the Indian drug regulator earlier. "Corbevax vaccine is India's 1st indigenously developed RBD protein sub-unit vaccine against #COVID19, Made by Hyderabad-based firm Biological-E. It's a hat-trick! It's now 3rd vaccine developed in India," Mandaviya said in another tweet. The Nanoparticle Vaccine, Covovax, will be manufactured by Pune-based firm Serum Institute of India, he said. Congratulations India 🇮🇳 - CORBEVAX vaccine- COVOVAX vaccine- Anti-viral drug Molnupiravir For restricted use in emergency situation. (1/5) "Molnupiravir, an antiviral drug, will now be manufactured in the country by 13 companies for restricted use under emergency situation for treatment of adult patients with Covid-19 and who have high risk of progression of the disease," Mandaviya said. The minister said the approvals will further strengthen the global fight against the pandemic. Healthcare, frontline workers and citizens above 60 years of age with comorbidities would be administered the third dose of the same vaccine they had been given before as of now. Any decision on whether the two new vaccines can be used for the third dose would be taken in due course, sources told PTI. Corbevax  How does it work? The Corbevax vaccine is administered through the intramuscular route with a two-dose schedule of Day 0 and 28 and is stored at 2 degrees Celsius to 8 degrees C temperatures and presented as 0.5 ml (single dose) and 5 ml (10 doses) vial pack, a health ministry statement said. The company has conducted phase 1/2, 2/3 clinical trials of its vaccine in the country. Further, it has conducted phase 3 active comparator clinical trial to evaluate superiority against the Covishield vaccine. The EUA proposal for Corbevax was reviewed by SEC on December 10 and December 27 wherein after a detailed deliberation, it recommended for grant of permission for restricted emergency use to manufacture and market Corbevax in 18 years and above. How effective is it? After phase III active clinical trials, the company said, "In the pivotal Phase III study conducted with an endpoint of immunogenic superiority, Corbevax demonstrated superior immune response in comparison with Covishield vaccine when assessed for Neutralizing Antibody (nAb) Geometric Mean Titers (GMT) against the Ancestral-Wuhan strain and the globally dominant Delta variant". Covovax  The Covovax vaccine of SII is a technology transfer of the Novavax USA vaccine. It is administered through an intramuscular route with a two-dose schedule of Day 0 and 21. The vaccine is stored at 2 degrees C to 8 degrees Celsius temperatures and presented as 0.5 ml (single dose) and 5 ml (10 doses) vial pack. Serum has conducted phase 2/3 immuno-bridging clinical in the country for comparing safety and immunogenicity of Covovax of Serum and Novavax vaccine. Novavax has conducted phase-3 efficacy trials in the USA and UK wherein the efficacy of the vaccine is reported to be 90.4 per cent and 86.9 per cent respectively, the health ministry statement said. "The EUA proposal for Covovax was reviewed by SEC on November 24 and December 27 after which it recommended grant of permission for restricted use to manufacture and market the jab," it said. How effective is it? Two phase 3 trials of the jab in UK and US/Mexico indicated 96.4 per cent efficacy against the original strain, 86.3 per cent against Alpha and 89.7 per cent overall (UK), and '100 per cent protection against moderate and severe disease' with 90.4 per cent overall efficacy, according to SII. Molnupiravir  Molnupiravir is an antiviral that inhibits SARS-CoV-2 replication by viral mutagenesis. The UK MHRA on December 4 granted approval for Molnupiravir under special conditions for treatment of mild to moderate coronavirus disease in adults with a positive SARS-COV-2 diagnostic test and who have at least one risk factor for developing severe illness. The US FDA on December 23 had granted EUA for Molnupiravir for the treatment of mild-to-moderate coronavirus disease in adults with positive results of direct SARS-CoV-2 viral testing and who are at high risk for progression to severe Covid-19, including hospitalisation or death, and for whom alternative Covid-19 treatment options authorised by the FDA are not accessible or clinically appropriate. "Considering the emergency and unmet medical need in Covid-19, the SEC on December 27 recommended for grant of permission to manufacture and market the Molnupiravir 200 mg capsule for restricted use for the treatment of adult patients with Covid-19," the government statement said. As per conditions, the drug should be sold by retail only under the prescription of medical specialists and the recommended dose should be 800 mg twice daily for 5 days. In India, it has been cleared for the treatment of adults with Covid-19 “who have a high risk of progression of the disease”. It introduces errors into the genetic code of the virus halting replication, IE reported. Manufacturers for the drug include Dr Reddy’s, Natco, MSN, Hetero, Optimus, Aurobindo, Mylan, Cipla, Sun Pharma, Torrent, BDR, Stride, and Pune-based Emcure.  How effective is it? UK's drug regulator gave their nod to the pill on December 4 after it was found “safe and effective”. The US FDA (clearance on December 23) did not authorise it for use beyond five consecutive days, or in patients aged below 18 years since it may affect bone or cartilage growth. (With agency inputs) Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-approves-two-new-covid-19-vaccines-an-oral-pill-all-you-need-to-know-1065873.html
29-12-2021||National||Covid in 2021: From worse than better to hope of vaccines||The Covid-19 pandemic took a deadlier and more devastating turn in 2021 soon after a glimmer of hope was provided by the launch of vaccines at the beginning of the year, etching nightmarish memories of people struggling to secure hospital beds, medicines, oxygen and even arrange a proper funeral for their loved ones. Just as the year was about to end and things seemed back to normal, the emergence of Omicron variant of coronavirus, nearly 800 cases of which have been detected in the country as on Wednesday, threw the health ministry in a tizzy even as demands for booster doses of vaccine grew louder. Two vaccines - Covishield manufactured by Serum Institute of India and indigenously-developed Covaxin by Bharat Biotech - were rolled out on January 16 with healthcare workers getting inoculated in the first phase and then frontline workers. The next phase saw people over 60 years of age and those aged 45 and above with specified co-morbid conditions getting the jabs. As vaccination gradually picked up pace and its scope was expanded, the government battled controversies surrounding its supply and availability to states and union territories and modifying the vaccine purchase and distribution policies. Amid all these, a second wave of Covid driven by the Delta variant engulfed the country in May-June bringing the health system to its knees and leaving people gasping for help. The daily cases peaked on May 6 with the country registering a staggering 4,14,188 infections and shortage of oxygen and hospital beds sparked global concerns and worries. The second wave along with it also brought in another deadly fungal infection -- mucormycosis - caused mainly due to the lowered immunity because of excessive use of steroids and possibly industrial oxygen. The daily burden of cases started witnessing a downward trend June onwards as the government stepped up the vaccination campaign opening it up for the entire adult population and resolving issues with the supply chain from June 1. According to health ministry data, India's total tally of Covid-19 cases as on Wednesday was 3,48,08,886. After much deliberation and amid the Omicron threat, the government gave its nod for vaccination of those aged between 15-18 years. On December 25, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced that vaccination for children between 15-18 years will start from January 3, while "precaution dose" for healthcare and frontline workers will begin from January 10. The Drugs Controller General of India had granted emergency use authorisation to Bharat Biotech's Covaxin and Zydus Cadila's needle-free ZyCoV-D for vaccinating children and adolescents in the 12- 18 years age group with certain conditions. The government also gave its nod to two more Covid vaccines - Covovax and Corbevax - besides drug Molnupiravir for treatment of adult patients who have a high risk of progression of the disease. During the second wave, amid questions about the government's handling of the crisis, the health ministry saw a change at its helm with Mansukh Mandaviya replacing Harsh Vardhan as the Union health minister on July 8. After Mandaviya took charge, the vaccination campaign was further intensified and the country achieved the 100 crore milestone in administration of doses on October 21. In view of the second wave's spread into rural, peri-urban and tribal areas and the evolving pandemic situation, a new scheme aimed at accelerating health system preparedness for immediate responsiveness for early prevention, detection and management, was approved by the government in July. 'India Covid-19 Emergency Response & Health System Preparedness Package: Phase-II (ECRP-II package)' focuses on health infrastructure development including for paediatric care. Apart from that, as many as 1563 pressure swing adsorption plants were established by the government to boost availability of medical oxygen in the country. These included 1225 plants which were installed and commissioned under PMCARES Fund in every district of the country. Additionally, 281 PSA plants were established by PSUs of ministries of Petroleum and Natural Gas, Power, Coal and Railways. The health ministry also launched programmes like PM-Ayushman Bharat Health Infrastructure Mission (PMABHIM) in October, to fill-up the gap in the healthcare system by providing support to states for health infrastructure strengthening, expansion of laboratory network, surveillance and contact tracing etc. In addition to PMABHIM, Ayushman Bharat Digital Mission (ABDM) was also launched on September 27 with an aim to make healthcare more accessible for citizens and enable greater efficiencies for healthcare quality and continuity of treatment. With the objective of delivering comprehensive primary health care, closer to the homes of people, 1.5 lakh health and wellness centres were being set up. More than 80,143 of these centres are functional as on November 21. To give further impetus to the inoculation programme campaign and to ensure that all left-out beneficiaries get vaccinated at the earliest, "Har Ghar Dastak" campaign was launched in November.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-in-2021-from-worse-than-better-to-hope-of-vaccines-1065891.html
29-12-2021||National||Clear data supporting very high immune escape potential of Omicron: INSACOG||There is now clear experimental and clinical data supporting very high immune escape potential of Omicron, but initial estimates show the severity of illness being lower than what was seen in previous outbreaks, the Indian SARS-COV-2 Genomics Consortia INSACOG said in its latest bulletin citing global data. In India, appropriate public health measures and investigations are being conducted for surveillance of Omicron, INSACOG said while noting that globally there appears to be significantly reduced ability of vaccines or prior infection to protect against symptomatic infection by the Omicron variant. "While Delta continues to be the most prevalent VOC globally, the Omicron variant has completely displaced it in southern Africa and is on track to become the dominant variant in UK and elsewhere, "INSACOG said in its bulletin released on Wednesday. The genomic consortium, citing global data, said there is now clear experimental and clinical data supporting very high immune escape potential of Omicron, which appears to be the major component of its growth advantage over Delta. "Initial estimates of severity of illness have, however, been lower than seen in previous outbreaks. Whether these initial observations are generalisable to older non-immune subjects is not clear and the threat level is still considered high," it said. The INSACOG reports genomic surveillance of SARS CoV -2 across the country through sequencing of samples from sentinel sites and also detailed state-wise district analysis for some states.  India has recorded 781 cases of the Omicron variant of coronavirus across 21 states and UTs so far, out of which 241 people have recovered or migrated, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on  Wednesday.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/clear-data-supporting-very-high-immune-escape-potential-of-omicron-insacog-1065892.html
29-12-2021||National||Centre to stop importing 351 sub-system, components of defence equipment||The government has decided to gradually stop import of 351 more sub-systems and components of defence equipment. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said that the move to stop import of certain components and sub-system of the military hardware was in sync with the government’s policy of supporting domestic defence industry and achieving self-reliance in defence manufacturing. “A positive indigenisation list of sub-systems and components has been notified by the Department of Defence Production as part of the MoD’s (Ministry of Defence) efforts to achieve self-reliance in defence manufacturing and minimise imports by DPSUs (Defence Public Sector Undertakings),” Singh posted on Twitter. The new positive indigenisation list notified by the Department of Defence Production this week contains 2851 sub-systems, sub-assemblies and components of military hardware. The list contains 2,500 items, which have already been indigenised and are not being imported. It also contains 351 items, which will be indigenised in the next three years and not be imported thereafter. They will be procured only from manufacturing companies based in India. The initiative, which is consistent with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision for “Atmanirbhar Bharat”, will save foreign exchange approximately equivalent to Rs 3,000 crore every year, the Ministry of Defence stated on Wednesday. The new list followed two other positive indigenisation lists issued earlier by the Department of Military Affairs in August 2020 and May 2021, comprising altogether 209 weapons, platforms, systems and ammunitions. The items identified in the two lists are not being imported beyond specified timelines and will be designed, developed and manufactured over a period from 2020 to 2025. The MoD estimated that equipment worth over Rs 3.5 lakh crore included in the positive indigenisation lists will be ordered from domestic manufacturers between 2020 to 2028. The positive indigenisation lists comprised not just of simple equipment, but also of some high technology weapon systems, like Artillery Guns, Wheeled Armoured Fighting Vehicles, Light Combat Aircraft, Light Combat Helicopters, next Generation Missile Vessels and Corvettes, Land based High Power Radars, Land based Short Range Surface to Air Missiles and various types of Software Defined Radios. The MoD also focussed on indigenisation of ammunition to meet the recurring requirement. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-to-stop-importing-351-sub-system-components-of-defence-equipment-1065901.html
29-12-2021||National||Coronavirus rising after changing form, be alert: Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Wednesday said the coronavirus pandemic cannot be controlled until the masses become aware and follow the guidelines issued by the government. He also appealed to those in the 15-18 age group to get themselves vaccinated at the earliest when their turn begins from January 3. Addressing a gathering through video conferencing after dedicating and laying foundation stones for various developmental works worth around Rs 50 crore in his Lok Sabha constituency of Gandhinagar, Shah also asked the administration to remain alert about the rising cases of coronavirus. "Coronavirus is once again rising after changing form. This time, all of us, be it municipal corporations, municipalities, district panchayats or state governments, will have to remain alert," the Union Home Minister said. He said the government is taking stock of the situation at various levels through regular meetings with officials from the local administration. "But until the masses become aware and follow coronavirus guidelines issued by the state government, we will not be able to control its spread. Everybody will have to work together to defeat it. Those whose second dose is due must get it at the earliest," Shah said. Vaccination is the only way to protect against coronavirus, Shah said, adding that the Central government under Prime Minister Narendra Modi has ensured there is proper supply of Covid-19 vaccine doses. He asked those in the 15-18 age group, the latest beneficiary segment, to get their jabs at the earliest. In his speech, Shah congratulated Gujarat Chief Minister Bhupendra Patel, who joined the event from Gandhinagar, for the state topping the composite ranking in the Good Governance Index (GGI) as per indicators launched by him on Good Governance Day. He said this top rank was a matter of pride for all Gujaratis, including himself. Shah said, in 2021 alone, as many as 1,261 projects worth Rs 1,413 crore were inaugurated in his Lok Sabha constituency of Gandhinagar, while foundation stones for another 106 projects, entailing an investment of Rs 929 crore, have been laid. Renovation of public gardens and allocation of houses to 468 families from the economically-weaker section under the PM Awas Yojana as well as health projects, all cumulatively valued a Rs 49.63 crore, were what Shah commissioned or laid foundation stones for during the day.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-rising-after-changing-form-be-alert-amit-shah-1065908.html
29-12-2021||National||Who invaded India? 'Not Aryans', says an IIT calendar||A new year calendar produced by Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Kharagpur, is drawing unusual attention, especially on social media. Claimed to have drawn facts from decades of research, the calendar offers a ‘rebuttal’ to the ‘Aryan invasion’.  A certain challenge to history taught at large, a section of academics feel that it is an attempt to strengthen right-wing theories, discourages scientific temper, and is one more attempt at ‘saffronising’ education. The IIT’s centre-concerned refutes. The calendar puts forward three points - ‘recognition of the secret of the Vedas’, ‘reinterpretation of the Indus Valley civilization’, and ‘rebuttal to the Aryan invasion myth’ - with twelve pieces of evidence. The opening page, Initial Evidences, states, “The current chronology of Indian Civilization and history is dubious and questionable.” The calendar’s twelve pages cover pointers ‘evaded or manipulated’ by colonial historians, puts forth ‘evidences that bring Vedic Culture and the Indus Valley Civilization under one fold’, and shares ‘reasons why the colonial rulers were desperate to forge such a myth’.  The September page asks ‘Why an Aryan Invasion myth was forged?’, and answers, “The colonial invaders, from the Portuguese to the British, were shaken by the striking similarity between millions of words evident in Indian languages and others in the European Tree of Linguistics.” “So they had to forge an Indo-European Language system, and further design a history of invading in-migration prior to Buddha, Plato and Lao-Tzu. They proposed that the superior Colonial rulers invaded the inferior India the second time in 17th century!” it added. Professor Joy Sen, chairperson, Centre of Excellence for Indian Knowledge Systems (CEIKS) (co-producer of the calendar), IIT-Kharagpur, talking to Deccan Herald, claimed that the calendar is the outcome of a great teamwork and reflects years of research. “Scientific evidence goes against Aryan invasion theory. What was propagated by colonial historians is about race, backed by racial supremacy,” Sen said. “Aryan is (representation) of quality of human mind, the quality of culture and human civilization. Aryan could be anywhere in the world, is not a race, is a noble human being with highest qualities,” he added. Sen said that just like in the age of Galileo, many in the world of science are orthodox and work with older views. Susanta Das, executive committee member, Indian History Congress, and a professor of history at Rabindra Bharati University, said that all leading historians agree on the Aryan advent. Das said that views contrary to what’s accepted, are distortions usually propagated by the right wing. Adhyapak Sanhati Mancha, a platform representing teachers of higher education institutions in West Bengal, on Wednesday, wrote to the IIT, demanding that CEIKS be closed. Citing its various activities, Mancha alleged that the Centre is a “threat to the concept of scientific and secular education”. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/who-invaded-india-not-aryans-says-an-iit-calendar-1065917.html
29-12-2021||National||Statutory provision for maintenance to cover Army personnel too: HC||The Delhi High Court has said the statutory provision for maintenance for wife and children would apply to Army personnel as well. "The provisions of Section 125 CrPC (Criminal Procedure Code) are in addition to other provisions which provide for maintenance. It cannot be said that the Army Order would over-ride the provisions of Section 125 CrPC and that the Army personnel are covered only by the Army Order and that Section 125 CrPC would not apply to Army personnel," a bench of Justice Subramonium Prasad said. However, the amount given under Section 125 CrPC is always taken into account before fixing maintenance in other proceedings like those under the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act, 2005, and under Section 24 of the Hindu Marriage Act etc, the court added. The bench rejected a plea by a serving Colonel against the order by a family court to pay maintenance to the wife, on the ground of adultery by her. "The issue as to whether the wife is living in adultery or not can be decided only after evidence is produced by both the parties. At the time of fixing interim maintenance this court is not inclined to go into this question at this juncture," the bench said. The man claimed his wife was disqualified from being given maintenance as she was in an adulterous relationship with his senior in Army. He also contended that his wife and her paramour were having an affair behind his back after marriage in 2002. He also invoked Sub-section (4) of Section 125 CrPC which stated that a person living in adultery would not be eligible for claiming maintenance from her separated spouse. He also submitted Army Order 02/2001 governed his case and Clause 4 of that order laid down the procedure for processing maintenance cases. Such claim is to be decided by the Army officials of the Armed Tribunal. "The object of Section 125 CrPC is to prevent vagrancy and destitution of a deserted wife by providing her for the food, clothing and shelter by a speedy remedy. The object is to bring down the agony and financial suffering of a women, who left her matrimonial home," the court said, discarding his submission. The wife, for her part, claimed the man had submitted fake, false, fabricated and trumped up WhatsApp chats and screenshots to get custody of the children. She also said even if the case of the petitioner is accepted then also one incident of adultery cannot lead to a conclusion that she was living in adultery. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/statutory-provision-for-maintenance-to-cover-army-personnel-too-hc-1065918.html
29-12-2021||National||Nitish Kumar's inebriation worse than liquor addiction, says RJD leader||Taking a dig at the Bihar Chief Minister over his "Samaj Sudhar Abhiyan" (social reform campaign) in the state, Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) Vice President Shivanand Tiwari on Wednesday said that an inebriated Nitish Kumar is worse than liquor addiction. "Nitish Kumar is touring the state to seize liquor bottles these days. People are laughing after liquor bottles were found in the state Assembly with the DGP and Nitish Babu searching for it," Tiwari quipped. "It is a kind of mental disease and I believe that inebriation of Nitish Kumar is worse and dangerous than the addiction of liquor," Tiwari said. "Bihar is poor and he has put a huge burden on the state exchequer. He has also pressured bureaucrats to such an extent that they are running behind him," he said. Echoing Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana's views that the liquor ban decision of Bihar government in 2016 had a "put huge burden" on courts, he said: "There are three lakh cases pending in the courts of Bihar. People are waiting for justice for a long time and now the excessive cases related to liquor violations put additional burden on courts," he said. On Monday, the Chief Justice was in Sidhartha law college in Vijayawada where he shared his views on futuristic challenges in the Indian judiciary system. Ramana pointed out that every policy needs to be addressed with futuristic planning, its evaluation and constitutionality before its implementation on ground. After the liquor ban decision of Nitish Kumar government in 2016, a large number of cases were pending in the courts. Even hearing for bail in simple cases is taking one year time in the courts. "The applications pertaining to bails in liquor prohibition act are submitted in large numbers in the high court. Due to shortsighted policies implemented by different governments, it is affecting the works of courts in the country. Every law needs to be discussed thoroughly and with solid points before implementation," Ramana said. "A young couple was arrested in the hotel of Patna on the charge of liquor violation and put them in jail without thinking that their future will be ruined after that. The act of a couple may be a violation of existing law but it is more of a case of counselling rather than a crime," Tiwari said. "In majority of the cases of liquor ban, only poor people are being arrested in Bihar," Tiwari further said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nitish-kumars-inebriation-worse-than-liquor-addiction-says-rjd-leader-1065920.html
29-12-2021||National||Modi to release 10th instalment of PM-KISAN fund on January 1||On the first day of the New Year, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will release the 10th instalment of financial benefit under Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN), transferring an amount of over Rs 20,000 crore to more than 10 crore beneficiary farmer families. The Prime Minister's Office (PMO) said the money transfer is in line with Modi's continued commitment and resolve to empowering grassroots farmers. Under the scheme, a financial benefit of Rs 6,000 per year is provided to eligible farmer families, payable in three equal four-monthly installments of Rs 2,000. The fund is transferred directly to the bank accounts of the beneficiaries. In this scheme, an amount of Rs 1.6 lakh crore has been transferred so far. During the programme to be held through video-conference, the prime minister will also release equity grant of more than Rs 14 crore to about 351 Farmer Producer Organizations (FPOs), which will benefit over 1.24 lakh farmers. He will also interact with FPOs during the event and deliver a speech as well.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-to-release-10th-instalment-of-pm-kisan-fund-on-january-1-1065924.html
29-12-2021||National||Nip it in the bud: Ex-bureaucrats oppose Aadhaar-voter ID linking||Over 100 ex-bureaucrats, including former Home Secretary G K Pillai and former RAW chief A S Dulat, on Wednesday came out against the latest law linking one's voter ID with Aadhaar numbers, warning that it raises doubts on the fairness of the electoral process and could lead to "voter profiling, selective exclusion and targeted campaigns". A joint statement was issued by 104 former civil servants under the aegis of Constitutional Conduct Group (CCG), saying that that the requirement of Aadhaar verification, even if voluntary, from a prospective or registered voter implies the "superimposition" of a government-issued identity card for identity and address verification that could "seriously undermine the independence and integrity" of the Election Commission.  The former bureaucrats described as “unfortunate” the passage of The Election Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021 during the recent Winter Session “without any effective Parliamentary scrutiny”. They said it was “even more unfortunate” that the Election Commission had seen fit to promote a move which had the capacity to restrict its independence and integrity in the conduct of elections. “What is now called for is strong judicial intervention to nip this highly dangerous move in the bud," they said, adding that the government’s narrative that linking is voluntary may not become a reality, as several government and private entities routinely ask for Aadhaar numbers in clear violation of Supreme Court guidelines. The statement, also signed by former officials like Sujatha Singh, K Sujatha Rao, Meeran C Borwankar, Vappala Balachandran, Maxwell Pereira, K P Fabian, Najeeb Jung and NC Saxena among others, listed six reasons to argue why the Central move was "defective, bad in law, in bad faith and liable to potential misuse" by the State. They warned against the "distinct possibility" of a voters' preference being gleaned illegally by employing algorithms, as Aadhaar numbers are linked to mobile phones that could be used to access social media accounts. "There is a distinct possibility that Voter IDs linked to Aadhaar cards and then to mobile phones could be linked to social media. This social media can be linked to algorithms that are in turn linked to user interests/views. Without a robust data protection law and accompanying regulatory mechanisms in place, voter profiling, selective exclusion and targeted campaigns are all possible," they said. Expressing fear that the move could "open the floodgates for illegal profiling and targeting of voters, especially in the run-up to elections, when the Model Code of Conduct is not in place", they also said the verification by Aadhaar will not solve the "vexing problem" of issuance of voters' ID to a non-citizen as the Aadhaar number is issued without proof of citizenship being required. It warned that if Aadhaar is made as an ID proof to get voting rights, then there are chances of even non-citizens getting registered. Noting that Aadhaar is issued on the basis of existing documents while voter ID on physical verification, they said there would be efforts to "manipulate" electoral rolls by getting persons registered as voters in constituencies where they do not reside. Another concern raised by them was the possibility of "mass disentitlement", citing the attempts to clean up database registries of government programmes like MGNREGA and PDS, using the Aadhaar database, leading to thousands of beneficiaries getting "arbitrarily deleted from systems without any notice". They also questioned the government narrative that linking of Aadhaar is voluntary and cited the language of the law to rebut it and said that a "possible mischief" can happen at the stage of drafting rules, which does not require Parliamentary approval. "The scope for large-scale deletion of names from the electoral rolls can then become a distinct possibility, given that many existing voters may not (or may choose not to) furnish their Aadhaar details to the Electoral Registration Officer. There is also the likelihood that the UIDAI’s powers to omit or deactivate Aadhaar numbers could lead to widespread deletions from the electoral rolls," the former bureaucrats said. Also, they said, many government departments and private bodies routinely ask for Aadhaar numbers for provision of services, in clear violation of Supreme Court orders, and those who wish to avail services are compelled to disclose their Aadhaar numbers. Matters have come to a pass where Aadhaar numbers are required even for cremation or burial purposes, they said.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nip-it-in-the-bud-ex-bureaucrats-oppose-aadhaar-voter-id-linking-1065932.html
29-12-2021||National||Covid: People rush to cancel weddings, demand refunds; wedding industry takes another hit||Marriages will continue to take place despite recession or inflation’ - the dialogue from the popular Bollywood film “Band Baaja Baaraat” may not ring true in 2021, thanks to the myriad ways the Covid-19 pandemic has affected industries across the world. With yellow alert being sounded in Delhi amid rising Covid-19 cases, the wedding industry is staring at a bleak future. As the Delhi government allows only 20 guests at marriage events, many are rushing to cancel the bookings, leaving the industry in the lurch. Anil Thadani, owner of Jea Band, says, "People are cancelling weddings and asking for refunds. The workers are upset. Many weddings were planned from January 20. Only Delhi has implemented these restrictions, other states like Haryana and cities like Mumbai still allow 200 guests at weddings. How will we refund the money of people?" He shares that a family cancelled the wedding which was to take place as recent as Thursday, when the vendors have already made all the preparations. Amit Kedia, a resident of Karol Bagh, whose nephew's wedding is planned for January 20, says they have cancelled a majority of the bookings, but are finding it difficult to get the money refunded. The wedding was planned at a five star hotel in Aerocity, but the family now is undecided. "Where will the common man go? The vendors say they have made all preparations and some have put a rider saying they cannot be held responsible for last minute changes. “Whenever there is a wedding, preparations begin well in advance with invites being sent and shopping done, but now we are left confused. We cannot get the wedding solmenised in a temple because visitors are not allowed in religious places under the yellow alert, neither can we put up a tent. We are thinking whether we should have the wedding function at home or postpone it," he rues. Kedia adds that they cannot even invite the families of the bride and groom under the 20-person attendance cap. Rajeev Jain, owner of Rashi Entertainment, says the wedding industry is a responsible industry and has been following all the Covid-19 norms. "Please do not single us out since we are the softest target. The wedding season will begin from January 19 and go on till February 21. Five star hotels follow all the precautions while hosting weddings. Their staff are tested for the virus at regular intervals and even the guests are not allowed without test reports. “Instead of imposing restrictions like these, the government should tighten enforcement and make complete vaccination necessary for weddings. The vaccination certificates of guests can be checked when they arrive for weddings. We have been following all the precautions like wearing masks, maintaining hygiene, among others," he adds. Jain says the industry has suffered a lot since the outbreak of the pandemic and the government has not helped it in any way. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-people-rush-to-cancel-weddings-demand-refunds-wedding-industry-takes-another-hit-1065970.html
29-12-2021||National||CAPF personnel to get precaution doses of Covid vaccines from January 10||The personnel of the various Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs) will be administered the "precaution dose" of Covid-19 vaccines beginning January 10, officials said on Wednesday. They said the personnel of the CRPF, BSF, CISF, ITBP and SSB are categorised as "frontline workers" and hence, official instructions have been issued to ensure that they get their third Covid vaccine jab, especially considering the spread of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in a televised address to the nation on Saturday, announced that vaccination against Covid-19 for children aged 15-18 years will start from January 3, while the "precaution dose" for healthcare and frontline workers would be administered from January 10. Officials in the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) said 99.74 per cent of its manpower has received both doses of the Covid vaccines and a "detailed advisory" has been issued with regard to a hike in the number of coronavirus cases, including those of the Omicron variant. The about 3.25-lakh-personnel-strong CRPF is primarily tasked with rendering a variety of internal security duties, including conducting elections. The force has asked its field formations to "re-activate" their respective Covid care centres and take "proactive action" against the pandemic as was done during its second wave that hit the country during April-June. It has also re-established a 50-bed Covid care centre at its base in Delhi's Bawana, the officials said. They said the "precaution dose" is essential for these personnel as a number of them are expected to be deployed for the upcoming Assembly polls in five states, including Uttar Pradesh and Punjab Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/capf-personnel-to-get-precaution-doses-of-covid-vaccines-from-january-10-1065975.html
29-12-2021||National||Centre allows export of 7 crore Covovax vaccine doses to Netherlands, Australia, New Zealand||The Indian government has permitted the export of 7 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccine Covovax, produced by Serum Institute of India here, to Netherlands, Australia and New Zealand, official sources said on Wednesday. Director, Government and Regulatory Affairs at Serum Institute of India (SII), Prakash Kumar Singh had submitted an application to the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI), seeking no objection to export the vaccine doses to the foreign countries, the official source said. “After evaluation, the DCGI office gave no objection to export 7 crore doses of Covovax to Netherlands, Australia and New Zealand,” it said. This vaccine is not yet approved in these countries. India's central drug authority CDSCO had on Tuesday approved Covovax for restricted use in emergency situations in the country. The DCGI office had granted SII permission to manufacture and stock Covovax on May 17. Based on DCGI approval, till now, the Pune-based firm has manufactured and stockpiled the vaccine doses, they said. The World Health Organisation had on December 17 issued emergency use listing for Covovax, expanding the basket of jabs validated by the global health body against the viral disease. The Centre had in November permitted the export of 2 crore doses of Covovax to Indonesia before the Indian emergency use authorisation. In August 2020, US-based vaccine maker Novavax, Inc had announced a licence agreement with SII for the development and commercialisation of NVX-CoV2373, its Covid-19 vaccine candidate, in low and middle-income countries and India. The Covovax vaccine of SII is a technology transfer of the Novavax USA vaccine. It is administered through an intramuscular route with a two-dose schedule of day 0 and 21. The vaccine is stored at 2 degrees to 8 degrees Celsius temperature, and presented as 0.5 ml (single dose) and 5 ml (10 doses) vial pack, the health ministry had said on Tuesday. SII has conducted phase 2/3 immuno bridging clinical in the country for comparing safety and immunogenicity of Covovax and Novavax vaccine. The Novavax has conducted phase 3 efficacy trials in the US and the UK wherein the efficacy of vaccine is reported to be 90.4 per cent and 86.9 per cent, respectively, the ministry added. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-allows-export-of-7-crore-covovax-vaccine-doses-to-netherlands-australia-new-zealand-1065977.html
29-12-2021||National||Covovax better booster for Covishield-vaccinated people: Virologist||Of the vaccines against Covid-19 approved in India, Covovax would be a better booster for those who were administered Covishield jabs than another dose of the same vaccine, according to the data available presently, noted virologist Dr Shahid Jameel said. Jameel, the former head of the advisory group to the Indian SARS-COV-2 Genomics Consortia (INSACOG), said there is no data for the other combinations of vaccines as of now. "Data available at this time suggests that of the vaccines approved in India, Covovax would be a better booster in Covishield-vaccinated people than another dose of Covishield," he told PTI. Officials have, however, said the "precaution dose" will be a third dose of the same vaccine that a person has taken. Covovax has been developed by US-based vaccine maker Novavax Inc. that had announced a licence agreement with the Serum Institute of India (SII) for the development and commercialisation of NVX-CoV2373, its Covid-19 vaccine candidate, in low and middle-income countries and in India. The central drug authority, CDSCO, approved Covovax on Monday. India is gearing up to tackle a possible third wave of the coronavirus pandemic as the Omicron variant of the virus, which is said to be much more infectious than the other strains of Covid-19, has surfaced. The country has recorded 781 Omicron cases across 21 states and Union territories so far. Of the patients, 241 have either recovered or migrated, according to the Union health ministry. In an interview to news portal "The Wire", noted virologist Gagandeep Kang said there is presently no data in India regarding which vaccine should be used for the third dose. However, she cited a UK study that gauged the immune response generated in individuals who have already received two doses of the AstraZeneca (Covishield) vaccine by either a booster dose of the same vaccine or one of the Novavax (known in India as Covovax) vaccine. The study found that a third dose of Covishield increased the Geometric Mean Ratio (GMR) by 3.25, while a booster dose of Covovax increased the same by eight times and one of an mRNA vaccine did so by 24 times, she said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covovax-better-booster-for-covishield-vaccinated-people-virologist-1065986.html
29-12-2021||National||PM Modi's visit to UAE postponed amid Covid surge||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has postponed his visit to Dubai in view of the surge in the Covid-19 infection both in India and the United Arab Emirates. Modi was expected to fly to Dubai on January 6 in his first foreign visit in 2022 and was expected to visit India’s pavilion at the Dubai Expo in the business hub of the United Arab Emirates. The visit has been postponed amid fears that the new Omicron variant of the SARS-CoV-2 virus could trigger a new wave of the Covid-19 outbreak around the world, including in India and the UAE, sources said. Modi and Sheikh Mohamed bin Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, de facto ruler of the UAE, were to hold a meeting on January 6 or 7 to witness signing of a bilateral trade agreement. The Prime Minister’s tour to Bangladesh on March 26 and 27 this year was his first after visit to a foreign nation after the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic forced him to suspend all overseas tours for more than a year. He visited United States, United Kingdom and Italy in September and October this year. Modi is also expected to visit Denmark, Germany, Indonesia, Sri Lanka and other countries in 2022. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modis-visit-to-uae-postponed-amid-covid-surge-1065988.html
29-12-2021||National||Anupam Ray to be India's new permanent representative at UN Conference on Disarmament||Senior diplomat Anupam Ray has been appointed as India's next permanent representative to the UN Conference on Disarmament in Geneva, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said on Wednesday. Ray, a 1994-batch Indian Foreign Service officer, is currently serving as a joint secretary in the MEA's headquarters in Delhi. "Anupam Ray (IFS:1994), presently joint secretary in the ministry, has been appointed as the next ambassador/PR (permanent representative) of India to the UN Conference on Disarmament, Geneva," the MEA said in a statement. It said he is expected to take up the assignment shortly. Ray will succeed Pankaj Sharma. Sharma, a 1991-batch Indian Foreign Service officer, has been appointed as India's next ambassador to Mexico. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/anupam-ray-to-be-indias-new-permanent-representative-at-un-conference-on-disarmament-1066006.html
29-12-2021||National||BJP prepared to hold virtual rallies, says Union Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat||While the Election Commission (EC) is yet to decide on holding the assembly elections in the five poll-bound states amid the rising cases of Covid, Union Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat on Wednesday said the BJP is prepared to hold virtual rallies. Talking to the media, Shekhawat said that EC will decide guidelines for election rallies and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will follow them. "The BJP is ready for virtual rallies. We held virtual rallies in West Bengal assembly polls. During the first and second wave of Covid when all the political parties went into hibernation, the BJP was active at booth level through virtual platforms," he said. He pointed out that conducting election is the responsibility of EC and the poll body is in touch with health secretary and experts over the current situation of the pandemic. Assembly polls are scheduled to be held in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Goa and Manipur in February-March next year. On Tuesday, the EC team met the representatives of all the political parties in Uttar Pradesh. It is learnt that some political parties in Uttar Pradesh urged the EC to not postpone the assembly polls. Shekhawat, also party election in-charge for Punjab, slammed Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi for accusing the BJP of creating panic over pandemic. "The Union government has not issued any new guidelines but many states have done it on their own. Channi may be pointing towards AAP and Arvind Kejriwal. Delhi government has issued yellow alerts and closed schools and colleges but Kerjiwal is doing rallies in Punjab," he said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-prepared-to-hold-virtual-rallies-says-union-minister-gajendra-singh-shekhawat-1066010.html
29-12-2021||National Politics||Those who believe in Hindutva bow before anyone: Rahul Gandhi||In a scathing attack on the BJP and the RSS, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday said those who bow before the wrong decisions of Prime Minister Narendra Modi are the ones who follow Hindutva. He said those who face challenges head on are Hindus and those who run away from problems out of fear are the ones who follow Hindutva. "Those who believe in the ideology of Hindutva bow before anyone -- they bowed before the British and they bow before money because there is no truth in their hearts," Gandhi said in a virtual address to a Congress training camp organised by the Rajasthan unit of the party. He also said a prime minister from the Congress would have resigned for failing to discharge his duty had China occupied Indian territory. "Whereas the RSS people are engaged in hiding the violation of India's borders by China under the Modi regime," a release issued by the Congress quoted the former party chief as saying. Gandhi said he had once asked a gathering of Congress workers whether there was anyone among them who had run away from home and no one answered in the affirmative, adding that if the same question is asked at an RSS meeting, everyone would say "yes". He said a person who runs away cannot fulfil any duty. The Congress leader alleged that those associated with the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) are spreading hatred and fear in the country. "We will not go back even an inch in our struggle. This is our 'Lakshmanrekha'. The BJP's 'Lakshmanrekha' is power and for the sake of power, it has always been changing the 'Lakshmanrekha' of its ideology, whereas the 'Lakshmanrekha' for the Congress is truth and we Congressmen stand by the truth," he said. Gandhi said all religions, including Hinduism, Islam, Sikhism and Christianity lead to the path of truth but "Hindutva" is a means to grab power. He said the country's first prime minister, Jawaharlal Nehru, was jailed for 12 to 15 years but neither hatred nor vengeance overpowered him, whereas Vinayak Damodar Savarkar has mentioned in his book that he was most pleased when five of his companions together beat up a Muslim man with sticks. The Congress leader said no one can call Mahatma Gandhi and Nehru cowards because there was neither fear nor hatred in their hearts. Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary in-charge for Rajasthan Ajay Maken and state Congress chief Govind Singh Dotasra also addressed the three-day training camp, which concluded on Tuesday. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/those-who-believe-in-hindutva-bow-before-anyone-rahul-gandhi-1065770.html
29-12-2021||National Politics||DH Toon | Send Tejasvi a show-cause notice for withdrawing statement||Bangalore South BJP MP Tejasvi Surya on Monday withdrew statements that he said created “an avoidable controversy”. "At a program held in Udupi Sri Krishna Mutt two days ago, I spoke on the subject of ‘Hindu Revival in Bharat’. Certain statements from my speech has regrettably created an avoidable controversy. I therefore unconditionally withdraw the statements," Surya said in a tweet. The BJP Yuva Morcha president, however, did not specify which statement he is withdrawing from his hour-long speech.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dh-toon-send-tejasvi-a-show-cause-notice-for-withdrawing-statement-1065771.html
29-12-2021||National Politics||'Still relevant': Shashi Tharoor shares old post on Hindutva amid Dharam Sansad controversy||Amid the controversy at the recently-held Dharam Sansad in Haridwar, which came under fire from multiple quarters for alleged hate speech, Congress MP Shashi Tharoor shared a two-year-old post comparing Hinduism and Hindutva, saying that they are not equal and that his message is "still relevant." "The opposite of Hinduism is not Islam. It is not Christianity. It is not Socialism. It is Hindutva," the post reads. The post says that while Hinduism is a great union of various Indian cultures and traditions with diverse roots and no founder, Hindutva is a homogenous racial-territorial category propagated by Savarkar. It also said that Hinduism is thousands of years old and Hindutva was first proposed as a political idea in 1923. "Hinduism has many central texts like the Vedas and Puranas, while Hindutva has one central political pamphlet, 'Hindutva: Who is a Hindu?' published in 1928," the post reads. In one of the videos from the Haridwar event, a seer was heard saying that he would have followed Godse and "pumped six bullets in the chest of Manmohan Singh (former prime minister) when he had said that the minorities had the first right over natioanal resources". "Those who believe in the ideology of Hindutva bow before anyone -- they bowed before the British and they bow before money because there is no truth in their hearts," Gandhi said in a virtual address to a Congress training camp organised by the Rajasthan unit of the party. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/still-relevant-shashi-tharoor-shares-old-post-on-hindutva-amid-dharam-sansad-controversy-1065812.html
29-12-2021||National Politics||After Muslims, Christians target of Hindutva brigade: Chidambaram||Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Wednesday claimed that after Muslims, Christians were the new target of the Hindutva brigade, citing the government's refusal to renew the FCRA registration for the Missionaries of Charity. Chidambaram, who is senior election observer of the Congress for Goa, also claimed that the mainstream media had banished the story of the Home Ministry's action related to Missionaries of Charity (MoC) from its pages and termed it "sad and shameful". "The rejection of renewal to MoC is a direct attack on NGOs who are doing yeoman service for the 'poor and wretched' of India," he said on Twitter. "In the case of MoC, it reveals bias and prejudice against Christian charity work. After Muslims, Christians are the new target of the Hindutva brigade," Chidambaram said. In the case of MoC, it reveals bias and prejudice against Christian charity work. After Muslims, Christians are the new target of the Hindutva brigade. After two successive defeats in the Goa assembly elections, the Congress is hoping to make a comeback in state polls early next year. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/after-muslims-christians-target-of-hindutva-brigade-chidambaram-1065813.html
29-12-2021||National Politics||YSRCP, BJP in war of words over MP Vijaysai Reddy's photo with Mohan Bhagwat||A photo shared by YSR Congress Party MP Vijaysai Reddy with RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat has caused a row between the parties, as the BJP attacked the regional party on a host of issues. The photo that set off the war of words was shared by Reddy when he met Bhagwat on a train in Narsapuram. "Had the wonderful opportunity of seeking his blessings and listening to his words of guidance," his caption read. BJP leaders also attacked Vijaysai Reddy over tweeting the photo with Bhagwat, with one leader telling the publication: “I doubt if Bhagwat was even aware that someone was taking photos." BJP leader Sunil Deodhar said the YSRCP's support to the Union government was a different issue but Reddy was playing "mind games" using the photo. “Several parties support us on issues that are important to the nation. Why only the YSRCP, even the TDP and Telangana Rashtra Samithi have supported us on the farm laws, Article 370 and CAA. This support is issue-based. Vijaysai Reddy was playing mind games by posing for a photo with Bhagwat,” he said. He also claimed that the BJP would replace the YSRCP in the state, and ruled out any alliance with it, saying "there is no question of any alliance or tie-up, especially with a party that encourages conversions, and turns a blind eye to attacks on temples." Speaking at a BJP public meeting on Tuesday, former Union minister Prakash Javadekar said many leaders in the state are on bail and may go to jail any time, and hence, the people of the state should think of an alternative. "You have seen two governments, the TDP and YSRCP. Both parties have betrayed the Andhra Pradesh people, who deserve better. Many leaders in AP are on bail. Anytime they can go to jail. People of Andhra Pradesh must think of an alternative and the BJP, led by Narendra Modi, is the alternative,” Javadekar said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ysrcp-bjp-in-war-of-words-over-mp-vijaysai-reddys-photo-with-mohan-bhagwat-1065820.html
29-12-2021||National Politics||BJP tasks Yogi Adityanath's rival with 'placating' Brahmins in Uttar Pradesh||The BJP has tasked Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath's rival within the party with the task of 'placating' the electorally influential Brahmin community ahead of the forthcoming Assembly polls in the state. Senior BJP leader and MP Shiv Pratap Shukla, who also hails from Gorakhpur, Adityanath's home town, is head of the 16-member committee formed to 'douse' the perceived anger among the community and bring them back into the party fold. The rivalry between Shukla and Adityanath is more than two decades old and its genesis is said to be attempts to control the local politics in Gorakhpur. In fact, such was their rivalry that Adityanath had his own candidate contest from the Gorakhpur Sadar seat in 2002 Assembly polls in the state against Shukla, who was the official BJP nominee at the time. Adityanath backed the Hindu Mahasabha candidate Radhamohan Das Agarwal, who defeated Shukla in the poll. After remaining in political oblivion for almost a decade, Shukla, who was considered to be close to prime minister Narendra Modi, was nominated to Rajya Sabha and later made a minister in the first NDA government at the Centre. Although there were many Brahmin leaders in the state, who were ready to shoulder the responsibility of placating the community, the party choosing Shukla, a known rival of Adityanath, left many state saffron party leaders surprised. A section of the state BJP leaders here felt that Shukla's selection was intended to give the message to Adityanath that the latter would not be allowed to dictate terms of leadership. Adityanath had, in the run up to the Assembly polls, put his foot down when the central leadership of the party tried to get Modi's trusted former bureaucrat A K Sharma as the deputy chief minister of UP, fearing that he could emerge as a parallel power centre in the state. Shukla, who was considered to be a well known Brahmin face of the party in the state, has suggested declaring public holiday on Parashuram Jayanti, installing his statues in different parts of the state and rechristening Shahjahanpur as 'Prashurampur' among other things to soothe the ruffled feathers of the Brahmins. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-tasks-yogi-adityanaths-rival-with-placating-brahmins-in-uttar-pradesh-1065842.html
29-12-2021||National Politics||'Bottles' and 'smoking pipes': Akhilesh, Yogi resort to personal attacks as UP battle heats up||As the next Assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh draw closer, the electoral rivalry between UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath and Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav appears to be turning personal with both leaders making personal comments on each other. The latest in the list of personal attacks on Akhilesh by Adityanath was the latter's reference to a picture that showed a bottle protruding out of Akhilesh's pocket while he was inspecting the Jai Prakash Narayan International Centre a few days back. "The babua of SP has been roaming around with a bottle in his pocket. He is trying to perform some new trick by carrying a Swedish bottle," Adityanath had said while addressing a public meeting. "12 baje uthten hai aur jeb mein bottle lekar ghoomte hain" (he wakes up at 12 in the noon and roams around with a bottle in his pocket), Adityanath had said. The SP president later clarified that the glass bottle had warm water. Akhilesh had earlier used the term 'chilamjeevi' (people smoking tobacco from pipe) while addressing a public meeting at Ghazipur a few days back. "I can see many colours in the rally but people wearing cloths of a particular colour who are chilamjeevi can not see them," the SP president had said. Akhilesh's remarks drew sharp reactions from the seers as well as the BJP leaders, who even called him 'aulad' of 'Maualana Mulayam'. It turned into an all out personal war between Akhilesh and Adityanath later. After being called 'parivarvadi' by Adityanath, the SP president hit back by saying that those who did not have families could not understand the pains and suffering of the people having families. The UP CM also referred to SP patron Mulayam Singh Yadav as Akhilesh's 'abbajaan'. Akhilesh sought to turn the tables on Adityanath by calling him 'Un-upYogi', when prime minister Narendra Modi called the UP CM as 'UP-Yogi'. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bottles-and-smoking-pipes-akhilesh-yogi-resort-to-personal-attacks-as-up-battle-heats-up-1065875.html
29-12-2021||National Politics||Priyanka Gandhi seeks support of women to come to form next government in Uttar Pradesh||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Wednesday sought support of women in the forthcoming Assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh to form the next government in the state even as she once again attacked prime minister Narendra Modi for 'selling' public sector companies to private players. Priyanka, who interacted with women at Sirsaganj in UP's Firozabad district, assured them that her party would initiate several measures for the welfare of women if it came to power. "Women have to face a lot of problems in their lives. They have to struggle to get educated, and they face difficulties after marriage also. The political parties only make tall promises at the time of the polls and forget them after the elections are over," she said. Priyanka said that her party had released a separate election manifesto for women which includes the party's promises for them. "Give us a chance and see the change in your lives," the Congress leader told one of the women, who narrated the problems being faced by her. In reply to a question from one Shina, a local resident, who worked at a bangle manufacturing factory, about creating employment opportunities for them at villages, Priyanka said that the Congress was working on a plan to provide jobs to women in the villages. While replying to another question on women's safety, the Congress leader said that her party had promised to recruit 25 per cent women in the police force and also provide legal help to them in times of need. Priyanka asked the women not to vote on the basis of caste and support the party which they felt would improve their condition. "You must realise your potential. If you unite you can bring the desired change," she said. A large number of women had turned out to take part in the programme. Priyanka later mingled with the women and inquired about their well-being. The Congress leader has been holding meetings with women in different parts of the state and seeking their support. Her party had also organised 'women's marathons' in different divisions in UP in which thousands of women had participated. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/priyanka-gandhi-seeks-support-of-women-to-come-to-form-next-government-in-uttar-pradesh-1065906.html
29-12-2021||National Politics||CEL Sale: Congress accuses Modi government of compromising strategic interests||Congress on Wednesday raised the pitch against Narendra Modi government's disinvestment programme as it accused the BJP regime of "compromising" the country’s strategic interests by selling the "profitable" Central Electronics Limited (CEL) to a private firm with no domain experience but having links to BJP leaders at a rate that is much lower than the value of its assets. Party spokesperson Prof Gourav Vallabh demanded that the government immediately stop the sale and claimed that the promoters of Nandal Finance, which won the bid for Rs 210 crore, are linked to a private university in Noida and known for their proximity to BJP leaders. "The government has sold a strategic PSU manufacturing satellite system, electric generator fuse for hand grenades and bulletproof materials for body armours to a furniture company," Vallabh told a press conference. The government had announced the sale of CEL on November 29, the second such sale after Air India. Vallabh said different models of the valuation of CEL's assets showed that its value could be between Rs 957 crore and Rs 1,600 crore but the government set a reserve price of just Rs 194 crore. This was when the value of CEL land alone was Rs 440 crore as per circle rates of the Uttar Pradesh government. "The reserve price that was set by the government was shocking as it was a meagre 20% of the lowest valuation for a company which has the experience of more than 40 years in the field of strategic electronics and defence business, having highly skilled and experienced manpower for strategic products and whose future growth is very progressive," he said. "Strong financials warranted a higher reserve price. CEL is a profit-making PSU with net sales of Rs 296 crore and a gross profit of Rs 136 crore in 2020-21. As of October 31, CEL has pending orders worth Rs 1,592 crore. With these orders alone, CEL would give the government a gross profit of Rs 730 crore," he said. He also said the UP State Industrial Development Corporation had entered into an agreement with CEL for the acquisition of land for setting up a factory, which mandated that the state employ 50 farmers whose land was acquired. However, he claimed, no employment was provided and the land was used for commercial purposes. "This is the extent to which national strategic assets are misused by the current BJP regime," Vallabh alleged.He also claimed that the company that bought CEL had just 10 employees and also had a case pending in the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal. Citing financial statements filed by Nandal Finance and Leasing Pvt Ltd in 2019-20, he alleged that 99.96% of its equity was held by Premier Furnitures and Interiors Pvt Limited, which had no link to the business of CEL. He also alleged that the second bidder for CEL was JPM Industries and Nandal Finance was linked to its competitor through their parent companies. JPM Industries quoted Rs 190 crore. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/cel-sale-congress-accuses-modi-government-of-compromising-strategic-interests-1065935.html
29-12-2021||National Politics||Missionaries of Charity row comes in handy for Congress ahead of Goa polls||The home ministry’s refusal to renew the FCRA registration of the Missionaries of Charity has kicked off a political row with Congress slamming the Centre over the decision saying this is a sign of its “prejudice against Christian charity work”. “After Muslims, Christians are the new target of the Hindutva brigade,” said P Chidambaram, a senior leader of Congress, which is making a serious bid to stage a comeback to power in Goa next year. On Tuesday, Chidambaram had asked the home ministry to use its “Sherlock Holmes-like skills” to quell communal violence and terrorist activity, not to “suppress” Christian charity and humanitarian work” while AICC general secretary Randeep Surjewala had alleged that “Mother Teresa and her Missionaries of Charity are the latest victims of Modi government’s vicious, vengeful and hate-driven agenda against minorities”. According to the 2011 census, Christians comprise 25.1% of the population in Goa, where the electoral slugfest is turning quadrangular this time with Trinamool Congress and AAP also making a bid to power. The coastal state has so far seen bi-polar politics between Congress and the BJP. The BJP has formed the government in the state for two consecutive terms. In 2017, Congress missed the power by a whisker despite emerging as the single largest party with the saffron party sewing up a quick coalition while the Congress struggled to decide on a leadership face. While nearly 30% of the vote base of Goa is from the Bhandari community, the Christian community is also numerically very significant, deciding outcomes in at least 10 of the 40 Assembly seats. The majority of the Christian population is centred in South Goa. A combination of Bhandari and Christian votes is a sure shot formula to success for any party in Goa. When the late Manohar Parrikar, who belonged to the Gaud Saraswat Brahmin community, was the CM, there was a demand for a deputy chief minister from the Christian community. Incumbent CM Pramod Sawant is a Maratha, which is the second important community but its vote is fragmented across the state. The NCP has also been a player in state politics, though marginally. Against this backdrop, the row over Mother Teresa’s charity has come in handy to Congress to project the BJP as anti-Christian and strengthen its Bhandari-Christian vote base. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/missionaries-of-charity-row-comes-in-handy-for-congress-ahead-of-goa-polls-1066032.html
29-12-2021||North and Central||Everyone has viewpoint: JNU officer on circular for counselling session on sexual harassment||A day after a public invitation for a counselling session by JNU on sexual harassment drew flak for its choice of words, the presiding officer of the varsity’s Internal Complaints Committee said everyone has a viewpoint and their way of looking at things. A line in the invitation read: “girls are supposed to know how to draw a tangible line between them and their male friends". This drew the ire of student outfits and teachers who said it reeks of victim shaming. The Internal Complaints Committee (ICC) of the Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) had uploaded the invitation on the varsity's website saying that it will organise the counselling session on sexual harassment on January 17. It also said that such sessions will be organised on a monthly basis. Professor Punam Kumari, the presiding officer of the ICC, said, "Many of the cases that we receive are those where men and women are close friends. Women, if they do not like the way they are being touched should say it the first time and not keep to themselves. People get into a relationship after becoming friends. If they don't like the way they are being touched, they should convey it clearly." She said that men are not aware about the repercussions of sexual harassment and the counselling session will educate them that if they are making someone uncomfortable or touching them inappropriately, despite being told not to, what can be the consequences. When asked about the criticism, she said, "Everyone has a viewpoint and their way of looking at things. They can look at the counselling session in a positive way and see that such an event is being organised." Under the subhead "why is the counselling session required", the invite said that it will make students aware about what consists of sexual harassment. It also said that students are being counselled during the orientation programme and on the inception of each academic year, they need to refresh their knowledge about the same, time to time. "ICC come across a number of cases where sexual harassment takes place among close friends. Boys generally cross (sometimes advertently, sometimes inadvertently) the thin line between friendship's bantering and sexual harassment. Girls suppose to know how to draw a tangible line (between them and their male friends) to avoid any such harassments (sic)," the invite read. Earlier in the day, National Commission for Women chairperson Rekha Sharma sought withdrawal of the "misogynist" circular issued by the university. "Why all the teachings are always for girls only? Time to teach harassers not the victims. The misogynist circular of JNU should be withdrawn. Internal committee should have victim-centred approach and not otherwise," Sharma said on Twitter, while tagging the invitation. Calling the invitation 'atrocious', JNU professor Ayesha Kidwai, in a Facebook post, said the invite shows why women do not want to approach the ICC. "It shows us why women complainants do not want to complain to the ICC for fear of being punished themselves. It also explains why the loss of GSCASH has effectively silenced all discussion of SH (sexual harassment) on JNU campus altogether, as the ICC and its supposed awareness programmes have created an atmosphere which is virulently hostile to sexual harassment being seen as a misconduct, a human rights violation, and a blatant exercise of patriarchal and hierarchical power in the workplace," the post read. The JNU administration replaced the Gender Sensitisation Committee against Sexual Harassment (GSCASH) with the ICC in September 2017 in its 269th executive council meeting, a move which was extensively criticised by student and teacher bodies, apart from women's rights organisations. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/everyone-has-viewpoint-jnu-officer-on-circular-for-counselling-session-on-sexual-harassment-1065737.html
29-12-2021||North and Central||Mandaviya meets doctors' delegation, FORDA says strike to continue||Resident doctors in Delhi, who have been protesting over the delay in NEET-PG 2021 counselling for the past 12 days, on Tuesday decided to continue the stir, as a meeting between their federation's delegation and the Union health minister failed to make any headway. The meeting between a delegation of the Federation of Resident Doctors' Association (FORDA) and Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya took place at Nirman Bhawan here, but the doctors' body said, the "response was not satisfactory". Earlier in the day, intensifying their stir over the delay in NEET-PG 2021 counselling, resident doctors in Delhi on Tuesday morning gathered in large numbers on the premises of Centre-run Safdarjung Hospital, even as police personnel were deployed to ensure law and order is maintained. Doctors raised slogans like 'We want justice', and sought to bolster the morale of each other, after the face-off with the police on Monday went all the way to midnight, as dramatic scenes were witnessed at the Sarojini Nagar police station. FORDA president Dr Manish and few other protesting resident doctors, later in the day, met Mandaviya, who urged them to call off their strike in the larger public interest. The stir, led by FORDA, entered its 12th day on Tuesday, even as patient care remained affected at three Centre-run facilities -- Safdarjung, RML and Lady Hardinge hospitals and some of the Delhi government-run hospitals. In the meeting, all the points of concern were put forward. "However, the response was not satisfactory," FORDA said in a statement late night. "Also, after yesterday's brutal incident of violence by Delhi Police on peacefully protesting resident doctors, there has been no apology from the concerned (people). In fact, a FIR has been filed by police against protesting resident doctors. After discussion with various RDAs' representatives, it has been decided to continue the agitation till our demands are met," the statement said. The protest by resident doctors, a day earlier had taken a dramatic turn, as medics and police personnel had faced off in streets, with both sides claiming several persons suffered injury in the ensuing melee. Earlier in the day, a senior police officer had said, police personnel had been deployed on the premises of the Safdarjung Hospital to maintain law and order amid the ongoing strike by protesting residents doctors. "Over 100 police personnel have been deployed. This is also to ensure the law and order situation at the hospital. The situation is normal and under control as of now. The resident doctors are peacefully protesting here," a senior police official said. The police deployment was later withdrawn, when the situation cooled off. The Faculty Association of Safdarjung Hospital had on Monday condemned the face-off between the protesting resident doctors and police personnel, while the resident doctors' association of AIIMS had urged the government to reveal its plans for expediting NEET PG counselling, failing which it had threatened to proceed with a token strike on December 29 including shutdown of all non-emergency services. FORDA on Monday had also said that several of its members were "detained" when they tried to hold a protest march from the Maulana Azad Medical College (MAMC) to the Supreme Court. FORDA president Manish on Monday had claimed that resident doctors of a large number of major hospitals on Monday "returned their apron (lab coat) in a symbolic gesture of rejection of services". The Faculty Association of Vardhaman Mahavir Medical College (VMMC) and SJH on Monday had written to the Delhi police commissioner stating, it "strongly condemns and finds unacceptable, the cruel and inhuman manner, in which the protest of the resident doctors was mishandled by the Delhi Police. The resident doctors were brutally assaulted by the Delhi Police." However, police on Monday had denied any allegations of lathicharge or use of abusive language from their end, and said, 12 protestors were detained and released later. An FIR had been registered under relevant sections of Indian Penal Code for Covid violations, rioting and damage to public property among others, police had said on late Monday night. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mandaviya-meets-doctors-delegation-forda-says-strike-to-continue-1065768.html
29-12-2021||North and Central||Hindutva outfits burn posters of Sunny Leone over music video||Right-wing activists on Tuesday burnt posters of Bollywood actor Sunny Leone here for allegedly hurting the sentiments of Hindus in a new music video. The activists of 'Antarrashtriya Hindu Parishad' and 'Rashtriya Bajrang Dal' gathered at Soorsadan crossing on MG Road and raised slogans against the actor. They demanded a ban on the song and also filed a police complaint against the actor at Hariparwat police station. "The new music video has hurt the sentiments of Hindus. The obscene dance in the music video has disrespected the Hindu goddess Radha. Besides, the music video has also disrespected famous bhajan 'madhuban mein Radhika nache re'," said Rashtriya Bajrang Dal leader Ajju Chauhan. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hindutva-outfits-burn-posters-of-sunny-leone-over-music-video-1065769.html
29-12-2021||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh parties want elections to be on schedule||All major political parties in Uttar Pradesh have urged the Election Commission of India (ECI) not to delay the 2022 assembly polls in the state, following concerns over the new Omicron Covid-19 variant. Chief Election Commissioner Sushil Chandra, Election Commissioners Rajiv Kumar and Anup Chandra Pandey and other senior officers of the ECI held meetings with representatives of national and recognised political parties in Lucknow till late Tuesday evening. The ECI is on a three-day visit to Lucknow to assess the ground situation. The Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) delegation led by J P S Rathore, Samajwadi Party (SP) delegation led by Naresh Uttam Patel, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) delegation led by Mewalal Gautam, Congress delegation led by Onkar Nath Singh and Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) delegation led by Anil Dubey urged the ECI to hold the polls as scheduled amid strict Covid-19 protocols. After the meeting, SP state unit president Naresh Uttam Patel said, "The SP urged the ECI to hold assembly polls as per schedule with strict implementation of Covid appropriate behaviour to check surge of Covid cases. The ECI should clear doubts over the assembly election with the announcement of the poll schedule." BJP state unit vice-president Rathore said the Assembly elections should be held as per schedule, but the final decision rests with the ECI. "The BJP told the poll panel that in view of the possible third wave, adequate arrangements should be made at the polling stations. "We raised three demands. First, to prevent multiple voting by an individual, we demanded proper verification of burqa-clad women voters at polling stations and deployment of women constables at every booth for this. Our second demand was to ensure one polling booth for all members of a family. And thirdly, relocation of any cluster of polling booths in densely-populated areas to avoid mass gathering considering the corona pandemic," he added. Congress, meanwhile, demanded the removal of Additional Chief Secretary (Home) from the post before the polls. "ACS home Avanish Kumar Awasthi should not be part of election management, he should be transferred before the model code of conduct. It is in the public domain that despite being a government officer, he retweets the tweets of Union ministers. He continues to hail PM's programmes and government schemes by retweeting them," Congress said in a letter to ECI signed by Onkar Nath Singh, Virender Madan and Mohammad Anas Khan. RLD national secretary Anil Dubey said, "The ECI must provide a list of voters above 80 years and specially challenged to all parties." The SP has claimed there are 40 lakh voters in the state who are above 80 years or are specially challenged. The BSP demanded strict implementation of the model code of conduct. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-parties-want-elections-to-be-on-schedule-1065796.html
29-12-2021||North and Central||PM Modi to hold Council of Ministers meet on December 29; Omicron, polls on agenda||The PM will also discuss the surge of Covid-19 variant Omicron in the meeting. The Allahabad High Court had asked the Centre to consider postponing Uttar Pradesh polls in the wake of Omicron. However, all major political parties in the state have urged the Election Commission of India (ECI) not to delay the polls. India recorded 781 cases of Omicron across 21 states and UTs so far out of which 241 people have recovered or migrated, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-modi-to-hold-council-of-ministers-meet-on-december-29-omicron-polls-on-agenda-1065808.html
29-12-2021||North and Central||PM Modi to inaugurate, lay foundation stones of 23 projects in Uttarakhand on December 30||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate and lay the foundation stones of 23 projects worth over Rs 17,500 crore in Haldwani, Uttarakhand on Thursday. Among the 23 projects, 17 projects worth over Rs 14,100 crore cover a wide array of sectors/areas across the state including irrigation, road, housing, health infrastructure, industry, sanitation, drinking water supply among others. The Prime Minister will inaugurate six projects, including multiple road widening projects, a hydropower project in Pithoragarh and projects to improve the sewerage network in Nainital. The cumulative cost of the projects being inaugurated is over Rs 3,400 crore. Modi will lay the foundation stone of the Lakhwar Multipurpose Project to be built at the cost of about Rs 5,750 crore. This project was first conceived in 1976 and had been pending for many years. Modi's "vision to prioritise long-pending projects is the force behind the project's foundation stone being laid. This project of national importance will enable irrigation of about 34,000-hectare additional land, produce 300 MW hydro power and supply drinking water to the six states of Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Delhi, Himachal Pradesh and Rajasthan", the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) said in a statement. To improve connectivity at far-flung places of the country, inauguration and foundation stone laying of multiple road sector projects worth about Rs 8,700 crore would be done. Further, foundation stones of multiple road projects all across the state under the Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojna would also be laid by the Prime Minister. The projects include the laying of 133 rural roads with a total length of 1,157 km at a cost of more than Rs 625 crore and the construction of 151 bridges at a cost of about Rs 450 crores. The Prime Minister will also lay the foundation stone of AIIMS Rishikesh satellite centre in Udham Singh Nagar district and Jagjivan Ram Government Medical College at Pithoragarh. These two hospitals are being built at a cost of about Rs 500 crore and Rs 450 crore, respectively. The improved medical infrastructure will not only help the people of the Kumaon and Terai regions but also the bordering areas of Uttar Pradesh. The Prime Minister will also lay the foundation stone of 'Aroma Park' at Kashipur and Plastic Industrial Park at Sitarganj and multiple other initiatives in housing, sanitation and drinking water supply across the state. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-modi-to-inaugurate-lay-foundation-stones-of-23-projects-in-uttarakhand-on-december-30-1065817.html
29-12-2021||North and Central||10 lakh people in Agra miss second dose of Covid-19 vaccine||Nearly 10 lakh people in Agra who have taken the first shot of the Covid-19 vaccine, have missed the second dose even after the expiry of the prescribed date to take the jab. Calls are being made to these people to come and take the second vaccine shot in view of the looming threat of the new Omicron variant. According to health department records, out of the 35 lakh population of over 18-year-olds in the Agra district, 15.55 lakh people were fully vaccinated. Over the past 12 months, 28.60 lakh people received the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine. Out of these, more than 90 per cent were administered the Covishield vaccine. Of the 13.05 lakh who received the first jab, 10 lakh had taken the first shot more than three months ago. The recommended gap between the first and second dose is 12 weeks in the case of Covishield vaccine and four weeks for Covaxin. Sanjeev Burman, Agra district immunisation officer, said, "Missing out the second dose means one is less protected. It means that if you are exposed to the infection, you may get infected severely." A K Srivastava, Chief Medical Officer (CMO) of the Agra district, said both doses are needed for adequate protection against severe Covid infection and hospitalisation. "We are prioritising on administering the second dose to beneficiaries who have not got themselves jabbed even after the expiry of the prescribed interval between the two doses. There are around 10 lakh people who have missed the prescribed time for taking the second dose. We are calling them to complete the course of vaccination without further delay," he said. Following orders of the Central government, the state's health department has also started training the nursing staff for administering a booster dose to people above 60 years old and children in the age group of 15 to 18 years. Meanwhile, four new cases of Covid surfaced in the Agra district on Tuesday, taking the tally of active cases to 14, the highest in the last three months. The CMO said, "Samples of those who tested positive are being sent for genome sequencing to identify the variant of Covid-19. So far, no case of Omicron case has surfaced in Agra district." Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/10-lakh-people-in-agra-miss-second-dose-of-covid-19-vaccine-1065819.html
29-12-2021||North and Central||PM's Kanpur trip: FIR against SP workers for conspiring to create ruckus||The Kanpur police have lodged an FIR at the Naubasta police station against Samajwadi Party members for conspiring to create ruckus during Prime Minister Narendra Modi's visit to Kanpur. Modi was in Kanpur on Tuesday. The action was taken after the Bharatiya Janata Party on Wednesday shared a video that shows Samajwadi Party (SP) members burning Prime Minister Narendra Modi's effigy. In the video, a group of SP workers are seen burning the PM's effigy on a roadside in Kanpur. The group also vandalised cars parked nearby causing the police to interfere. With the video tweeted by the BJP, the party alleged that the SP workers were seen burning the Prime Minister's effigy and the group also attacked and vandalised a car after being confronted by a passer-by about the havoc being caused. The BJP also alleged that the SP workers attacked the car because it carried posters of Modi over it. Following the incident, Uttar Pradesh deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya assured strict action against the perpetrators. Meanwhile, the UP Police have said that it will further investigate the matter before taking any action. The Kanpur police officials informed that the vandalisers would be identified and arrested. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pms-kanpur-trip-fir-against-sp-workers-for-conspiring-to-create-ruckus-1065843.html
29-12-2021||North and Central||Thakur takes jibe at SP chief over raids at perfume trader's properties||Taking a swipe at Akhilesh Yadav, Union Minister Anurag Thakur said the Samajwadi Party (SP) chief was "troubled" over raids at a perfume trader's properties but did not feel for the poor. He also sought to know whether Congress president Sonia Gandhi, senior leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, and Yadav had taken the "BJP vaccine" for Covid-19. Yadav and some other leaders from rival parties had allegedly called India's two vaccines- Covishied and Covaxin- as "BJP vaccines". The Minister for Information and Broadcasting, and Youth Affairs and Sports was in the district for the closing ceremony of All India Invitational Prize Money Football Competition at Narhi. "If the SP has no ties with the perfume trader, why is it troubled? Why is Akhilesh Yadav saying that the Income Tax department raids will be followed by raids by the Enforcement Directorate and other departments?" Thakur told the media on Tuesday. "Yadav is feeling for the perfume trader but he doesn't realise the pain of the poor. The illegal money (recovered from the trader) is meant for their development," Thakur said. The minister said the "fragrance" of Yadav's association with the perfume trader has spread so much that the SP chief is unable to hide it. Around Rs 177 crore cash and huge quantity of jewellery were seized in multiple raids at perfume manufacturer Piyush Jain's residence in Kanpur as well as his house and factory in Kannauj. With months to go for the 2022 Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls, BJP leaders have been attacking the SP over Jain's arrest, claiming that the perfume trader had links with Yadav's party.Yadav, for his part, has categorically denied any link with the trader. Thakur clarified that the raids had nothing to do with the upcoming Assembly elections in the state and that the department took the action independently and only after having sufficient information. When asked about BJP MP Varun Gandhi raising questions over the imposition of night curfew in the state while allowing election rallies during the day, Thakur said, "This is democracy." "States have the right to impose curfew under the protocol." he said. The Uttar Pradesh government has imposed night curfew since Saturday in view of resurgence in Covid-19 cases. Taking a dig at Yadav and Congress leaders over vaccination, he asked whether they were vaccinated or not. "The country wants to know whether the Congress and SP have faith in the country's scientists and vaccines", he said. Earlier, addressing the closing ceremony of the tournament, Thakur said, "The people of Uttar Pradesh want a strong government instead of a government of riots. People do not want the era of hooliganism to return. The Yogi Adityanath government has bulldozed the criminals," he said. The minister said the country's largest sports university will be built in Uttar Pradesh. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/thakur-takes-jibe-at-sp-chief-over-raids-at-perfume-traders-properties-1065844.html
29-12-2021||North and Central||One year, two CJIs: Will Chief Justice Ramana's zeal be shared by his successors?||Chief Justice of India (CJI) N V Ramana has infused vigour in the Supreme Court's functioning. He has strongly voiced out his opinion on no impact assessment or basic scrutiny of constitutionality before passing of legislation, minced no words in making sharp observations against governments on a host of issues, and strongly advocated more than 50 per cent representation of women on the bench. Chief Justice Ramana will retire on August 26, following which Justice U U Lalit will take over as the CJI for a short period -- holding the office till November 8. Then, Justice D Y Chandrachud will become the CJI - and have a tenure of over 2 years. The question is whether the top court will continue with the same zeal in taking up most contentious and important legal issues after Chief Justice Ramana demits office, or will it reboot? Come the new year, a variety of challenges, complex and equally sensitive, may crop up before the apex court, against the backdrop of likelihood of commencement of hearing on petitions challenging the abrogation of Article 370, and challenging the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA). The petitioners, who are drawn from all walks of life and across the political spectrum, have claimed CAA infringes on the secular framework of the country and the abrogation of Article 370 hurt the essence of democracy. However, the Central government, citing the national security aspect, has termed these big-ticket reforms strategically important for the country. It is likely to push back with full force against these pleas, which have been pending for over two years, challenging the validity of its reforms. A pertinent question is whether Chief Justice Ramana would take the bull by the horns, or pass on these legal challenges to his successor? He has shown himself willing to ask tough and searching questions to the Central government, and positioned the court as an institution willing to address issues posing a potential threat to fundamental rights. In Pegasus snooping scandal, the Supreme Court expressed its discontent on the Centre's response that the government cannot be made to answer whether or not it uses Pegasus spyware, as it may compromise national security. On October 27, the top court appointed an independent expert technical committee supervised by a retired top court judge, Justice R V Raveendran, to probe the Pegasus snooping allegations. The court asked the committee to submit its report expeditiously and scheduled the matter for further hearing after eight weeks. The committee would soon submit its report. Chief Justice Ramana has also slammed the Central government for delay in appointment of judges at various tribunals, forcing it to take necessary steps to fill up vacancies. He also positively engaged with the government regarding appointment and transfer of high court judges, and advocated for over 50 per cent representation of women on the bench. "The demand for higher representation beyond 50 per cent on the bench in view of the backlog of under representation of women is taken note of. I promise to take up your demand with my Brothers in the collegium," he had assured. The question is whether future Chief Justices would continue to press against bias against women in the judiciary with the same passion? Chief Justice Ramana has also slammed the executive, over its non-cooperation, in working out a long-term mechanism to combat the menace of air pollution in the capital. Since pollution is a recurring issue, which is exacerbated by stubble burning in states adjoining the capital, the question is - can the Supreme Court address it with the same fervour, before pollution reaches alarming levels next winter? He has introduced a positive change, whether this change will cease to exist or continue, after he demits the office in eight months, will be seen in the new year. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/one-year-two-cjis-will-chief-justice-ramanas-zeal-be-shared-by-his-successors-1065845.html
29-12-2021||North and Central||Attack on girl in Amethi: Priyanka Gandhi says Congress will launch stir if accused not arrested soon||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Wednesday attacked the Yogi Adityanath government over the thrashing of a Dalit girl in Amethi, and said her party will launch an agitation if the accused in the case are not arrested soon. Her remarks come after a video purportedly showing a 16-year-old Dalit girl being beaten up and molested went viral on social media. Attaching the video of the incident, the Congress General Secretary tweeted, "If the criminals who committed this inhuman act are not caught within 24 hours, then the Congress will work to wake you up by vigorous agitation." "This incident of ruthless thrashing of a Dalit girl in Amethi is condemnable. @MYOGIADITYANATH Sir on an average 34 crime incidents against Dalits take place every day under your rule and 135 against women, yet your law and order is sleeping," she said. Amethi Deputy Superintendent of Police, Arpit Kapoor said that one accused has been arrested in this case while police teams have been set up to arrest others Police had contacted the girl and based on her father's complaint, a case under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, SC and ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act was registered against accused Suraj Soni, Shivam and Sakal. The officer said the survivor is a resident of a village under Sangrampur police station area of Amethi district and the incident took place in Raipur Phulwari town. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/attack-on-girl-in-amethi-priyanka-gandhi-says-congress-will-launch-stir-if-accused-not-arrested-soon-1065847.html
29-12-2021||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh panchayat polls cancelled days ahead of voting for first phase||Amid controversy over reservation for Other Backward Classes (OBC), the State Election Commission announced to terminate the panchayat polls in Madhya Pradesh. Though the ruling BJP and the opposition Congress already agreed not to go ahead with the elections without OBC reservation, the state election commission late on Tuesday decided to stop the ongoing process just nine days before the voting was scheduled. The final decision from the state election commission was announced after the Shivraj Singh Chouhan government withdrew the ordinance it had passed to hold panchayat polls. The state assembly on December 23 had passed a resolution against holding panchayat elections without OBC quota. "With the cancellation of the polls, the model code of conduct, which was imposed on December 4, also came to an end. The commission will return the deposit amount of representatives of the first phase of the election," state election commission secretary B.S. Jamod said in a letter to all district collectors." The panchayat polls in Madhya Pradesh are due since August 2019 and are delayed due to Covid outbreak. The ordinance passed on November 21 effectively annulled the last rotation on reservation carried out by the Congress government (during 18 months of Kamal Nath led government) in 2019 and instead, the delimitation, rotation on reservation exercise carried out in 2014 under the BJP regime became effective for the panchayat elections. Subsequently, a group of Congress leaders opposed the government's ordinance in Madhya Pradesh High Court arguing that, "Conduct of panchayat elections in 2022 on the basis of the delimitation, rotation on reservation exercise carried out in 2014 (instead of 2019) is the violation of rule-243 (d) of the Constitution." After the High Court refused to put a stay on panchayat elections, the petitioners (Syed Zafar, a spokesperson of the Congress) approached the Supreme Court. On December 17, the Supreme Court asked the Madhya Pradesh government to denotify all such reserved seats in municipal elections in both the rural and urban areas and treat them as general category seats. The apex court stayed the reservation on OBC seats and directed the state election commission to de-notify these seats as general seats. The Supreme Court has also instructed the Madhya Pradesh State Election Commission to follow the same direction it passed related to the Maharashtra government. In the meantime, the court also issued show-case notices to the Madhya Pradesh Election Commission and the state government and sought their reply by January 3, 2022. In the meantime, five days winter session of the legislative assembly of Madhya Pradesh began on December 20 and on December 23, both ruling and the opposition passed a unanimous resolution not to conduct panchayat elections without reservation for OBC candidates. On December 26, the Madhya Pradesh cabinet decided to withdraw the ordinance and the proposal was sent to the Governor Mangubhai C. Patel to seek his consent. Finally on Tuesday, the State Election Commission announced to cancel the panchayat elections altogether. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-panchayat-polls-cancelled-days-ahead-of-voting-for-first-phase-1065848.html
29-12-2021||North and Central||Uttarakhand 2021: 'Superspreader' triggers scare, natural disasters kill scores, CMs shown the door||The BJP and the Congress in Uttarakhand were shaken by a spot of rebellion this month. But that was nothing compared to the tremors the state faced earlier in 2021 – the unceremonious exit of two CMs, a Kumbh Mela that attracted the Covid superspreader tag, and a flash flood that killed 200 people. Also during the year, the Supreme Court gave its go-ahead to the Centre to widen roads to the Char Dham pilgrim sites, and priests won a fight against the setting up of a state board to control major shrines. The Gartang Gali, a wooden bridge built by Pathans from Peshawar 150 years ago at an altitude of 11,000 feet in Uttarkashi on the route to Tibet, was restored. And old, traditional trekking routes to the Char Dhams were rediscovered. The state saw three chief ministers at the helm during the year. Trivendra Singh Rawat, who was preparing to celebrate four years in office, was removed by the BJP’s central leadership as it geared up for the assembly polls in early 2022. Pauri Garhwal MP Tirath Singh Rawat, was brought as his surprise replacement in March. Just days into his term, the new CM triggered a row with a remark frowning on women wearing ripped jeans, and also famously said India was ruled by the US for over 200 years. Rawat himself was replaced by Khatima MLA Pushkar Singh Dhami, less than four months after assuming office. Barring Congress veteran N D Tiwari, no Uttarakhand CM has finished his five-year tenure. But Rawat made a sort of record with the shortest stint. He was the chief minister when the government went ahead with its controversial decision to hold the Kumbh fair in Haridwar on a grand scale amid the raging coronavirus pandemic. Covid norms like wearing were blatantly violated and social distancing was nearly impossible as as devotees choked the ghats. Infections surged after the `shah snan’ days. Prime Minister Narendra Modi stepped in, appealing to the “akhadas” to wind up the event. Later, a Covid testing scam surfaced. A Noida-based private laboratory roped in by the state government allegedly conducted a lakh fake Covid tests on devotees. After a probe by a special investigation team, the lab owners were arrested. Covid also cast its shadow on the Char Dham yatra to the shrines at Gangotri, Yamunotri, Kedarnath and Badrinath for the second consecutive year. The pilgrimages started months late. But as the Covid wave subsided and the restrictions were lifted, the annual yatra picked pace. Over five lakh pilgrims visited the shrines this year. Under pressure from the priests, the contentious Uttarakhand Devasthanam Board Act was withdrawn to free from government control 51 temples, including the Char Dham shrines. Priests had termed the law an infringement upon their traditional rights. PM Modi visited Kedarnath to unveil the statue of Adi Guru Shankaracharya and lay the foundation stone for the second phase of reconstruction of the area, devastated by landslides and floods in 2013. The year 2021 too brought natural disasters. On a Sunday morning in February, a glacier broke off in Chamoli district, triggering a sudden flood in the Rishi Ganga and Dhauli Ganga rivers. Tonnes of debris hurtled downstream, demolishing the 13.2 MW Rishi Ganga hydel project at Raini village, the cradle of the Chipko movement, and also slamming into the NTPC's 520 MW Tapovan-Vishnugad hydroelectricity project, where men at work were trapped inside a tunnel. Altogether, 204 people went missing. Only 81 bodies and 36 human limbs were pulled out of the choked tunnel. In November, a second catastrophe struck. Rainfall for three consecutive days demolished houses, washed away roads, bridges and railway tracks in Garhwal and Kumaon regions. About 80 people, including trekkers, were killed. The Supreme Court allowed the widening of roads for all-weather access to areas where the Char Dhams are located, largely agreeing to the Centre’s national security argument that they were strategically important. Environmentalists, however, warn that the construction has the potential to cause devastation on the fragile Himalayan slopes. The state paid tributes to Gen B S Rawat, the country’s first Chief of Defence Staff and an Uttarakhand native. It also remembered martyrs on the 50th anniversary of the 1971 India-Pakistan war. With the assembly polls now just weeks away, political parties eyed voters from the state’s military families. The ruling BJP conducted an emotional campaign collecting soil from the courtyards of martyrs' homes for the construction of a memorial in Dehradun, and the Congress honoured veterans at a rally addressed by party leader Rahul Gandhi. The Aam Aadmi Party, which is offering itself as an alternative to the Congress and the BJP, has already projected retired Army officer Ajay Kothiyal as its CM candidate. Both the main parties recently suffered anxious moments, but moved quickly to deal with the first signs of a rebellion. Harak Singh Rawat left a state cabinet meeting in a huff after it did not clear a proposal for a medical college in his Kotdwar constituency, triggering speculation that he had quit as a minister. CM Dhami brought him around. In the Congress, the party’s campaign head for the state, posted a series of cryptic tweets suggesting that he was not being treated right. The voice from within, the former CM said in Hindi, sometimes tells him, “It’s enough Harish Rawat, you have swam long enough, it’s time to rest.” Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-2021-superspreader-triggers-scare-natural-disasters-kill-scores-cms-shown-the-door-1065853.html
29-12-2021||North and Central||Uttarakhand Police sends notices of appearance to Dharam Sansad accused||The Uttarakhand police has sent notices of appearance to  Jitendra Narayan Tyagi and Sadhvi Annapurna who are accused of delivering hate speeches against Muslims at a Dharam Sansad held recently in Haridwar. Jitendra Narayan Tyagi was earlier known as Waseem Rizvi, the president of Uttar Pradesh Shia Waqf Board. Rizvi had changed his name after converting to Hinduism. Haridwar Kotwali police station SHO Rakender Singh Kathait said on Wednesday, "We have sent notices of appearance to Rizvi and Sadhvi Annapurna so far. A notice may also be sent to Dharamdas who is the third one named in the FIR lodged in this connection." Meanwhile, members of a core committee formed by organisers of the Dharam Sansad on Tuesday submitted an application to police seeking a counter FIR against an unnamed 'maulana' accusing him of hatching a conspiracy against them. When asked whether a counter FIR will be lodged in the case, the official said everything depends on how the investigations progress. "We are looking into the application submitted on behalf of the core committee formed by organisers of the event and an FIR will be lodged if necessary," he said. Kathait said police has to carry out the investigations responsibly as it is also accountable to the court of law. "We cannot jump to conclusions on the basis of mere allegations and penalise someone. The allegations will be probed and appropriate action will be taken," he said. Provocative speeches were delivered by participants at the Dharam Sansad held from December 16 to 19. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-police-sends-notices-of-appearance-to-dharam-sansad-accused-1065857.html
29-12-2021||North and Central||Railway to implement HMIS facility in all hospitals||In order to give hassle-free health care services to its employees and pensioners, Indian Railways has implemented Hospital Management Information System (HMIS) in all its 695 hospitals and health units across the country. RailTel, the Central Government PSU of the Ministry of Railways, executed the project in record time. The HMIS is an integrated clinical information system with the basic objective of improved hospital administration and patient healthcare. This aims to ensure an improved experience for hospital administration and patients. HMIS patient mobile app has been launched for ensuring easy information access to patients related to their OPD registrations, doctor prescriptions, lab reports, self-registration, drug availability, lab test availability, specialty availability etc. "HMIS is another important step in the country’s journey towards digital transformation which will have a positive impact on the lives of more than 75 lakh railwaymen, pensioners and their families," Puneet Chawla, CMD, RailTel said. The HMIS implementation on a pilot basis was started in December 2020 and implemented in two phases which have just been completed in all hospitals/health units of Indian Railways, said the statement. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/railway-to-implement-hmis-facility-in-all-hospitals-1065865.html
29-12-2021||North and Central||Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi drives bus, leads cavalcade of 58 news ones||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Channi on Wednesday inducted 58 new buses as part of total 842 modern vehicles being added into the state fleet in one go for the first time ever at a cost of Rs 400 crore. He himself drove the bus and led the cavalcade of these new buses while flagging off it here from his official residence. Inducting the first tranche of 30 buses for Punjab Roadways Transport Corporation (PRTC) and 28 buses for Punjab State Bus Stand Management Company (PUNBUS), the Chief Minister congratulated the people of the state, especially women and the students, who can now enjoy their free travel in the new buses while announcing free bus pass facility for the students of both the government and private colleges and universities. Reiterating his government's commitment to provide best facilities to the common masses, Channi said 105 bus terminals are being constructed and renovated at a cost of Rs 400 crore. He said besides issuing 1,406 new bus permits, 425 new bus routes would be added in the state. Lauding Transport Minister Amarinder Singh Raja Warring for his efforts in the last three months, the Chief Minister said the last three months have witnessed the Transport Department's revival as a result of stringent action against erring bus operators and tax evaders. Crackdown on those running the state transport as a mafia has resulted in significant enhancement of department revenue, said Channi accompanied by Transport Minister Amarinder Singh Raja Warring, asserting that no-one would be allowed to fleece commuters and a transparent, efficient and effective transport mechanism is his government's top priority. Thanking the Chief Minister for his prompt action, the Transport Minister said in the last three months the department has seen an increase in daily revenue to the tune of Rs 1.50 crore already. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-cm-charanjit-singh-channi-drives-bus-leads-cavalcade-of-58-news-ones-1065867.html
29-12-2021||North and Central||BJP will win more assembly seats in western UP than last time: Anurag Thakur||The BJP will win more seats in western Uttar Pradesh compared to the last assembly polls, and the farmers' protest had no bearing on public sentiment in the region, Union minister Anurag Thakur has asserted. Thakur, who is also the BJP's Uttar Pradesh election co-in charge, expressed confidence that the party will return to power in the state with more than 300 seats on the back of a positive public sentiment due to action against "gundaraj", "unprecedented" development and public welfare schemes under the Yogi Adityanath government.  "We brought the (farm) bills for the benefit of farmers. As (Prime Minister Narendra) Modiji said maybe, due to some deficiency, we could not make the farmers understand. Even if the bills were repealed, it was done in the national interest," he said when PTI asked if the withdrawal of the agri laws will benefit the BJP in western Uttar Pradesh.  "I had gone to Meerut and Saharanpur before the laws were repealed... The public sentiment was very positive then too," he said, adding that huge crowds can be seen in the BJP's rallies and there is a lot of enthusiasm. Western Uttar Pradesh accounts for 76 seats in the 403-member UP Assembly. In 2017, the BJP had bagged 66 of the 76 seats in the region, while the Samajwadi Party, Bahujan Samaj Party and Congress won four, three and two seats, respectively.  The Farm Laws Repeal Act repealed the three farm laws which were passed by Parliament in September last year with an objective to bring reforms in the agriculture sector, especially the marketing of farm produce. The three farm laws against which farmers were protesting were the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. Thakur said the Adityanath government ended "gundaraj and mafiaraj" in Uttar Pradesh while the previous government allegedly gave protection to goons.  "People fled Uttar Pradesh due to rampant "gundaraj and mafiaraj" in the state during the tenure of the previous Samajwadi Party government and now they are returning seeing the work of the Adityanath dispensation," he said. While the previous Samajwadi Party allegedly inflicted atrocities on women, no one can dare look at women in Uttar Pradesh with a bad intention under the Adityanath government, he said. Responding to a question on the Congress' women-centric approach for its Uttar Pradesh election campaign, Thakur said the Sonia Gandhi-led party had joined hands with those who inflicted atrocities against women in the last assembly elections. "Won't Priyanka Gandhi concede that the SP supported goons like Atiq Ahmed and Mukhtar Ansari?" he said.  Women in Uttar Pradesh can now step out of their home even in the dark and businessmen have developed confidence due to the Adityanath government's action against "gundaraj and mafiaraj", he said.  "We will return to power with more than 300 seats due to a positive public sentiment... we brought development to every nook and corner of the state despite Covid-induced problems in the last two years," he told reporters.  On reports about resentment in the Brahmin community, Thakur said the BJP government in the Centre and the state works on the principle of "sabka saath sabka vikas". He said, "4.5 lakh youths got employment in the government sector and three lakh got contractual jobs without any differentiation on the basis of caste".  "It is the biggest factor along with the improvement in the law and order situation that jobs were given in a transparent manner," the Union Minister for Information and Broadcasting added.  "There are lakhs of people who got a 'pucca' house, power connection, benefit under the Ayushman Bharat scheme, and free ration ... the poor evaluate the benefit of even a rupee," he said. "Social welfare schemes and the improvement in the law and order situation are two other major factors which will bring the BJP back in power," he said. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-will-win-more-assembly-seats-in-western-up-than-last-time-anurag-thakur-1065874.html
29-12-2021||North and Central||Income Tax Department conducts searches at 35 locations in Chhattisgarh||The Income Tax Department on Wednesday carried out searches at 35 locations connected to two prominent business groups of Raipur and Korba in Chhattisgarh and seized cash and jewellery worth Rs 3 crore. According to officials, these private firms that deal with iron and steel products, coal washery and transportation, were concealing unaccounted cash of over Rs 200 crore. The searches covered more than 35 premises spread over Raipur, Korba, Bilaspur and Raigarh districts of Chhattisgarh. Various incriminating documents and digital evidence including a parallel set of cash books were found, in one of the firms. The preliminary analysis of these parallel set of cash books revealed that it contained a systematic record of unaccounted transactions of over Rs 200 crore. Evidence collected also suggests that certain entities of this group were indulging in suppression of actual production and subsequent unaccounted sales made in cash, which were not recorded in the regular account books. In the case of one such entity, a parallel set of records of transactions of around Rs 50 crore were recovered which were not reflected in the regular accounts books. "The search team has also found that this group is evading their taxable income by obtaining bogus purchase invoices from related group entities engaged in transportation as well as from entry providers," an official said. He added that the other group also indulged in various malpractices. "It was being done to evade taxes on its income by resorting to obtaining of share capital with unsubstantiated share premium and claim of expenses on bogus purchases. The key person of this group has admitted an undisclosed income of Rs 20 crore," he said. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/income-tax-department-conducts-searches-at-35-locations-in-chhattisgarh-1065886.html
29-12-2021||North and Central||Senior politician Rajveer Singh passes away||Senior leader Rajveer Singh, a former three-time MP from Aonla, died on Wednesday at a hospital in Noida following prolonged illness. He was 83. He is survived by his son and a daughter, family sources here said. Elected MP on a BJP ticket from Aonla constituency in 1989, 1991 and 1998, Singh also served as the secretary of the Bharatiya Jana Sangh, general secretary of Janata Party, vice president of Uttar Pradesh BJP and national president of BJP Kisan Morcha. He was considered a close aide of former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, former home minister L K Advani and former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh. He had joined the Samajwadi Party in 2004. His son Dhiren Singh joined the Akhilesh Yadav-led party, recently. Singh was popular as a leader of the Rohilkhand region and was known for his influence among workers at the grassroot level. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/senior-politician-rajveer-singh-passes-away-1065897.html
29-12-2021||North and Central||Kashmir: 70% of locals who joined militancy in 2021 killed or arrested||Around 70 per cent of the local youth who joined militant ranks this year were either killed or arrested while 165 ultras, including 75 foreigners, were still active in the Valley, official figures reveal. In 85 encounters between security forces and ultras this year, 162 militants, including 145 locals and 17 foreigners were killed, it said. As many as 82 militants and their associates were also arrested during the year, out of which 28 were taken into custody by the National Investigation Agency (NIA). During the same period, law enforcement agencies also arrested 594 overground workers (OGWs) of militants, out of which 250 were booked under Public Safety Act, the figures reveal. About 438 cases under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) were also registered in the year while 277 weapons, including 119 rifles and 160 pistols, were recovered from the militants. The police categorise “anybody who supports the militants” as an OGW. A person providing a safe house, passage, information or acting as a messenger for suspected militants automatically comes under the radar of the police as an OGW. During the year, police also registered 853 cases under Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act and arrested 1,465 persons allegedly involved in drug trafficking, the official data reveals. Seven cases under narco-terrorism were also reported during the year with 45 kilograms of heroin recovered. According to inspector general police (IGP), Kashmir, Vijay Kumar, there has been a significant decrease in incidents of militancy, killings of civilians and security forces, and recruitment into militant ranks this year. “(Overall) the situation has improved, but unfortunately, some incidents occurred in Srinagar in October, when soft targets were killed. We have killed or arrested everyone involved in those killings except one,” he said. According to Kumar, terror is a crime and will remain as long as terrorists are there. “This is a challenge and we are ready to handle it,” he said, adding that they were apprehensive about the Taliban takeover of Kabul and that things might escalate here, “but that didn’t happen.” Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kashmir-70-of-locals-who-joined-militancy-in-2021-killed-or-arrested-1065923.html
29-12-2021||North and Central||Congress should apologise for foisting false cases against Hindu organisations: Yogi Adityanath on Malegaon blast case||Attacking the Congress over the claims of a witness in the 2008 Malegaon blast case, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday accused the party of "nurturing" terrorists and foisting false cases against Hindu organisations when in power. The witness, who turned hostile, on Tuesday old Mumbai's special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court that ATS officers had forced him to take the names of Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and five RSS members in the terror case. "This mischief of the Congress is a crime against the country and its leaders should apologise to the people," Adityanath said while addressing a public meeting during the BJP's Jan Vishwas Yatra here. "How the Congress played with the country is not hidden. When in government, they encouraged and nurtured terrorists and fake cases were foisted against Hindu organisations. And now when it is out of government, it opposes all works which are in people's interest," the firebrand BJP leader alleged. He also took a swipe at Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav over the income tax raids on a Kanpur-based perfume trader, saying this shows why Yadav was opposing demonetisation. "You must have seen the money of the poor which had been hidden and kept away during the previous governments is now coming out of the walls. "Now you must have understood as to why 'Babua' opposed demonetisation. This money was meant for the poor and development works. It could have been helpful in your district but was usurped and hidden. We are now taking it out and will use it for development," Adityanath said. He also cited the various schemes of the government including the distribution of free ration and stressed that "when there is an able government, it brings good schemes for the people". "If a bad government comes, then this foodgrain would go to the houses of SP, BSP and Congress leaders and fill their vaults," the chief minister said.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-should-apologise-for-foisting-false-cases-against-hindu-organisations-yogi-adityanath-on-malegaon-blast-case-1065937.html
29-12-2021||North and Central||Letter petition sent to CJI Ramana for addressing doctors' issues||A letter petition was on Wednesday sent to Chief Justice of India N V Ramana to direct formation of a committee to address the issues of doctors, including the over eight-month-delay in counselling of Post Graduate candidates, and direct the Delhi police chief to initiate an enquiry into the incident of physical assault on the protesting medicos. In his communication, advocate Vineet Jindal also asked the CJI to prepone the hearing of the matter pertaining EWS reservation in NEET-PG course and initiate day to day hearing. The doctors have been striking work over delays in NEET-2021 PG counselling. The matter has been fixed for hearing before the top court on January 6, in view of a batch of petitions questioning EWS quota. On December 27, the mass protest was followed by doctors' march which was stopped by the police near ITO. During the protest, doctors were brutally thrashed, dragged and detained by the police officials which further aggravated the situation and now has led to a complete shutdown of the health care facilities all over the country. On October 25, the top court had directed the Centre to put on hold counselling for NEET-PG until it decided the validity of OBC and EWS reservation in the All India Quota (AIQ). A group of petitioners led by Neil Aurelio Nunes challenged the Centre's notification of July 29 to implement OBC and EWS reservation in NEET-All India Quota from the current academic session in PG courses. On November 30, the Union government set up a three-member committee to review annual income criteria of Rs 8 lakh fixed to determine Economically Weaker Sections for claiming benefit of reservation in jobs and admission to educational institutions. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/letter-petition-sent-to-cji-ramana-for-addressing-doctors-issues-1065939.html
29-12-2021||North and Central||Delhi night curfew Kejriwal's ploy to delay Punjab polls: Channi||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi claimed Wednesday that the night curfew imposed by the Arvind Kejriwal government in Delhi was just a ploy to get the Punjab assembly polls postponed by projecting that the Covid threat is serious. Apart from Kejriwal’s Aam Aadmi Party, the Congress leader also accused the BJP of wanting to postpone the Punjab polls. The AAP, which is the main opposition in Punjab, dismissed the claim as “baseless” and “immature”. Channi’s remark came at an event where 58 new buses were inducted into the government fleet, with the chief minister himself driving one and also announcing free travel passes for college students. He told reporters that his government planned to soon address issues that concerned Anganwadi workers, ASHA health workers and truckers’ unions. “But the AAP and the BJP want the elections postponed,” he said. “The AAP has imposed a night curfew in Delhi to show that the situation is serious and these elections should not be held,” he added. His own party, however, was ready for the elections “today”, the Congress leader said. The Kejriwal government had announced a night curfew in capital from Monday amid rising Covid cases and the threat posed by the new Omicron variant. Harpal Singh Cheema, who is the leader of opposition in the Punjab Assembly, said Kejriwal was concerned about the health of people. The AAP leader termed Channi’s remarks “baseless” and “immature” and said night curfew has been imposed in some other states as well, and not just in Delhi. He said the Congress is scared of Kejriwal’s popularity in Punjab and predicted that the AAP will form the next government there. While no political parties in the states going to the polls early next year have called for their postponement, the Allahabad High recently suggested that the Election Commission should consider deferring them for a month or two because of the pandemic. The HC had also suggested banning election rallies. The CM announced free passes for students from both government and private colleges. The 58 new buses are part of 842 which are being added to the state’s fleet at a cost of Rs 400 crore. Thirty buses from the first batch will go to the Pepsu Road Transport Corporation and remaining 28 to PUNBUS. Channi said 105 bus terminals are being constructed or renovated at a cost of Rs. 400 crore, 425 new bus routes being added and 1,406 new bus permits being given.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-night-curfew-kejriwals-ploy-to-delay-punjab-polls-channi-1065941.html
29-12-2021||North and Central||Centre sanctions Z category VIP security cover to new BJP entrant in Punjab||Punjab politician Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi, who joined the BJP a few days ago, has been accorded Z category VIP security cover by the Union government, official sources said on Wednesday. Sodhi, 67, is an MLA for the last four terms and is considered close to former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh. He recently announced his resignation from the Congress on Twitter and had posted the letter sent to party president Sonia Gandhi. An MLA from Guruharsahai in Ferozepur district, he was the sports minister in the Amarinder Singh government. He joined the BJP on December 21 at the party's headquarters here. Sources said Sodhi has been accorded Z category security on the recommendation of the Union home ministry and he will have an armed cover of the CRPF commandos every time he travels in Punjab and in Delhi. Under this cover, Sodhi will have a contingent of 6-8 commandos travelling with him, the sources said. The force protects as many as 76 personalities under its VIP security cover including Union Home Minister Amit Shah and the first family of Congress party, its president Sonia Gandhi and her children Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and Rahul Gandhi, among others. It is currently training a contingent of the Delhi Police and the Railway Protection Force (RPF) in VIP security tasks.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/centre-sanctions-z-category-vip-security-cover-to-new-bjp-entrant-in-punjab-1065946.html
29-12-2021||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh polls: Railways racing against time to complete new Ayodhya station||Ahead of the Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections, the Indian Railways is working on war footing to complete the works of the new railway station at Ayodhya as the Centre wants to showcase its work in the temple town. The construction of new railway station started in 2018, which is coming up next to the existing station. It is expected to complete most of the works by March-end of 2022. Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections are due in early 2022. At present, the daily passengers' footfall at Ayodhya is around 4,000 per day. The Railways expects footfall will increase once the construction works of Ram Mandir are complete. "The new railway station is being built to handle more than 70,000 passengers footfall per day. The station will have all modern facilities," Virendra Singh Yadav, Additional Divisional Railway Manager said. Built at a cost of Rs 126 crore, the new railway station is one of the multi development projects initiated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in UP. "Since Ayodhya Station falls under loop line, currently per day 22 mail and express trains halting or passing on the route and six Passenger trains are also operating, once passengers arrival increases, more trains will be introduced. More handling, more trains, the railways made arrangement in the new premises," Yadav said. This is the first stage of the station. The second phase which is estimated to cost Rs 307 crore, will have a large waiting area, new platform, approach road, parking area for pilgrims. The state government is in the process of acquiring land, said Lallu Singh, BJP MP from Faizabad Lok Sabha constituency. Singh refused to link station development and upcoming Assembly elections. "BJP never seek votes in the name of the temple. Since Ayodhya is an important pilgrim place, the BJP government both at the Centre and state working together to improve the infrastructure of the temple town," he said. The new station will be a major hub as the majority of pilgrims are expected to visit Ayodhya via train. This will also be the largest station dedicated to pilgrims in UP. The design of the railway station structures was inspired by the Shree Janmabhoomi temple, with domes, long "shikhars" and towering pillars. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-polls-railways-racing-against-time-to-complete-new-ayodhya-station-1065952.html
29-12-2021||North and Central||Hyderpora killings: Families, politicians reject SIT probe; police warns against 'speculative' statements||As the families of victims of the Hyderpora “encounter” and local political parties on Wednesday disagreed with special investigation team’s (SIT) clean chit to security forces, J&K police warned leaders of “appropriate penal” action for “speculative” statements. “Today, SIT (Special Investigation Team) came across several posts on media from some political leaders and family members wherein they have cast doubts upon the evidence obtained by SIT so far. These people have tried to call it “Concocted Cover up Story”, “Ornamental Probe”, “Clean Chit to Killers”, “Fairy Tale of Police” etc,” a police spokesperson said in a statement. “Such speculative statements from the political leaders have a tendency to create provocation, rumour, fear and alarm among the general masses or particular section of society. This kind of approach is against the rule of law and may attract appropriate penal provisions as envisaged under law,” he warned. The SIT chief had on Tuesday evening said that two civilians, a doctor and a businessman were used as human shields by militants and killed during the encounter on November 15 in uptown Hyderpora area of Srinagar. However, the families of the slain building owner Altaf Ahmed Bhat and Dr Mudasir Gul rejected the SIT probe of police stating that “it seems a fairy tale” alleging that Bhat was tortured and killed while as Gul’s family urged police to show them CCTV footage “where the slain doctor is ferrying foreign militant.” “SIT probe is totally false. I reject it. My brother had severe torture marks on his body. How come he was made a human shield as claimed by police when 2,000 security forces personnel were present on the spot,” Abdul Majeed Bhat, elder brother of victim Altaf who owned the building, told reporters. He said they don’t buy the police version as it seems a “well drafted tale.” Similarly, Humaira Gul, the wife of Dr Gul, while rejecting police claims said that the truth was either known to those who were killed or to those who killed them. “My point is that my husband was a doctor by profession and why would he put his family at stake for nothing. The police must show us the CCTV footage where he is allegedly ferrying foreign militant Bilal Bhat,” she demanded. The J&K Apni Party and the Peoples Conference (PC), who are being labeled as proxies of the BJP by the National Conference and the PDP, also questioned the veracity of the SIT report. The PC termed the findings of the SIT “a fig leaf to legitimize violence by the State.” The People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), said that there was a strong public perception that the civilians killed in the incident were made human shields by the security forces and the statement of the police seemed to be a "concocted, cover-up story." The PAGD - an alliance of six mainstream political parties was formed in October 2020 by Kashmir centric leaders with the pledge towards restoration of the special status of J&K which was revoked by the Centre on August 5, 2019. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hyderpora-killings-families-politicians-reject-sit-probe-police-warns-against-speculative-statements-1065976.html
29-12-2021||North and Central||Private coaching centres in Delhi shut over Covid spike, online classes can continue||Private coaching institutions in the national capital will be closed till further orders due to rapid increase in number of Covid-19 cases but online cases can continue, the Directorate of Education (DoE) said on Wednesday. The Delhi Disaster management Authority (DDMA) had yesterday enforced yellow alert in Delhi following spike in Covid cases amid emergence of Omicron variant. Schools and colleges were announced to be shut under the yellow alert. "Private coaching institutions situated in Delhi will remain closed till further orders. However, online classes can be continued. All private coaching centres will follow the instructions and guidelines issued by DDMA from time to time for security and safety of students, teachers, faculties and public at large," DoE said in an official order. "In case, any coaching centre is found violating the instructions, the defaulters will be penalised as per provisions of Disaster Management Act, 2005 and other applicable laws," it added. The national capital on Tuesday registered a massive spike in daily Covid-19 with 496 fresh cases, the highest since June 4, while the positivity rate also rose to 0.89 per cent along with one fatality due to coronavirus in the city. The total number of cases of new Omicron variant of Covid-19 recorded in Delhi has also mounted to 238.There were 67 Omicron cases in the national capital on Friday.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/private-coaching-centres-in-delhi-shut-over-covid-spike-online-classes-can-continue-1065978.html
29-12-2021||North and Central||Senior bureaucrat Durga Shankar Mishra proposed to be new Uttar Pradesh chief secretary||Ahead of the upcoming elections, Housing and Urban Affairs Secretary Durga Shankar Mishra was on Wednesday repatriated to his parent cadre Uttar Pradesh as the Yogi Adityanath government proposes to appoint him as the new chief secretary, an order that comes barely two days before his retirement. In an official order, the Personnel Ministry said that Mishra, a 1984-batch IAS officer of the Uttar Pradesh cadre due to superannuate on Friday, was being repatriated to his parent cadre. The Appointments Committee of the Cabinet has approved his repatriation "for his proposed appointment as Chief Secretary, Uttar Pradesh by the State Government of Uttar Pradesh", the order said. At present, Rajendra Kumar Tiwari, a 1985-batch IAS officer, is the Chief Secretary of Uttar Pradesh. He is due to retire in February 2023. The appointment is being proposed at a time when the state is preparing itself for holding the assembly elections likely to be scheduled before March next year. The Personnel Ministry had in an order on Monday named Manoj Joshi as the new Housing and Urban Affairs Secretary in place of Mishra. Joshi, a 1989-batch Kerala cadre IAS officer, has been appointed as Officer on Special Duty in the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs. He will take over as Secretary, Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs upon superannuation of Durga Shanker Mishra, on December 31, the order said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/senior-bureaucrat-durga-shankar-mishra-proposed-to-be-new-uttar-pradesh-chief-secretary-1065990.html
29-12-2021||North and Central||Terrorist killed, cop injured in separate encounters in south Kashmir||A terrorist was killed and a policeman injured in two separate encounters between security forces and ultras in Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday, police said. While one encounter broke out in Anantnag district, another gunfight took place in Kulg am district – both in south Kashmir. A police official said the first encounter happened when security forces launched a cordon and search operation in Nowgam Shahabad of Dooru in the south Kashmir district acting on a specific input about the presence of militants. He said as the forces were conducting the searches, the hiding militants fired upon them. The forces retaliated, ensuing an encounter, the official said. In the initial firing, a police personnel was injured and has been shifted to a hospital, the official added. The exchange of firing was going on and further details were awaited, he said. Meanwhile, another encounter broke out between militants and security forces in Mirhama area of the neighbouring Kulgam district, the official said. He said one militant, his identity yet to be ascertained, was killed in the gunfight. The operation is underway, he said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/terrorist-killed-cop-injured-in-separate-encounters-in-south-kashmir-1065993.html
29-12-2021||North and Central||Three unidentified militants killed in Kashmir's Kulgam||Three unidentified militants were killed in a brief gunfight  with security forces in Mirhama area of south Kashmir’s Kulgam district on Wednesday evening, police said. "#KulgamEncounterUpdate: 02 more unidentified #terrorists killed (Total 03). Search going on. Further details shall follow (sic)," Kashmir Zone Police tweeted.  Reports said the gunfight erupted after a joint team of J&K police and army launched a cordon-and-search-operation (CASO) in Mirhama, Kulgam, 60 kms from here, following inputs about presence of militants in the area.  As the search party approached towards the suspected spot, the hiding militants fired upon the forces triggering off an encounter, in which three ultras were killed, reports added. The identity and group affiliation of the slain militants was not known immediately. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/three-unidentified-militants-killed-in-kashmirs-kulgam-1066027.html
29-12-2021||North and Central||UP elections: Development to play big on BJP's poll agenda||Playing up the idea of development and tightening of security measures under the Yogi government will be big on the Bharatiya Janata Party’s poll agenda in the upcoming Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh. Policy reforms, rollouts and freebies aimed at women and the poor will be at the heart of the ruling party’s poll time offering, communications, as well as strategies, senior leaders of the party, said.  Senior leaders that DH spoke to said that the BJP will play up its pro-poor, welfare-based and women-centric schemes.  “The idea is to break consolidated votes across castes, and tell the voter that under our government there was upward mobility of the poor, the old and women,” said a senior functionary from the party’s Delhi headquarters, involved in the party’s election preparations.  The leader said that in his poll speeches, PM Narendra Modi has frequently touched upon free electricity and housing that has been given to the poor.  Party leaders said that in a post-Covid scenario, with dipping income and a rising inflation rate, the BJP cannot be seen not offering something. “The Opposition will attack us on these very grounds,” said another senior party functionary from the state.  Freebies and concessions on ease of living, the functionary said, for these target groups will be part of the offering.  To this end, the party has started distributing pamphlets of its achievements in the last four and a half years, in villages, the state leader said.  “We have increased pensions for widows and senior citizens, and they are given Rs 2,000 over four months between December to March in two installments. The number of beneficiaries of the scheme is over 6.66 crore,” said the leader.  Apart from women and those below the poverty line, the party will also reach out to farmers, the leader said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-elections-development-to-play-big-on-bjps-poll-agenda-1066049.html
29-12-2021||Oasis||The paradox of knowing but not following||Everyone knows the difference between right and wrong, and good and bad. Despite this, man still commits various wrongs and misdeeds. It is about this paradoxical matter that Pandava Prince Arjuna asks Lord Krishna in the Karma Yoga of the Bhagawad Geeta. “What is it that impels men to act as if impelled by some unseen force to do evil, wrongful and prohibited actions, even when they do not really want to do so?” asks Arjuna. The Lord replies, “Understand that it is greed—uncontrolled desire. He is your inner, ever-present, all-devouring enemy who manifests as rage when he is prevented from attaining what he thirsts for”. This is a reiteration of what was mentioned earlier in the same chapter wherein the Lord said that man develops an affinity for sensual pleasures by constant exposure and thinking about them. This affinity morphs into desire and then into insatiable greed and further into uncontrollable anger when there are obstacles in satisfying these wants. This anger then clouds man’s thinking, rendering him incapable of right and balanced thinking. This loss of mental composure finally leads to his downfall. The Lord gives an eloquent example. “Just as smoke envelops burning flames, making them hazy and even invisible, just as dust and dirt cover the surface of a mirror, rendering it opaque, just as the developing foetus in the mother’s womb is sheathed in the amniotic sac, both protecting and insulating it from the external invasive world, so is man’s critical, discretionary faculty of mental poise veiled by this monster called desire/greed. It conquers even the learned scholars, benumbing them into the abyss of sensuality, affecting their mind, intellect and their senses. So, controlling your senses is the key to combating this ogre of desires,” says the Lord. Now comes the final piece of advice, the crowning glory of the Karma Yoga chapter. “The senses are higher(more powerful) than the physical body. Higher than the senses is the mind, higher to it is the intellect and higher to the intellect is the Atman — the supreme divinity which exists in all beings. Seek that inner being, go inwards, retreating from fleetingly pleasurable materialistic objects. Real happiness and bliss exist there. Therein lies life’s ultimate goal”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/the-paradox-of-knowing-but-not-following-1065653.html
29-12-2021||Opinion||Treating Ankylosing Spondylitis||At least half of India’s population may not have heard of Ankylosing Spondylitis (AS), a chronic inflammatory disease that primarily affects the spine and sacroiliac joints, affecting one in every 100 young adults in India. According to GlobalData’s recent study, the diagnosed prevalence of AS in India is currently around 1.65 million and is estimated to grow at an annual growth rate of 2.95% to reach 2 million in 2028. Research studies show that this condition is 2-3 times more likely to affect men than women and is typically diagnosed in those younger than 40 years with symptoms first developing between 20 and 30 years of age. One of the most under-diagnosed conditions in India mainly due to lack of awareness, AS is mostly mistaken for a “regular backache”. Overlapping symptoms between AS and backaches such as stiffness in the lower back, stiff joints or sudden shooting pain in the back or hips mainly lead to a delayed diagnosis that could ultimately result in fusion of the spine in abnormal positions. It is important for one to understand this irritating and potentially serious condition. An early onset gives the disease more time to impact the body and can significantly affect the quality of life of a patient, besides its potential to cause a variety of major complications. The possible list of complications of an inadequately treated AS patient consists of reduced spine mobility and flexibility, humped posture, joint damage or replacement, spine fracture, and increased risk of heart attacks. Treatment for AS  It is important to visit a specialist, i.e., a rheumatologist in this case who can treat complex diseases that are often difficult to diagnose. With AS being a long-lasting condition, a rheumatologist is required to help find accurate treatments and strategies to manage the condition. There are advanced treatment options available such as biologics that help slow down the structural damage progression caused by AS, preventing bone fusion and in many cases preventing new bone formation. Biologics are designed to target specific proteins (TNF/IL-17A) that are involved in the inflammatory process. They not only help reduce the inflammatory pain but also reduce the risk of other comorbidities like eye inflammation, cardiovascular diseases, and even depression. Challenges in treating AS Unfortunately, over 50% of AS patients consult an orthopaedic or a physiotherapist before visiting the Rheumatologist. Owing to the lack of awareness, these doctors do not recommend them to see a specialist for this condition. Incorrect treatment even for 1-2 years, can lead to other medical conditions. These problems in the country are further compounded by rheumatologists being in short supply in India. As per estimates, there are 209,000 patients with rheumatic complaints per rheumatologist in the country. Approximately 69% of patients are being misdiagnosed in India and the right treatment is being prolonged, which can lead to irreversible structural damage to the spine leading to disability. If AS is not treated in time, the condition could lead to significant movement disability, spinal fractures, osteoporosis, and nerve damage. Hence, it is advisable to consult a rheumatologist quickly if there are any symptoms of AS. (The writer is a rheumatologist)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/treating-ankylosing-spondylitis-1065654.html
29-12-2021||Opinion||What inflation in 2022 will teach us about capitalism||By John Authers, In 2021, inflation returned. After a year-long debate, nobody can any longer deny this. Next year, we will discover whether it’s here to stay and how much bitter economic medicine will be required to quell it. On this vital issue, opinion is as divided as ever. Optimists still maintain that even if inflation has turned out to be more than a transitory blip, it will soon die down. Whether they’re right depends on the outcome of some of capitalism’s most profound conflicts. A number of factors will indeed combine to push downwards on inflation next year. Used-car prices doubled and gasoline prices rose by 50% last year. That’s not going to happen again. Bottlenecks in global trade have already begun to loosen up a little. And there is ample room for central banks to tighten monetary policy; so far, there has been no attempt to reduce demand by raising the price of money or cutting back on its supply.  It’s encouraging that the bond market expects inflation to barely exceed 2% five years from now and the Fed’s interest rates not to rise even that high. Consumer expectations aren’t much different. If they were to change and become entrenched, then inflation would be hard to dislodge. But for now, investors believe that price rises can and will be brought under control relatively painlessly.  Still, permanently higher inflation remains a possibility. Whether it comes to pass will depend on two core questions that have long plagued capitalism: Will labor gain a greater share at the expense of capital? And, if so, will companies absorb higher wage costs or pass them on to customers? Labour vs. Capital Since the 1980s, capitalism has evolved to keep inflation under control. The risk now is that capitalism has embarked on a regime change. Labour’s share of GDP held stable at somewhat higher than 60% for the five decades after World War II. But it started to decline sharply after the dotcom bubble burst in 2000 and fell further after the financial crisis in 2008. As Ellen Zentner, chief economist at Morgan Stanley put it, the historically “unprecedented” plunge in the labour share of GDP “marks a break in the fundamental structure of the economy.”  The increasing powerlessness of unions has made it harder for workers to negotiate collectively. Demographic factors have similarly diminished their bargaining power. While the baby boom generation was at peak working age, labour supply was ample. Companies’ ability to outsource production to countries with lower wage bills, particularly China, further inhibited wages, as did the influx of migrants from Mexico.  What was already a bad deal for the worst-paid became a terrible one in the years after the 2008 financial crisis, as companies made increasing use of part-time workers who had fewer benefits and could be dismissed cheaply. For several years under President Barack Obama, part-time workers’ wages lagged far behind those of full-time workers, and also behind inflation:   This malaise led to populist anger and the ascent of President Donald Trump. In the last year, though, the pandemic appears to have turned the labour market on its head. Following virus-related shutdowns, job vacancies have surged to near-record levels as companies have tried and failed to fill low-paid jobs. The low-skilled, under-educated and poorly paid have gained more negotiating power — and used it. Now, they are getting the best wage deals in a generation; their salaries are rising faster than for the well-paid and expensively educated. Wage growth for women and non-whites has overtaken that for men and whites.  Unfortunately for them, another pattern has also reversed. The extra wages they’ve negotiated are nowhere near enough to cover fast-rising inflation. Data produced by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta show a sharp decline in real wages.  That gives workers even more incentive to push for higher wages next year, which would be a crucial building block for embedded inflation. It was data like this that prompted Jerome Powell, head of the Federal Reserve, to say at the central bank’s last meeting of the year, “The labor market is by so many measures hotter than it ever ran in the last expansion.”  Who Pays? If capitalists are forced to pay their workers a greater share of their revenue, they have two alternatives. One is to take the hit themselves, leave prices unchanged and make do with a tighter profit margin. The other is to pass on the wage increases to consumers by raising prices, if they can. Will they, and do they have the power to do so? As Morgan Stanley’s Zentner puts it, this is the “thread the needle” moment for the Federal Reserve, which aims to balance full employment with price stability. If companies decide to take the hit, accelerating wages need not spill over into rising price inflation. Until the last decade or so, history provided clear guidance. Over time, profit margins have been an almost perfectly cyclical, mean-reverting phenomenon. Margins improve when times are good and decline during recessions, as companies elect to take some of the hit from the economic downturn themselves. But something has changed since the financial crisis. Margins for S&P 500 companies rebounded swiftly after 2008, aided by the stagnation in wages. On the eve of the pandemic, margins had avoided a major fall for a decade and reached a record.  Since the pandemic, margins have strayed even further from the traditional pattern, suffering a mild decline (thanks to sweeping layoffs early on) and now surging back to reach a level of profitability never before seen.  At this point, however, companies have to recruit more people to raise production. And it looks as though they will be unable to do so unless they raise wages.  Executives are assuring investors that they are confident in their pricing power and Wall Street projects that margins should rise further next year. This provokes complaints from politicians, who suggest that heavy industry concentration, thanks to the mergers and acquisitions of the last few decades, have left companies with the discretion to charge whatever prices they like.  This argument, long the stuff of academic papers and Davos panels, will come to a head next year. In the last few decades, the balance of capitalism has tilted sharply in favour of capital. One effect of this has been to keep inflation under control. Now, after a once-in-a-generation pandemic has roiled labour markets, workers, particularly the lowest paid, appear to be regaining strength. The story of inflation in 2022 will also be the story of whether the regime of capitalism is really changing and returning to an arguably healthier balance. We should be watching prices not just for their impact on the economy, but for what they’ll tell us about the future of our societies. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/what-inflation-in-2022-will-teach-us-about-capitalism-1065784.html
29-12-2021||Opinion||Nagaland: Threads of unity amid gunfire and poll pitch||An impression has gained ground that perhaps the entire Naga population is against India, the Indian army, and other security forces. The state of Nagaland is now in poll mode. The recent killing of the Konyak Naga mineworkers has revived the demand for the repeal of the Armed Forces Special Powers Act (AFSPA). Elections are due in Nagaland in February 2023. Chief Minister Neiphiu Rio, heading a coalition with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and another regional party, is under pressure and has backed the demand for the repeal of the AFSPA. Last week, he and his cabinet played the populist card and declared the formation of three new districts of Tseminyu, Chumuedima and Niuland. These are popular demands, and state minister Jacob Zhimomi described the announcement as the best Christmas gift. However, December 4, 2021, indeed remains a black day, and the Naga population and, for that matter, other tribal communities in the northeast are against the AFSPA. The Naga people have faced enough brunt, so it is not without good reason that they oppose the AFSPA. The Nagas or Khasis in Meghalaya could be anti-AFSPA. But it would be a big blunder of our time if in Delhi any ivory tower expert within the government apparatus or outside it labelled the entire Naga population and others as anti-India. Even to call them 'anti-Indian army' too would be erroneous. What is happening over the AFSPA is genuine, but the rest of it - taking the battle too far is part of politics. The protests against the killings of Naga civilians could be part of a larger conspiracy to derail the peace talks between the Centre and Naga militant groups. The Naga National Political Groups, or NNPGs, an umbrella organisation of seven groups, still favour the early signing of the final Naga Peace Accord. So are a section of the Naga leaders.  "The Government of India and the central agencies will give the excuse that as long as the solution has not arrived, the AFSPA and the Disturbed Areas Act should be retained. As a Naga and as a politician working with various nationalist party leaders, I would like these black laws to go permanently from the Naga life. But to hope for this without the final solution may not help our struggle," former state minister N Thomas Lotha in The Nagaland Page, a local newspaper, recently wrote. This journalist has spent many years with the Nagas and Mizos, and hence, I would not be wrong to suggest that for most Nagas and other communities in the region, there is a strong ethical and moral bond with the rest of the country. Hundreds of them are settled in Pune, New Delhi, Bengaluru and other Indian cities. People in the region have grievances against the army and the Centre, about which a former chief secretary of Nagaland, AM Gokhale, had once said, "New Delhi still thinks like Aurangzeb's Delhi." But these simple tribal people, sometimes hot-headed, do not consider themselves out of tune with the Indian political system. If former prime minister Indira Gandhi was popular in Delhi and the cow belt states, she was popular in the northeast too. Naga and Mizo oldtimers still remember and hail her handling of the Bangladesh Independence struggle in 1971. If Narendra Modi is popular in the rest of India, people had received him with much enthusiasm when he visited Kohima in Naga attire. To strengthen my argument, I will take the clock back to 1999 when Indian army jawans and officers laid down lives in the hills of Kargil. When Indian soldiers were fighting Pakistani intruders, the Nagas and Khasis had decided where they stood. The solidarity in the northeast with the Indian army is a proposition that many experts in Delhi and social media activists fail to appreciate.  The ultras had served warnings in many places asking locals to stay away from the Indian army's war efforts. Locals declined to oblige.  In the Kargil hills, among the martyred soldiers were Lieutenant Neikezhakuo (alias Neibu) Kengurusie, an Angami Naga from Nerhema village. He attained martyrdom on June 28, 1999, at Black Rock, Kargil, at the tender age of 24. The 2 Rajputana Rifles officer was later posthumously awarded the Maha Vir Chakra, India's second-highest gallantry award. His funeral journey from Dimapur airport to Kohima left hundreds with moist eyes, and the gathering was huge.  "Nagaland has not seen anything like that since the death of its legendary leader Phizo in 1989," reported The Indian Express. However, this even though the Naga rebels have collaborated with Pakistani ISI elements and go-betweens from time to time. The same sense of pride pervaded in Meghalaya as well. Captain K Clifford Nongrum sacrificed his life in the difficult Batalik sector.  There was a wave of criticism when the ULFA announced its support to the "Kashmiri freedom fighters" in their newsletter 'Freedom' during the Kargil conflict. "No Assamese in the remotest part of the state will help or support Pakistan," Assam Sahitya Sabha's Chandra Prasad Saikia had said then. In Assam's Sibsagar district, one ULFA activist was killed when he stopped locals from raising funds for the army during the Kargil conflict. In the final analysis, here is what Nagaland's only Christian governor, MM Thomas, who was from Kerala, as reported in Kohima's Weekly Journal on February 27, 1991, said: "You don't give a second thought to writing against the state (government) fully aware that the state will not retaliate to the extent these anti-national elements would." (The author is a journalist and author based in New Delhi) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/nagaland-threads-of-unity-amid-gunfire-and-poll-pitch-1065854.html
29-12-2021||Right in the Middle||Life lessons at a resort||Lolling against the bedpost, I was looking at the lush greenery outside the long windowpanes of a lovely resort at Chickmagalur. After a time span of twenty months, we were on this pleasure trip, as a part of my son’s birthday celebrations.The view outside was a visual spectacle. The delightful gurgle of distant rivulets produced dulcet music to the darting and dancing dragonflies. The swan-white birds, spreading wings in the sprawling sky, in a splendid configuration, created a spellbinding sight. Some distance away, there were silky cumulus clouds, which had suddenly started scudding, revealing a series of serrated-edged hillocks. The dense foliage around, dotted with raindrops, formed by the drizzles, was indeed a joyous treat to the jaded minds and jangling nerves of the city-folks. The rooms of the river-mist resort were remarkable. The delicate white and dark-grey drapes, daintily cascading from dual pelmets, looked dazzling and dreamy. The roofs looked like multiple horizontal slats, melded to each other. The pretty lampshades, having on its plinth, a brass image of a tribal belle, blowing a trumpet, had an antique touch. Just as the beige-hued Venetian blinds that bore an earthy feel. The swan-white counterpanes were squeaky-clean. The washrooms, with sparkling faucets, emanated a fresh fragrance. The concrete bench outside the cottage, created by cobbled stones, covered by big pebbles, was captivating. The huge grass mound, beside the hewn tree trunk, hiked up the beauty even more. The kids’ play area with swings, slides, see-saw were all in shiny bright hues. Amidst these, a small surprise was sprung on us, by the super ebullient resort staff, comprising Vishnu, Mithun, Naveen and Arfat (with 1000W smile!). A delectable cake was baked, besides dining-hall chairs being decked with bright balloons for my son’s birthday. This was a precursor to an elaborate spread of epicurean delicacies. Thanks to the veteran chef, Shivam, who had churned up that ambrosial cuisine.Two days later, it was time to bid adieu. This memorable jaunt made my mind mull over myriad things. One, we know the value of a thing, only when it is kept away from us. Just as, I could discern the value of pleasure, only after being deprived of it for months. Next, enjoyment is synonymous with the savouring of sweets. In small measures, it tastes simply good, but a surplus of it would surely get us sick! Not to miss, the remarkable gesture of resort staff, who tried radiating joy, despite their receded revenues last year — thus showing, whatever be one’s state, one can still spread surfeit joy around. Yes, these life lessons, learnt at the resort, would linger in the labyrinths of my mind for a long.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/life-lessons-at-a-resort-1065650.html
29-12-2021||Second Edit||Semicon incentives welcome policy||Semiconductor manufacture is an important part of the modern industrial and information economy where India hardly has a presence. It is concentrated in a few countries and much of the world is dependent on them for supplies. Europe, the US and East Asia account for most of the manufacture and supply of semiconductors to the world. So, the Union cabinet’s decision to set aside Rs 76,000 crore for an incentive package to promote "a semiconductor and display manufacturing ecosystem" in India is very welcome. All electronics and IT products, from complex and sophisticated equipment of high value and importance to simple household items, need semiconductors, and that makes them most sought-after commodities. There is a large variety of them and there is a very high degree of specialisation. It is important for India to develop manufacturing capacity to meet some parts of its present and future needs.  The present initiative is to extend the production-linked incentive (PLI) scheme to semiconductors over six years. It intends to provide fiscal support of up to 50% of the project cost for setting up semiconductor and display fabrication units. The plan envisages support for a large range that covers silicon semiconductor fabs, display fabs, compound semiconductors, silicon photonics and sensor fabs, semiconductor packaging, and semiconductor design. It has many details that need to be followed up and implemented in the coming months. A specialised and independent India Semiconductor Mission will also be established and it will be led by global industry experts. The government wants to develop it as a nodal agency to strategise and develop the chip and display industry on a sustainable basis.  A scheme is more easily planned than implemented, especially when it is as challenging as creating a semiconductor production ecosystem. It is a hugely capital-intensive industry that calls for billions of dollars in investments and securing foreign technology and top-class expertise. Keeping pace with fast-advancing technology is daunting. The industry has welcomed the scheme as a big push in the right direction but has also sought more details and clarifications. Most countries, including India, were badly hit during the Covid-19 pandemic as supply chains were disrupted. Some industries cut back production by as much as 50% due to the shortage of chips. Even now there is a waiting period of months for some chips. Developing semiconductor manufacturing capacity is important for strategic and national security reasons, too. Hopefully, the scheme will yield results, unlike earlier plans to develop the industry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/semicon-incentives-welcome-policy-1065651.html
29-12-2021||South||Andhra BJP promises liquor at Rs 50 per bottle if voted to power||The BJP in Andhra Pradesh has promised to offer liquor at Rs 50 per bottle, besides several initiatives, if voted to power in 2024 Assembly polls. In a public meeting held on Tuesday, BJP Chief Somu Veeraju, lashing out at Chief Minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy-led YSR Congress government and opposition Telugu Desam Party, Veerraju said the political forces in the state failed to develop the state despite the abundant resources and long sea coast it has. “I am telling you that one crore people are drinking ( alcohol) in the state. All of you people vote for BJP, we will offer you cheap liquor at Rs 75. If the revenues are good we will even supply at just Rs 50, (not bad liquor), definitely a good one,” Veerraju said indirectly pointing to high prices of liquor in the state. Referring to some of the state government Direct Benefit Transfer schemes, the BJP leader said on an average a person consumes liquor for about Rs 12000 per month and Jagan Mohan Reddy is collecting all that amount and giving it back in the name of a scheme. Veerraju asserted that BJP is committed to making Amaravati the capital and developing the region in just three years if voted to power in AP. Describing Communists as “barking dogs”, Veerraju alleged that the left parties "destroyed the country". Former Union Ministers Prakash Javadekar, Purandareswari and Rajya Sabha members YS Chowdary and MC Ramesh also spoke in the meeting.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-bjp-promises-liquor-at-rs-50-per-bottle-if-voted-to-power-1065800.html
29-12-2021||South||LDF's iconic victory, natural disasters and Covid-19 dominated Kerala's 2021||The LDF's return to power with a thumping margin, spike in covid-19 infection after the elections, the controversy surrounding self styled antiques dealer Monson Mavunkal which opened a can of worms for the Left government after his arrest, and the state facing devastating landslides due to heavy rains were the significant events which Kerala witnessed in the year 2021. Political murders-- that of a SDPI functionary and a BJP leader in the fag end of the year in Alappuzha and Christmas day violence involving labourers of a private firm that was at loggerheads with the government also dotted the year. The first half of 2021 saw the CPI(M)-led Left Democratic Front (LDF) break the four-decade trend of no-incumbent getting re-elected, by coming to power for a consecutive term, winning 99 out of the 140 seats in state assembly. A combination of factors including effective management of the devastating floods that hit the state in 2018 and 2019, measures taken to control the spread of the deadly Nipah virus and initial management of Covid-19 pandemic are among those contributed for the massive victory of the LDF. "The people voted for the LDF keeping in mind that the development trajectory should be carried out. In that way it is a historic win and for the first time, the same leader who was the chief minister (Pinarayi Vijayan) got his front victorious and he himself took over as CM", CPI(M) politburo member M A Baby told PTI. The Congress-led UDF, hopeful of storming to power after five years, suffered a huge setback in the Assembly elections winning only 41 seats and this forced the Congress party's high command to effect some major changes in its leadership in the state. Former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy-led "A" group and Ramesh Chennithala-led "I" group were forced to pave the way for the rise of the party's Kannur strongman K Sudhakaran as state Congress chief and Paravoor MLA V D Satheesan as the Leader of Opposition. "Of course, we lost the election. That was very uexpected also. There were mistakes and we are trying to correct them. We have got a new PCC chief and new Leader of Opposition. They are giving a new direction to the party. We will definitely come back", Congress leader and Angamaly MLA Roji M John said. KPCC general secretary and party MLA Mathew Kuzhalandan said the biggest messgae of the result was "mere rhetoric, mere expectations and mere calculations will not take you to victory". The results also dealt a huge blow to the BJP, which was hoping to win more seats in Kerala Assembly, but had to forgo even the lone seat--Nemom-- it captured in the 2016 polls. Metroman E Sreedharan, who was projected as the party's Chief Ministerial candidate, lost polls to Congress' much younger Shafi Parambil in Palakkad seat and later in the year decided to quit politics. Post elections, the state reeled under a spike in Covid-19 cases and health experts blamed the massive poll rallies for rise in infections and the resultant death toll. Active cases jumped from 31,493 on April 3 to 4,38,913 on May 14 in Kerala and the huge spike in infections put the health system at risk. After the daily infections had "plateaued" -- a term used by the state government to describe the almost consistent number of cases from mid-June to mid-August -- there was a spike in covid cases again after the Eid and Onam festivities in the state. From the last week of August and for the entire September the state recorded more than 20,000 cases on a daily basis with the numbers crossing the 30,000 mark on several occasions. During that period, the Kerala government had faced flak from its political opponents and public health experts for its alleged carelessness regarding the pandemic management, which according to them had led to the rise in cases and Test Positivity Ratio (TPR) in the southern state. It was only by the second week of October that the cases fell below the 10,000 mark and though by the fag end of year the infections had dropped below 2,000, the state had by then racked up a caseload of over 52 lakh, behind Maharashtra. Poor Covid-19 management was not the only criticism which was thrown at the Left government, but it had to face brickbats from the opposition and other parties over its handling of the controversial "love and narcotic jihad" remark made by a Catholic Bishop, Mavunkal's alleged connections with senior police officers and bureaucrats as well as the law and order situation in the state in view of increasing attacks on women and gangs related violence. Mavunkal's arrest in a cheating case opened up a can of worms with several persons coming forward with complaints ranging from cheating to sexual assault of minor girls as well as allegations regarding his "connections" in the police force, which led even the Kerala High Court to sit up and take notice of the matter. The Left government also faced flak over over its handling of natural disasters, like landslides, due to the heavy rains in the second half of the year. Over 40 lives were lost and there was widespread damage to property in various parts of the state due to landslides and floods. The rains also led to another long festering issue raising its head -- opening of the Mullaperiyar dam by Tamil Nadu and the resultant problems in the areas lying downstream of it. With the neighbouring state raising the dam's shutters late at night without much advance warning, leading to houses downstream getting flooded after midnight prompted chief minister Vijayan to write to his counterpart in Tamil Nadu, M K Stalin. The year also saw a 22-year-old woman -- Anupama S Chandran -- waging an unparalleled battle to reclaim her baby who was forcibly separated from her by her parents just three days after his birth. This case too was a source of embarrassment for the state government as the woman's father was a senior CPI(M) member and her complaints to the party leadership, the CM, the police and the child welfare authorities brought her no succour till the media highlighted her plight. She braved heavy rains and bad weather to stage an agitation in front of the Kerala State Council for Child Welfare Centre here for a fortnight and ignored discouraging words and relentless cyber bullying during her lonely battle to finally reclaim her child who was away in another state with his adoptive parents. The fag end of the year saw brutal back to back killings of an SDPI leader and a BJP leader in the state's coastal district of Alappuzha, prompting the police to launch a massive manhunt, raids in hideouts of the accused and measures to curb those spreading fake news and false message through social media and the admins of such platforms who allow discussion on them. On Christmas night, celebrations by migrant labourers from the north east at Kizhakkambalam turned violent, leading to several policemen being brutally assaulted and two police jeeps badly damaged, with one set on fire. As many as 163 workers of Kitex Garments were arrested. Company MD Sabu Jacob, who earlier withdrew a proposed Rs 3,500 crore investment in his home state following differences with the government, alleged such a large number of his employees were arrested due to the state government's personal enmity towards him, his company and the Twenty20 organisation. Kerala also lost some of its prominent figures in cultural and political fields during the year. They include legendary Communist leader K R Gowri Amma, senior Congress leader P T Thomas, actor Nedumudy Venu, poet Vishnu Narayan Namboothiri, noted Ayurveda practioner Padma Bhushan P K Warrier, director K S Sethumadhavan and lyricist Bichu Tirumala.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ldfs-iconic-victory-natural-disasters-and-covid-19-dominated-keralas-2021-1065804.html
29-12-2021||South||Containment zones back in Chennai as Covid-19 cases increase||Covid-19 cases in Chennai are witnessing an upward trend with nearly 300 persons testing positive for the virus on Wednesday, even as containment zones were back for the first time since the second wave of infections earlier this year.  While the daily cases increased gradually in the past few days – from 132 on December 21 to 194 on December 28 – there was a sudden spurt on December 29 with the city reporting 294 fresh cases. With the increase in cases, the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) on Wednesday enhanced the number of screening centres from 11 to 15 and the RT-PCR tests from 22,000 to 25,000.  Health Minister Ma. Subramanian and Principal Secretary (Health) J Radhakrishnan expressed concern at the increase in cases but said there was no need to panic as the government was “well-equipped” to handle the situation. They asked people to follow Covid appropriate behaviour like wearing face masks and washing hands using soap at regular intervals.  The GCC also reintroduced containment zones in Chennai with Subramanian and Radhakrishnan inspecting one of them personally. Out of the 39,537 streets, 507 of them reported Covid-19 cases as of Wednesday morning. Officials said 18 streets had 5 cases each and 42 streets had 4 cases each.  Tamil Nadu has so far reported 45 Omicron cases, with Covid-19 samples of nearly 100 more people showing S-gene dropout. Subramanian said all Omicron patients are asymptomatic and they are doing fine.  Radhakrishnan said the city has begun earmarking containment zones for the first time after Covid-19 restrictions were lifted earlier this year after the second wave. “A cluster of 10 people infected with Coronavirus was detected two to three days ago and the area has been cordoned off,” Radhakrishnan added.  Though cases are on the rise, the only solace is 86 per cent of the city’s population has been administered with one dose of the Covid-19 vaccine, while the second dose coverage is 58 per cent. Officials said efforts are on to identify the unvaccinated, especially above 60 years of age, and ensure that they get their jabs. Public health expert Dr Prabhdeep Kaur asked people to get tested if they have any symptoms of Covid-19. “After several months, there is an upward trend with a gradual rise in #COVID19 cases for 4 weeks in Chennai. Mask up, protect elderly, avoid meeting people in closed places, avoid crowds and get tested if you have any symptoms,” Dr Kaur of the National Institute of Epidemiology tweeted. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/containment-zones-back-in-chennai-as-covid-19-cases-increase-1065832.html
29-12-2021||South||Video purportedly shows Ayyappa idol opening eyes||A video purportedly showing an idol of Lord Ayyappa opening and shutting His eyes during a consecration has gone viral. This reportedly took place at Manikandaswami Temple here on Saturday, when over 3,000 Ayyappa devotees gathered for the 40th annual pooja. With special floral decoration of the idol, the elderly devotees poured ghee on it as was the practice and those videographing it noticed that the eyes opening and closing. This happened more than four times and the people in the area thronged the temple to witness the reported miracle after the video went viral. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/video-purportedly-shows-ayyappa-idol-opening-eyes-1065885.html
29-12-2021||South||Andhra Pradesh reports 10 more Omicron cases, state tally at 16||In a big surge in Omicron cases in Andhra Pradesh, 10 infections of the new variant of Covid-19 were detected in a single day on Wednesday. This has pushed the state's tally of Omicron cases to 16. According to the Director of Public Health and Family Welfare, all the cases are healthy and are isolated. The cases reported on Wednesday include seven passengers who had arrived from various countries and three contacts of travellers. According to the official, two passengers who had arrived from the United Arab Emirates (UAE) on December 20 have tested positive for Omicron. Two passengers from the US who arrived on December 18 and 21 were also found positive. A man who had arrived from Kuwait on December 21 tested positive for Omicron. A man who had arrived from Nigeria on December 18 and another person who came from Saudi Arabia on December 14 also tested positive for the new variant. Of the 10 cases, three belonged to East Godavari district, two each to Anantapur and Kurnool and one each to West Godavari, Guntur and Chittoor districts. All contacts of the cases were traced, tested and the positive samples were sent for genome sequencing, officials said. The state had reported the first Omicron cases on December 12. The director of public health advised people to follow Covid appropriate behaviour by wearing masks, maintaining social distance, washing hands regularly, avoiding group meetings, functions and gatherings in public places in view of festival season. Those who are not vaccinated and are yet to take a second dose of vaccine have been advised to get vaccination immediately as per the schedule/timelines. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-reports-10-more-omicron-cases-state-tally-at-16-1065909.html
29-12-2021||South||Madras HC allows new year celebrations in Puducherry, imposes restrictions on sale of liquor||The Madras High Court on Wednesday allowed New Year celebrations in neighbouring Puducherry, but imposed restrictions on the sale of liquor. The Bench of Justices S Vaidyanathan and D Bharatha Chakravarthy passed the order on a petition from G A Jagannathan, a resident of Puducherry, seeking a ban on the celebrations citing the covid spread. He pointed out neighbouring Tamil Nadu and other states, including Karnataka, had not given the nod to the celebrations. The court, however, directed that liquor should not be sold between 10 pm on December 31 and 1 am on January 1, 2022. The petitioner contended the government of Puducherry allowed New Year celebrations without reference to the ground realities and the same may result in spread of Covid-19/Omicron. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/madras-hc-allows-new-year-celebrations-in-puducherry-imposes-restrictions-on-sale-of-liquor-1065928.html
29-12-2021||South||IIT-M emerges first for the third consecutive year in Atal Rankings ||For the third consecutive year, the prestigious Indian Institute of Technology-Madras (IIT-M) has been adjudged as the ‘Most Innovative Educational Institute in India’ in the Centre’s Atal Ranking of Institutions on Innovation Achievements (ARIIA) announced on Wednesday. Over 1,400 educational institutions, including IITs and NITs, participated in the third edition of ARIIA rankings as compared to 674 institutions in 2020. The third edition has a special framework for non-technical institutions which will further strengthen the innovation and entrepreneurial ecosystem in educational institutions. The rankings were announced by Dr Subhas Sarkar, Union Minister of State for Education, in New Delhi on Wednesday. IIT-M has an ecosystem that encourages innovation and entrepreneurship at multiple levels including Nirmaan, a pre-incubator to nurture student ideas mature towards incubation and IIT Madras Incubation Cell (IITMIC), India’s leading deep-tech start-up incubator that has incubated more than 240 start-ups. “The ARIIA Ranking will prepare our Higher Educational Institutions to position themselves in major international educational rankings and I would like to see ARIIA Rankings go global as innovation and entrepreneurship has become an integral part of the education system across the globe,” Dr Sarkar said.  He also asked the IIT-M to focus on the quality of innovations and research as it will help achieve Atma Nirbhar Bharat in a true sense. “We are delighted to be adjudged the Most Innovative Institute for the third time in a row since inception of the Atal Rankings on Innovation. IIT Madras places a lot of emphasis on innovations among its students and faculty, which has resulted in a very successful and fast-growing deep technology start-up ecosystem in the country,” IIT-M Director Prof Bhaskar Ramamurthi said. The Centre For Innovation (CFI) at IIT Madras is a student body that has augmented the ‘tech’ space in the institute wherein their projects have gone on to produce high-profile start-ups and internationally acclaimed competition teams.  ARIIA endeavours to systematically rank education institutions and universities primarily on innovation-related indicators. It aims to inspire Indian institutions to reorient their mindset and build ecosystems to encourage high-quality research, innovation, and entrepreneurship. More than quantity, ARIIA focuses on the quality of innovations and measures the real impact created by these innovations nationally and internationally. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/iit-m-emerges-first-for-the-third-consecutive-year-in-atal-rankings-1065953.html
29-12-2021||South||72-year-old Kerala woman's ziplining goes viral||A 72-year-old woman from Palakkad district of Kerala has become a sensation as video footage of the woman riding on zipline, an adventure sport went viral on social media. Paruamma, a native of Aalathur in the district, had tried most adventure sports events at the park at the Pothundi dam. She went on a leisure trip with her children and grandchildren the other day. On spotting the ziplining event, which was a recent addition at the adventure park, Paruamma expressed the desire to try it. The video of Paruamma's ziplining ride, that too wearing a sari, was posted on social media by one of her relatives and it went viral. Many are now appreciating Paruamma personally for the adventure sporting at this age. Paruamma, who is a farmer, told them that she wanted to try all such adventure sports and she did not feel any sort of fear, but enjoyed the ride. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/72-year-old-kerala-womans-ziplining-goes-viral-1065956.html
29-12-2021||South||Enhancing air connectivity mooted as alternative for Kerala semi-high-speed rail project||While the proposed semi high-speed rail project of Kerala is facing stiff resistance from various quarters, an alternative proposal of enhancing domestic air connectivity by setting up airstrips is gaining steam in the southern state. Against the 530-kilometre rail project, enhancing air connectivity may involve lower financial obligations, less land acquisition and low ecological impacts. But, the higher travel cost and low ridership factors are cited by experts as drawbacks of considering air travel as an alternative to the rail project. Kerala had earlier mooted a project for setting up a state government-owned airline, named Air Kerala, with the objective of offering low-cost connectivity to Gulf countries to cater to the large non-resident Indian population. But it was shelved as the norms stipulated five-year domestic service and a fleet of 20 flights. Kerala Land Reforms and Development Cooperative Society founder-chairman C N Vijaykrishnan mooted the air connectivity as an alternative to the semi high-speed rail project. Kerala has already got four airports and a fifth one is proposed near Sabarimala Ayyappa temple. He suggested in an article published in a vernacular daily that the cost for setting up some more mini airports handling 48-seater aircrafts and acquiring five aircrafts, in the initial stage, would be much less compared to the costs for setting up the semi-high speed rail line. Former director of National Transportation Planning and Research Centre of Kerala B G Sreedevi said that enhancing air connectivity could be a better alternative to the proposed rail project as both the financial commitment of the cash-strapped government and ecological impact would be lower. She also added private airlines may come forward to operate services if there was adequate demand and the government would have to impose tariff regulations. Technocrat E Sreedharan and former director of Thiruvananthapuram airport V N Chandran said that higher fares would not make air connectivity a better alternative. Chandran said that operational costs for short-distance flying would be higher and hence the fares would be also high. He also pointed out that a campaign against the environmental hazards posed by flights was also gaining momentum in European countries. Environmentalists and experts are batting for improving the existing roads and popularising electric vehicles as the most ideal option for Kerala. While the state government's cost estimate for the semi-high-speed rail project is around Rs 65,000 crore, experts maintain that the cost would go up to Rs. 1.25 lakh crore. Apart from the huge financial obligation, around 20,000 families will have to be evicted, the rail line poses a threat to natural water flow and the huge quantity of construction material required could lead to massive quarrying activities in the state. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/enhancing-air-connectivity-mooted-as-alternative-for-kerala-semi-high-speed-rail-project-1065968.html
29-12-2021||South||Hosur may get its own airport as Tamil Nadu commissions study ||After a failed attempt, the Tamil Nadu government has renewed its efforts to set up an airport in the industrial hub of Hosur, located just outside Bengaluru, with the border town emerging as a hub for electric scooters and their accessories like batteries. The fresh endeavour is being spearheaded by the Tamil Nadu Industrial Development Corporation Limited (TIDCO), which on Wednesday sought proposals from consultants to undertake demand assessment, air traffic forecasting and identification of potential sites for setting up the airport. The state’s efforts in 2018 to launch services from a private airport owned by Taneja Aerospace and Aviation in Hosur failed due to a slew of factors, including the location falling within 150 km of the Bengaluru International Airport. Though Hosur was part of the ambitious UDAN scheme, there has been no forward movement. Road/rail connectivity The new study will identify at least three potential sites for setting up the airport, analyse air traffic growth trends in the past decade in nearby airports, forecast traffic for the next 30 years and assess the catchment area of the proposed airport and availability of landside road and rail connectivity, government officials told DH. Apart from passenger traffic, they said, the study will assess the potential cargo that can be economically handled at the airport and possible diversion of cargo movement from other airports. “TIDCO has called for consultants to conduct a feasibility study on identifying a location for an airport in Hosur. The study will take a detailed look into all factors,” Pankaj Kumar Bansal, chairman and managing director of TIDCO, told DH. He said the consultant will study the feasibility of launching flight operations from the Taneja Aerospace complex in Hosur, besides other options. Another senior official told DH that the study will focus more on the location of the airport and its feasibility. The official said the government feels an airport is essential for Hosur since it is one of the favourite destinations for investors. Distance from Bengaluru airport “Bengaluru city may be close to Hosur, but not its airport. We feel Hosur should have an exclusive airport given its status as an industrial hub which will only grow in the coming years. The distance from Bengaluru airport to Hosur is also a factor. We are exploring all possibilities,” the official said. Tie-up with BIAL The possibility of a tie-up with BIAL is also being explored, the official quoted above said, adding that an airport in Hosur will not just be beneficial to those from Tamil Nadu, but also to people from Bengaluru who will get the option of a second airport. BIAL may be interested in the fresh proposal, sources said. However, they added no such proposal has been officially communicated to them as yet. Five companies, including Ola, have signed MoUs with the Tamil Nadu government for setting up their factories to manufacture e-scooters in and around Hosur in Krishnagiri district. Responding to a question in Lok Sabha earlier this year, Minister of State for Civil Aviation Gen V K Singh had said that BIAL had told the government that it may consider a one-time concession for the purpose of the regional connectivity scheme, subject to the parties entering into an agreement with specific conditions. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/hosur-may-get-its-own-airport-as-tamil-nadu-commissions-study-1065969.html
29-12-2021||South||Covid vaccination: Telangana announces 100% first-dose coverage||Telangana health department has announced 100 per cent coverage of the target population in the state with the first dose of Covid-19 vaccination. State health minister Harish Rao claimed that Telangana is the first big state in the country to have achieved the feat. Over 2.77 crore people have been administered the first dose, while the second dose coverage is at 66 per cent. The national average of second dose coverage is 63 per cent only, Rao said. “Our government has laid a special focus on vaccination, in order to control Covid-19. We would conduct a special drive covering every house in January third week to ensure 100 per cent coverage of the eligible population with the second dose too,” the minister said. Hyderabad and adjacent Ranga-Reddy districts are ahead in vaccine coverage. Rao said that they are making arrangements to begin vaccination of the 15 to 18 years age group from January 3 and the booster dose coverage of frontline workers and senior citizens from January 10. The state has a stock of 10,99,620 doses of Covishield and 14,24,220 doses of Covaxin. Meanwhile, the new daily Covid-19 cases, which remained below the 200-mark for several weeks, shot up to 228 on Tuesday. 110 of these cases were added in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation area, where the figure has stayed below 100 for a long time. Ascending Omicron cases have also become a concern for health officials, ahead of new year celebrations and other festivities ahead. While most of the 62 cases detected till now are of people who came from foreign countries, four are that of their contacts. Public health director Dr Srinivasa Rao said that they are adequately equipped, medical infrastructure wise, to deal with any surge in cases. Out of 55,442 hospital beds in the public and private sector, only 1,213 are occupied. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-vaccination-telangana-announces-100-first-dose-coverage-1065989.html
29-12-2021||State||Karnataka's 10-day night curfew comes into effect||"Night Curfew" announced by the Karnataka government for ten days as part of its containment measures to control further Covid spread, has come into effect from 10 PM across the state on Tuesday. The night curfew is from 10 PM to 5 AM every day till January 7 morning, during which no activities will be allowed. There has been a steady increase in the number of Covid-19 clusters in the state and in the number of Omicron variant's infections, with its tally in Karnataka now standing at 38. The government has said that it is imposing additional containment measures proactively to break the chain of transmission in the state. Stating that the night curfew has been decided following experts' advice, Home Minister Araga Jnanendra in a statement today has appealed to public to cooperate with authorities and police, by following the rules, for larger public good. As part of containment measures, the government also banned all New Year parties and gatherings in public places, and places like eateries, hotels, pubs, clubs and restaurants have been asked to operate with 50 per cent of their seating capacity from December 30 to January 2. According to the government order during night curfew, the movement of individuals shall remain strictly prohibited, except for essential activities, patients and their attendants, industries and companies requiring night operations, vehicles carrying goods, bus, trains, metro, air travel, home delivery and e-commerce operations, among others. Employees of companies working during night shifts can move around with a valid ID card. Movement of passengers for the sake of travel through bus, trains and air will be allowed on displaying valid travel documents or tickets. The order also states that only essential staff or employees of IT and ITeS companies shall work from the office, while the rest will work from home. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnatakas-10-day-night-curfew-comes-into-effect-1065733.html
29-12-2021||State||Renukacharya wants senior ministers to resign||Karnataka BJP MLA M P Renukacharya on Wednesday opined that seniors who became ministers thrice in the BJP government (2004, 2008, 2018) should resign voluntarily, and new faces should be inducted in the Basavaraj Bommai-headed government. "Most of our MLAs want Gujarat-model Cabinet formation. Except those who have become ministers, those who have been ministers in all three terms when BJP was in power should quit. New faces and new thoughts would enhance the image of the government and the party," he said. We MLA have discussed this and would urge the high-command and chief minister to give preference to new faces. I have already expressed my view once before the senior leaders of the party, he noted. I am not an aspirant for the ministerial berth. I am satisfied as an MLA and I would work for the development of my constituency, Renukacharya added. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/renukacharya-wants-senior-ministers-to-resign-1065815.html
29-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||New Karnataka govt portal to rate citizens' eligibility for welfare schemes||Karnataka has designed a new technology platform that will not only allow online applications for welfare schemes, but also score citizens to determine who needs a benefit the most, a move that will come in handy when there are too many applicants.  The platform, Suvidha, functions directly under Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, who is pushing the welfare plank in the election year, and is part of several e-governance initiatives being rolled out by the government.  Additional Chief Secretary (e-Governance) Rajeev Chawla said Suvidha is an integrated platform that will help citizens discover schemes and then aid them in applying. “Suvidha is different from the Seva Sindhu, which is meant for services such as certificates or documents. Suvidha is for welfare schemes that involve a direct benefit,” he explained. Karnataka offers about 250 welfare schemes but most of them still follow the manual process, and in many cases, the number of beneficiaries applying for a scheme is more than the allotted budget.  For example, the Dr BR Ambedkar Development Corporation received 17,300 applicants for borewells under Ganga Kalyana against 930 that can be sanctioned this year. Ultimately, applicants are selected on a ‘first come, first serve’ basis.   “Under Suvidha, we will come up with a ‘need score’ that can guide departments on choosing beneficiaries who are in need of benefits the most. We’re currently working with departments to finalise the scoring parameters,” Chawla said.  According to Suvidha project director Abhishek Vasantha Naik, citizens logging into Suvidha should enter basic demographic details. “The data will be automatically verified as Suvidha is connected to various other IT systems, such as Kutumba (family database), FRUITS (farmers) and others. Only information that cannot be verified from the existing databases needs to be checked offline by the concerned departments,” he said.  The system ensures that only eligible citizens can apply for welfare schemes. Suvidha is also linked with DBT, so payments will be made directly into the beneficiaries’ bank accounts.  Suvidha will also act as a feeder to collect more citizen data. “It consumes and contributes data,” Chawla said. “Suvidha is based on the ‘ask-only-once’ principle. We ask citizens to enter data only once,” he said.  The Arivu student loan scheme of the Backward Classes Welfare department is already live on Suvidha. "Another 125 welfare schemes of social welfare, sericulture, disabilities and other departments are being onboarded,” Naik said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/new-karnataka-govt-portal-to-rate-citizens-eligibility-for-welfare-schemes-1065750.html
29-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Will collectively strive to bring BJP back to power in Karnataka, says Bommai||Seemingly relieved with the backing from executive body of the Karnataka BJP and national leadership, amid speculations about leadership change, Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Wednesday said he along with other leaders will collectively strive to bring the party back to power in the 2023 assembly polls. During the two-days BJP state executive meeting that began on Tuesday, party's National General Secretary in-charge of Karnataka Arun Singh, Union Minister Pralhad Joshi, and several leaders are said to have thrown their weight behind Bommai, and warned action against those in the party, indulging in such speculations. "I thank the BJP leadership, state unit president, office bearers, and the state executive members for showing confidence in our government and motivating us to move forward," Bommai said. Speaking to reporters here, he said, he along with other leaders will strive collectively to fulfill the expectations of the leadership regarding further strengthening and organizing the party, effective coordination between the party and the government, facing the political challenges and upcoming election together. "From the beginning itself the high command has been very clear, the clarity that is there at their level has been expressed here by Arun Singh. It is kind of a reconfirmation," he said in response to a question on backing from the high command, despite some opposition from some quarters. There have been rumours for some time now about a leadership change in the state and Bommai's possible exit from the top job ahead of the assembly polls in 2023. There have also been speculations regarding Bommai's health, concerning his knee ailment, forcing him to clarify on Tuesday that he has the strength to work tirelessly for 365 days without any rest. "I have decided to work a minimum of 15 hours a day...." he had said. Bommai took oath as the Chief Minister on July 28, succeeding his mentor and state BJP strongman B S Yediyurappa.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/will-collectively-strive-to-bring-bjp-back-to-power-in-karnataka-says-bommai-1065881.html
29-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Congress Chief D K Shivakumar loses cool as man tries to take selfie||Karnataka Congress chief D K Shivakumar lost his cool on a man who tried to take a selfie with him in Mandya. "We don't know what one might have in hand. You know what happened to Rajiv Gandhi. Sometimes, human anger and emotions come out, nothing wrong in that," ANI quoted the leader as saying. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-congress-chief-d-k-shivakumar-loses-cool-as-man-tries-to-take-selfie-1065916.html
29-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||CM Bommai, Jnanendra ask Kannada orgs to withdraw Karnataka bandh call||Noting that bandh is not the answer for everything, Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has asked the Kannada organisations, who have called for a state-wide shutdown on December 31, to withdraw the call. "I request them to drop the bandh call, as the life is now returning to normalcy after Covid-19 situation, while Covid cases are also again increasing now. We welcome some other form of pressurising," he told media persons here on Wednesday. Action is already being taken against anti-Kannada persons, and we have assured to legally verify the demand to ban the MES, he said, adding that instant action has to be taken if forcible bandh is observed. Meanwhile, Home Minister Araga Jnanendra also said that the Kannada groups should reconsider their decision to call for a bandh. Business activities came to a halt for two years, and bandh would create further problems for people, he said.  "Several organisations and people have a feeling that a bandh now is not needed. Action would be taken if forcible bandh is observed. The government is ready to hold talks with the Kannada organisations, and it has already shown the commitment to protect the land and language of Karnataka," Jnanendra added. Discussions on the demand for a ban on the MES are going on. Moreover, people in Belagavi have already rejected the MES, he noted. BJP national general secretary C T Ravi stated that the government is committed to protecting the interests of the state, along with maintaining linguistic harmony. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cm-bommai-jnanendra-ask-kannada-orgs-to-withdraw-karnataka-bandh-call-1065943.html
29-12-2021||West||Ronaldo statue in Goa creates stir over colonial Portuguese linkages||A large brass statue of Cristiano Ronaldo which was unveiled at a park in Goa's beach village of Calangute, has created a stir in the coastal state over the footballer's Portuguese linkage. The statue, which was inaugurated on Tuesday, with the aim of inspiring youngsters to emulate the maestro, triggered black flag protests at the site, with protesters accusing the state authorities of neglecting local football legends like Arjuna award winner and former India football team captain Bruno Coutinho, who also hails from Calangute. However, according to local BJP MLA and Ports Minister, Michael Lobo, the plan to install the 410-415 kg brass statue, depicting the living legend in action, has been in the offing for the last two years. "This is the first statue of Cristiano Ronaldo in India. This is nothing but to inspire our youth. If you want to take football to the another level, then this is what will inspire boys and girls by looking at him, taking selfies with him. "We require good infrastructure for our boys and girls to go there and play. Statue is only to inspire. We want good grounds from the government, good infrastructure and good coaches," he said. Lobo added that despite India's vast population, the country's football team could not beat even the small nations and that players who have brought laurels for Goa and India should be given proper coaching facilities in every Goan village. "People who come to the Cristiano Ronaldo park will be inspired to become like him and play for Goa and India... We want to inspire Calangute, Candolim and the coastal belt villages first, then the rest of India," he said. Meanwhile, owner of popular nightclub, Titos in Calangute, Ricardo D'Souza, has said that statues of local football icons like Bruno Coutinho and Samir Naik should have been installed instead. "Very disappointed to hear of the statue of Ronaldo being erected. Learn to take pride in our own icons like Samir Naik and Bruno Coutinho," he said. At the unveiling ceremony, some right-wing demonstrators also alleged that erecting a statue of Ronaldo, a Portuguese national, was an insult to Goa, especially when the state is celebrating its 60th anniversary of liberation from Portuguese rule which spanned 451 years. "To erect a statue of a Portuguese footballer this year is sacrilegious. We condemn this. There are many freedom fighters in Goa who have been insulted. If Lobo wanted to erect 'footballers statues, he should have erected Bruno Coutinho's statue," right-wing activist Guru Shirodkar said. Reacting to his allegations, Lobo said: "There are few people who are opposing this. Looks like they hate football. Football belongs to everyone. It is not divided by religion or caste but still they are opposing with black flags. Their minds are black. One cannot argue with people who have black minds." Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ronaldo-statue-in-goa-creates-stir-over-colonial-portuguese-linkages-1065803.html
29-12-2021||West||Full vaccination or negative Covid-19 report must for going to parties, restaurants in Goa||With Goa's daily Covid infection rate shooting above triple digits on two consecutive days, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant announced a fresh set of restrictions, which includes permitting only guests with double vaccination or Covid negative certificates at parties or mass events. "100 percent vaccination or possession of Covid negative certificate for parties and restaurants has been made mandatory. Else you will not be allowed to host an event," the Chief Minister told reporters. The state government late on Wednesday also issued a circular allowing casinos, spas, cinema halls, restaurants, pubs, halls, auditoriums, gyms, marriage events, water parks to function at fifty per cent of existing capacity. The Education department is also expected to issue a separate SOP for schools and other educational institutions in the coastal state soon. According to an order issued by the Revenue Secretary Sanjay Kumar, only doubly vaccinated individuals or those with Covid negative certificates issued 72 hours prior, would be allowed to enter Goa. Exceptions have, however, been made for persons facing medical emergencies on production of proof or drivers of goods vehicles. Goa reported 112 and 179 new cases on Tuesday and Wednesday, respectively, after months of the new Covid infections stagnating in double digits. Sawant has also said that his government was not in a position to impose a curfew in Goa, claiming it would impede business activity in the state, which is in the midst of a peak tourist season on the occasion of Christmas and New Year. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/full-vaccination-or-negative-covid-19-report-must-for-going-to-parties-restaurants-in-goa-1065824.html
29-12-2021||West||ED files chargesheet against Anil Deshmukh in money laundering case||The Enforcement Directorate on Wednesday filed a supplementary chargesheet in a money laundering case involving former Maharashtra home minister and senior NCP leader Anil Deshmukh.  Besides Deshmukh (72), his two sons - Hrishikesh Deshmukh and Salil Deshmukh have been named in the chargesheet.  The first chargesheet was filed against Deshmukh’s personal assistant Kundan Shinde and private secretary Sanjeev Palande, who is an additional collector-level officer, now under suspension.  Deshmukh was arrested on November 1 and is currently lodged in jail after being granted judicial custody. The 7,000-page supplementary chargesheet has been filed before a special court set up under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). The ED had launched a probe against Deshmukh and his associates after the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) filed an FIR against him on April 21 this year on charges of corruption and misuse of official position. The then Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh, who is now under suspension, has alleged that Deshmukh had fixed a collection target of Rs 100 crore per month for now dismissed assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze. Incidentally, Vaze was arrested in connection with the planting of gelatine-sticks laden Mahindra Scorpio with a threat note near Antilia, the residence of Reliance Industries Ltd Chairman Mukesh Ambani and the subsequent murder of the SUV owner Mansukh Hiran.  Vaze, who was attached to the Crime Intelligence Unit, is a veteran in Crime Branch-CID and encounter specialist, and worked under the direct command of Singh. According to the ED case, Rs 4.70 crore was collected from various bars in Mumbai and was laundered to Nagpur-based Shri Sai Shikshan Sansthan, an educational trust controlled by the Deshmukh family. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ed-files-chargesheet-against-anil-deshmukh-in-money-laundering-case-1065859.html
29-12-2021||West||Goa govt approves policy to export rejected iron ore||The Goa cabinet on Wednesday approved a policy to permit the export of iron ore dumps, which will allow the resumption of mining activity in the coastal state for the next four to five years. Speaking to reporters, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said that 10 to 20 million metric tonnes of the low-grade iron ore was lying at different locations outside the mining leases, which can be exported as a part of the policy. “Goa has enough ore to sustain the mining activity for the next four to five years. This ore is lying across the state at different places,” Sawant said. The state government's policy will regularise mining dumps on government and private lands, he said. The chief minister further said that in the past, the State Land Revenue Code had empowered the state government to impose fines in case of where the land is used for dumping mining rejects or similar materials without the permission. "We have collected fines to the tune of Rs 200 crore in 2013-14 from people who had dumped the ore outside the mining leases. Those who have paid the fines will be allowed to move the dumps after taking permission from the Indian Bureau of Mines and paying royalty payment as per the policy,” he said. Sawant said that the dumps are allowed to be exported through the recent amendment to Minerals (Other than Atomic and Hydro Carbons Energy Mineral) Concession (Amendment) Rules, 2021 that came into force from November 12, 2021. As per the Central rule, the state government can permit the lessee to dispose of the mineral by taking permission from the Indian Bureau of Mines and paying the royalty to the state government, he said. The ore, which was overburdened, waste rock or below the threshold value generated during the course of mining or beneficiation of the minerals, can be exported, the chief minister added.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-govt-approves-policy-to-export-rejected-iron-ore-1065870.html
29-12-2021||West||Rise of Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra 'alarming', says Rajesh Tope||Describing the sudden zooming of Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra as “alarming”, state public health and family welfare minister Rajesh Tope on Wednesday hinted at “further strengthening” of the existing restrictions.  According to him, infections are multiplying and the positivity rate is shooting up. “Across Maharashtra, 20 December, there were 6,000 active cases, on 29 December, now, it is around 12,000…since active cases are increasing it is matter of concern,” Tope told reporters in Mumbai on Wednesday.  “A few days ago, the per day cases was around 500 to 600 but now it is 2,000 plus,” he said.  There are indications that by mid of next week, the active cases could be at the level of 20,000 which was nearly a couple of months ago. However, he said that the daily testing numbers have been maintained and it was never brought down.  Tope said that stricter Covid-appropriate behaviour needs to be maintained and vaccination drives need to be stepped up.  About schools and colleges, he said the final call would be taken by the chief minister.  Meanwhile, state tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray, who is the guardian minister of Mumbai Suburban, held a meeting with top officials of Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation including municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal. “Last week, we were reporting 150 cases per day in Mumbai. Now, we are reporting around 2,000 cases everyday,” said Thackeray.  Covid-19 Task Force member Dr Shashank Joshi said: “Now we are near certain we have an Omicron outbreak in Mumbai. During the first wave -  the jump was 706 to 1367 cases in 12 days, during the second wave, the jump was 683 to 1325 cases in  20 days, while during the third wave it was 683 to 1377 cases in  4 days.” It is a mild disease and beds are vacant, he said, adding that what was needed is Covid-appropriate behaviour.  Dr Ishwar Gilada, the secretary general of Organised Medicine Academic Guild, said: “This surge is only and only due to the Omicron variant.” “We also discussed covid appropriate behaviour guidelines and public place event issues, especially with the New Year being around the corner. As the cases rise rapidly, we urge everyone to not panic. However we all must exercise extreme caution and ensure that we are vaccinated, masked up.  This is a time to protect one’s self and thereby protect others,” the junior Thackeray said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rise-of-covid-19-cases-in-maharashtra-alarming-says-rajesh-tope-1065871.html
29-12-2021||West||Was not ready to come back as Maharashtra CM in 1993: Sharad Pawar||NCP president Sharad Pawar on Wednesday said he was not ready to come back to Maharashtra as Chief Minister from the Centre during riots that took place in Mumbai post-Babri Masjid demolition, but he was "made emotional" and asked to take the reins of the state in 1993. Pawar, then in the Congress, was defence minister in the cabinet of Prime Minister P V Narasimha Rao and took over as Maharashtra CM in March 1993 replacing the incumbent Sudharkarrao Naik. Replying to a question whether it was his decision to come back to Maharashtra as CM in 1993 from Delhi, Pawar replied in the negative. "After the Babri Masjid demolition (in December 1992), riots broke out in Mumbai. The normal life in Mumbai had collapsed for 14 to 15 days. I was the defence minister in the P V Narasimha Rao government. I was told to go to the state and take the position (as CM)," Pawar recalled. The veteran politician was speaking at an event in Pune organised by Marathi daily 'Loksatta' whose editor Girish Kuber interviewed him on the occasion. The former Union minister said initially he was not keen to take charge of the state and went back to Delhi, but eventually returned to take over as CM. Pawar said the reason he had to come back again was that the riots had flared up in the metropolis. "After the riots further intensified, a discussion between PM Rao, (senior Congress leader) NKP Salve, myself, and some other leaders took place and it was discussed that if peace does not come back to Mumbai, a message would go out to the world that the country is drifting away from stability as Mumbai has a special importance around the globe," he said. The Rajya Sabha MP, a multiple-time CM, said it was an emotional decision for him to come back to his home state and once again handle its affairs. "I was called at the PM's residence and I was told that there is no other recourse than to return to the state. I was not willing to go. For over 6 hours, it was insisted (that he go to Mumbai). "I was even made emotional and told that the 'state, where I was born and brought and from where I came till here (Delhi), was burning and in such a situation, if you (Pawar) are not taking the responsibility, it would sadden them'," said Pawar. The octogenarian leader said in that given situation, he had to take the decision to return to the state. Asked whether his return to Maharashtra created any hurdles in his emergence as a prominent national leader, Pawar said "It could be possible." Pawar, who left the Congress to form the NCP in 1999, said after coming to the state, he tried to bring communal harmony between communities. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/was-not-ready-to-come-back-as-maharashtra-cm-in-1993-sharad-pawar-1065966.html
29-12-2021||West||Ahead of Vibrant Gujarat Summit, state sees massive surge in Covid-19 cases||Ahead of preparation for 10th Vibrant Gujarat Global Summit 2022 (VGGS), which is slated to be inaugurated by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi on January 10, the novel coronavirus cases in Gujarat continue to surge rapidly with the state registering on Wednesday a record 548 cases in 24 hours. Gujarat also reported 19 new cases of Omicron variant, taking the total cases to 97, out of which 41 have been discharged, the state health department's news bulletin stated. The spread of the virus has already reached more than 22 districts and cities. Ahmedabad is the worst-affected city with a record 265 cases, followed by Surat with 72 cases, Vadodara with 34, and Anand with 23 cases. On December 27, the state had reported 204 positive cases while the number of active cases was 1,086. The numbers jumped to 548 and 1902 on Wednesday respectively. Health officials said that the doubling rate of new cases has been rising for nearly a week. However, they said that "the number of people getting hospitalised is very low." Government sources said that meetings are on with regard to organising the VGGS. "If the trend (rise in Covid-19 cases) continues, the government may opt for a hybrid model that means reducing the number of participants and holding functions online. But, these are at discussion level. Besides, the government is going to bring back restrictions for commercial and social activities in view of the looming crisis," a government official in the know of these meetings said. Meanwhile, opposition Congress has demanded cancellation of VGGS, stating that there is no need to conduct such a show when cases of Covid-19 are increasing. The party said that if the event is not canceled, it would become a super-spreader. The state government has been preparing for this event for several months now, campaigning in other states and abroad to attract investors. Watch latest videos by DH here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ahead-of-vibrant-gujarat-summit-state-sees-massive-surge-in-covid-19-cases-1065991.html
29-12-2021||West||Maharashtra's fresh Covid-19 cases nearly double in a day||With fresh Covid-19 cases nearly doubling in 24 hours, the Maharashtra government on Thursday described the situation as alarming and dropped hints of further strengthening of the restrictions and crackdown on people not following Covid-appropriate behaviour.  Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray would undertake a comprehensive review on Friday with top officials and the Covid-19 Task Force. During the last 24 hours, the state reported 3,900 cases and 20 deaths taking the progressive total to 66,65,386 and 1,41,496, respectively, according to the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme of the Public Health Department.  On Wednesday, the total cases were 2,172 — and a jump to 3,900 in a day's time has rattled the Maharashtra government.  In Mumbai alone, the total cases were 2,510 from Wednesday’s total of 1,333.  According to state public health and family welfare minister Rajesh Tope, infections are multiplying and the positivity rate is shooting up. “Across Maharashtra, 20 December, there were 6,000 active cases, on 29 December, now, it is around 12,000… since active cases are increasing it is a matter of concern,” Tope told reporters in Mumbai on Wednesday.  “A few days ago, the per day cases was around 500 to 600 but now it is 2,000 plus,” he said.  There are indications that by mid of next week, the active cases could be at the level of 20,000 which was nearly a couple of months ago. However, Tope said that the daily testing numbers have been maintained and it was never brought down.  Tope said that stricter Covid-appropriate behaviour needs to be maintained and vaccination drives need to be stepped up.  About schools and colleges, he said the final call would be taken by the chief minister.  Meanwhile, state tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray, who is the guardian minister of Mumbai Suburban, held a meeting with top officials of BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation including municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal. “Last week, we were reporting 150 cases per day in Mumbai. Now, we are reporting around 2,000 cases every day,” said Thackeray.  Covid-19 Task Force member Dr Shashank Joshi said: “Now we are almost certain we have an Omicron outbreak in Mumbai. During the first wave -  the jump was 706 to 1,367 cases in  12 days, during the second wave, the jump was 683 to 1,325 cases in  20 days, while during the third wave it was 683 to 1,377 cases in  4 days.” It is a mild disease and beds are vacant, he said, adding that what was needed is Covid-appropriate behaviour.  Dr Ishwar Gilada, the secretary-general of Organized Medicine Academic Guild, said: “This surge is only and only due to the Omicron variant.” “We also discussed Covid appropriate behaviour guidelines and public place event issues, especially with the New Year being around the corner. As the cases rise rapidly, we urge everyone to not panic. However, we all must exercise extreme caution and ensure that we are vaccinated, masked up.  This is a time to protect one’s self and thereby protect others,” the junior Thackeray said.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtras-fresh-covid-19-cases-nearly-double-in-a-day-1066017.html
