30-12-2021||Comment||Gen Rawat: A place in history?||I was pained and shocked to hear of the unfortunate death on December 8 of the Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) Gen Bipin Rawat, his wife and 11 brave officers and troops of the Armed Forces in a helicopter crash in Coonoor. The sorrow was accentuated as I had known Gen Rawat and observed his career right from the time he was a youngster. I was a little over five years his senior and had come in touch with him several times. Two decades ago, he took over an appointment at Army Headquarters from me, when I was promoted and posted as a Brigade Commander in Poonch. It was a close interaction, and I saw how he could grasp the nuances of the new appointment quickly. He was extremely intelligent and diligent. He was also considerate enough to invite me to his house for dinner on the eve of my departure to Poonch. Madhulika, his wife, excelled in hospitality. Thereafter, I met him several times and even exchanged emails when he was the Army Chief, and later CDS. Though I had retired, he was magnanimous in responding. When Gen Rawat took over as Army Chief, he superseded two senior officers.  Supersession for the Army Chief’s post is seldom done as it politicises the Army, which by far has remained apolitical. The seniority principle is the best suited for the Chiefs of Armed Forces. As it is, to reach among the top six Lt Generals, Army officers will have already literally gone through fire and brimstone. There is very little to choose among them as each one is equally competent. However, it is rumoured that National Security Adviser (NSA) Ajit Doval prevailed upon Prime Minister Narendra Modi to appoint Gen Rawat, who was third in seniority. Unfortunately, this was not a wise decision. A sentiment rose among the top Lt Generals that they can beat the seniority principle through political patronage.  Second, it also burdened Gen Rawat with a heavy baggage to prove himself to the government that their decision to overrule seniority was the right decision. He had to curry favours with the government and had to yield to their unprofessional demands, practice politics, and play to the government gallery. Thus, he accepted the lowest budgetary allocations, harking back to pre-1962 levels; did not pursue the pay commission anomalies; downgraded the Army to lower status than the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF) in terms of allowances; justified the government decision not to grant non-functional upgrade (NFU) to the Armed Forces; accepted levy of income tax on disability pensions; and opened the cantonments for the public, with little regard to the safety of families, not realising that the pandemic could play havoc in cantonments as well. Unfortunately, Gen Rawat also made statements against officers of the Armed Forces that they do not care about the troops, which caused disquiet in the Army. Just to set the record straight, the officer-to-troops casualty ratio is the highest in the Indian Army in comparison to all other Armed Forces of the world. His recent statement that the IAF is a supporting arm of the Army did not go well with the Air Force and, instead of helping integrate the Armed Forces, it sowed doubts and anguish over whether he was treating the three Services at par? One of Gen Rawat’s biggest mistakes -- he accepted to wear another hat as the Secretary of the Department of Military Affairs (DMA) in the MoD. As a four-star General, he was senior in precedence to a Secretary to the Government of India. Of the two hats that he was wearing, one was of a lower status. It could have been easily resolved by having a three-star officer as his deputy and Secretary, DMA. He could have overseen his work as CDS. However, he did not want to ruffle the feathers of the politicians and bureaucrats who were averse to any uncomfortable obstacles. It is also to the discredit of NSA Ajit Doval, who holds cabinet rank, to keep Gen Rawat out of the Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS). The two meetings of the CCS in the aftermath of the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan were held without the presence of either the CDS or the three Service Chiefs. I wonder who gave the strategic inputs for decision-making? In short, even as CDS, Gen Rawat had to adopt a conciliatory position on the issue of the decision-making hierarchy by not insisting on being a part of the CCS. On the plus side, he was completely involved in reorganising the Armed Forces to fight an integrated war. It is egregious that the India-China border is managed by three Army Commands and three Air Force Commands. In contrast, China has the single unified Western Theatre Command to manage the same border. Gen Rawat was going ahead with theaterisation of Commands to set right the incongruity. When he was Chairman of the Chiefs of Staff Committee, he operationalised the Special Forces Division. He also operationalised the Defence Cyber Agency in August 2021. The groundwork for the Air Defence Command is in the final stages.  It was delayed due to Covid, as I understand. The Tri-Service Logistics Command and the Training and Doctrine Command have been envisioned. The 15 geographic operational Commands are set to amalgamate into three operational Commands with one each looking after China, Pakistan and the maritime theatre. Some special consideration is being given to J&K as it has borders with both our adversaries. Gen Rawat had the sagacity to take decisions against opposition if he thought he was serving the national interest. He was ready to bear the brunt of being unpopular in pursuit of what he thought was right. Few can bear the mental pressure and be equanimous in the face of adversity and general discontent. This quality made him a decisive General who could hold the bull by its horns if he had made up his mind. Many, of course, consider that his acceptance of all that the political masters thrust on him came at the cost of the Services. Whatever be the truth of that, one fact remains: that he was honest, with very few personal requirements.  In sum, Gen Rawat’s untimely death resurrected him and made him a larger-than-life figure for the masses. But whether he deserves a place in history is a verdict yet to be passed. (The writer retired as Commandant of Army War College, Mhow)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/gen-rawat-a-place-in-history-1065999.html
30-12-2021||First Edit||Focus on outcomes, not advertising||The Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao scheme was introduced with great fanfare in the country six years ago, with the claim that it would lead to better treatment of girl children and improvement of their condition. While claims about the benefits of the scheme have abounded, it turns out that most of the funds allotted for it were spent on talking about it rather than implementing it. This is clear from a report of a parliamentary committee which found that nearly 80% of the scheme funds was used for its advertisement and publicity, not on activities that promote the welfare of girl children. The Committee on Empowerment of Women, headed by a woman MP of the BJP, said in its report that it was dismayed over the poor utilisation of the funds. The total allocation for the scheme was Rs 848 crore since its inception in 2014-15, excluding the Covid-stricken financial year of 2020-21. Though an amount of Rs 622.48 crore was released, only Rs 156.46 crore, or just 25%, was spent on activities under the scheme. Out of a total of Rs 446.72 crore released during 2016- 2019, “a whopping 78.91% was spent only on media advocacy”. The committee said it was aware of the need to spread the message of the scheme among the people, but it thought that it was “equally important to balance the objectives of the scheme''. The committee phrased its comment too mildly and chose not to highlight the poor working and management of the scheme. The comment means that there was much more emphasis on publicity than on outcomes.  The states are mainly at fault for the poor use of the funds because the allocation was made to them and they have the responsibility to implement the scheme. The committee has faulted the nodal ministry, Women and Child Development, for having “no disaggregated information on the spending by the states and it on education, health and other interventions.’’ The Centre provides 100% assistance and is expected to monitor the implementation of the scheme. It is clear that there was failure at every level, and a major national programme was reduced to advertisements. In matters like the treatment of girl children, where entrenched negative attitudes and practices have to be addressed, creating public awareness is important. But it is necessary to implement the programme and show results, too. The government has always claimed much credit for the Beti Bechao, Beti Padhao scheme. It should ensure that its funds are utilised for activities that promote the objectives of the scheme and the focus is on outcomes rather than on advertisements.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/focus-on-outcomes-not-advertising-1065994.html
30-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Davangere to get India's first mobile haemophilia service unit||The Karnataka Haemophilia Society based here is all set to launch a haemophilia mobile service unit, covering 100 km in the region. The mobile service unit will be launched in association with Rotary International, south Davangere, in order to provide treatment to haemophilia families at their doorsteps. This initiative is a first of its kind in the country. The Society aims to detect haemophilia among people at the earliest and provide treatment to them so that permanent disability can be prevented.    Speaking to DH, Suresh Hanagavadi, professor of pathology at the JJM medical college and president of Karnataka Haemophilia Society (KHS), said most haemophilia patients were finding it difficult to come to the Society office in Davangere for treatment. Only the haemophilia patients from well-to-do families can purchase injections and store it in their homes since it is expensive, Hanagavadi said. “So, we thought of visiting their households and give injections to them. Many patients with severe bleeding have died on their way to the hospital as they need injection in time.” Haemophilia patients suffer from bleeding when they sustain injuries or suffer from internal bleeding even without injuries.  He said Rotary International has borne 75% cost of the mobile service unit and the remaining 25% cost is borne by KHS. Two trained staff, a medical officer and a medico-social worker will be be part of the mobile service unit.  The unit aims to conduct rehabilitation camps for patients of the rare blood disorder, besides organising awareness programmes. Only males suffer from the disorder. Hanagavadi, himself a patient of the disorder, said there is a plan to set up an haemato-oncology clinic on the premises of KHS in the city to offer comprehensive healthcare services to patients suffering from cancer and haematologicaldiseases.  According to him, Karnataka has over 6,000 registered patients of haemophilia and many more who do not show up to get registered. Across the country, this figure is close to 1 lakh. “The number of patients will increase as more children are born. The disorder is due to the absence of proteins which help in blood clotting. As a result, many patients bleed continuously if they get injured or in some cases, bleed internally without injuries. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/davangere-to-get-indias-first-mobile-haemophilia-service-unit-1066057.html
30-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka: BJP suffers setback in Anand Singh's home turf||The Congress has outperformed the BJP in the first urban local bodies poll of the newly formed Vijayanagara district, the results of which were declared on Thursday. Of the 36 wards in Hosapete City Municipal Council that went to polls on Dec 27, the Congress has emerged as the single largest party winning 12 seats in the 35-member strong CMC. But the party failed to cross the magic number of 18. The BJP suffered a setback in minister Anand Singh's home turf with only 10 of its nominees crossing the line. A total of 12 independents, who have emerged victorious in the polls, will hold the sway. Meanwhile, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has managed to open its account in Hosapete through Sheskshavali, who made his mark in his debut election with a convincing win from ward 22. Another prominent winner is Kharadapudi Mahesh, who served a jail sentence in the illegal mining scam. Mahesh won from ward 20 on Congress ticket. The Hosapete CMC poll outcome has left Anand Singh disappointed. Singh, who made sure the new Vijayanagara district, with Hosapete as headquarters, carved out of Ballari, had, time and again, said that the BJP will take control of Hosapete CMC and that a grant of Rs 1 crore would be sanctioned to each ward for development. Singh remained unavailable for reaction, post-results. The Congress has gained a simple majority in Mariyammanahalli town panchayat and Hagaribommanahalli town municipality. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-bjp-suffers-setback-in-anand-singhs-home-turf-1066365.html
30-12-2021||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka ULB polls: Congress leaves BJP behind||The Congress gained an upper hand in the Karnataka urban local body (ULB) elections whose results came out on Thursday, with the party attributing its better performance to the ruling BJP's "hopeless governance". The results set off alarm bells in the BJP as this could be seen as a sign of anti-incumbency, even as the saffron party said the losses occurred in places where there are more minority voters. Elections were held in 58 ULBs across 20 districts for 1,184 wards, making this a dipstick survey of sorts to gauge the public mood at the grassroots level. The Congress won 501 wards, the BJP 433 and the JD(S) 45. The remaining 205 seats were bagged by Independents and smaller parties, according to the State Election Commission. Of the 58 ULBs, the Congress is expected to take control of over two dozen of them, while at least nine have a fractured mandate. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai faced a setback in his in his home district of Haveri, where the Congress retained the Bankapur town municipal council and Guttal town panchayat. The BJP also lost badly in the Yakshamba town panchayat located in Muzrai Minister Shashikala Jolle’s constituency. In Nayakanahatti town panchayat, which is ST Welfare Minister B Sriramulu’s turf, the Congress won a majority. In the Kekkera town municipal council, MLA Raju Gowda, a former minister, could not see the BJP through. He told reporters that this is a warning that should be taken seriously. The Congress projected the result as a sign of things to come. “The Congress winning more seats compared to the ruling BJP is the reflection of their hopeless governance. This is an indication of what we can expect in the eventual general elections,” Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah said.   The results, however, reinforce to some extent the popular notion that the BJP is stronger in urban areas, as the party won more seats than the Congress in the five city municipal councils that went to polls. The BJP’s tally is lower than the Congress in town municipal councils and town panchayats. Its poll managers attribute this to the presence of a sizable number of minority voters in these smaller towns. “Our performance has improved and it could have been better,” Bommai said. “If you observe, these are places where minorities are more. Due to our efforts, we’ve done better in Gadag and other places,” he said. In his own constituency Shiggaon, Bommai said 65 per cent voters are minorities. “We’ve never won in Bankapur,” he pointed out. The BJP managed to wrest the Gadag-Betageri city municipal council from the Congress. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-ulb-polls-congress-leaves-bjp-behind-1066305.html
30-12-2021||National||India's Omicron case tally near 950; fresh spike recorded in Mumbai, Delhi, Gujarat||Mumbai, Delhi and Gujarat on Wednesday recorded a big spike in fresh Covid-19 cases — their highest since the May-June period — while Punjab reported the first case of the Omicron variant to take the country-wide tally of the new strain past 900. According to data from the Centre and the states, the total number of Covid-19 cases in the country crossed 10,000 after a little over a month. On November 26, the total reported was 10,549. With Punjab reporting its first Omicron case after a 36-year-old man, who came from Spain earlier this month tested positive for the new variant, the number of states and union territories where this highly contagious strain has been detected rose to 22.   Updated official data available in the night showed that the Omicron tally was close to 950 with Maharashtra, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu and Telangana reporting a majority of the fresh cases of this variant. In Maharashtra, 85 more people were infected by the new strain to take the total to 252, the state Health department said. According to the Union Health Ministry data updated at 8 am, India recorded 781 cases of the Omicron variant across 21 states and union territories so far out of which 241 people have recovered or migrated. Maharashtra was followed by Delhi(238), Gujarat (97), Rajasthan(69), Kerala(65) and Telangana(62) among those with over 50 Omicron cases, according to official data from the Centre and the states. The statement had also said there were 9,195 new Covid cases while the active cases rose to 77,002. Mumbai reported 2,510 fresh Covid cases, the highest daily addition since May 8, and one death, taking its tally to 7,75,808 and toll to 16,375, a civic official said. The spike in the country's financial capital has got pronounced since December 20, when just 283 cases were reported. Tuesday had witnessed 1,377 cases in the metropolis, and Wednesday's figure was a jump by over 80 per cent, the official pointed out. On May 8, Mumbai had seen 2,678 coronavirus cases when the second wave of the pandemic was at its peak. Delhi logged 923 new coronavirus cases, the highest since May 30 and to register a 86 per cent jump in the number of this infections recorded the previous day, according to health department data. The positivity rate climbed to 1.29 per cent from 0.89 per cent on Tuesday. No fresh fatality was reported, the bulletin stated. On May 30, Delhi had recorded 946 Covid cases and 78 deaths with a positivity rate of 1.25 per cent. On Tuesday, the city saw 496 Covid cases and one fatality due to the disease. Gujarat reported 548 new Covid cases crossing the 500-mark for the first time after more than six-and-a-half months, raising its overall tally to 8,30,505, while one more patient succumbed to the infection in the state, the health department said. The state had last reported more than 500 cases at 544 on June 10. Gujarat has witnessed a sharp jump in its daily Covid cases over the last few days, recording 177 infections on Sunday, 204 on Monday, 394 on Tuesday and now 548. The Indian SARS-COV-2 Genomics Consortia INSACOG, meanwhile, said there is now clear experimental and clinical data supporting a very high immune escape potential of Omicron, but initial estimates show the severity of illness being lower than what was seen in previous outbreaks. In India, appropriate public health measures and investigations are being conducted for surveillance of Omicron, INSACOG said while noting that globally there appears to be significantly reduced ability of vaccines or prior infection to protect against symptomatic infection by the Omicron variant. "While Delta continues to be the most prevalent VOC globally, the Omicron variant has completely displaced it in southern Africa and is on track to become the dominant variant in UK and elsewhere," the INSACOG said in its latest bulletin citing global data. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-omicron-case-tally-near-950-fresh-spike-recorded-in-mumbai-delhi-gujarat-1066084.html
30-12-2021||National||Concerned over mixing of views with factual reporting: CJI Ramana||Chief Justice of India N V Ramana on Wednesday voiced his concern over mixing of opinions and biases with factual reports in media, saying allowing oneself to be co-opted by an ideology or the State is a recipe for disaster. He also asked media to check trend of sermonising judgements and villianising judges. He said media professionals should also voluntarily come forward with solutions for a "menace" of "incorrect reporting" amplified by the social media, which has potential to ruin careers and lives.  Maintaining that freedom of the press is a valuable and sacred right enshrined in the Indian Constitution, he highlighted "worrying" issues with the journalism due to transformation and changes. "In the race for ratings, the important journalistic tenet of verification before publishing is not being followed. This leads to incorrect reporting. The social media amplifies that incorrect news in a matter of seconds. Once published it is difficult to take back. Unlike print and electronic media, unfortunately, it is almost impossible to hold the social media platforms such as youtube accountable even after they host most derogatory and defamatory stuff which has potential to ruin careers and lives," he said. He asked media professionals to follow the principles of natural justice before making adverse comments against someone who is not in a position to defend himself. The CJI also expressed his concern with another trend of "seeping of ideological stances and biases into the news story".  "Interpretation and opinions are colouring what should be factual reports. News mixed with views is a dangerous cocktail. Connected to this is the problem of partial reporting, of cherry-picking facts to give it a particular colour. For instance, select portions of a speech get highlighted – mostly out of context - to suit a certain agenda," he said. "Journalists are like judges in one sense. Regardless of the ideology you profess and the beliefs you hold dear, you must do your duty without being influenced by them. You must report only the facts, with a view to give a complete and accurate picture," he said. The CJI was speaking online at the presentation of RedInk Awards by the Mumbai Press Club.  Justice Ramana also spoke on issue of catchy but misleading headlines given for grabbing the eyeballs. "The headline is often unreflective of the actual content of the reports. It is interpretative and imaginary. The headlines are then shared widely on social media, and become the news. The content is forgotten," he said. Justice Ramana also asked the media to have faith in the judiciary, which is acting as a "robust pillar" to further Constitutional goals despite all the constraints. "The recent trend to sermonize about judgements, and villainise judges, needs to be checked. The media must have belief and trust in the judiciary. As a key stakeholder in democracy, media has the duty to defend and protect the judiciary from motivated attacks by evil forces. We are together in the Mission Democracy and in promoting national interest," he said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/concerned-over-mixing-of-views-with-factual-reporting-cji-ramana-1066092.html
30-12-2021||National||India takes new steps to kick old habits of burning farm waste||Sanju is on a mission. For weeks, she has traveled from village to village, urging farmers in India to stop burning stubble from harvested rice crops near New Delhi. As winds slow during the winter months, a poisonous haze collects over northern India. During the worst stretches, the region’s air pollution can reach multiple times the global safety threshold. Stubble burning is one of the leading causes of smog. Sanju, 24, who goes by one name, is among several hundred gig workers in the state of Haryana -- all of them women -- trying to reverse that trend. She encourages farmers to spray a white substance on their fields to decompose crop residue, rather than set it ablaze. Her work forms part of one of the most ambitious attempts to eliminate stubble burning in India. “It’s a win-win situation for farmers,” said Dhruv Sawhney, the chief operating officer of nurture.farm, a digital platform promoting sustainable agriculture that is overseeing the project. In addition to hiring on-the-ground messengers like Sanju, his group provided the decomposer for free to 25,000 farmers this year. Sawhney said the new organic spray, which was developed by the state-run Indian Agricultural Research Institute, has helped prevent farmers from burning over 385,000 acres of rice paddies. The low-cost bio-enzyme, called Pusa decomposer, breaks down straw and turns it into fertilizer. Over the next three years, nurture.farm plans to expand its coverage area to 5.7 million acres at an annual cost of 6 billion rupees ($80 million). Even if the company starts charging for the powder, many farmers say they would continue using it, in part because they end up saving on fertilizer costs. India, the world’s biggest grower of cotton and second-largest producer of rice, wheat and sugar, is being squeezed by a global shortage of fertilizers. “I don’t mind spending a nominal amount on this but it should be reasonable otherwise I will again resort to my earlier practice of burning the crop,” said Anil Kalyan, 58, who used the decomposer on 40 acres of his farm. This year marked the first time in four decades he has not burned the stubble. The bio-enzyme breaks down crop residue in about three weeks on average and increases organic carbon in the soil. On some farms, crops disintegrated even faster, within about a week, an encouraging sign as more farmers use the decomposer, Sawhney said. Farmers are often blamed for northern India’s terrible air quality. Every winter, smoke from stubble burning mixes with construction dust and industrial emissions to produce a toxic cocktail that blots out the sun, grounds flights and overwhelms hospitals. The haze lingers in the region’s trough-like topography for weeks.  But political will to find a solution has dragged, largely because farmers lacked a cost-effective alternative. Technologies like the Happy Seeder, a machine that sows seeds while simultaneously removing straw and depositing it over the fields as mulch, are too cumbersome and expensive. There are also plants that use the straw to make ethanol, but there’s not enough capacity currently.  So far, farmers say, the decomposer is a promising breakthrough. Satinder Sharma, 62, who harvests wheat in Haryana, expects his yield to improve by 10 per cent this year. He spends less now on fertilizers such as urea and diammonium phosphate, a boost to his earnings. A bonus, he said, is doing his part to ensure clean air for the next generation. The decomposer will “save the soil and plants next to the fields and the produce will be better for health,” he said. “It was a curse of nature to burn the crops and we were contributing to that.” Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-takes-new-steps-to-kick-old-habits-of-burning-farm-waste-1066111.html
30-12-2021||National||India logs 13,154 new Covid-19 cases; Omicron tally at 961||In the last 24 hours, India registered 13,154 new Covid-19 cases and 268 deaths, said the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on Thursday. With the addition of the new fatalities, the total death toll has climbed at 4,80,860. Meanwhile, the Omicron infection tally has climbed at 961 across the nation, of 320 patients have been discharged from hospitals. A total of 22 states have reported the new variant, the Ministry confirmed. Meanwhile, the recovery of 7,486 patients in the last 24 hours has increased the cumulative tally to 3,42,58,778. Consequently, India's recovery rate stands at 98.38 per cent. India's active caseload is 82,402, which account for 0.24 per cent of the country's total positive cases. Also in the same period, a total of 11,99,252 tests were conducted across the country, increasing the total tally to 67.64 crore. The weekly positivity rate at 0.76 per cent has remained less than 1 per cent for the last 46 days now. The daily positivity rate at 1.10 per cent has also remained below 2 per cent for last 87 days and less than 3 per cent for 122 consecutive days now. With the administration of 63,91,282 vaccine doses in the last 24 hours, India's Covid inoculation coverage reached 143.83 crore as of Thursday morning. More than 16.93 crore balance and unutilised Covid vaccine doses are still available with the states and UTs, said the Ministry. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-logs-13154-new-covid-19-cases-omicron-tally-at-961-1066116.html
30-12-2021||National||Full treatment of new Covid pill may cost up to Rs 3,000: Report||The Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) allowed 13 drugmakers including Sun Pharma, Cipla and Dr. Reddy’s to make the antiviral drug, as India gears up to fight a fresh wave of the pandemic which may be propelled by the new variant Omicron. The drugmaker had said that it planned to implement "a tiered pricing approach based on World Bank country income criteria to reflect countries' relative ability to finance their health response to the pandemic," the report said. The company added that it is committed to ensuring that all nations have access to medicine through licensing agreements it signed with generic drugmakers globally.  As per conditions, the drug should be sold by retail outlets only under the prescription of medical specialists and the recommended dose should be 800 mg twice daily for 5 days. Other companies which got approval from DCGI include Natco Pharma, MSN Laboratories, Hetero Drugs, Optimus Pharma, Aurobindo Pharma, Mylan, Strides Pharma Science, Emcure Pharmaceuticals, Torrent Pharma and BDR Pharmaceuticals. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/full-treatment-of-new-covid-pill-may-cost-up-to-rs-3000-report-1066121.html
30-12-2021||National||DRI seizes 12 tons of red sandalwood at Mundra port in Gujarat||The Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) and Customs officials are said to have foiled a smuggling attempt of prohibited red sandalwood at Mundra port in Kutch district on Thursday. Sources said that the sleuths have seized a container carrying around 12 metric tons worth over Rs 6 crore of banned red sandalwood. "DRI and Customs officials have seized a container at Mundra that originated from Noida in Delhi and was on its way to Hong Kong. We had received a specific intelligence. The operation is under way," a source in the know of the development said. They said that the consignment was being imported by a firm identified as Bholi Hardware & Exports Pvt Ltd, which is based in Noida. The consignment was described as "brass builder hardware and iron builder hardware".  After inspection of the containers, the DRI and Customs sleuths found 379 logs of red sanders weighing a little over 12 metric tons whose value in international market is said to be a little over Rs 6 crore. Officials said that during inspection it was found that "red sander was being imported by misdeclaring them as brass builder hardware and iron builder hardware."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dri-seizes-12-tons-of-red-sandalwood-at-mundra-port-in-gujarat-1066128.html
30-12-2021||National||India saw record 126 tiger deaths in 2021||India's tiger conservation body said 126 of the endangered big cats died in 2021, the highest toll since it began compiling data a decade ago. The most recent death was recorded on Wednesday in the central state of Madhya Pradesh, according to the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA). The previous highest number of deaths per year before the authority began compiling data in 2012 was in 2016, when 121 perished. India is home to around 75 per cent of the world's tigers. Two years ago, the government announced the population had risen to 2,967 in 2018 from a record low of 1,411 in 2006, an achievement hailed as "historic" by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. This may have been partly down to the survey size, however, which used an unprecedented number of camera traps to identify individual tigers using stripe pattern recognition software. Over the past decade the biggest cause of death was recorded by the NTCA as being "natural causes", but many also fell victim to poachers and "human-animal conflict". Human encroachment on tiger habitats has increased in recent decades in the country of 1.3 billion people. Nearly 225 people were killed in tiger attacks between 2014 and 2019, according to government figures. The government has made efforts to manage the tiger population better, however, reserving 50 habitats across the country for the animals. "India has now firmly established a leadership role in tiger conservation, with its benchmarking practices being looked at as a gold standard across the world," a government release said in July last year. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-saw-record-126-tiger-deaths-in-2021-1066150.html
30-12-2021||National||Amid surge in Covid-19 infections, India imposes more curbs||India began to impose stringent rules in more cities on Thursday to prevent mass gatherings at parties and public venues ahead of new year celebrations amid a spike in Covid-19 infections. Night curfews have been imposed in all major cities and restaurants ordered to limit customers, officials said. However, state authorities were finding it difficult to limit crowding in markets, religious sites and holiday destinations as they were allowed to remain open, the officials said. Cases of infection due to the Omicron variant rose to 961 across the country. Police in the financial capital Mumbai prohibited public gatherings of five or more residents until January 7 as it recorded a sharp jump in cases with 2,510 infections, the highest daily increase since May, local authorities said. "It is being seen that social gatherings are going on in an unrestricted manner with people flouting all social distancing norms...we are trying our best to control the spread of the virus," Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope said. Tope said the next 48 hours were critical for authorities to prevent an escalation of fresh Covid-19 cases. The Prime Minister had announced on Christmas that it will allow Covid-19 booster shots for some of its population. The emergency approvals come at a time measures are being taken to ramp up oxygen supplies and hospital beds. But an ongoing strike by thousands of junior doctors against the government has added pressure on the fragile health infrastructure. "We are continuing with the agitation," said Manish, who only uses one name. "If (Covid-19) cases are rising, then how is the government planning to deal with the situation without these doctors in the hospitals?"   Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amid-surge-in-covid-19-infections-india-imposes-more-curbs-1066182.html
30-12-2021||National||Woman can't be forced to cohabit with husband even by court decree: Gujarat HC||Overturning a family court's order, the Gujarat High Court has said that a woman cannot be forced to cohabit with her husband and establish conjugal rights with him even by a court's decree. The high court also observed that the first wife may decline to live with her husband on the ground that the "Muslim law permits the polygamy, but has never encouraged it". "The Muslim law, as forced in India, has considered polygamy as an institution to be tolerated, but not encouraged, and has not conferred upon the husband any fundamental right to compel his wife to share his consortium with another woman in all circumstances," it further observed in a recent order. The HC cited the Delhi High Court's recent order, which said that the Uniform Civil Code (UCC) should not remain a mere hope in the Constitution. The Gujarat HC's division bench of Justices J B Pardiwala and Niral Mehta said that the decision in a suit for the restitution of conjugal rights does not depend entirely on the husband's right, and the family court should also consider whether it would make it inequitable for it to compel the wife to live with her husband. The bench said this while allowing a plea filed by a woman challenging the July 2021 order of a family court in Banaskantha district of Gujarat, which had directed her to go back to her matrimonial home and perform her marital obligation. The couple's 'Nikah' was performed on May 25, 2010, at Palanpur in Banaskantha and they had a son in July 2015. As per the plea, the woman, a qualified nurse working at a civil hospital, took her son and left her husband and in-laws in July 2017, after they compelled her to migrate to Australia and take up a job there. The woman in her plea said she was against the idea and hence, left her matrimonial home with her son. The high court quoted order XXI rule 32(1) and (3) of the Civil Procedure Code (CPC) and said "no person can force a female or his wife to cohabit and establish conjugal rights. If the wife refuses to cohabit, in such a case, she cannot be forced by a decree in a suit to establish conjugal rights". As per the woman's husband, she left home "without any lawful ground". When persuasion to bring her back failed, her husband moved to the family court, which passed a decree for the restitution of conjugal rights in favour of the husband. The HC observed that the family court arrived at the conclusion "based on the conjecture that being a working woman, she could not come up with her household responsibilities and therefore, thought fit to walk out of her matrimonial home on a lame excuse of being harassed by her husband and other family members". "Our notions of law in that regard have to be altered in such a way as to bring them in conformity with the modern social conditions," the high court observed. "Nothing has been shown to us in the form of any rule or otherwise which compel the courts to always pass a decree in a suit for restitution of conjugal rights in favour of the husband," it said. If a court feels that the husband, who has filed such a suit, is himself unworthy or has some ulterior motive, it may refuse him assistance altogether, the bench said. The HC questioned whether it would be right to allow such a suit in favour of a husband even when he has meanwhile married another woman while his first wife was away, simply "on the ground that a Muslim under his personal law can have several wives, at a time up to a maximum four". The HC said a wife may decline to live with her husband on the ground that the Muslim law permits polygamy, but has never encouraged it. The HC cited a Delhi High Court order of July 7, 2021, on the Uniform Civil Code, in which it observed that the UCC should not remain a mere hope in the Constitution. While expressing regret over the conflicts in the society due to differences in various personal laws, the court observed that in modern Indian society, which is gradually becoming homogeneous, the traditional barriers of religion, community and caste are slowly dissipating. "The youth of India belonging to various communities, tribes, castes or religions who solemnise their marriages ought not to be forced to struggle with issues arising due to conflicts in various personal laws, especially in relation to marriage and divorce," it said, quoting the order. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/woman-cant-be-forced-to-cohabit-with-husband-even-by-court-decree-gujarat-hc-1066194.html
30-12-2021||National||New year, new polls but results will be far-reaching for BJP||As the new year arrives, the BJP finds itself on the cusp of the most consequential cycle of state polls since the 2019 Lok Sabha elections as the results will tell if the road ahead in its bid for a third straight term at the Centre is getting any bumpier or a strong opposition challenge remains elusive. If 2021 marked the rare occurrence of the Narendra Modi-led government bowing to organised protests, mounted by farmers in north India against three agriculture reform laws, and the BJP's enviable election machinery coming up short against a popular regional satrap in West Bengal, 2022 will reveal if the ripples these developments caused have made impact beyond their immediate implications. And, political experts believe Uttar Pradesh assembly polls will hold the key. It was its massive win in the state in 2017 that had made the BJP favourites for the 2019 general elections, and some preceding setbacks in state elections, including in Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan, did little to dampen the tide the Uttar Pradesh results had generated in its favour. As the BJP won 312 seats in the 403-member Uttar Pradesh assembly, National Conference leader Omar Abdullah had then tweeted that "at this rate we (opposition) might as well forget 2019 & start planning/hoping for 2024". His comments were mocked by many but turned out to be prescient. Uttar Pradesh will go to the polls with Uttarakhand, Manipur, Goa and Punjab, with the Election Commission likely to announce the dates anytime next month. Its sweeping victory in India's largest state in two back to back Lok Sabha polls has been central to the BJP winning a majority of seats nationwide. Always battle-ready, top BJP leaders have already begun touring the poll-bound states with Modi himself addressing quite a few public meetings in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand, launching development projects and targeting the opposition. He has also addressed one public meeting in Goa. Home Minister Amit Shah, acknowledged for his keen grasp of Uttar Pradesh's political dynamics woven around religion, caste identity, regional peculiarities and local heavyweights besides governance issues, has been frequenting the state, as the party believes that another emphatic win there will do more than anything else to set the tone for the next Lok Sabha polls. Samajwadi Party leader Akhilesh Yadav, too, has mounted an aggressive challenge and sought to counteract the BJP's Hindutva pitch under Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath by joining hands with regional caste leaders and questioning the state government's development claims. A win for the BJP, especially by a handsome margin, will also be a further boost to its ideological project, but any setback will have far-reaching impact. In Uttarakhand, the BJP is going to the polls with a third chief minister, Pushkar Singh Dhami, at the helm in last five years. While it would have been considered an obvious disadvantage to the ruling party, infighting within the opposition Congress combined with the ruling party's strong organisation and 'Modi factor' have made the battle keen. Critics allege that lack of strong action against right-wing activists accused of giving calls for violence against Muslims at a Dharam Sansad in Haridwar in Uttarakhand, where the BJP is in power, is linked to the polls as it would like religiously polarising issues to take centre stage to beat back any anti-incumbency it may be facing in the state and neighbouring Uttar Pradesh. The BJP on its part has refused to join the issue with opposition parties, and said questions about the event should be asked not from it but the organisers. Police have registered an FIR in the case. It is also pulling out all the stops to make an impact in the Punjab polls, which was seen as a lost cause for it after its ally Akali Dal severed ties and farmers' protest intensified before it changed course by defusing the agitation with the repeal of the three laws. It has joined hands with former Congress stalwart Amarinder Singh and a splintered Akali faction, and has inducted a number of Sikh leaders, including sitting MLAs, to reach out to the community which had led the agitation against the three laws. If the Uttar Pradesh polls are being seen as a natural barometer to judge the mood of the nation, a good show by the BJP-led alliance in Punjab will showcase the party's continuing ability to adapt to defy odds. If 2021 was the year of political and governance challenges for the ruling party as the second wave of Covid convulsed the country before farmer unions marched to Delhi border, 2022 poll results will tell if people have bought into the opposition's charge of incompetence against its governments at the Centre and states in their handling of the pandemic or agri issues or their trust in the party remains intact. The BJP had cited its success in a number of state polls and bypolls after the Covid outbreak in 2020 as popular endorsement of its handling of the crisis. Besides the five states, two more states of Himachal Pradesh and Gujarat are expected to face the elections by the end of next year, and the BJP is in power in six of the seven states, making the stakes high for the party. This is in sharp contrast to four states and Union Territory of Puducherry polls in 2021 in which the BJP was in power in only one state, Assam, which it retained. It is also part of the government in Puducherry. While the BJP's principal national rival, the Congress, showed little sign of any revival in its fortunes through the outgoing year as it lost badly in Kerala and Assam, it was the success of West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress in quelling the saffron challenge in her state which has sowed seeds of possible realignment in opposition camp in taking on the BJP. What shape the opposition politics will take as it weighs its options may depend a lot on the poll tidings that the new year will bring. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-year-new-polls-but-results-will-be-far-reaching-for-bjp-1066214.html
30-12-2021||National||PM inaugurates, lays foundation stones of projects worth over Rs 17,500 cr in Haldwani||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday inaugurated and laid foundation stones of projects worth over Rs 17,500 crore here ahead of the assembly elections in Uttarakhand. The unveiling of projects by Modi included the inauguration of six worth Rs 3,420 crore and laying the foundation stones of 17 others worth Rs 14,127 crore. The inaugurated projects include three different stretches of the Chardham all-weather road which have been widened, Nagina-Kashipur National Highway, Suring Gad hydel project and sewage works under the Namami Gange programme at Nainital. Lakhwar multi-purpose hydro-electricity project worth Rs 5,747 crore, an AIIMS satellite centre for Kumaon worth Rs 500 crore, Moradabad-Kashipur four-lane road, improved road connectivity with Nepal and an Aroma Park in Kashipur are among the key projects whose foundation was laid by the prime minister. The Lakhwar multi-purpose project will produce 300 MW of electricity. The 330 million cubic metres water in its reservoir will supply irrigation and drinking water to the six states of Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Delhi.  This is Modi's second visit to the state this month. On his last visit to Uttarakhand on December 4, Modi had unveiled projects worth over Rs 18,000 crore in Dehradun besides addressing an election rally. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-inaugurates-lays-foundation-stones-of-projects-worth-over-rs-17500-cr-in-haldwani-1066217.html
30-12-2021||National||Child should not be made to suffer due to husband-wife dispute: SC||Observing that a child should not be made to suffer due to a dispute between a husband and wife, the Supreme Court has asked an Army officer to look after the maintenance of his 13-year-old son till he attains the age of majority. While dissolving the officer's marriage, a bench comprising Justices M R Shah and A S Bopanna directed him to pay Rs 50,000 as maintenance to the wife. “Considering the fact that both the appellant-wife and the respondent-husband are not staying together since May, 2011 and, therefore, it can be said that there is irretrievable breakdown of marriage between them.  “It is also reported that the husband has already re-married. Therefore, no useful purpose shall be served to further enter into the merits of the findings recorded by the courts below on 'cruelty' and 'desertion' by the appellant-wife,” the bench said. In view of facts and circumstances of the case and in exercise of powers under Article 142 of the Constitution, the decree passed by the Family Court is not required to be interfered with on account of irretrievable breakdown of marriage, the apex court said. “However, at the same time, the husband cannot be absolved from his liability and responsibility to maintain his son till he attains the age of majority. Whatever be the dispute between the husband and the wife, a child should not be made to suffer.  “The liability and responsibility of the father to maintain the child continues till the child/son attains the age of majority,” the bench said. The top court noted that the mother is not earning anything and therefore, a reasonable/sufficient amount is required for the maintenance of her son including his education etc. which shall have to be paid by the husband. “In view of the above and for the reasons stated above, the present appeal stands disposed of by confirming the decree of divorce/dissolution of the marriage between the appellant-wife and the husband.  “However, the husband is directed to pay Rs 50,000 per month with effect from December, 2019 to the wife towards the maintenance of son,” it said in a recent order. The marriage between the Army officer and his wife was solemnised on November 16, 2005.  The wife had filed a number of complaints against the husband before Army authorities including those pertaining to alleged extra-marital affairs of the respondent-husband.  An enquiry was initiated by the Army authorities against the officer in which he was exonerated. The Army officer filed a case against the wife before the Family Court, Jaipur in 2014 seeking a decree of divorce and dissolution of marriage on the grounds of cruelty and desertion by the wife.  The Family Court passed a decree for dissolution of marriage between the appellant and the respondent on grounds of cruelty and desertion by the wife. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/child-should-not-be-made-to-suffer-due-to-husband-wife-dispute-sc-1066222.html
30-12-2021||National||Tax liabilities of Peeyush Jain yet to be determined: DGGI||The GST office on Thursday dismissed as "purely speculative" reports which say the department is treating the Rs 197.49 crore cash recovered from perfume maker Peeyush Jain as business turnover and a fourth of it being allowed to be deposited as tax, saying voluntary submissions by the accused is under investigation, which will decide the exact nature of the liability. The intelligence unit of the Directorate General of Goods and Services Tax in a statement said total Rs 197.49 crore cash, 23 kg gold and some "offending goods" of high value have been recovered so far in searches carried out in UP's Kannauj at Odochem Industries - a manufacturer of perfumery compounds - and its proprietor Peeyush Jain. Dismissing reports that the department had treated the recoveries as turnover and the accused has been allowed to deposit Rs 52 crore as tax dues, it said the entire recoveries are kept in the safe custody of State Bank of India pending further investigation. "No deposit of tax dues has been made by M/s Odochem Industries from the seized money to discharge their tax liabilities and their tax liabilities are yet to be determined," the Directorate General of Goods and Services Tax Intelligence (DGGI) said. Such reports, it said, are "purely speculative, without any basis and seek to undermine the integrity of the ongoing investigations which are being carried out in a most professional manner based on specific intelligence." "In this regard, it is clarified that the total amount of cash in the ongoing cash from the residential and factory premises of Peeyush Jain has been kept as cash property in the safe custody of the State Bank of India pending further investigations," it said. Without disclosing the statement made by Jain, it said the "voluntary submissions" are a "subject matter of ongoing investigations and any view on the source of cash seized by the department and the exact tax liabilities of M/s Odochem Industries or other parties involved in the investigation shall be taken on the basis of appraisal of evidence collected from various premises during the searches and the outcome of further investigations." It added that based on the "voluntary admission of guilt and the evidence available on record," Jain was arrested on December 26 and produced before the competent court the next day, which remanded him to 14 days' judicial custody." Jain has been charged under Section 132 of the Central Goods and Services Act, 2017, which among other things deal with offences of supplying any goods or services without an invoice, the issue of any invoice or bill without supply of goods or services, or evading tax. The offences provide maximum imprisonment of 5 years and a fine.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tax-liabilities-of-peeyush-jain-yet-to-be-determined-dggi-1066223.html
30-12-2021||National||Ahead of polls, PM lays foundation for projects worth Rs 17,500 cr in Uttarakhand||Ahead of the Assembly elections in Uttarakhand scheduled early next year, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday inaugurated and laid foundation stones for 23 projects worth over Rs 17,500 crore in the Himalayan state. The Prime Minister laid the foundation stone for the Lakhwar Multipurpose Project which was first conceived in 1976 and was pending for many years. The roject is located on Yamuna river in Dehradun and Tehri districts. He also inaugurated and laid foundation for road sector projects worth Rs 8,700 crore. These road projects aim to realise the government's vision to improve connectivity in remote, rural and border areas. The Kailash Mansarovar Yatra will also get improved connectivity. Modi also laid the foundation for an AIIMS Rishikesh satellite centre at Udham Singh Nagar and the Jagjivan Ram Government Medical College at Pithoragarh. The Prime Minister then laid the foundation for an aroma park at Kashipur, a plastic industrial park at Sitarganj and multiple other initiatives in the fields of housing, sanitation and drinking water supply across the state. Addressing the gathering, Modi said, "I have a long association with Kumaon and I thank the people of the region for honouring me with the Uttarakhandi cap." The Prime Minister said that the strength of the people of state will make this decade the decade of Uttarakhand. "Modern infrastructure is growing in Uttarakhand, Char Dham project and new rail routes are being built, and all this will make this decade the decade of Uttarakhand," he said. He also referred to the strides made by Uttarakhand in the fields of hydro power, industry, tourism, natural agriculture and connectivity. Modi said that the foundation stones which have been laid today are like pledge stones that will be followed up with full resolve. "Deprivation and hassles of the past are now being converted into facilities and harmony. During the last seven years through 'Har Ghar Jal', Ujjwala scheme etc., women are getting new facilities and dignity," he said. Lambasting the previous governments, Modi said that delay in government schemes has been a permanent feature of those who were in power before. "The Lakhwar project, which started here in Uttarakhand today, has the same history. The project was first thought of in 1976. Today after 46 years, our government has laid the foundation stone for its work. This delay is nothing short of a crime," he said. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ahead-of-polls-pm-lays-foundation-for-projects-worth-rs-17500-cr-in-uttarakhand-1066230.html
30-12-2021||National||GoI in final stages of developing system to extend subsidised foodgrains to homeless||The Centre is in the final stages of developing a system to capture the data of homeless and the destitute having no ration cards, so that the benefit of subsidised foodgrains can be extended to them also, Food Secretary Sudhanshu Pandey said on Thursday. Currently, the government supplies highly subsidised foodgrains at Rs 1-3 per kg to over 81 crore people having ration cards through public distribution system (PDS) as part of the National Food Security Act (NFSA). Over and above the subsidised foodgrains, the government during the pandemic is supplying free foodgrains to NFSA beneficiaries under Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY). This scheme has been extended multiple times and is now valid till March 2022. Since homeless and the destitute have no ration cards in the absence of an identity card or residential address, they are not covered either under NFSA or PMGKAY. Asked about steps taken to cover this segment of the population, the Secretary said, "Very much that process is on and the development of a system is in the final stages and then it will be put to trial." The new system being developed is basically to capture all homeless, shelterless destitute, who might not have ration cards, he said during a virtual media briefing. State governments have not either issued them the ration card for reasons of lack of identity or lack of home address, he said, and added, "all these issues will get addressed." Another Food Ministry official said states have lifted 11.21 lakh tonne of foodgrains in the current 2021-22 fiscal year for distribution to people not covered under NFSA. State governments purchased over 11 lakh tonne of foodgrains under the Centre's open market sale scheme (OMSS) in 2021-22, he said. Further, the official said state governments have managed to cover so far only 79.71 crore poor people out of the total 81 crore beneficiaries covered under NFSA. State governments have been asked to immediately reach out to the remaining 1.6 crore, identify them and bring them under the ambit of NFSA, he said. With states lifting grains via OMSS, the quantity of wheat and rice sold via this scheme has increased to 71.44 lakh tonne till December 29 this year as against 20.71 lakh tonne in the year-ago period. Besides states, private companies and organizations have purchased the grains via OMSS taking advantage of the liberalized policy introduced this year to offload the surplus stocks of wheat, improve domestic availability and ease out storage crunch, he added.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/goi-in-final-stages-of-developing-system-to-extend-subsidised-foodgrains-to-homeless-1066240.html
30-12-2021||National||R-value exceeds 2 in Delhi, Mumbai; indicates faster spread of coronavirus: Study||As coronavirus cases spiral, the `R-value', which indicates how rapidly the virus is spreading, has crossed two in Delhi and Mumbai, researchers said on Thursday. Chennai, Pune, Bengaluru and Kolkata have R-value (or reproduction number) of over 1, as per the data study by the researchers of the Institute of Mathematical Sciences, Chennai. Sitabhra Sinha, who led the study, said the R-value of Delhi stood at 2.54 between December 23-29, while for Mumbai it was 2.01 between December 23-28. Both these cities have seen an exponential rise in cases. Pune and Bengaluru recorded an R-value of 1.11. The R-value of Kolkata and Chennai was 1.13 and 1.26, respectively. “Since mid-October, the R-value of all these cities was over 1. What is new was the sudden rise. The fact that Delhi and Mumbai crossed the R-value 2 is quite surprising,” Sinha told PTI.  Delhi on Wednesday reported a massive jump in daily Covid-19 infections with 923 fresh cases, the highest since May 30 and 86 per cent up from a day earlier. The positivity rate in Delhi crossed 1 per cent after six months to reach 1.29 per cent. On December 20, 91 new Covid-19 cases had been recorded in the national capital, but the figure climbed to 923 on Wednesday. The Covid-19 positivity rate in Delhi thus jumped to 1.29 per cent from 0.19 per cent between December 23 and December 29. Similarly, Mumbai on Wednesday reported 2,510 Covid-19 cases, the highest daily addition since May 8, 2021, besides one death. Only 283 cases had been reported in Mumbai, whereas on Tuesday the financial capital of the country recorded 1,377 cases, and on Wednesday the figure went up by 80 per cent. The Reproduction number or R refers to how many people an infected person infects on average. In other words, it tells how 'efficiently' a virus is spreading. An R-value of less than 1 denotes that the disease is on the decline. Conversely, if R is greater than 1, it means the number of infected people is increasing in each round -- technically it becomes the `epidemic phase'. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/r-value-exceeds-2-in-delhi-mumbai-indicates-faster-spread-of-coronavirus-study-1066241.html
30-12-2021||National||BJP forms committees for micro-donations, Mann Ki Baat, Sansad Khel Mahakumbh||The Bharatiya Janata Party has formed three committees of leaders from across the country to look at three key interest areas – Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s radio programme Mann Ki Baat, the party’s micro donations drive, and the rural sports tournament series Sansad Khel Kumbh. The three committees, each constituted of eight or nine senior party leaders, were appointed by party president JP Nadda on December 29. The committees, party sources said, were formed for the successful implementation of the programmes to the booth level. Nadda has also asked the committee members to ensure that state level committees are formed under them. Sources in the party said that Nadda has called some of the members of the committee for a meeting at Delhi. Nadda is also scheduled to virtually address some of them to apprise them of their roles early next month. Rajya Sabha MP Dushyant Gautam, National General Secretary Vinod Tawde, Lok Sabha MP Vinod Sonkar, Karnataka MLA P Rajeev, Mahila Morcha National General Secretary Deepti Rawat, and national secretaries Asha Lakra and Rituraj Sinha, as well as Assam State General Secretary Pulok Gohain are part of the committee on Mann Ki Baat. Vinod Tawde is also part of the micro donations committee, which has National Joint Treasurer and Lok Sabha MP Sudhir Gupta, MP Gajendra Patel, MP Sanjay Seth and MP Rajdeep Roy as members. In addition, Karnataka vice president Nirmal Kumar Surana, Bihar state treasurer Dilip Jaiswal, Delhi state treasurer Vishnu Mittal, and former national secretary H Raja are also members of this committee. Earlier this week, on the birth anniversary of BJP stalwart Atal Bihari Vajpayee, PM Modi launched a micro donation campaign, and urged people to donate as little as Rs 5 or Rs 50 to the party. The third committee, formed for the Sansad Khel Kumbh, has MPs Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore, Samir Oraon, Pallab Lochan Das, Parvesh Verma, and Nayab Singh Saini as members. Apart from that, Karnataka MLA CT Ravi, Yuva Morcha National General Secretaries Rohit Chahal and Vaivhav Singh are members, too. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-forms-committees-for-micro-donations-mann-ki-baat-sansad-khel-mahakumbh-1066252.html
30-12-2021||National||Fresh twists in Kerala actor assault case, another prosecutor resigns||The actor assault case of Kerala witnessed fresh twists with the special prosecutor in the case submitting resignation while the police sought permission for further probe into the allegations by a film director against the accused actor Dileep. It was for the second time that the prosecutor in the case was resigning. It was learnt that prosecutor V N Anilkumar submitted his resignation to the director-general of prosecution on Wednesday. An official reaction in this regard was yet to come. Recently film director Balachandrakumar, who was a close friend of Dileep, stated that Dileep was close with the prime accused in the case. He also made certain crucial statements, following which the police approached the court seeking a further probe. The 'Women in Media' urged the government to give police protection to the film director. A Sureshan, who was initially the special prosecutor, submitted a resignation last November close on the heels of Kerala High Court declining a plea to change the trial court, additional sessions court (special-CBI) in Kochi. The actress who allegedly suffered the sexual assault and the prosecution had earlier sought a change of trial court alleging of unfair approach of court towards her. But the HC declined the request. The actress was abducted and sexually assaulted by a gang, allegedly engaged by Dileep, to settle personal scores in February 2017 at Kochi. The gang allegedly shot the video of the assault. Dileep was arrested in this connection in July 2017 and later granted bail. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fresh-twists-in-kerala-actor-assault-case-another-prosecutor-resigns-1066273.html
30-12-2021||National||120 judges, 63 additional judges appointed in High Courts||As many as 120 judges and 63 additional judges were appointed to the various High Courts across the country in the year 2021. Using Video Conferencing, the District and High Courts heard nearly 1.65 Crore cases and the Supreme Court conducted nearly 1.5 lakh hearings, making it the world leader. Giving a detailed account, the Union government's department of justice on Thursday said 120 fresh judges were appointed in the High Courts – High Court of Bombay (6), Allahabad (17), Gujarat (7), Karnataka (6), Andhra Pradesh (2), Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh (2), Kerala (12), Rajasthan (8), Punjab and Haryana (6), Calcutta (8), Orissa (4), Telangana (7), Madras (5), Chhattisgarh (3), Himachal Pradesh (1), Jharkhand (4), Gauhati (6), Delhi (2), Patna (6) and Madhya Pradesh (8). 63 Additional Judges were made permanent in High Courts - High Court of Allahabad (10), Karnataka (20), Calcutta (1), Chhattisgarh (1),  Punjab and Haryana (10), Bombay (10), Kerala (7), Uttarakhand (1) and Gauhati (3). During the year, the tenure of two Additional Judges was extended - one each at the High Court of Bombay and Gauhati. In the year, Chief Justices were appointed in the High Courts of Allahabad, Andhra Pradesh, Calcutta, Guwhati, Gujarat, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Madras, Manipur and Telangana. Besides, six Chief Justices were transferred from one High Court to another and a total of 27 Judges of High Courts were transferred. In another development, the judge's strength of Tripura High Court was enhanced by one post and of Telangana High Court by 18 posts, thus increasing the approved number of judges in the Tripura High Court to five and Telangana High Court to 42 judges. As of December 6, 2021, there are 69,855 cases pending in the Supreme Court.  The pendency in respect of High Courts and District and Subordinate Courts, as of December 17, 2021, stood at 56,39,702 and 4,006,61,393 respectively. During the year hit by the Covid-19 pandemic, video conferencing facilities were operationalised between 3240 courts and corresponding 1272 prisons. Funds for setting up 2506 VC cabins have been made available. Additional 1500 VC licenses have been acquired.  The department also said live streaming of proceedings has started in Gujarat, Karnataka and Orissa High Court, allowing interested persons to join the proceedings.  Uttarakhand and Telangana started Mobile e-courts van equipped with Wi-Fi and computers for video conferencing for speedy disposal of cases. 15 virtual courts in 11 States and Union Territories have been set up to try traffic offences.  These courts heard more than 1.07 crore cases and realised Rs 201.96 crore in fines. Delhi High Court has started 34 Digital Courts to hear cheque bounce cases under the Section 138 NI Act, it said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/120-judges-63-additional-judges-appointed-in-high-courts-1066276.html
30-12-2021||National||Covid-19: Maharashtra, West Bengal and Delhi emerging as states/UTs of concern||India's R naught value, which indicates the spread of Covid-19, is 1.22, the government said on Thursday, warning that cases are increasing, not shrinking, as it highlighted that Maharashtra, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Karnataka and Gujarat were emerging as states and UTs of concern on the basis of weekly infections and positivity rate. Addressing a press conference, NITI Aayog Member (Health) Dr V K Paul said there has been an uptick in coronavirus cases since the last few days and some states are showing a trend that is going up. India recorded the highest single-day rise of Omicron infections with 180 fresh cases, taking the total tally of such infections in the country to 961, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. Delhi recorded the maximum number of 263 cases followed by Maharashtra at 252, Gujarat 97, Rajasthan 69, Kerala 65 and Telangana 62. The daily rise in Covid-19 cases crossed the 13,000 mark after around 49 days, taking the total tally to 3,48,22,040, while the active cases increased to 82,402, according to the data updated at 8 am. "We believe on the scientific basis R0 is 1.22 as per the available data... so the cases are now increasing, not shrinking. As the scenario emerges, we believe what we are witnessing could be part of the global rise in cases pushed by the Omicron variant... we are already aware that this variant is highly transmissible and that perhaps explains the speed with which it is rising in the world. "As we have explained, the severity issues are answered and we quote WHO statement -- severity (is) hopefully mild but cannot be taken for granted. This is work in progress," he said. He, however, urged people not to panic, saying, "Because as a nation we are prepared. As a nation, we have experience and the massive shield of very high coverage of the vaccine. I repeat, no need to panic. But there is a need to be prepared, to be responsible and disciplined. " Several state governments have taken appropriate measures, Paul said, adding that all variants enter through the same route and that can be blocked by wearing a mask. Stating that India reported more than 10,000 daily new Covid-19 cases after 33 days, the Joint Secretary in the Ministry of Health Lav Agarwal stressed the need for heightened vigil given the sharp increase in the infections being observed. Agarwal said eight districts in India are reporting more than 10 per cent Covid-19 weekly positivity, while 14 districts are reporting a weekly positivity between 5 per cent to 10 per cent. Maharashtra, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Karnataka and Gujarat are emerging as states and UTs of concern on the basis of weekly cases and positivity, he said. The government said 90 per cent of India's adult population has been administered the first dose of the vaccine and 63.5 per cent of people are now fully vaccinated. ICMR Director General Balram Bhargava said durability of immunity after vaccination persists for nine months or more and added that a precautionary dose will be administered to healthcare and frontline workers, and citizens above 60 years with comorbidities, mitigating the severity of infection, hospitalisation and death. Bhargava said the durability of immunity post-infection persists for about nine months and added that hybrid immunity, which is developed as a result of vaccination and natural infection, mounts a stronger response and robust antibody titres after the second dose. The government said that masking before and after vaccination is a must. It said that earlier and currently circulating strains of coronavirus spread through the same routes and added that treatment guidelines for the infection remain the same. A surge in cases is being noted globally, with the US, the UK, France and Spain contributing to 58 per cent of Covid-19 cases last week, Agarwal said. As far as Omicron is concerned, 3,30,379 cases of the variant and 59 deaths have been reported across 121 countries, he said. Agarwal said 961 cases of Omicron have been detected across 22 states and UTs so far. Quoting the WHO, he said consistent evidence shows the variant has a growth advantage over Delta, with a doubling time of 2-3 days. A rapid increase in the incidence of cases has been seen in a number of countries, including those where the variant has become the dominant one, such as the UK and the US. On poll rallies, Paul said, "We have emphasised the preventive measures that protect us against infection and protect the spread of infection are applicable Responding to whether the health system can collapse, he said the WHO has said as per the trends seen in the last 3-4 weeks taking cognisance of that and the epidemiological principles and science that has emerged from it. The global surge is more than previous surges. Knowing the behaviour of the virus, there is a warning that the entire world is still facing delta, but several parts have yet not faced it and then there is a new variant which brings in greater complexity, transmissibility and other issues, Paul said. "So there is a warning that all nations, societies, families should be alert, well prepared. It is also the same message we are trying to transmit, so be prepared that this surge could be significant, be prepared that it necessarily be mild, and be prepared that the health system and facilities are ready for the maximum possible level. These are the messages we received from WHO and these are the messages we have tried to transmit," he said. Watch the latest DH Videos here: Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-maharashtra-west-bengal-and-delhi-emerging-as-states/uts-of-concern-1066283.html
30-12-2021||National||Covaxin shows robust safety, immunogenicity in 2-18-year-olds: Bharat Biotech reveals clinical trial data||Bharat Biotech International Limited (BBIL) said that its Covid-19 vaccine has demonstrated “robust safety and immunogenicity” in trials for 2-18-year-olds. The Hyderabad-based vaccine maker said that neutralising antibodies in children were found to be, on an average, 1.7 times higher than in adults. The vaccine, which is being administered to adults, was approved by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) recently for emergency use in children between 12 and 18 years of age. Bharat Biotech said that it had conducted phase II/III, open-label, and multicenter studies to evaluate the safety, reactogenicity, and immunogenicity of Covaxin in healthy children and adolescents in the 2-18 years age group. BBIL said that Covaxin is the one of the first Covid-19 vaccines in the world for which data is generated for this age group. The clinical trials were conducted in the pediatric population between June to September 2021 and the data was submitted to the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) in October 2021. “No serious adverse event was reported. 374 subjects reported either mild or moderate severity symptoms with 78.6 per cent getting resolved within one day. Pain at the injection site was the most commonly reported adverse event,” BBIL said. Dr Krishna Ella, Chairman and Managing Director, Bharat Biotech, said, “We have achieved our goal of developing a safe and efficacious Covid-19 vaccine for adults and children.” For the trial, 976 children and adolescents were screened for SARS-CoV-2 by RT-PCR and ELISA testing. Of these, 525 eligible participants were enrolled and segregated into three groups - Group I consisted of 12-18-year-olds (n=175), Group II had 6-12-year-olds (n=175), and Group III consisted of 2-6-year-olds (n=175). Seroconversion was documented at 95-98 per cent in all three groups four weeks after the second dose, indicating superior antibody responses in children when compared to adults. “While in earlier Covaxin studies in adults, cross reactive memory T-cells against all variants of concern was reported, studies are under way to evaluate T-cell responses against the Omicron variant. Since Covaxin is an inactivated vaccine, corroborative results are expected,” researchers said. Covaxin, jointly developed by ICMR-National Institute of Virology, Pune and BBIL in 2020, is a whole-virion inactivated vaccine, stored at 2-8°C, with 12 months shelf life and multi-dose vial policy. Covaxin formulation allows the same dosage administration for both adults and children. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covaxin-shows-robust-safety-immunogenicity-in-2-18-year-olds-bharat-biotech-reveals-clinical-trial-data-1066285.html
30-12-2021||National||Govt to decide on Covid vaccine to be given as precautionary dose||There have been extensive deliberations on whether the precautionary (third) dose of the Covid vaccine for healthcare and frontline workers and citizens above 60 years with comorbidities should be the same as the first two doses and a decision is expected soon, the government said on Thursday. Addressing a press conference, ICMR Director-General Dr Balram Bhargava said that the government will issue clear cut recommendations on this before January 10, when administering the precautionary dose to healthcare and frontline workers and those above 60 years with comorbidities will begin. "We are having an extensive debate (on which vaccine to be given as a precautionary dose). We've had a series of meetings in NTAGI (National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation) yesterday, the day before and today.  "We are deciding what is the population that will require this vaccine which includes frontline workers, healthcare workers and 60 plus with comorbidities. What are new vaccines available and which vaccine can be given in terms of safety and in terms of efficacy," Bhargava said. "So, we are analysing all the data that is available in terms of which vaccine can be given...whether it is going to be the same one or it is going to be a different one. Before January 10 we will have to clear cut recommendations on the same. The drug controller and the NTAGI are meeting and that decision will be taken," he said. According to the 'Guidelines for Covid-19 vaccination of children between 15-18 years and precaution dose to healthcare and frontline workers and 60 years + population with comorbidities' issued by the health ministry, prioritisation and sequencing of the "precaution dose" for them would be based on completion of nine months from the date of administration of the second dose, which is 39 weeks. They will be able to access vaccination for the precaution dose through their existing Co-WIN account, the guidelines which will come into effect from January 3 stated. Eligibility for the precaution dose will be based on the date of administration of the second dose as recorded in the Co-WIN system, which will send an SMS for availing the precaution dose when it becomes due, the guidelines stated. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-to-decide-on-covid-vaccine-to-be-given-as-precautionary-dose-1066291.html
30-12-2021||National||Durability of immunity post Covid vaccination persists for 9 months or more: Govt||The durability of immunity post Covid-19 vaccination persists for nine months or more and a precautionary dose of vaccine which will be administered to healthcare and frontline workers and citizens above 60 years with comorbidities is to mitigate the severity of infection, hospitalisation and death, the government said on Thursday. ICMR Director General Dr Balram Bhargava said the virus SARS-CoV-2 infects an individual in natural settings and elicits antibody mediated, cell mediated immunity and immunological memory. He said hybrid immunity, which is developed as a result of vaccination and natural infection, mounts a stronger response and robust antibody titres after the second dose. Measuring antibody titre only, does not capture the entire protection, he said. "The durability of immunity post-infection persists for about 9 months," Bhargava told a press conference. He said hybrid immunity, which is developed as a result of vaccination and natural infection, mounts a stronger response and robust antibody titres after the second dose. "If you have had an infection and vaccination your immune response is more than only infection or vaccine. So the important thing is that vaccination is absolutely essential," he said. Citing global evidence, Bhargava said immunological memory for SARS CoV2 lasts for more than eight months after natural infection. "This is from the US published in Science, and there is antibody and cellular response more than nine months after infection from China. Then longitudinal investigations in the US have multiple studies have shown that the antibody responses persists for more than 13 months post infection and the systematic review of 10 studies from Israel, England, Denmark, US, Austria and Italy have that more than 90 per cent reduction in reinfection up to 10 months," Bhargava said. "... We like to say that up to nine months and take a slightly conservative estimate of that and that is what is the evidence. From India there are three studies two from ICMR and one from Mumbai, on 284 patients, on 755 patients and 244 that it persists for up to eight months, seven months and six months (respectively) and these are all published data from infection that occurred in 2020, 2021," he said. Talking about the vaccines that are being used in India, Bhargava said one is the whole virion kill vaccine with an innovative adjuvant that is the Covaxin and the second is a viral vector based subunit vaccine that is Covishield. "...So despite vaccination having happened we know the seroprevalence that is also to be factored in. And the third point is that the transmission of Omicron is three times or four times more than the Delta variant also. So that will also be exposing people for this. In terms of the precautionary dose, we have to remember one important point and that is the most important point is that all Covid vaccines are primarily disease modifying and they do not prevent infection. So they are not infection prevention," he said. Bhargava said the precautionary dose is primarily to mitigate the following three things - one, severity of infections two - hospitalisation and death. "Now this is very important for individuals who are elderly, immune compromised or on chemotherapy, or patients who have chronic obstructive lung disease. So these are patients where a precautionary dose would be useful to prevent serious disease hospitalization and death," he said. "The important three points that I want to stress on mask use before and after vaccination is must, mass gathering should be avoided before and after vaccination. And earlier and currently circulating strains spread through the same route. They are all spreading through the respiratory tract through the airborne. So we have to remember that whether the virus is mutating it spreads by the same route," he said. Bhargava said the treatment does not seem to remain change it remains the same. " Home isolation remains an important parameter and hospitalisation will be limited to those particularly those who are unvaccinated. Those who are unvaccinated will be the ones who will be admitted to hospitals, people who are immunocompromised and chemotherapy will be the ones who will be admitted to hospitals and will require more care," he added. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/durability-of-immunity-post-covid-vaccination-persists-for-9-months-or-more-govt-1066307.html
30-12-2021||National||Centre says precautionary Covid-19 dose to cut hospitalisation risk, choice of vaccine yet to be decided||The precautionary third dose of the Covid-19 vaccine will reduce the severity of infection and chances of hospitalisation and death, but the Centre is yet to zero in on the choice of vaccine to be used for the third shot, ICMR director general Balram Bhargava said on Thursday. Ahead of the initiation of a third dose of the Covid-19 vaccines for healthcare and frontline workers, and senior citizens, Bhargava said since Covid-19 vaccines were primarily disease-modifying ones, they did not prevent the infection. “Precautionary dose is to mitigate the severity of infection, hospitalisation and death,” said the ICMR chief, adding that use of masks before and after vaccination is a must. Asked which vaccine is to be used for the precautionary shot, Bhargava said, “We are having extensive discussions on which vaccine is to be used – whether it is the same one or a different one. We will have a clear cut recommendation before January 10th.” Nearly six crore Indians would receive the precautionary third shot, announced by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Christmas day. This would include one crore healthcare workers, two crore plus front line workers and 2.75 crore senior citizens. The Centre has clarified that the senior citizens would not have to produce a doctor’s prescription or a written advice for vaccination, but they should consult their doctors before going for the third shot. “Use of masks before and after vaccination is a must and mass gatherings should be avoided. The treatment guidelines for the earlier and the currently circulating strains of coronavirus remain the same. Home isolation remains an important pillar,” he said. After a downward movement for nearly five months, India’s Covid-19 numbers have again started moving northward in the last week of December, triggering worries among medical experts and government officials if it is the beginning of a new wave. More than 90 per cent of adults in India received at least one dose of a Covid-19 vaccine while nearly 63 per cent are fully vaccinated. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-says-precautionary-covid-19-dose-to-cut-hospitalisation-risk-choice-of-vaccine-yet-to-be-decided-1066311.html
30-12-2021||National Politics||DH Toon | 'Mother Teresa, India is Atmanirbhar, not poor!'||The licence of Missionaries of Charity (MoC) for receiving foreign funds was not renewed by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) citing “adverse inputs”, an action taken on Christmas day that attracted criticism from various quarters though the organisation sought to play it down. West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, CPI(M) West Bengal Secretary Surjya Kanta Mishra, Congress MP Shashi Tharoor and Trinamool Rajya Sabha floor leader Derek O’Brien were among those found fault with the Centre’s action, alleging that the Narendra Modi government has frozen the MoC’s accounts. However, the MoC issued a statement in the evening clarifying that its FCRA registration has neither been suspended nor cancelled and that there was no freeze on its accounts. “We have been informed that our FCRA renewal application has not been approved. Therefore, as a measure to ensure there is no lapse, we have asked our centres not to operate any of the FC accounts until the matter is resolved,” it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dh-toon-mother-teresa-india-is-atmanirbhar-not-poor-1066096.html
30-12-2021||National Politics||BJP forms committees for micro-donations, Mann Ki Baat and Sansad Khel Mahakumbh||The Bharatiya Janata Party has formed three committees of leaders from across the country to look at three key interest areas – Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s radio programme Mann Ki Baat, the party’s micro-donations drive, and the rural sports tournament series Sansad Khel Kumbh. The three committees, each constituted of eight or nine senior party leaders, were appointed by party president JP Nadda on December 29. The committees, party sources said, were formed for the successful implementation of the programmes to the booth level. Nadda has also asked the committee members to ensure that state-level committees are formed under them. Sources in the party said that Nadda will virtually address the three teams separately to apprise them of their roles early next month. Rajya Sabha MP Dushyant Gautam, National General Secretary Vinod Tawde, Lok Sabha MP Vinod Sonkar, Karnataka MLA P Rajeev, Mahila Morcha National General Secretary Deepti Rawat, and national secretaries Asha Lakra and Rituraj Sinha, as well as Assam State General Secretary Pulok Gohain are part of the committee on Mann Ki Baat. Vinod Tawde is also part of the micro-donations committee, which has National Joint Treasurer and Lok Sabha MP Sudhir Gupta, MP Gajendra Patel, MP Sanjay Seth and MP Rajdeep Roy as members. In addition, Karnataka vice president Nirmal Kumar Surana, Bihar state treasurer Dilip Jaiswal, Delhi state treasurer Vishnu Mittal, and former national secretary H Raja are also members of this committee. Earlier this week, on the birth anniversary of BJP stalwart Atal Bihari Vajpayee, PM Modi launched a micro-donation campaign, and urged people to donate as little as Rs 5 or Rs 50. The third committee, formed for the Sansad Khel Kumbh, has MPs Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore, Samir Oraon, Pallab Lochan Das, Parvesh Verma, and Nayab Singh Saini as members. Apart from that, Karnataka MLA CT Ravi, Yuva Morcha National General Secretaries Rohit Chahal, and Vaibhav Singh are members, too.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-forms-committees-for-micro-donations-mann-ki-baat-and-sansad-khel-mahakumbh-1066160.html
30-12-2021||National Politics||Mehbooba hits back at SIT, says penal action warnings will not work||"Bullying us into silence by penal action warnings will not work," PDP president Mehbooba Mufti said on Thursday after the Special Investigation Team probing the Hyderpora encounter threatened legal action against political leaders for making "speculative" statements about the investigation. A Pakistani terrorist and three other persons were killed in Hyderpora on November 15 and the police had claimed that all the slain men had links to militancy. The families of the three, alleging foul play, had said they were innocent, prompting the police to order the inquiry. Separately, a magisterial probe was also ordered by Lt Governor Manoj Sinha in the encounter which was one of the rare operations carried out jointly by the army and the Jammu and Kashmir Police within the city limits. In a tweet, the former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister said, “Remarks on the SIT probe by different political parties isn't mere speculation. They are grounded in facts. The administration's aversion & discomfort with the truth coming to the fore is well known. Bullying us into silence by 'penal action' warnings won't work (sic)". In a statement here on Wednesday, the SIT said speculative statements from the political leaders have a tendency to create a provocation, rumour, fear and alarm among the general masses or particular section of society. “This kind of approach is against the rule of law and may attract appropriate penal provisions as envisaged under law," the chairman of the SIT said. The SIT said that the government had ordered a magisterial probe into the incident and all such persons making statements should have approached the inquiry officer with genuine evidence they have, for corroboration or contradiction. "The SIT constituted in the instant case is still investigating the matter, all such persons are once again advised to provide any type of evidence if they have regarding the incident so that every aspect of the investigation is covered and concluded on merits," the statement said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mehbooba-hits-back-at-sit-says-penal-action-warnings-will-not-work-1066201.html
30-12-2021||National Politics||Kerala govt accused of giving political colour to movement against rail project||As protests against the Kerala semi-high speed rail project mount, the ruling CPM-led Left Democratic Front has triggered a fresh campaign giving communal and political colour to the protests, which is alleged to be part of a political strategy to suppress the apolitical movement against the project. CPM top leaders are alleging a political ploy to trigger a 'Nandigram' model protest in Kerala even as it was being widely accused of maintaining a double standard by objecting the Mumbai-Ahmedabad bullet train project and backing the Kerala rail project. The action council against the rail project is being quite vigilant against political parties hijacking the movement of the affected people. Ever since the protests against the proposed rail project started aggravating, the ruling front leaders, especially those in the CPM, were claiming that the protests were politically motivated. Even when ordinary people staged stiff resistance and doused themselves in kerosene against demarcation of land for the project, the CPM leaders stuck to the stand. Now top leaders including Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and CPM state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan are alleging a nexus of Congress-BJP-Indian Union Muslim League and other communal outfits against the government. Balakrishnan even alleged that a 'Nandigram' model stir of West Bengal was being planned by the opposition parties in Kerala. The Anti K-Rail Action Council leaders pointed out that the council was active over the last two years collecting data regarding the project and approaching the Green Tribunal and the Kerala High Court against it. The main stream political parties like the Congress-led United Democratic Front and the BJP offered support to it only recently, it said. State general convenor of the action council S Rajeevan told DH that the present attempts by the government to give political colour to the stir was anticipated as "the government often adopt such strategies to curb mass movements". The  action council has workers, local leaders and fellow-travelers of all political parties, but not with their political tag, but with the single-point agenda of opposing the Silver Line project considering its massive adverse impacts on the ecology, he said. He also said that the main stream opposition parties were initially reluctant to join the protest owing to fear of being labeled as anti-development. But they got convinced of the ill-effects of the project only after the action council carried out massive awareness campaigns, he added. As per the DPR of the project, of the 1226.45 hectare land required for the project, 1074.19 hectare will have to be acquired from private parties.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/kerala-govt-accused-of-giving-political-colour-to-movement-against-rail-project-1066226.html
30-12-2021||National Politics||Amit Shah calls Priyanka Gandhi 'behenji' at UP rally, says 'elections are here, come out of your house'||Union home minister Amit Shah on Thursday appealed to the people to support the BJP if they wanted the rule of those who paved the way for the construction of Ram Temple at Ayodhya. He also sought to bracket Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra with Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav and BSP supremo Mayawati by dubbing them as 'bua-babua-bahenji' (Mayawati, Akhilesh, Priyanka) and alleged that the latters' regimes patronised mafia elements and never dared to act against the terrorists. Addressing a public meeting at Moradabad, about 350 kilometres from here, Shah coined a new phrase 'NIZAM' (rule) to describe the regime of Akhilesh and said that it was marked by 'Naseemuddin, Imran Masood, Azam Khan and Mukhtar Ansari'. ''Agar aap Ram Temple banane wale ka shashan chate hain to Modi-Yogi ko vote dijiye''(If you want the rule of those who got the Ram Temple constructed then vote for Modi and Yogi), the former BJP national president said. Shah, like his earlier meetings, raked up 'Hindutva' issues in his speech and mentioned surgical strikes, scrapping of Article 370, firing on karsevaks in Ayodhya and dubbed Akhilesh as the supporter of Jinnah.  ''The previous government at the centre could not gather the courage to reply to Pakistan when terror attacks took place in the country but Modji changed all that...we hit Pakistan in its own den after Uri and Pulwama,'' Shah added. The BJP leader, for the first time, bracketed Priyanka with Akhilesh and Mayawati and addressed her as 'bahenji' as he took potshots at her. ''It seems the Bahenji has caught a cold....elections have come so come out of your house,'' he said while referring to Priyanka. Shah said that the BJP would win even if Akhilesh, Mayawati and Priyanka joined hands in the forthcoming assembly polls. ''The combined might of the three can not defeat us,'' he added. In his earlier public meetings also Shah focussed mainly on the Hindutva issues and sought to paint his rivals as 'Pro-Muslim' and 'anti-Hindu'. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/amit-shah-calls-priyanka-gandhi-behenji-at-up-rally-says-elections-are-here-come-out-of-your-house-1066279.html
30-12-2021||National Politics||Farm laws repeal has helped Modi's image: Khattar||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Thursday said that the repeal of three contentious farm laws has helped improve PM Modi’s image. “If we look at the benefit of the repeal, we can see that PM Modi’s image has only soared,”said Khattar. He was speaking to some women journalists on wide-ranging issues at an event at Delhi’s Haryana Bhawan. Khattar said that the farm laws will not necessarily affect the Bharatiya Janata Party. “The protests were only in a few states. And, the laws were mooted a decade ago, and there have been discussions in the Parliament on them under the UPA, too. However, it was PM Modi who thought of how these laws can benefit the farmers. Even Opposition leaders agree,” said Khattar. “We could not have let the agitation go on and on, it went on for a whole year.” Khattar said that his government was looking at compensation for farm protest martyrs, and it will take some time as a list has not been prepared. “The state officials are looking at cases which will be genuine,” he said. He also said that the government has launched a ‘case wapsi’ drive, under which cases filed against protesting farmers will be taken back. Over 280 such cases have been taken back, he said. The Khattar government has been reeling after farm protests began. Khattar’s utterances against the farmers have also added to the anger against his government. Taking on queries on hate crimes, Khattar said that he thought that the incident in Gurugram’s Pataudi where a Hindutva vigilante mob disrupted Christmas Eve gathering was “unfortunate”.   “It was not fair; they have an issue they should inform after or before the programme. They can complain, but the solution is only through dialogue,” Khattar said. On the Gurugram namaz fiasco, he said that while he’s fine with people praying no community can use that excuse as a show of strength. “To solve the issue, both sides were reached out to. They reached the conclusion that no force should be used. However, they also said that namaz should remain namaz, it should not become a show of strength. Some organisations do exactly that. Namaz is a matter of personal worship and can be done from home, masjid or eidgah. They should do it with permission of the administration, and it goes for all religions,” Khattar said. Members of Hindu right wing groups have disrupted namaz at public places in Gurugram, and a petition was filed over the matter in the Supreme Court against Haryana DGP PK Agarwal and state chief secretary Sanjeev Kaushal. Khattar also said that khaps have been misunderstood. “They come from a time where there was no democratically elected government. The khaps have been derided for all the bad decisions they take, but their positive work is never taken up. True that they should be held responsible for female infanticide, but they have done the most for the Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao scheme,” he said. Haryana’s sex ratio has increased 50 points to 893 as per the NFHS-5 survey. “We aim to reach 950 points in the next two years,” Khattar said. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/farm-laws-repeal-has-helped-modis-image-khattar-1066374.html
30-12-2021||North and Central||Yellow alert to continue in Delhi as daily Covid-19 cases spike||Delhi on Wednesday reported a massive jump in daily Covid-19 infections with 923 fresh cases, the highest since May 30 and 86 per cent up from a day earlier, even as the city government decided to continue with existing restrictions under the 'yellow alert' for a while before announcing more curbs. After six months, the positivity rate crossed 1 per cent as it was recorded at 1.29 per cent. On December 20, there were only 91 Covid-19 cases in the national capital and the figure climbed to nearly 1,000-mark with fresh 923 infections on Wednesday. The city also recorded 238 Omicron cases on Wednesday. There were 165 cases of the new variant a day earlier. According to authorities, about 38 per cent of the total samples analysed at various genome sequencing laboratories in Delhi in the last one week have been detected with Omicron variant of Covid. “Of the 468 samples analysed during December 21-28, the Delta variant of coronavirus has been detected in 31 per cent of these samples, and rest 30 per cent constituted other variants,” official sources said. Earlier in the day, Health Minister Satyendra Jain said many international travellers, who have tested negative at the airport, are testing positive after a few days and infecting their family members during the period. "The cases have increased due to international flights. Even during the earlier wave, the cases rose with flights coming in," he told reporters. A senior government official said out of 14 Omicron cases in southeast Delhi, seven did not have any travel history. He claimed that the new variant has been "spreading in the community", even as he did not divulge any further details. In a week’s time, the positivity rate of coronavirus cases jumped to 1.29 per cent from 0.19 per cent in Delhi between December 23 and 29. A similar trend was witnessed in the total number of coronavirus cases. Meanwhile, Lt Governor Anil Baijal chaired a meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) where it was decided to continue with the existing restrictions imposed recently in view of rising cases and to keep a close vigil on the ground situation. The DDMA had on Tuesday declared ‘yellow alert' under the Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP) in the city amid a spike in coronavirus cases following the emergence of the virus's Omicron variant. The 'yellow alert' entailed restrictions like night curfew, closure of schools and colleges, opening of shops selling non-essential items on an odd-even basis, halved seating capacity in Metro trains and buses, among other things. The authorities are in favour of monitoring the situation for some more time and to avoid imposing further restrictions under 'amber alert', officials said on Wednesday. "The important thing is that hospital bed occupancy is low. It was decided that enforcement of existing restrictions should be strictly followed so that infections are contained at the most. The further restrictions under 'Amber' (Level 2) alert could be implemented if the need arises," said a senior government officer. An 'amber alert' is declared when the positivity rate is recorded at one per cent or above for two consecutive days. It involves imposition of weekend curfew, closure of restaurants and bars, seating capacity reduced to 33 per cent in Metro trains, closing non essential shops by 6 pm, among others. During the meeting that was also attended by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, it was decided to ensure strict implementation of restrictions imposed under the 'yellow alert'. In case, the situation worsens, emergency measures may be imposed, officials said. On May 30, Delhi had recorded 946 Covid-19 cases and 78 deaths with a positivity rate of 1.25 per cent. Wednesday's positivity rate is the highest since May 28, when the positivity rate was recorded at 1.59 per cent. On Tuesday, the city saw 496 Covid-19 cases and one fatality due to the disease. Delhi on Monday had recorded 331 fresh Covid-19 cases, the highest single-day rise since June 9, and one death while the positivity rate mounted to 0.68 per cent, according to the data. On Sunday, Delhi logged 290 cases with a positivity rate of 0.55 per cent and one fatality, according to official figures. On Saturday and on Friday, the daily case counts were 249 and 180 respectively. A total of 71,696 Covid-19 tests were conducted the previous day, including 64,233 RT-PCR ones, while the rest were rapid antigen ones, the bulletin said. There are 2,191 active cases in the national capital, up from 1,612 a day ago. As many as 1,068 patients are in home isolation, up from 836 on Tuesday, it said. The number of containment zones stands at 502, a significant increase from 397 the previous day. The bulletin said 55 patients with moderate level of infection are on oxygen. It stated that 115 patients were shifted from the airport to hospital and they are either asymptomatic or have mild symptoms. A total of 145 patients have mild symptoms. There are no patients who are on ventilator support. A total of 200 patients are in hospitals, including 98 from outside Delhi. The number of people under home isolation stood at 692 on Monday, while it rose to 836 on Tuesday, and the number of containment zones in the city stood at 397, a significant jump from 310 on Monday, the bulletin added. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/yellow-alert-to-continue-in-delhi-as-daily-covid-19-cases-spike-1066061.html
30-12-2021||North and Central||Punjab reports first Omicron case, deputy CM says no need for night curfew yet||Punjab has reported its first Omicron case with a 36-year-old man, who came from Spain earlier this month, testing positive for the new variant of coronavirus. Meanwhile, Punjab Deputy Chief Minister O P Soni said the current Covid situation in the state does not warrant a night curfew. A health official said the man, who arrived in India from Spain on December 4, visited his relatives in Nawanshahr in Punjab. The man tested negative for coronavirus upon his arrival. However, he tested positive on December 12, he said. He was then admitted to a hospital and his samples were sent for genome sequencing at a facility set up at the Government Medical College, Patiala, the official added. "The genome sequencing report declaring him positive for the Omicron variant came on December 28," said Dr Rajiv Bhaskar, state nodal officer for Covid-19. The man was tested again on December 25 and his report came back negative, following which he was discharged from the hospital, the officer said. Speaking to reporters after presiding over a meeting of the health department to take stock of the Covid situation in Punjab, Deputy Chief Minister Soni said the government is not planning to impose a night curfew in the state. As of now, the situation in Punjab is not such that the imposition of a lockdown or night curfew is required, he said in response to a question. Earlier in the meeting, Soni, who also holds the health portfolio, directed officials to ramp up Covid testing and vaccination in the state. He said the number of Covid-19 tests has been increased to 25,000-30,000 per day. According to officials, Punjab's positivity rate stands at 0.3 per cent and has increased slightly over the past few days. The officials informed that 84 per cent of the state's population has been administered the first dose of Covid vaccine, while 44 per cent has received both doses. On preparations to deal with a possible third wave of Covid-19, the officials said 7,840 beds of levels 1 and 2 and 977 beds of level 3 category have been readied. Apart from this, oxygen plants have been installed at approximately 70 health institutions and they have also been tested successfully, they said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-reports-first-omicron-case-deputy-cm-says-no-need-for-night-curfew-yet-1066086.html
30-12-2021||North and Central||Rajasthan to implement night curfew; no entry to public places for unvaccinated from Jan 31||Amid the rising number of coronavirus case, the Rajasthan government Wednesday asked officials to ensure effective implementation of night curfew and made full vaccination mandatory for entry to public places from January 31. In fresh coronavirus guidelines issued on Wednesday, the state government said it is mandatory for its residents to get both the doses of coronavirus vaccine for entry in schools, colleges, cinema halls, malls and market, and the unvaccinated will not be allowed to go to public places after January 31, 2022. The guidelines were released after a meeting of the Council of Ministers chaired by Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot at his residence. As per the guidelines, educational and non-educational staff of all universities/colleges/schools/coaching institutes, students above 18 years of age and drivers of buses, autos and cabs operated for institute traffic will have to compulsorily get both doses of the vaccine. Along with this, all government personnel are expected to get both doses of vaccine mandatorily. All cinema halls/theatres/multiplexes in the state will be allowed to open till 10:00 pm for persons above 18 years of age who have received both doses of the vaccine. From January 3, 2022, all cinema halls/theatres/multiplexes/auditoriums and exhibition space will be allowed with 50% capacity for persons who have received both doses of vaccine. According to the guidelines of the Home Department, after January 31, 2022, only people who have got both the doses will be allowed at public places and if any violation is found, the head of the concerned institution/operators will be penalised as per the rules. A maximum of 200 people will be allowed to participate in all kinds of crowded public, social, political, sports related, entertainment, educational, cultural and religious functions/festivals/wedding ceremonies, the guidelines said. If the number of persons participating in the above programs is more than 200, it will be necessary to obtain prior permission from the District Collector and District Magistrate, they said. A fine of Rs 10,000 will be imposed on the organisers and the director of the meeting place for any violation. The operation of city/mini buses will be allowed from 05:00 am to 11:00 pm. No passenger will be allowed to travel while standing. The facility of home delivery by restaurants will be allowed 24 hours a day. The facility of dine-in and takeaway in the restaurant, will be allowed according to the seating capacity till 10:00 pm every day, ensuring compliance of covid behavior. At the same time, the night curfew will continue in the entire state from 11 pm to 5 am. However, on the occasion of the new year, on December 31, restaurants can be operated for an additional two-and-a-half hours (10:00 pm to 12:30 am) and there will be a relaxation of two hours (11:00 pm to 01:00 am) in the night curfew. On Wednesday, 23 more people were reported infected with the Omicron variant of coronavirus. So far, 131 new corona infected have been found in the state. Of these, maximum 88 infected have been found in Jaipur. At present, 537 people infected with corona virus are under treatment in the state.  Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-to-implement-night-curfew-no-entry-to-public-places-for-unvaccinated-from-jan-31-1066087.html
30-12-2021||North and Central||EC delegation holds meetings with district magistrates, police officers in UP||A delegation of the Election Commission, which is on a three-day visit to Uttar Pradesh, on Wednesday met district and division level officials here to review the preparations for the next year's state assembly elections. The EC delegation, which arrived here on Tuesday, held meetings with officials all through the day. An official spokesperson said the delegation met district magistrates, police chiefs, commissioners, IGs, DIGs and other officials and reviewed the preparations for the upcoming polls to ensure free and fair elections. Earlier, a booklet, voters' guide, a pamphlet on information about EVMs and VVPAT machines prepared by the office of the chief electoral officer of Uttar Pradesh was released. On Tuesday, the EC delegation held meetings with various political parties. Representatives of BJP, Congress, Samajwadi Party, Rashtriya Lok Dal and Communist Party of India met the delegation. During the meetings, the BJP demanded that women security personnel be posted at every polling booth, while the SP sought a separate list of differently abled voters and those above the age of 80. The RLD had demanded that VVPAT slips be recounted. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ec-delegation-holds-meetings-with-district-magistrates-police-officers-in-up-1066089.html
30-12-2021||North and Central||6 JeM militants, including two Pakistanis, killed in twin Kashmir encounters||Six Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) militants, including two Pakistani nationals, and a soldier were killed in two separate encounters between security forces and ultras in south Kashmir districts of Anantnag and Kulgam during the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday. Back-to-back encounters had started on Wednesday evening as security forces launched anti-terror operations at Nowgam, Anantnag and Mirhama village in Kulgam district. “Six terrorists of proscribed terror outfit JeM killed in two separate encounters. Four among the killed terrorists have been identified so far as two Pakistani and two local terrorists. Identification of the other two terrorists is being ascertained. A big success for us,” Inspector General of Police (IGP), Kashmir, Vijay Kumar, said in a tweet. In the first encounter, a joint team of J&K Police, Army and paramilitary forces cordoned off Nowgam village after receiving inputs about the presence of militants in the village, reports said. As the forces tightened the cordon, the militants hiding in the area opened indiscriminate fire and tried to break the security cordon. In the initial burst of gunfire from the militants, a policeman and two soldiers were injured. The militants, however, failed to break the cordon resulting in an exchange of fire in which three ultras were killed, officials said. Two army soldiers and a policeman were also injured in the gunfight who were shifted to hospitals for treatment. However, one of the soldiers succumbed to his injuries. While the Nowgam gun battle was ongoing, another encounter erupted in neighboring Kulgam district after security forces cordoned off Mirhama village following inputs about the presence of militants, police said. As the security forces zeroed in on the target, militants opened fire. Three militants were killed after the forces fired in return, police said and added one M4, two AK rifles and ammunition were recovered from the encounter site.  A police spokesman identified the slain militants as Mohammad Shafi Dar, Uzair Ahmad, both locals and one Pakistani militant Shahid alias Shahzaid. There has been a spurt in anti-militancy operations in south Kashmir in the last week leading to the killing of 11 ultras. On Sunday, five militants were killed in three separate gunfights in Shopian, Pulwama and Anantnag districts. A police officer attributed the increasing gunfights to changing weather and snow in the upper reaches of the valley. “Usually, there is an increase in gunfights at this point of the year as militants abandon their hideouts in forests for the winters and return to the villages. This leads to more information gathering and more gunfights,” he said. This year in 87 encounters, 168 militants have been killed by the security forces in Kashmir. Among them, 19 were foreigners, while 149 were locals. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/6-jem-militants-including-two-pakistanis-killed-in-twin-kashmir-encounters-1066113.html
30-12-2021||North and Central||Piyush Jain ready to pay penalty, wants his money back||Kanpur-based businessman Piyush Jain has asked the Directorate General of GST Intelligence (DGGI) to return the huge stash of cash seized from his premises after deducting tax and penalty. Jain was arrested on charges of tax evasion and is presently in 14-day judicial custody. Special Public Prosecutor Amrish Tandon, who represents DGGI, informed a court on Wednesday that Piyush Jain has revealed that he evaded tax and owes a penalty amounting to Rs 52 crore. The lawyer for Piyush Jain, however, asked the court to instruct DGGI to deduct the Rs 52 crore owed by the trader as a penalty and return the remaining amount. Tandon responded by saying that the recovered amount was proceeds of tax evasion and will not be returned. If Jain wants to pay an additional Rs 52 crore as a penalty, then DGGI will accept it, he stated. In one of the biggest seizures in history, the DGGI seized over Rs 195 crore in cash, 23 kilograms of gold and sandalwood oil worth Rs 6 crore during raids at several premises linked to Jain in Kanpur and Kannauj. The officials searched the residential premises of Piyush Jain, partner of Odochem Industries, in Kanpur and seized unaccounted cash to the tune of Rs 177.45 crore. The DGGI officers searched the residential and factory premises of Odochem Industries in Kannauj and seized Rs 17 crore in cash during a 120-hour raid. To count such a huge amount of cash, the DGGI officials sought help from the officials of the State Bank of India (SBI) and their currency counting machines. The money has been deposited in the State Bank of India (SBI) and will be held by the Government of India, Tandon told the court. His arrest, meanwhile, has stirred up a political storm in the poll-bound Uttar Pradesh with the ruling BJP and the Samajwadi Party exchanging barbs over the staggering recovery of Rs 195 crore in currency notes seized from premises owned by Piyush Jain. The Congress, meanwhile, has accused the DGGI of diluting the case by claiming that the recovered money was a turnover amount. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/piyush-jain-ready-to-pay-penalty-wants-his-money-back-1066119.html
30-12-2021||North and Central||Kalicharan Maharaj held over remarks against Mahatma Gandhi||The Chhattisgarh Police on Thursday arrested Kalicharan Maharaj for allegedly using derogatory language against Mahatma Gandhi from Madhya Pradesh's Khajuraho. The police had registered an FIR against the religious leader and others for allegedly making derogatory comments on Mahatma Gandhi and praising Nathuram Godse. On the complaint of former Raipur Mayor and Congress leader Pramod Dubey, the police registered the FIR under section 505(2), 294 IPC in the Tikrapara Police station. The event Dharam Sansad was organised on Sunday (December 26) in Raipur. The Raipur event was orgainsed at Rawanbhata in which Sant Kalicharan Maharaj is alleged to have used derogatory words for Mahatma Gandhi and justified Nathuram Godse, who killed Gandhi. A similar incident was reported to have taken place in Haridwar during an event held from December 17 to 20. The video clippings were circulated on social media, which said that "Hindus should arm themselves like those seen in Myanmar, every Hindu must pick up weapons and conduct a Safayi Abhiyan." The three-day event was organised by Yati Narasimhanand, a controversial religious leader who has been accused in the past of inciting violence. The Uttarakhand Police have lodged an FIR in the case against Jitendra Narayan Tyagi, who was former Shia Waqf board chairman and recently converted to Hinduism. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kalicharan-maharaj-held-over-remarks-against-mahatma-gandhi-1066122.html
30-12-2021||North and Central||Jhansi railway station renamed after Rani Lakshmibai||The Jhansi railway station has finally been renamed as Veerangana Lakshmibai railway station, after the revered warrior queen. The state government changed the name of the railway station following an approval from the Centre. Earlier, the Mughalsarai railway station had been renamed as Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyay Railway Station. The district of Allahabad has been renamed as Prayagraj and Faizabad is now Ayodhya. Sultanpur, Mirzapur, Aligarh, Firozabad and Mainpuri are also on the list for a name change. Meanwhile, proposals for changing the names of Ghazipur and Basti have also been put forth. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jhansi-railway-station-renamed-after-rani-lakshmibai-1066129.html
30-12-2021||North and Central||Jail inmate tests positive in UP's Covid-free district||Five months after being declared a Covid free district, a 25-year-old prisoner lodged at Uttar Pradesh's Etah district jail, has tested positive for Covid-19. The Etah police had arrested the prisoner on December 24 under IPC section 420 (cheating and dishonesty). Acting on a tip-off, they had arrested the accused when he returned from Delhi and put him at the Awagarh police station lock-up, officials said. Etah district chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Umesh Kumar Tripathi said they had sent the prisoner's samples for an RT-PCR test after his arrest on December 24, and he tested positive. "We are collecting samples of other prisoners, who shared the barrack with him, jail staffers and his family members," the CMO said. Jail Superintendent, Amit Chaudhary said: "After the arrest, his antigen test was conducted, but he tested negative. "He was kept in a barrack with 50 other prisoners. We have now been informed by the health department that the accused has tested positive. He was immediately quarantined in a separate room. His health is being monitored. We are taking all required measures to ensure the infection does not spread in the jail." There are 1,350 prisoners lodged at the Etah district jail, at present. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jail-inmate-tests-positive-in-ups-covid-free-district-1066139.html
30-12-2021||North and Central||Omicron is spreading in community: Delhi Health Minister||Omicron is gradually spreading in the community and the new, fast-spreading variant of concern has been found in 54 per cent of the latest samples analysed in Delhi, Health Minister Satyendar Jain said on Thursday. He said stringent curbs have been put in place as part of the Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP) to check the spread of Covid-19 and the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) will decide on implementing more restrictions. However, a statement from Jain's office said, "According to GRAP, a Yellow alert has been issued in Delhi. For the time being, the government has decided not to issue a Level 2 alert. Alerts will be issued according to GRAP in Delhi." It also said 54 per cent of the new cases in the capital have tested positive for the Omicron variant. Earlier in the day, Jain had said, "The latest genome sequencing report showed 46 per cent of the cases have Omicron. These people include those who do not have any travel history. It means Omicron is now inside Delhi." An official said the data was updated in the evening. "Indeed, the variant is gradually spreading in the community and its proportion will increase in the coming days," Jain said when asked if Omicron will be the dominant variant in an imminent third wave of the pandemic. He also said of the 200 coronavirus cases in Delhi hospitals, only 102 belong to the city. Also, 115 patients are those who were directly taken to hospitals from the airport. Of the hospitalised Covid patients in Delhi, 115 do not have any symptoms and have been kept in hospitals as a precautionary measure. None of the hospitalised patients is on oxygen support, Jain said. The statement from the minister's office said the Delhi government has decided to open four step-down Covid care centres at Teerapath Bhawan, Sardar Patel Covid Care Centre, Commonwealth Games Village and IBIS Hotel. A step-down Covid Care Centre is used when a hospitalised patient's health improves and he or she does not require medical attention at a hospital. The patient is then sent to the step-down Covid Care Centre where he or she is looked after by healthcare workers. Each Covid Care Centre can cater to 100 to 500 patients. The Delhi government has also issued instructions to all its hospitals to keep a buffer stock of medicines for three months, Jain said. The Delhi health minister had on Wednesday said many international travellers who tested Covid-negative at the airport were found to be positive for the disease after a few days. During this period, they were infecting their family members. "Delhi has imposed stringent curbs on gatherings including weddings and funerals, schools, gyms and spas have been closed, shops and malls will open on alternate days and metro trains and buses will operate at 50 per cent capacity... It is better to be precautious," Jain said, adding "a decision on more restrictions will be taken at a DDMA meeting". He said countries like the US and France have recorded their highest number of daily cases amid the spread of Omicron but the good news is that it does not cause severe infection and very few patients need hospitalisation. The DDMA had on Wednesday decided that Covid-related restrictions imposed in Delhi under the 'yellow alert' would continue for the time being and authorities would monitor the situation for a while before deciding on fresh curbs. On Tuesday, it had declared a 'yellow alert' under the GRAP in the city amid a spike in coronavirus cases following the emergence of the Omicron variant. The 'yellow alert' entails restrictions like night curfew, closure of schools and colleges, opening of shops selling non-essential items on an odd-even basis and halved seating capacity in Metro trains and buses, among other things. The GRAP is based on positivity rate (on two consecutive days), cumulative number of new cases (over a week) and average oxygenated-bed occupancy (for a week) for designated four levels of alerts. After the 'yellow alert', further restrictions are imposed at advanced stages of 'amber', 'orange' and 'red' with a higher number of new cases and hospitalisations. According to official figures, out of the 8,965 dedicated Covid beds, 262 or 2.92 per cent were occupied and 97 per cent were vacant on December 28. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/omicron-is-spreading-in-community-delhi-health-minister-1066146.html
30-12-2021||North and Central||Should Delhiites worry about rising Omicron cases? Here's what the numbers say||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, on Tuesday, announced a ‘yellow’ alert under the Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP) in the capital city after a surge in the new Omicron Covid variant cases.  However, the Chief Minister reassuring the public said that Covid-19 infection cases are rising in Delhi, “but there is no need to panic as most people have mild symptoms.” But, does Delhi really not have to worry? Delhi home to the most number of Omicron cases The national capital reported its first Omicron case on December 5 after a foreign returnee tested positive for the new variant. Since then till December 25, there were not many cases of Omicron found in the city. However, from December 26, Delhi saw a rapid increase in its Omicron tally.  As of December 29, Delhi has recorded the maximum number of 238 Omicron cases. Amid the rising numbers, the Arvind Kejriwal government declared a ‘yellow’ alert with more restrictions in place to contain the spread. The 'yellow' alert is sounded when the Covid-19 positivity rate stays over 0.5 per cent on two consecutive days. Under the ‘yellow’ alert shutting schools, cinemas and gyms are closed with immediate effect as well as shops in malls are allowed to operate only on an odd-even basis. Ahead of New Year, the Delhi government imposed a night curfew in the capital city from December 27. Delhi logs highest daily Covid cases since May 30 Showing a massive spike in Covid-19 cases, the capital city logged 923 new infections on December 30, which is the highest since May 30. On May 30, Delhi had recorded 946 Covid-19 cases and 78 deaths with a positivity rate of 1.25 per cent.   The previous day, Delhi recorded the highest daily Covid cases since June 4. And today, it registered a 86 per cent jump in the number of infections. The positivity rate climbed to 1.29 per cent from 0.89 per cent on Tuesday. So far, 2,59,19,091 people in Delhi have taken either the first or second dose of their Covid-19 vaccination. Check out the latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/should-delhiites-worry-about-rising-omicron-cases-heres-what-the-numbers-say-1066157.html
30-12-2021||North and Central||All parties in UP want polls on time with Covid protocol: CEC||The Election Commission (EC) on Thursday said that all political parties in Uttar Pradesh wanted the assembly polls to be held on time with Covid protocol. Speaking to reporters, Chief Election Commissioner (CEC) Sushil Chandra said that some parties had expressed concern on "hate" speeches in campaigning, "paid news"  and also over crowds in the rallies. Chandra said that the term of the UP assembly would expire on May 14. Assembly polls in the state are scheduled to be held in the month of February-March. ''All the political parties without any difference of opinion said that they wanted the next assembly elections to be held on time with Covid protocol,'' the CEC said. He said that the work of registration of voters was going on in the state and the draft of the final voter's list would be published on January 5, 2022. ''The number of voters in the state is over 15 crore,'' he added. The number of voters per polling booth has been reduced to 1,250 instead of the earlier 1,500 to ensure social distancing. Complaining about the "biased" attitude of officials at some places, Chandra said some parties were not allowed to hold rallies. They also demanded to limit the number of rallies in view of Covid-19. Stating that the EC was committed to ensuring free and fair polls in the state, the CEC said that webcasting would be undertaken on one lakh polling booths and a strict vigil would be maintained on the polling process. Chandra said that the candidates with criminal antecedents would have to inform people about the cases against them through newspapers and TV. Polling time would be extended by one hour and would be from 8 am to 6 pm. He also said that the officials who had been posted for over three years in one place would be shifted. He further said that as a result of awareness campaigns, nearly 28.86 lakh new women voters had been enrolled, which is five lakh more than the men. "The gender ratio of women voters has also increased from 839 in 2017 to 868 in 2021," he said The CEC said that special arrangements would be made for senior citizens and divyangs at polling stations and they would also be given the option of postal ballets, lists of which would be made available to political parties. "We have asked concerned officials to inspect the arrangements and ensure facilities for water, toilets, sitting arrangement, ramps and wheel chairs are available for voters." He noted that all personnel on election duty would be fully vaccinated, while thermal scanners, masks, sanitizers would be available at polling stations. "We have spoken to officials and asked them to step up vaccination so that the eligible population gets vaccinated by the time elections are held," he said. (With IANS inputs) Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/all-parties-in-up-want-polls-on-time-with-covid-protocol-cec-1066162.html
30-12-2021||North and Central||After a two-year slump, Kashmir tourism in revival mode||The Kashmir tourism sector, battered since August 2019 due to back-to-back lockdowns, witnessed a considerably good season in 2021 despite the flare up of Covid-19 as domestic visitors kept flocking to the Valley. As per figures from the J&K Tourism Department, over 6.4 lakh tourists visited Kashmir this year, of which more than 3.30 lakh arrivals were recorded in October, November and December. “In October, we had 93,000 tourists and in November 1.27 lakh visitors arrived in Kashmir. It had already crossed the 1.18 lakh-mark till December 25 and we are sure the number will be over 1.30 lakh by the year-end,” Deputy Director, Tourism, Ahsan-ul-Haq said. Officials said that 99 per cent of the total tourist arrivals are domestic tourists who preferred to visit Kashmir while Covid-19 protocols and advisories kept away foreigners. In 2020, Kashmir recorded only 41,267 tourist arrivals as the region remained under severe lockdown due to Covid-19 for most of the year. Similarly, after the Centre abrogated the erstwhile state’s special status under Article 370 and imposed a strict security lockdown after August 5, 2019, only 43,059 tourist arrivals were recorded in Kashmir for five months from August to December 2019. Over six lakh arrivals this year are being considered a good sign by industry players due to Covid threat even though the state had witnessed more than 12 lakh tourist arrivals per annum for several years. Before insurgency erupted in the late 1980s, 7.22 lakh tourists, including 59,938 from abroad, came to Kashmir in 1988. However, by 1990, the number of tourists went down to 10,772 which went further down to 8,520 in 1995. By 2005, the revival started when 5.86 lakh tourists visited Kashmir and in 2011 the number touched 12.82 lakhs. Despite unrest in 2016, nearly 12 lakh tourists visited Kashmir in 2017. This time the tourism department and the industry took many initiatives to woo visitors back to Kashmir, with the key step being fully vaccinating tourism officials on war footing. The events like snow carnivals, Christmas and the New Year are attracting more tourists to Kashmir. “In December we are recording over 6,000 arrivals a day which is a good sign for the tourism sector which was in distress. All the hotel rooms are booked in ski-resort of Gulmarg and there is a good number of bookings for January and February 2022 as well. We are hopeful that it will continue to be like this next year as well,” President, Travel Agents Association of Kashmir, Farooq Kuthoo said. Recently, the government also fixed rates for tourism services to discourage the practice of fleecing tourists visiting Kashmir. The step was taken after complaints in recent years that tourists were being overcharged and exploited by transporters, hoteliers, and other service providers during peak season in Kashmir. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/after-a-two-year-slump-kashmir-tourism-in-revival-mode-1066168.html
30-12-2021||North and Central||Delhi hospital running in dangerous building, Atishi posts video||Aam Aadmi Party MLA Atishi on Thursday visited the MCD-run Rajan Babu Institute of Pulmonary Medicine and Tuberculosis Hospital in the national capital, and expressed shock that the patients were being treated in a building that has been declared dangerous and could collapse any day. "We have been hearing how the BJP-led MCD is failing the people of Delhi on the health front, in terms of medicines, good infrastructure and all. But today, we had a look at this hospital, whose building is in shambles and despite that patients are being treated inside," she said in a video posted on Twitter. In fact, MCD itself has put up boards outside the hospital cautioning masses that it is a dangerous building that reads "Do not enter", Atishi could be seen pointing out in the video, adding: "It is unbelievable that such a hospital exists in the centre of the national capital." "It seems that the BJP-led MCD has left people of Delhi to die," Atishi added. In 2017, Rajan Babu Institute of Pulmonary Medicine and Tuberculosis (RBIPMT) in GTB Nagar was slated to be developed as a multi-speciality hospital. It was constructed in 1935 with a sprawling a 79-acre compound. The hospital falls under the North Delhi Municipal Corporation (NDMC). Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-hospital-running-in-dangerous-building-atishi-posts-video-1066171.html
30-12-2021||North and Central||For the first time in 30 years, number of active militants in Kashmir falls under 200||The number of active militants in Kashmir Valley has come down to less than 200 for the first time since the insurgency erupted in Kashmir in 1990, Jammu and Kashmir police said on Thursday. “It is also for the first time that the number of local active militants is 86 only,” Inspector General of Police (IGP), Kashmir, Vijay Kumar told reporters while addressing a joint presser with General officer Commanding (GoC) of Srinagar-based 15 Corps Lieutenant General D P Pandey, in south Kashmir’s Kulgam district. He said in 2021, out of 128 locals who joined militancy, 73 were killed and 17 arrested. “Now only 39 locals who joined militancy in 2021 are active,” the IGP said. On Wednesday, Kumar had said that 165 ultras, including 75 foreigners, were active in Kashmir. Six militants, including two foreigners, were killed, on Thursday evening in south Kashmir bringing down the number of active militants to 159, including 73 foreigners. GoC Pandey said recruitment of locals into militancy came down this year as only 128 to 130 joined terror ranks compared to 180 last year. This year in 87 encounters, 168 militants have been killed by the security forces in Kashmir. Among them, 19 were foreigners, while 149 were locals. Last year, over 200 militants were killed in Kashmir. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/for-the-first-time-in-30-years-number-of-active-militants-in-kashmir-falls-under-200-1066189.html
30-12-2021||North and Central||Yogi rakes up Shrikrishna Janmabhoomi issue ahead of UP polls||Apparently reiterating that the Mathura issue was on his party's agenda in the forthcoming assembly polls in the state, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath has said that afterAyodhya and Kashi it was the 'turn' of Shrikrishna Janmabhoomi at Mathura. ''Ayodhya mein bhavya Ram Mandir nirman karya prarambh ho gaya hai....Kashi mein bhi Vishwanath Dham ban raha hai...aise mein Mathura-Vrindavan kaise chookega,'' (a grand Ram Temple is under construction at Ayodhya...Kashi Vishwanath Dham is also being constructed....how can Mathura-Vrindavan be left behind?), Adityanath said while addressing a public meeting at Amroha, about 400 kilometres from here, on Wednesday evening. He said that a 'Braj Development Council' had already been formed and soon a grand temple would be built there keeping in view the faith of the Hindus. Before Adityanath, his deputy Keshav Prasad Maurya had asked the party workers to be prepared for Mathura. ''Ayodhya, Kashi Bhavya mandir nirman jari hai, Mathura ki tayyari hai'' (construction is going on in Ayodhya and Varanasi, Now preparing for Mathura), Maurya said in a post on his Twitter handle. Adityanath's remarks came within days of the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP), which had spearheaded the movement for the Ram Temple at Ayodhya, declaring that it would take up the Shrikrishna Janmabhoomi issue in 2024, the year in which general elections would be held in the country. ''We will not take up the Mathura issue until the Ram Temple is complete.....the idol of Ram Lalla will be installed in the sanctum-sanctorum by 2023....we will discuss the Mathura issue in 2024,'' VHP president Alok Kumar had said. The VHP had earlier said that Shrikrishna Janmabhoomi was not on its agenda. UP minister and senior BJP leader Raghuraj Singh had also said that 'liberating' the Shrikrishna Janmabhoomi was on the BJP 'agenda' and that the saffron party was ready to make any 'sacrifice' for the same. A petition claiming ownership of the entire land on which the Shrikrishna Janmabhoomi was situated and seeking removal of the adjoining Shahi Idgah Mosque was accepted by a district court in Mathura. The petition has sought the removal of the Shahi Idgah mosque, which was adjacent to the existing Shrikrishna Janmabhoomi, from the complex and has challenged the agreement signed between the Shrikrishna Janmasthan Seva Sansthan and Shahi Idgah Mosque Management Committee in 1968. It claimed ownership over the entire 13.37 acres of land on which they were situated.  Hindu outfits claim that a portion of the Shrikrishna Janmabhoomi temple had been demolished during the Mughal period and claim ownership over the entire complex.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/yogi-rakes-up-shrikrishna-janmabhoomi-issue-ahead-of-up-polls-1066193.html
30-12-2021||North and Central||Not allowed to board due to Covid curbs, block MB Road in Delhi||An group of people blocked the MB Road and damaged DTC buses on Thursday morning after not being allowed to board a vehicle which had exceeded the permissible passenger carrying capacity set when Delhi is in 'yellow' alert due to rising Covid cases. Police used mild force to disperse the crowd and five people have been detained, officials said. Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (south) M Harsha Vardhan said some people blocked the MB Road and broke the glass of a DTC bus on Thursday around 10:30 am. "Police dispersed the crowd. A case under relevant sections is being registered at Sangam Vihar police station and five people have been detained. It was due to non-availability of seats in the buses due to Covid-related restrictions,” he said. In videos of the incident that have emerged on social media, it was seen that a green and a red air-conditioned bus have been damaged. Windshields and side mirrors were broken. The conductor of a bus, in a video, said, "We have instructions to allow only 17 commuters at a time. When there are 20 people, including the driver, conductor and marshal, on the bus, we do not stop it. If we stop and more people enter the bus, we will be fined Rs 2,000." "When we did not stop the bus today, people got agitated and started pelting of stones. However, nobody inside the bus was injured," he said. Watch the latest DH videos:  Amid a spike in Covid-19 cases following the emergence of the Omicron variant, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday declared a 'yellow alert' closing schools, colleges, cinemas and gyms. Shops dealing in non-essential items will open on an odd-even basis, and metro trains and buses will run with 50 per cent of seating capacity in the city. Under the four-stage Graded response Action Plan (GRAP), the 'yellow' alert will kick in if the positivity rate settles at 0.5 per cent for two consecutive days, leading to a host of restrictions. GRAP was approved by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority in July in anticipation of a third wave of Covid. It aims to bring in a clearer picture of imposition and lifting of restrictions depending on the Covid situation.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/not-allowed-to-board-due-to-covid-curbs-people-block-mb-road-in-delhi-1066200.html
30-12-2021||North and Central||55 AAP leaders granted bail 10 days after arrest for protesting at Gujarat BJP office||A sessions court in Gandhinagar on Thursday granted bail to 55 Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leaders including party's Gujarat president Gopal Italia and other senior leaders who were behind bars since December 20 following their arrests for protesting at BJP headquarters 'Kamalam' in the state capital. "Principal District judge Nipaben Raval has granted bail to the remaining 55 leaders. They have been ordered to be released on furnishing personal bail bond of Rs 50,000 each. The police had arrested a total of 93 persons out of which 28 women members had been granted bail. Ten other members, who were bus drivers and conductors, had also been released earlier," Pranav Thakkar, the legal counsel of AAP, said. Among the 55 leaders, who were granted relief on Thursday, were party's state president Gopal Italia, Pravin Ram, Isudan Gadhvi, Nikhil Savani, Balvant Makwana, Shiv Kumar Upadhyay, among others. On December 20, Gandhinagar police had arrested 93 Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leaders for trespassing BJP headquarters, rioting, criminal conspiracy, Epidemic Diseases Act and Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act, among other charges. A group of AAP leaders, said to be over 500, had barged into BJP headquarters' campus, sat on the porch and sang "Ramdhun'' (chants of lord Ram's name) while demanding action in the paper leak case. AAP has alleged that while they were singing "Ramdhun'', BJP leaders 'attacked' them. The local police also arrived and resorted to lathicharge to disperse them. Later, the BJP alleged that AAP leaders created a ruckus at the party's "private office" and misbehaved with women members. On December 20, Gandhinagar police had arrested 93 Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leaders for trespassing BJP headquarters, rioting, criminal conspiracy, Epidemic Diseases Act and Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act, among other charges. A group of AAP leaders, said to be over 500, had barged into BJP headquarters' campus, sat on the porch and sang "Ramdhun '' (chants of lord Ram's name) while demanding action in the paper leak case. AAP alleged that while they were singing "Ramdhun'', BJP leaders 'attacked' them. The local police also arrived and resorted to lathicharge to disperse them. Later, the BJP alleged that AAP leaders created a ruckus at the party's "private office" and misbehaved with women members. AAP leaders was demanding action against Asit Vora, the BJP leader who is also the chairman of Gujarat Subordinate Service Selection Board (GSSB), which conducted the recruitment exams for selection of head clerks in government departments. While the government was forced to cancel the examination following police investigation, Vora continues to be the chairman of the GSSB.   Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/55-aap-leaders-granted-bail-10-days-after-arrest-for-protesting-at-gujarat-bjp-office-1066209.html
30-12-2021||North and Central||Rs 197.49 cr seized from Peeyush Jain is case property, not turnover, says DGGI||The Directorate General of GST Intelligence (DGGI) on Thursday said that total cash recovered from the two premises of Kanpur Businessman Peeyush Jain was Rs 197.49 crore and it is a case property and not the turnover of his company. "Investigations are being carried out in a most professional manner based on specific intelligence. Cash in the ongoing case from the residential and factory premises of Peeyush Jain has been kept as case property in the safe custody of the State Bank of India and further investigation is pending. No deposit of tax dues has been made by Odochem Industries from the seized money to discharge their tax liabilities and their tax liabilities are yet to be determined," said a DGGI official. The DGGI conducted raids at Odochem Industries, being run by Peeyush Jain, a manufacturer of perfumery compounds. The DGGI recovered Rs 197.49 crore, 23 kg of gold and goods of high value from two premises belonging to Peeyush Jain. Earlier, it was reported that the DGGI had decided to treat the cash recovered from the premises of Peeyush Jain as the turnover of his company. It was also stated that after admitting his liability, Peeyush Jain has, with the approval of the DGGI, will deposit a total amount of Rs 52 crore as tax dues and will be freed from all allegations. It was also learnt that the DGGI department has agreed with the deposition of Peeyush Jain and finalised the tax liability accordingly. However, on Thursday the DGGI made it clear that there was nothing going like that. The DGGI refuted all the claims. "These reports are purely speculative, without any basis and seek to undermine the integrity of the ongoing investigations which are being carried out in a most professional manner based on specific intelligence against the party. It is clarified that the total amount of cash in the ongoing case from the residential and factory premises of Peeyush Jain has been kept as case property in the safe custody of the State Bank of India for pending further investigations. No deposit of tax dues has been made by Odochem Industries from the seized money to discharge their tax liabilities and their tax liabilities are yet to be determined," read the statement by DGGI. The DGGI said that the voluntary submissions made by Peeyush Jain were a subject matter of ongoing investigations and any view on the source of cash seized by the department and the exact tax liabilities of Odochem Industries or other parties involved in the investigation shall be taken on the basis of appraisal of evidences collected from various premises during the searches and the outcome of further investigations. Based on his voluntary admission of guilt and the evidence available on record, Peeyush Jain was arrested on December 26 under section 132 of the CGST Act. He was produced before the competent Court on December 27 which remanded him to 14 days judicial custody as the DGGI didn't seek his custodial interrogation. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rs-19749-cr-seized-from-peeyush-jain-is-case-property-not-turnover-says-dggi-1066216.html
30-12-2021||North and Central||Garment traders in Delhi shut shops against proposed GST hike on textiles||Several markets dealing with garment business in Delhi remained shut on Thursday in protest against the central government's proposed move to hike GST rates on textile from existing 5 per cent to 12 per cent from January 1. Sixty-four small and medium markets of Chandni Chowk, Gandhi Nagar, Lajpat Nagar, Karol Bagh, Okhla, Shanti Mohalla, Pitampura, Jogiwada, Rohini among others, remained shut following the strike call. Bhagwan Bansal, vice president, Delhi Hindustani Mercantile Association said the proposed hike in the Goods and Services Tax (GST) rates on textile and readymade garments will “finish the business” and also burn a big hole in common man's pocket. He said clothes have already become expensive by about 30 per cent due to increased cost of raw materials and the hike in GST rates will further impact the business. “The Centre's proposal to hike GST from 5 per cent to 12 per cent on textile and readymade garments from January 1 will adversely affect the business. Small traders will literally be finished. “We appeal the central government to take back the decision and establish a dialogue with traders on this. We will call an indefinite strike if this demand is not met,” Bansal told PTI. Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia, who also holds the finance portfolio, supported the strike by traders and said he will put the demand of traders in Friday's GST council meeting. “Textile and garment traders are opposing the hike in GST rates. Their demand is legitimate. The Aam Aadmi Party government under the leadership of Arvind Kejriwal has always been in favour of keeping the tax rates low. I will put forth the demand of keeping the tax rates low on clothes in Friday’s GST council meeting,” he tweeted. Brijesh Goyal, chairman, Chamber of Trader and Industries (CTI) said nearly one lakh shops related to textile and garment business in the city shut shops on Thursday in protest against the GST hike. He said since independence, there was no tax levied on clothes, but when GST was introduced in 2017, 5 per cent tax was imposed on garments and textiles. “If 12 per cent GST is imposed on textiles, traders will not be left with the capital which will lead to closure of small factories and also increase tax evasion,” Goyal added. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/garment-traders-in-delhi-shut-shops-against-proposed-gst-hike-on-textiles-1066220.html
30-12-2021||North and Central||Omicron plays spoilsport: Delhiites, eateries stare at muted NYE celebrations yet again||Puneet Tandon and his family were planning to usher in the New Year in a tourist location with bottles of bubbly and a lavish spread of delicacies but the Omicron variant put a damper on the plan. This is the second year in a row when Delhiites like 28-year-old Tandon will ring in the New Year with muted festivities as restrictions have been reimposed on social gatherings following the rapid rise in Covid-19 cases. Several states, including cities of Mumbai, Bengaluru, Chennai and Delhi, have brought in new restrictions ahead of the New Year celebrations amid the lightning spread of the new-found variant. "My family and I were really looking forward to travelling and partying this New Year's eve. Things were looking good, coronavirus cases were at an all-time low. But I guess 'kisi ki nazar lag gayi', and there is a sudden spurt in infections leading to all kinds of restrictions for party-goers," said Tandon, a Gurgaon-based marketing professional.  "Not that I am blaming the government for putting out restrictions or anything else, it is just that I am really sad that this would be another year when we won't be able to celebrate or 'party hard' like we did during the pre-Covid-19 days on the occasion," he added. According to a survey by English news app Inshorts, following the announcement of fresh curbs, about 63 per cent of Delhi residents said they will "stay at home", while 29 per cent said they would like to be part of "small get-togethers". Of the 15,000 people surveyed, four per cent said they would like to dine-out or travel on the occasion. The present scenario is even more disheartening for the hospitality and food and beverage industry as they see their hopes of a long-awaited revival, during the most rewarding season of the year, being dashed by the emergence of omicron. With the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) declaring a 'yellow alert' under the Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP) in the city, and imposing restrictions like night curfew between 10 pm to 5 am and limiting restaurant dining to 50 per cent, many restaurants, out of choice, bid adieu to most big-ticket events for the New Year's Eve. Some renowned multi-chain hotels, in the name of adhering to the Covid-19 guidelines, have dropped the customary lavish buffets, live bands and DJ nights from the offering. For instance, the Roseate Hotels and Resorts, which will be serving its "special meals" on the occasion, has called off its pre-planned New Year gala night in the light of new restrictions. The Radisson Blu MBD Hotel, Noida, keeping its focus on sit-down lunches and dinners only to usher in the New Year, has ditched the dance floors from their list of entertainment for their patrons. "This variant has undoubtedly created an atmosphere of caution just when things were looking up for the hospitality sector and people were hoping to make the most of this year-end festivities. They are worried yet again," Sonica Malhotra Kandhari, Joint Managing Director, MBD Group told PTI. "Dance floors which could probably be a cause of concern have been avoided in our list of entertainment. As a hotel, our focus has been gastronomical journeys to delight and usher in the New Year, therefore, we are opting to be cautious and organising only sit-down lunches and dinners," she explained. Restaurants and bars are facing the heat too. While Baris, a Mediterranean restaurant in Greater Kailash, which overhauled its menu amid fresh restrictions, opted for a sundowner on the occasion. Anardana Hospitality, a casual dining bar in Delhi and Chandigarh, and Sana-di-ge, a coastal eatery here in Chanakyapuri, have cancelled their New Year celebrations altogether and are keeping it simple with an a la carte dining only. "The reintroduction of restrictions for the festive period is a hammer blow to the sector.The rules will see the hospitality sector largely revert to the situation like last year, with social distancing and limited table reservations, no multiple table bookings," said Dr Shruti Malik, founder, Anardana Hospitality. However, it is still not all gloom and doom for the hospitality sector as the strong pent-up demand for staycations remain largely unaffected by the onslaught of the virulent omicron variant. According to experts in the travel industry, bookings for leisure destinations continue to show a healthy trend in this abysmal festive season.   Where boutique hotel chain Renest Hotels & Resorts reported a "27 per cent" jump in bookings of rooms as compared to the last month, the "overwhelming booking response" at WelcomHeritage Hotels helped them make up for the "20 per cent loss" they incurred due to the emergence of the Omicron variant.   "Bookings for rooms have been up for year-end at our leisure destinations by about 27 per cent as compared to last month. Till last week we were inundated with queries. This week there have been a few cancellations but still occupancy looks strong. People want to travel and stay in hotels though events had to be cancelled or tweaked as per different state laws," said Vishal Lonkar, General Manager (Brand Development) Renest Hotels & Resorts. The national capital has been witnessing a gradual uptick in the number of cases over the last week with the positivity rate now climbing to 1.29 per cent.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/omicron-plays-spoilsport-delhiites-eateries-stare-at-muted-nye-celebrations-yet-again-1066242.html
30-12-2021||North and Central||Amid sudden spike in Covid cases, Govt writes to 8 states/UTs for 'immediate action'||On a day, Delhi, Mumbai and Kolkata witnessed a big surge in Covid numbers, the Union Health Ministry issued Covid alerts to eight states where 15 districts including Bengaluru Urban witnessed a sudden high surge in Covid-19 cases in the last two weeks as the number of fresh Covid-19 cases across the country crossed the 10,000-mark for the first time after 33 days. Besides Karnataka, other states with rising Covid numbers are Maharashtra (Thane, Pune, Mumbai, Mumbai Suburban and Nagpur districts), Gujarat (Ahmedabad, Rajkot and Surat), Haryana (Gurugram), Delhi, Jharkhand (Ranchi), Tamil Nadu (Chennai) and West Bengal (Kolkata). In his letter to the states on Thursday, Bhushan asked the state administration to set up containment and buffer zones, strengthen hospital preparedness and increase testing in a focused manner with a gradual rise in the share of RT-PCR among the total number of tests. The districts that saw a sudden and significant surge in the number of Covid cases in the last two weeks, were asked to take proactive action to ensure neither the transmission spreads nor the mortality increases due to late detection. “On average, India reported more than 8,000 cases per day last week. From December 26 onwards, the country has been reporting 10,000 daily cases,” said Luv Aggarwal, Joint Secretary, Union Health Ministry. The number was 9,000 plus on Tuesday and rose to 13,154 on Wednesday. Mumbai on Thursday reported 3,671 new cases, which is 46 per cent higher than Wednesday’s figure. After seven months, Delhi recorded more than 1,000 cases – 1,313, to be exact which is 42 per cent more than Wednesday – whereas Kolkata reported 101 per cent jump in the cases with 1090 new cases. Among the states, the sharpest rise has been seen in Maharashtra, Delhi and Gujarat, according to the Union Health Ministry. Maharashtra that was the ground zero of the epidemic during the first two waves saw a three times jump in caseload and positivity rate between the first and last weeks of December. The number of weekly cases doubled in the last two weeks. Delhi too witnessed a five times rise in the number of weekly cases between the first and last week of December whereas, in Gujarat, the increase is nearly six times. Among the metro cities, Kolkata saw a doubling of the number of cases in the last two weeks. “We are seeing an uptick in the number of new Covid-19 cases, which is a part of a global upsurge,” VK Paul, NITI Ayog member, said at a press conference here. Whereas the government officials refrained from describing the rise as “third wave”, medical experts say this would be the beginning of a new wave driven by the Omicron variant. “The Omicron wave is staring India in the eye. Expectedly so, as India is not an exception in the world,” said Bhramar Mukherjee, a bio-statistician at the University of Michigan, who is tracking the pandemic in India with her model. Paul, Agarwal and ICMR director general Balram Bhargava stressed on behavioural factors like wearing the masks and maintaining social distance to halt the rising wave in its tracks. But when asked about election rallies in Uttar Pradesh and other states in complete violation of such norms, they skirted the question. “It is in the domain of the Election Commission and it is not the right forum to take up this issue,” Paul said when asked about the rallies among rising cases. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/amid-sudden-spike-in-covid-cases-govt-writes-to-8-states/uts-for-immediate-action-1066249.html
30-12-2021||North and Central||Party delegation that met you on Tuesday not authorised: Lallu to EC||Uttar Pradesh Congress chief Ajay Kumar Lallu has written to the Election Commission (EC), saying the party delegation that met officials of the poll panel on Tuesday was "not authorised" and seeking time for another meeting to put forth the party's views on holding free and fair polls. Chief Election Commissioner (CEC) Sushil Chandra told reporters on Thursday that the leaders whose names were made available by the Congress in a letter had met the EC officials. On Tuesday, a three-member Congress delegation met the EC officials, who are on a visit to Lucknow to take stock of the state's preparedness for the upcoming Assembly polls. The EC officials held a series of meetings with the representatives of various political parties, who raised their poll-related demands and concerns. Lallu wrote a letter to the commission on Wednesday, saying the three-member delegation that met officials of the poll panel was "not authorised" and seeking time for a meeting on Thursday. Asked about it, the CEC said the leaders whose names were mentioned in a letter sent to the poll panel by the Congress had met the officials. If reporters so wish, the letter can be shared with them, Chandra said replying to a query on the issue. In the letter addressed to the CEC, Lallu said, "We want to bring to your knowledge that the delegation of the Indian National Congress that met you on Tuesday was not authorised. On December 30, the authorised delegation comprising me, Congress Legislature Party leader Aradhana Mishra, former MP Pramod Tiwari and Naseemudin Siddiqui, following all Covid guidelines, would like to give suggestions about the holding of free, fair and timely elections. Kindly give time to this delegation to meet you." One of the three Congress leaders who met the EC officials said on the condition of anonymity that they were sent for the meeting by party general secretary (organisation) Dinesh Singh. "We had gone after being instructed. We do not know what transpired later," he said. The three Congress leaders who met the EC officials on Tuesday were Onkarnath Singh, Virendra Madan and Mohammad Anas Khan. The Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls are due early next year.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/party-delegation-that-met-you-on-tuesday-not-authorised-lallu-to-ec-1066269.html
30-12-2021||North and Central||Delhi courts revert to virtual hearing from January 3 amid rise in Covid cases||In view of the "alarming and worrisome" rise in Covid-19 cases, the Delhi High Court on Thursday decided to conduct the proceedings through virtual mode only in courts across the national capital between January 3 and 15. “There is, indubitably, a sudden spurt and spike in Covid-19 cases in the NCT of Delhi. Such a rise is quite alarming and worrisome. The Government of NCT of Delhi has already issued a ‘yellow alert’ in Delhi. It is high time that this court also takes all the possible precautionary and preventive measures to thwart any possibility of a resurgence of any wave of extreme nature," Chief Justice D N Patel said. The number of daily Covid-19 cases in Delhi shot up to 1,313 on Thursday. Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain said that the Omicron variant is being detected in patients with no travel history indicating a gradual spread in the community.   The present grim scenario has left us with no other viable option, the Chief Justice added.  It was decided that the High Court would take up matters as per the existing arrangement with regard to the listing of cases, through virtual mode only. Similarly, the District Courts in Delhi shall also, with effect from January 3, 2022, hold courts through virtual mode only. This arrangement would for now continue till January 15. The decision was taken after consultation with the members of the administrative and general supervision committee of the High Court. The inputs were also taken from the President of Delhi High Court Bar Association as well as from the Chairman of Coordination Committee of All District Court Bar Associations of Delhi and other senior office bearers.  "They all are also of the view that immediate steps are required to be taken to safeguard the health and well-being of all the stakeholders while also ensuring that the justice delivery system remains functional," an official note said.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-courts-revert-to-virtual-hearing-from-january-3-amid-rise-in-covid-cases-1066297.html
30-12-2021||North and Central||Baghel slams BJP on row over Kalicharan's arrest||Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel on Thursday criticised the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over its stance on the arrest of religious leader Kalicharan Maharaj. Slamming the saffron party, the Congress leader said the BJP did not condemn Kalicharan's controversial remarks about Mahatma Gandhi but questioned the 'protocol' over the godman's arrest. In an interaction with IANS, Baghel said his party deplored the remarks made at the 'Dharma Sansad' where Mahatma Gandhi was allegedly insulted while his assassin Nathuram Godse was praised. Hitting out at the BJP, the Chief Minister said the party cannot "establish Nathuram Godse and Veer Savarkar in the country". "Mahatma Gandhi is a globally acclaimed leader and widely followed. Who knows about Savarkar in the foreign countries? The BJP has an affection for Godse... and therefore, it's raising questions on the procedures over Kalicharan's arrest," he said. On being asked if he, as a Chief Minister, expects Prime Minister Narendra Modi to criticise the religious leader's remarks, Baghel said: "PM Modi is a native of Gujarat where Mahatma Gandhi belongs to. In fact, he should have denounced the controversial comments." Kalicharan Maharaj has been charged with sedition after he was arrested from Madhya Pradesh early on Thursday for making derogatory remarks about Mahatma Gandhi. The remarks were made at an event - 'Dharma Sansad', which was organised on December 25-26 in Chhattisgarh capital Raipur. An FIR against Kalicharan was filed at Tikrapara police station in Raipur by a Congress leader Pramod Dube, who was also present at the 'Dharma Sansad'. Earlier on Thursday, Chhattisgarh police arrested the religious leader in Madhya Pradesh near Khajuraho. Kalicharan, who was a guest at the 'Dharma Sansad', allegedly abused Mahatma Gandhi and praised Godse. His arrest by the Chhattisgarh police, however, has led to a spat between the governments of two neighbouring states -- the BJP-led Madhya Pradesh, and the Congress-led Chhattisgarh government. Madhya Pradesh Home Minister Narottam Mishra called Chhattisgarh police's action a breach of inter-state protocol and has directed the top cop of the state to seek a clarification from the Chhattisgarh DGP. However, Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel justified the police action, saying: "No rules were violated. Action was taken as per the prescribed guidelines." Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/baghel-slams-bjp-on-row-over-kalicharans-arrest-1066303.html
30-12-2021||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh: Garment traders fry pakodas, sell veggies in Indore to protest against 12% hike in GST||In an unusual agitation, traders of readymade garments in Madhya Pradesh's Indore on Thursday fried pakodas, prepared poha and sold vegetables to protest the Centre's decision to hike the Good and Services Tax (GST) from five to 12 per cent on their businesses. According to eyewitnesses, the traders staged their novel protest near Rajwada, a historical palace in Indore city, which is dubbed as “Mini Mumbai” for its textile shops. “We tried to send a message that if the GST hike isn't rolled back, we are going to shut our shops and start selling pakodas, poha and vegetables," said Akshay Jain, the president of the Indore Retail Garment Association. The Central government has acted against its self-reliant India stance by hiking the GST on a "swadeshi" industry, he said. The move will deal a severe blow to Indian garment makers, and enable manufacturers in China and Bangladesh to hold sway in this segment, Jain said. “We don't accept this 12 per cent GST hike. Our businesses will be ruined and the move will burn a hole in the pocket of customers,” he added.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-garment-traders-fry-pakodas-sell-veggies-in-indore-to-protest-against-12-hike-in-gst-1066306.html
30-12-2021||North and Central||Previous govts spent money on burial grounds, we develop religious spots: Yogi||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday claimed that while the previous state governments spent their money on burial grounds the BJP government works on developing religious spots, which boosts tourism and also generates employment. Adityanath made the ‘kabristan’ (graveyards) jibe at the party’s Jan Vishwas Yatra in Maharjganj, where he inaugurated or laid the foundation stones for 77 development projects worth Rs 437 crore. The assembly polls are likely to be held before March-end in Uttar Pradesh. “The previous governments spent money on `kabristans’, our government spends it on beautification of places associated with deities, which are places of faith,” he said. This helps tourism, generates employment and boosts the economy, he said. The BJP government will respect faith but run bulldozers on the mafia, he said, referring to people who “encroached on the land of the poor”. Targeting the Samajwadi Party and the Bahujan Samaj Party, he said, “When we take action against the mafia, the SP and BSP feel the pain most." Adityanath also referred to the construction of the Ram temple begun in Ayodhya, and the abrogation of Article 370, which gave Jammu and Kashmir a special status. In an apparent reference to police firing at kar sevaks in Ayodhya when the SP was in power in Uttar Pradesh, Adityanath said those who open fire at “Ram bhakts” would have never constructed the temple. He claimed that the mafias and the “rioters” feared government action now and did not dare to create trouble in the state. Before 2014, people in power amassed the money that belonged to the poor, he claimed. In an apparent reference to the recent raids at the home of a Kanpur businessman Piyush Jain, he said the same money is now being unearthed with the help of JCB machines. The governments earlier did not care for infrastructure, he claimed. He said little was done then to tackle encephalitis and thousands of children died year after year in the state. Earlier in Gorakhpur, the chief minister offered prayers before inaugurating an “international level” water sports complex. He also laid the foundation stones and inaugurated 114 development projects. Computer tablets and smartphone were distributed among 1,000 youths. “The tablets and smartphones will help them in online education and in the preparations for competitive exams,” he said. He said they will also get details about the government schemes to help them become “job providers”. “The state government has made a special fund to promote start-ups.” the CM said. The chief minister said the distribution of smartphones and tablets will be continued for college students as well.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/previous-govts-spent-money-on-burial-grounds-we-develop-religious-spots-yogi-1066308.html
30-12-2021||North and Central||No 'bahubalis' seen under Yogi govt, just 'Bajrang Bali': Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah Thursday invoked Lord Hanuman during his election campaign in Uttar Pradesh to praise the Yogi Adityanath government, saying no 'bahubalis' (musclemen) are visible under his regime, but just 'Bajrang Bali'. Addressing the BJP’s Jan Vishwas Yatra here, Shah alleged that general public especially "our daughters and sisters" were harassed by 'bahubali' during the Samajwadi Party government in the state. "The land was grabbed. But today in the regime of Yogi Adityanath, 'baahubalis' (musclemen) are not visible, but only 'Bajrang Bali' could be seen," he said. He also said the late BJP leader Kalyan Singh, who was the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh when the Babri Mosque was demolished in 1992, had shown what "good governance" is. "Babuji (as Kalyan Singh is called by his supporters) had sacrificed his chair for Ram Janmabhoomi.” Attacking SP chief Akhilesh Yadav, Shah said, "As elections approach, Akhilesh does not remember Kalyan Singh, but ‘Jinnah,’. Will you vote for those who eulogise Jinnah?” In his address at an event held on October 31 in Hardoi, Yadav appeared to equate Mahatma Gandhi, Jawaharlal Nehru, Sardar Patel and Muhammad Ali Jinnah, raising eyebrows. "Sardar Patel, Father of the Nation Mahatma Gandhi, Jawaharlal Nehru and (Muhammad Ali) Jinnah studied in the same institute and became barristers. They helped (India) get freedom and never backed away from any struggle," he had said. Dwelling on the Ram Janmabhoomi movement, Shah said senior BJP leader “Advani-ji took out a Rath Yatra for Ram Janmabhoomi, and the Samajwadi Party fired bullets (at kar sewaks) and also used sticks on them. But, it was our Prime Minister (Narendra) Modiji who performed the bhoomipujan for the Ram temple." "No matter how hard you try, a grand temple of Lord Ram touching the sky will be built in a few months," Shah said, attacking Yadav. Praising the Modi government, Shah said it has given a heavy blow to terrorist activities and "our neighboring country was given a befitting reply after the terrorist strike at Pulwama two years back". He also claimed that ‘Bua, Babua (apparent reference to BSP chief Mayawati and SP chief Akhilesh Yadav) or Congress leaders cannot prevent the BJP from coming to power in Uttar Pradesh again. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-bahubalis-seen-under-yogi-govt-just-bajrang-bali-amit-shah-1066310.html
30-12-2021||North and Central||Delhi sees 1,313 new Covid cases, infection rate rises to 1.73%||Delhi on Thursday reported 1,313 fresh Covid cases, the highest single-day number since May 26 when the tally was 1,491, but no death was reported, as per the Health Department bulletin. Meanwhile, the Covid infection in the city has crossed 1 per cent and currently stands at 1.73 per cent, the highest in the last seven months. According to the Delhi Health Department, the city had recorded a 1.93 per cent positivity rate on May 26. With the new cases, the cumulative total has risen to 14,46,415, while the death toll remains at 25,107. The number of active Covid cases have crossed the 3,000 mark and stands at 3,081, the highest since June 14 when there were 3,226 active cases. The capital has, so far, detected 263 cases of new Covid variant Omicron. Of these, 57 have been discharged from the hospital. With a 98.05 per cent Covid recovery rate, the active Covid cases rate in Delhi has gone up to 0.21 per cent and the death rate stands at 1.74 per cent. With 423 patients recovering in the last 24 hours, the total number of recoveries has gone to 14,18,227. A total of 1,560 Covid patients are being treated in home isolation at present. The number of Covid containment zones has risen to 645. Meanwhile, a total of 75,953 new tests -- 68,590 RT-PCR and 7,363 Rapid Antigen - were conducted in the last 24 hours, taking the total to 3,26,51,345. Out of 1,50,922 vaccines administered in the last 24 hours, 60,586 were first doses and 90,336 were second doses. The total number of cumulative beneficiaries vaccinated so far stands at 2,60,70,013 according to the health bulletin. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-sees-1313-new-covid-cases-infection-rate-rises-to-173-1066320.html
30-12-2021||North and Central||Woman gives birth to child with 4 legs in Bihar||A woman in Bihar's Gopalganj district gave birth to a baby having 4 legs on Thursday. Ravina Khatoon, the mother of the infant, a resident of Rewtith village in Baikunthpur block, was admitted in the Primary Health Centre (PHC) after labour pains on Thursday morning. Khatoon gave birth to a child in the morning hours. The doctors were shocked on seeing that the infant had four legs. They said the mother and child are healthy. After the news spread in Rewtith village a large number of villagers assembled at the PHC to have a glimpse of the child. The PHC doctors immediately sent the infant to the PICU ward in Sadar hospital, Gopalganj for better care. Dr Saurabh Agrawal, a senior doctor of Sadar hospital, said that such cases happened rarely, one in a lakh. "The symptoms of the infant are normal apart from 4 legs. Three legs are on the front side and one on the back side. Such cases appear probably due to genital disorder. We have sent the report of the infant to the civil surgeon's office in Gopalganj," Agrawal said. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/woman-gives-birth-to-child-with-4-legs-in-bihar-1066325.html
30-12-2021||North and Central||Delhi sets up 350 Covid isolation beds for international travellers and omicron cases||The Delhi government has set up a total of 350 isolation beds at four places, including the Commonwealth Games village, for international travellers, their contacts and Omicron cases, amid the rising number of Covid-19 infections in the city, according to an official order on Thursday. In a separate order Director General of Health Services, Delhi government, Dr Nutan Mundeja said that in compliance of guidelines for international arrivals issued by the Health Ministry, institutional isolation of Covid -positive patients arriving at the IGI airport and their contacts will be done at designated paid and free facilities. The isolation facilities set up at Terapanth Bhawan (100 beds), Sardar Patel Covid Care Centre (100 beds), Commonwealth Games village in Akshardham (50 beds) and Ibis hotel (100 beds) will be linked to hospitals to look after patients, the health department said in the other order. The Terapanth Bhawan facility will be linked to the Ambedkar Nagar Hospital, Sardar Patel Covid Care Centre with the Madan Mohan Malviya Hospital, the Commonwealth Games village facility in Akshardham with the Lal Bahadur Shastri Hospital, and Ibis hotel with the Indira Gandhi Hospital in Dwarka, it said. The 50 beds at the Commonwealth village facility will be scaled up to 500, the order noted. The linked hospitals will ensure proper monitoring and adequate supply of logistics to the isolation centres, it said. Guidelines issued by the Health Ministry on November 30 stipulates that passengers found to be symptomatic during screening at the IGI airport will be immediately isolated and taken to a medical facility.  If tested positive for Covid, their contacts shall be identified and managed as per laid down protocols. Travellers from 'at risk' countries will be tested at the point of arrival. If they are found to have contracted Covid, their samples would be sent for genomic testing and they will be managed at separate isolation facilities and treated as per laid down standard protocol, including contact-tracing, the guidelines stated. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-sets-up-350-covid-isolation-beds-for-international-travellers-and-omicron-cases-1066333.html
30-12-2021||North and Central||Sukhbir Badal dares Congress to name CM candidate||Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal Thursday dared the Congress to name its chief ministerial candidate for the Punjab Assembly elections, claiming that CM Charanjit Singh Channi has last lost the trust of people and the state party leadership. Talking to reporters here, the SAD president said there was a "free for all" in the Punjab Congress on the issue of the chief ministerial face. "Channi wants to stick to the chair but the party leadership does not regard him as a bonafide chief minister. Pradesh Congress president Navjot Sidhu is blowing his own trumpet and disrespecting Channi every day," the SAD leader said. "Punjabis have turned against the Congress because it has failed to implement any of the promises made to them. You will see it self-destruct in the coming days," he said. He said CM Charanjit Singh Channi has "lost the trust of not only of people but also the top Congress leadership of the state". Replying to a query, Badal said Prime Minister Narendra Modi should during his forthcoming visit to the state announce transfer of Chandigarh as well as Punjabi-speaking areas to Punjab, besides assuring the state that its riparian rights over its river waters will be recognised. He should also announce a farm loan waiver on the occasion to help revive the agricultural economy of the state, he said. The PM is scheduled to inaugurate a satellite centre of the Chandigarh-based Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) in Ferozepur district on January 5. Later, addressing a gathering, Badal said the SAD-BSP alliance was the only regional entity in the fray in the Punjab polls. He said the SAD represented the regional aspirations and had always stood up to defend the rights of the state. While speaking about those who had left the SAD to join the BJP, he said some leaders had gone to acquire security cover while others had joined hands with the BJP to save their business interests. "All of them will lose their security deposits", he said, adding, "We will not take back any of these backstabbers". Badal also announced the expulsion of former legislator Mohinder Kaur Josh from the party for indulging in "anti-party activities". Meanwhile, Badal also assured that once the SAD-BSP alliance government is formed, a Kandi area development ministry would be established.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sukhbir-badal-dares-congress-to-name-cm-candidate-1066343.html
30-12-2021||North and Central||Congress govts delayed projects, forced people to migrate from U'khand villages, says PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday accused successive Congress governments at the Centre and in Uttarakhand of dragging their feet for decades over development projects, forcing people to migrate from their villages in the state. Addressing a rally in Haldwani, Modi accused the previous Uttarakhand governments of "looting" the state and doing nothing for its development. He said this inaugurating and laying foundation stones of projects worth over Rs 17,500 crore, including the Rs 5,747 crore Lakhwar hydropower project. Modi said the Lakhwar project was thought of in 1974 and took nearly 46 years to see the light of day. "Wasn't it sinful on part of those who were in power before us to delay a project like Lakhwar meant to give you electricity, drinking water and irrigate your lands. Would you forget their sin? Will you get carried away by their tall promises," he asked a cheering crowd at the MB Inter College ground in Haldwani. "Generations of people in Uttarakhand villages were forced to leave their homes in the absence of roads and other facilities and migrate somewhere else," he said. "While I correct their mistakes, you teach them a lesson," the prime minister said. He said there are two approaches--one to keep the hills deprived of development and the other to work day and night for their development. "They have only looted Uttarakhand with both hands," Modi said without naming anyone. He accused the previous regime in Uttarakhand of being interested only in "looting" the state and said it did nothing for its development. In a veiled attack on Congress leader Harish Rawat, Modi said one of those in power earlier said, "You may even loot the state but save my government. Those who love Uttarakhand cannot even think of something like that." His reference was to a purported video in which Harish Rawat was allegedly heard negotiating a money deal to buy back the support of rebel MLAs in the state in 2016. Modi said the implementation of the projects whose foundation stone was laid today are his commitments. "I am working with my heart and soul for the development of Uttarakhand," he said. "I have faith in the strength of the people of Uttarakhand and I am confident that their strength will make this decade that of the hill state. I am putting emphasis on development projects like these with that objective in mind," Modi said "These foundations are not just stones, they are our commitment, which the double engine government will fulfil," he said. Modi, who inaugurated and laid the foundation stones of projects worth over Rs 17,500 crore before addressing the Vijay Sankalp rally in Haldwani, also announced that he is bringing infrastructure projects worth Rs 2,000 crore to Haldwani as a New Year gift. These projects are related to construction of roads, installation of water and streetlights, Modi said. He also charged the opposition with manufacturing rumours, spreading them and then shouting over them treating them as facts. "I have been told that people are being misled about the Tanakpur-Bageshwar rail line project. I want to tell you that the work on final location survey of the project has begun. Takanpur-Bageshwar rail line will be built the way Rishikesh-Karnaprayag rail line is being built," he said. Attacking previous governments, he said women are the worst victims of the politics of denial. He said schemes like Shauchalaya Yojana, Ujjawala, Jal Jivan Mission or Har Ghar Jal or Har Ghar Nal se Jal were launched by his government over the last seven years as an honest attempt to address problems faced by women in the country for decades. Modi inaugurated six projects worth Rs 3,420 crore and laid the foundation stones of 17 others worth Rs 14,127 crore. The inaugurated projects include three different stretches of the Char Dham all-weather road, which have been widened, Nagina-Kashipur National Highway, Suring Gad hydel project and sewage works under the Namami Gange programme at Nainital. An AIIMS satellite centre for Kumaon worth Rs 500 crore, Moradabad-Kashipur four-lane road, improved road connectivity with Nepal and an Aroma Park in Kashipur are among the key projects whose foundation was laid by the prime minister. The Lakhwar multi-purpose project will produce 300 MW of electricity. The 330 million cubic metres water in its reservoir will supply irrigation and drinking water to six states of Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Delhi. This is Modi's second visit to the state this month. On his last visit to Uttarakhand on December 4, Modi had unveiled projects worth over Rs 18,000 crore in Dehradun.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-govts-delayed-projects-forced-people-to-migrate-from-ukhand-villages-says-pm-modi-1066349.html
30-12-2021||North and Central||Punjab polls: AAP releases sixth list of 8 candidates||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Thursday released the sixth list of eight more candidates for the 2022 Punjab Assembly polls. With this, the total number of candidates announced by Punjab's main opposition party has reached 96. According to the latest list, Amarpal Singh will contest from Sri Hargobindpur and Jasbir Singh will fight from Amritsar West. Jeevanjot Kaur will contest from Amritsar East seat. Currently, Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu is a legislator from Amritsar East. Gurinder Singh will contest from Amloh, Narinderpal Singh from Fazilka, Preetpal Sharma from Gidderbaha, Sukhvir Singh from Maur and Mohammad Zamil-Ur-Rehman from Malerkotla, according to the AAP's list. The Punjab Assembly has 117 seats and its term will end in March 2022.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-polls-aap-releases-sixth-list-of-8-candidates-1066353.html
30-12-2021||North and Central||Bihar DGP asks girls to opt for arranged marriage||Bihar DGP S.K. Singhal on Thursday suggested girls to marry with the consents of their parents. He also said that love marriages have bigger consequences for girls in the society. Addressing a gathering as part of Chief Minister Nitish Kumar's 'Samaj Sudhar Abhiyan' (social reforms campaign) in Samastipur, Singhal said, "daughters should go for arranged marriage with the consent and blessings of their parents. We have witnessed a large number of cases where girls took decisions for marriage on their own, leading to unpleasant consequences." "We have seen cases where girls went for love marriage and then got killed, while many were also forced into flesh trade. It is the parents who have pay the price for such decisions," Singhal said. "I also appeal to the parents to pass on good values to their daughters so that they understand their feelings. Such initiatives would help achieve the goal of social reforms," Singhal added. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bihar-dgp-asks-girls-to-opt-for-arranged-marriage-1066388.html
30-12-2021||North and Central||Amid yellow alert, Delhi Metro struggles to curb passenger numbers||Even two days after a yellow alert was declared in the capital, Delhi Metro is yet to implement the restrictions imposed by the Delhi government in the wake of the rising Covid-19 cases, as more than 50 per cent passengers continue to board the public transport with several still travelling standing. "Most of the people still do not know about the curbs and continue to board the metro. The situation will get under control within two-three days," a DMRC official told IANS. Passengers IANS talked with cited office attendance as one of the reasons, while others said with Delhi Transport Corporation buses too running with just 50 per cent passengers, "we have no other option left". Meanwhile, a few passengers said that they are taking all the possible precautions while commuting and going about their work and socialising before the New Year kicks in. The Delhi government on December 28 announced restrictions under yellow alert under which Delhi Metro is supposed to run with only 50 per cent seating capacity and passengers are not allowed to travel standing up. This decision was taken after the city's Covid-19 positivity rate continued to be above 0.5 per cent for two consecutive days. However, long queues were seen outside of different metro stations across the city as people continued to go about their daily lives as usual. To curb this, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) on Thursday announced to have reduced capacity down to 200 per train from the usual 2,400. An eight-coach Metro train can generally carry about 2,400 passengers, which comprises approximately 50 seating passengers and 250 standing passengers per coach. With present restrictions of 50 per cent seating and no standing, each coach can now accommodate only about 25 passengers, the DMRC said in a release. "Therefore, an eight coach train can now accommodate approximately 200 passengers only." As this is less than 10 per cent of a train's normal carrying capacity, it advised: "Therefore, travel only if absolutely essential. Also keep extra time in your commute by the Metro as entry has to be regulated to ensure compliance with the guidelines which is resulting in the queue's outside stations." On Wednesday, the DMRC deployed 15 flying squads across the metro network to ensure that the Covid-19 safety protocol is strictly adhered by the passengers inside trains and premises. Besides, the frequency of checking drives was also increased to ensure strict adherence to the guidelines and offenders were penalised on the spot. "Announcements according to the new guidelines were also being made inside trains and station premises on a frequent basis and passengers are being advised to plan their journey in advance, allowing for some additional time for their commute," the DMRC said. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/amid-yellow-alert-delhi-metro-struggles-to-curb-passenger-numbers-1066390.html
30-12-2021||Oasis||The presence and the seer||Suppose, just now, sitting next to you, I tell you that I do exist as a spec of evidence of the existence. And, you corroborate it as truth and reality. And, when I change my instance and tell you that I am only appearing to be there, in reality, I don’t exist; that’s the truth and reality and, I reason with you that existence means ‘existing forever’ and, in that sense, I and you both are not going to be here forever in the form we appear to be here and now before one another. And, you still nod in agreement with me. Finally, when I again change my stance and say, both the aforesaid scenarios are true and real in the same instant, then also your stance of agreeing with me stays unchanged. In this transaction, have you also not become the evidence of existence and in-existence both, simultaneously? That’s the presence. Presence is the pure intelligence that is the same in you and me. This is the first impersonal level of universal consciousness. If “we” are disciplined to such an extent that we stay indifferent towards biases or false ego then we would find ourselves in gleeful agreement over everything. That’s the field of acceptance. For ‘they’ or ‘you’ transcends into “we” in that ‘level of consciousness’ /field. This is the stage of transformation into the presence. When this becomes your normal stage of being then know for sure that you have transformed into a normal being. You may ask, what is the evidence that presence exists? Or, that the existence is present? The answer is simple but grasping the answer may not be appearing too simple to you. Even, evidence has to be first ‘present’ to qualify as the evidence. So the first necessity of evidence (or anything for that matter) is to be present, then only it can claim its existence or specific existence; to be precise. Neither appearance nor disappearance is possible without presence. Neither form nor formlessness is possible without presence. Neither existence nor in-existence is possible without presence. Presence alone is real. Reality is termed real because of its eternal presence. This has eternally been indicated as the eternal seer in each one of us albeit in our transcended state. Eternity is the all-pervasive presence.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/the-presence-and-the-seer-1066000.html
30-12-2021||Opinion||Healthcare: Lessons from the pandemic||At a professional networking event recently, I was glad when someone walked up to me to acknowledge the role played by supply chain professionals during the Covid-19 pandemic. While the frontline warriors have primarily been rightly under the spotlight, the efforts of so many other back-end professionals didn’t go completely unnoticed. While each industry was pushed to adapt to different challenges, healthcare institutions were probably given the heaviest of all amongst responsibilities. Like many other associates, the supply chain teams faced the rising challenges with great gusto. Each challenge had its own key lessons. Here are a few such lessons worth sharing. Material availability, supply The consistent lockdowns created many supply challenges, making it difficult to procure material (Covid-specific drugs and medical consumables like masks, gloves, face-shields, PPE Kits, etc). Standard measures like having an optimal safety stock seemed insufficient during a time when the demand multiplied amid ever-evolving clinical protocols. Additionally, reaching out to and onboarding new suppliers per region and qualifying alternative material for use within a short time became necessary. This taught us that supply chain mechanisms need to be dynamic to support changing needs. Supplier relationships Amid the pandemic, the profile of incoming patients completely changed. While people with Covid symptoms increased dramatically, many others chose to stay at home postponing non-Covid care. This created an imbalance in the material mix of a hospital’s inventory, with regularly used drugs becoming slow-moving, and fresh demands getting generated. Relationships with supplier partners came to the rescue here. Simple things like not enforcing the contractual non-moving material-return clause, or clearing supplier payment dues during these trying times, created a win-win situation for both sides. The takeaway was that even a transactional supplier could get elevated to a strategic partner at times, so sound professional relationships are important. Internal supply chains With external supply depleting amid lockdowns, it became essential to look internally to support material needs, by rationing and sharing common items amongst units. When the task at hand is to ensure the second-largest hospitals’ network in the country has no material availability issues, and that each of the 27 hospitals continues to follow a uniform way of working within SCM, the team re-pivoted the centralised management of the supply chain a bit. Additional (and temporary) Regional supply hubs were created within the network to manage the geographical diversity, with focused teams and operation mechanisms. The lesson is that while supply chain agility remains paramount, an inward focus is also desirable in managing external exigencies. Capital expenditure Along with drugs, the need for equipment also went up. Supply lead times for many life-saving devices like oxygen concentrators, ventilators, and associated monitors, pulse oximeters, specialised masks, etc. went up. Hospitals had to resort to a combination of renting/procuring this equipment at short notice, and accepting donations from various trusts and corporates. Knowing that many of these augmentations could be overkill after Covid wanes, all capital expenditure had to be done in a manner that optimally balanced the short- and long-term requirements. The takeaway is that complete realignment of Capex budgets is possible and should be done with an eye on sustained needs. Employee encouragement Unlike supply chain management associates in the manufacturing or services industry who had the liberty of working from the comfort of their homes, those in Healthcare travelled to their work even during the worst times of the pandemic, battling mental insecurities while putting up a brave face every day. This aspect is probably self-explanatory and doesn’t need much elaboration, but ensuring both material and moral support to these warriors while keeping them engaged, helped overcome many of these challenges. Thus, regardless of business exigencies, employee encouragement remains a key deliverable for an organisation, to keep them motivated to perform. While these lessons have been articulated from a Healthcare standpoint, I am sure many of these are domain-agnostic and can be horizontally deployed across industries.   (The writer is a Chief Supply Chain Officer at a Bengaluru-based hospital chain)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/healthcare-lessons-from-the-pandemic-1066004.html
30-12-2021||Opinion||Nagaland awaits new dawn, but AFSPA extended again||Once during a Lok Sabha debate, Atal Bihari Vajpayee said, "Lagta hai ghari ki sui ghoom ke usi jagah laut aayi hai (It appears the hands of the clock have come back to the position from where we all started with)." The sentence aptly applies to Nagaland and its story of insurgency. After decades perhaps, Nagaland has made it to the front pages of the national dailies and also international news headlines. But sadly, yet again, for the wrong reasons. The year 2021 will go down in the memory with heartbreaking stories of the killings of innocent Nagas. The policymakers are again either clueless or, like the 1960s and 70s, yet again engaged in a never-ending cat and mouse game. The state government under the Nationalist Democratic Progressive Party (NDPP)-Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-Naga People's Front (NPF) combine has rekindled the old demand for the repeal of the Armed Forces Special Powers Act (AFSPA). It has remained enforced in the state since 1958. But it can do precious little beyond this. On December 30, 2021, the AFSPA was extended for six months, and the Home Ministry gazette notification stated that Nagaland is disturbed and is in a dangerous condition. However, the Centre has also set up the AFSPA review panel. There is a state government SIT (special investigation team), and the army has ordered its mandatory court of inquiry into the Oting shootout of December 4 that claimed 14 Naga lives. On December 5, one Assam Rifles personnel also died.  However, these numbers are ugly reminders of yesteryears and should instead open up the space for taking effective corrective steps. If there is any clear message from the Naga hills in 2021, the diagnosis should not become worse than the malady. N Kitovi Zhimomi, the convener of the Naga National Political Groups (NNPGs), an umbrella body of Naga militant groups, is understood to be keen for the final solution agreement at the earliest. Reportedly, Zhimomi told a Delhi functionary who is in the know of things, "We Nagas are more than sincere this time. Let us have the peace pact at the earliest. Further delay will result in more Oting type blunders and bloodshed". That is perhaps another message of the calendar year 2021. The Nagas who agree with this version say that the AFSPA or army deployment-related issues could die a natural death only if there is a permanent solution to the Naga insurgency issue that started around the 1940s. When there is a problem in a tree, cutting down branches cannot help, said one senior NNPG functionary contacted from Delhi. "Let us get at the root. The AFSPA is only a branch. The problems of army deployment can be eradicated when we ink the peace pact. Nothing more, nothing less," he said. Now, as the tumultuous year comes to an end, it is worth pointing out that Nagaland also made news with its supply of Bhut Jolokia, or ghost pepper, to London during the year. Even Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted about it. The Naga handicrafts and handlooms have a special demand across the globe. Sources say the proposed peace pact, among other things, will try to ensure more investments, especially from the private sector, to promote the tourism and hotel industry and also set up other industries. However, there is perhaps a need to take more 'pragmatic' steps to augment private and corporate investments in Nagaland and other parts of the northeast.  Minute studies reveal that the elephant in the room is the Bengal Eastern Frontier Regulation (BEFR) Act 1873, which relates to the Inner Liner Permit (ILP) regulations. Under the ILP provisions, 'outsiders' to Nagaland and a few other states cannot enter beyond the demarcated line without a license paper strictly for a week or less. Students' organisations and others have always suggested that the ILP norms be strictly implemented. However, it ought to be appreciated that as a constitutional tool, the ILP or, for that matter, the BEFR Act have failed to check the 'influx' of illegal Bangladeshi immigrants. Like other northeastern states, the Bangladeshi immigrants have allegedly 'found a place' to stay and thrive in some parts of Nagaland. But some approaches towards the entire issue have only discouraged corporate investment. Power generation projects have in the past lingered due to land compensation issues, and other natural resources have not been used. The year 2021 should finally perhaps put an end to the use of romanticised labels such as 'hotbed of extremism' for the state. Nagaland awaits the new dawn. It is too keen to welcome 2022 with peace and tranquillity. Everyone should do their bit. (The writer is a New Delhi based journalist.) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/nagaland-awaits-new-dawn-but-afspa-extended-again-1066192.html
30-12-2021||Opinion||Omicron: Clinically milder but potentially deadlier||There has been a sudden surge in Covid cases across the country in the past few days. This increase can be attributed to the newest Covid-19 variant: Omicron. Preliminary research suggests this variant is less severe than Delta, which caused the second wave in India. The severity is reduced by 50-70 per cent, and patients have shown mild symptoms. However, it is proven that the variant is highly transmissible, meaning that it can infect a large number of people in a shorter period. Ignorance, misconception, and a delay in response could result in India's even more fatal third wave. With India still reeling from the effects of earlier waves and the economic crisis, a new variant, while less fatal, could turn out to be deadlier for the country and its people. An increase in cases would lead to more hospitalisations At the time of writing this, India witnessed 6,358 new positive cases in 24 hours. And, the total number of people infected by the Omicron variant stands at 781. States like Maharashtra, Delhi and Uttar Pradesh have started to put restrictions due to an increase in test positivity rates. Moreover, Omicron is around 40-60 per cent more transmissible than Delta. Data from several other countries such as the UK, France and South Africa has shown that it erodes around 60 per cent of population immunity accumulated from prior infection and vaccination. The UK is witnessing more than one lakh new cases every day, despite most of its population being fully vaccinated and half of the people being given booster doses. India's population is roughly 20 times of the UK, with a fewer percentage of people vaccinated. During the peak of the second wave, India witnessed as high as four lakh new cases per day. The point of concern is that even if Omicron is less severe, it will lead to a larger number of cases and higher hospitalisation rates. There is a genuine possibility that the country can see more deaths than we had in the second wave. Elections and Social Distancing don't go hand-in-hand In February and March 2022, state Assembly elections are scheduled in five Indian states: Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Manipur, Goa, and Punjab. With election campaigns and rallies at an all-time high, social distancing appears to be a distant dream. Almost every day, enormous gatherings and political rallies take place in these states. In response to the Omicron concern, the Allahabad High Court has requested that the polls be postponed for a few months. It appears that the government does not share the court's concern. Furthermore, parties and social gatherings will increase with the holiday season around the corner, increasing the strain on our already limited and exhausted resources. The collapse of our healthcare system Our healthcare system was already hanging on a cliff. It is in a debilitated condition post the two waves of Covid. We have already seen how it collapsed in the second wave after increasing cases accompanied shortage of beds, oxygen, and human resources. Omicron will lead to a much higher number of cases in a shorter period, leading to a disintegration of our already overburdened healthcare system. When hospitals become overburdened with Covid patients, all non-emergent non-Covid care is halted, resulting in the incapacity to care for non-Covid patients. There is also an added backlog of all the surgeries and services we did not provide to patients during the last wave. All those patients whose tumour removals or hernia repairs were cancelled during the previous wave have been suffering and are still waiting for their chance in the queue. Furthermore, hospitals are functioning with a reduced workforce as there is a delay in allocating postgraduate seats and around 45,000 doctors are unable to join the healthcare system. Misinformation is an added bullet We also need to understand that the narrative of Omicron being less lethal will lead to people being oblivious and reckless. Misinformation about the new variant may exacerbate the problem. There is a chance that people would not care about hand sanitation, sneezing and coughing etiquettes, and masking up. Entirely relying on preliminary reports showing milder effects can result in more hospital admissions. We have seen the consequences of being complacent in the past. Unfortunately, we still haven't wholly discovered the behaviour of the new variant. A false portrayal of Omicron's treacherous potential can lead to more harmful effects that can put the citizens' lives at risk. Lethal to life and the economy The economy faced its worst performance in the history of the country during the first lockdown, and nearly 23 crore people were pushed into poverty. Although, lenient lockdowns in the second wave lead to lesser economic damage. The government may now be forced to restrict economic activity when the Omicron wave rises rapidly. More lockdowns and restrictions will lead to more households being pushed into poverty and more people dying of hunger. Another health shock is fatal to lives and the economy. Increased chances of emergence of dangerous variants Covid-19 is caused by a virus that uses RNA as its genetic material. Replication through RNA is prone to significant errors, leading to mutation. The consequence is a quick accumulation of mutations. Some of these tend to make the virus more lethal, more transmissible and more dangerous for us. The only way to stop this is to prevent more people from getting infected, thereby not allowing the virus to mutate. The danger posed by Omicron is colossal. India must tighten its belt and upgrade the response to the variant. Efforts are needed in every direction, from testing to tracking to treating. Even if the symptoms of Omicron infected people are milder, the transmissibility has increased the risks for everyone. The first two waves' repercussions have been terrible. Only by taking appropriate measures and safeguards will we avoid such scenarios in the future. We don't have the luxury of downplaying Omicron. Our lives depend on it. (Mahek Nankani is an Assistant Programme Manager at the Takshashila Institution. Dr Harshit Kukreja is a Research Analyst with the Takshashila Institution.) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/omicron-clinically-milder-but-potentially-deadlier-1066197.html
30-12-2021||Panorama||Political reservation for OBCs, now a Maha issue||The issue of reservations for Other Backward Classes (OBCs) in local bodies has snowballed into a major political issue in Maharashtra, a hot potato for the four big parties – the Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress, which run the three-party Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government, and the opposition BJP; and a headache for the State Election Commission (SEC) as the 2022 local body elections, including to big corporations like Mumbai, approach. Maharashtra had 27% seats in local bodies reserved for the OBCs, but that was struck down. Now, given that the issue involves the Supreme Court, everyone wants to be guarded.  There is also the matter of quotas for Marathas, Muslims and change in the category of Dhangars.  In May this year, a five-judge Constitution Bench of the Supreme Court declared the Maratha quota law unconstitutional. It quashed the Socially and Economically Backward Classes Act, 2018. The state had created a special category -- SEBC -- and provided for a 13% quota in jobs and 12% in education to Marathas, a politically-dominant community.  The Supreme Court had said that there was no need to re-visit the 1992 Indira Sawhney judgement which fixed the upper limit of all quotas put together at 50%. The Maratha quota law breached this limit.  Meanwhile, the Congress is seeking a 5% reservation in jobs and education to Muslims and funds for minority community schemes.  The Dhangar community has renewed its demand for reservation. As of now, the Dhangars get reservation under the Vimukta Jati & Nomadic Tribes (VJNT) category of Maharashtra – 3.5%. The community has been agitating for reservation in the ST category in Maharashtra. The “Dhangad” community in other parts of India has reservation in the SC category. A typographical error Dhangar (Dhangad) led to the discrepancy and they were clubbed under the VJNT category in Maharashtra.  Of the total 52% reservation in the state, SCs and STs account for 13% and 7%, respectively; OBCs 19%, VJNT, Special Backward Class and Nomadic Tribes 13%. Quotas were a major issue for the Devendra Fadnavis-led BJP-Shiv Sena government; so are they for the current Uddhav Thackeray-led Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress dispensation.  However, the striking down of the political reservations for the OBCs has come as a rude shock. The OBC communities form a sizable chunk of the leaders and electorates for all the parties.  In March, the Supreme Court struck down the 27% OBC reservation given under the Maharashtra Zilla Parishads and Panchayat Samitis Act as it would cause the reservation limit to overshoot the 50% cap.  Again, in September, the state introduced an Ordinance to amend the Maharashtra Zilla Parishads and Panchayat Samitis Act, 1961, and the Maharashtra Village Panchayat Act for Zilla Parishads, Panchayat Samiti and Gram Panchayats, granting 27% reservation to the OBCs.  In early December, a division bench comprising Justices A M Khanwilkar and C T Ravikumar ordered a stay on it and asked the SEC of Maharashtra not to implement the political quota.  It may be mentioned here that the Centre had refused to share data from the Socio-Economic Caste Census (SECC) 2011 stating that the data was “unusable” for official purposes because of “mistakes and inaccuracies”.  However, playing safe, during the winter session of the Maharashtra Legislature, a unanimous resolution was passed postponing elections to the local bodies in the state in the absence of 27% reservation for the OBCs. With the Treasury and Opposition benches on the same wavelength on the issue, the resolution sailed through in the Assembly and Council. The resolution is important as the SEC has already announced the elections to the de-reserved (from OBC category) seats in 106 Nagar Panchayats, Bhandara-Gondia Zilla Parishad and Panchayat Samitis under their jurisdiction on January 18. As per SEC’s poll schedule, 23 of the 105 seats in Bhandara-Gondia ZP, which were earlier OBC seats, will now be converted into general constituencies.  Also, 45 of the 210 seats in the 15 Panchayat Samitis in the district were OBC seats. Similarly, 344 of the 1,802 seats in 106 Nagar Panchayats were reserved for OBCs, and one of the four seats in municipal corporations where by-polls are scheduled had also been earmarked for OBCs.  The issue is politically significant as several big corporations, like Mumbai, Thane, Navi Mumbai, Vasai-Virar, Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad, Nashik, Nagpur, Amravati, Aurangabad and Solapur are to go to polls in 2022.  The vexed issue has also become a sort of blame game between the government and the Opposition.  State Congress president Nana Patole recently said: “The issue of OBC reservations has become complicated because of the BJP and the stand taken by Fadnavis when he was Chief Minister. And they are the ones who are attacking the state government today. If the data from the central government was inaccurate, then why did Fadnavis and Pankaja Munde, the then Rural Development Minister in his government, write to the Centre seeking the same data?”  “Why was Fadnavis, who is attacking the MVA government today, silent for five years? When I was the Speaker of the Assembly, a resolution was passed in the House to conduct a caste-based census of OBCs. But Union Home Minister Amit Shah did not approve of the exercise. It is clear that the BJP and RSS are working to end reservations,” he said.  Fadnavis, however, countered saying: “The MVA government was exposed in the Supreme Court on the issue of OBC reservation. The government had earlier told the court that the empirical data of OBCs was not available from the Centre but now it has said it will collect the data in three months. Due to the government’s inaction, the OBC quota was cancelled.”  However, after detailed talks between MVA and BJP, the parties decided to postpone the local body elections.  DHNS||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/political-reservation-for-obcs-now-a-maha-issue-1065998.html
30-12-2021||Right in the Middle||Holiday happiness||Holidays are the perfect time to reach out to family and friends and catch up with what’s happening in their lives; To celebrate each other and appreciate the joy that they bring to our lives. Glittering parties, laidback lunches and cosy dinners are just some of the ways we try to come closer to the people we love and care about. However, sometimes in the fray of connecting and reconnecting with friends and extended family, we forget to connect with people closest to us; our immediate family. It's true that we spend all our time with our family. However, most days we are all just trying to meet the requirements of the routine. Our conversations are often brief and regarding quotidian matters. Holidays give us time to be free, spend quality time with each other and a chance to rediscover the people we love the most. We uncover how each one of us is changing, subtly but surely, and how we must find new and better ways to bond with each other. During the recent Christmas holidays, we avoided the rush of meeting extended family and friends, and the four of us went on a trip together. We had a lot of fun and found a way to get to know and appreciate each other's new quirks and inclinations. We learnt that my elder daughter was developing a taste for the classics that my husband and I loved at some point. We steered her towards other songs in the same genre that were rhythmic and provided deeper insight into life and living. As the car manoeuvred the twists and turns we all crooned to her favourite songs. The poignant moment was not lost on us that our little daughter was now a young adult. We also realised that while trying to get a point across, metaphors and anecdotes worked well with our younger daughter and that she had a rather philosophical bent of mind. Her unique perspective and rather dry sense of humour made her an interesting companion. We noted that what we saw as impudence was just her unconventional way of expressing herself. You’ve got to love a child that makes you see the world in a totally new light and makes you laugh! While bickering over what to eat, we realised how much we needed my husband’s rather pragmatic and well-negotiated resolutions. With his detail-oriented ways, he has a way of ensuring that each one felt that they were getting what they wanted or needed. This holiday we got a chance to look at each other with new eyes and fall in love again with what we saw. We are all entitled to happy holidays and by all means, look at the world around us with glittering eyes but also at the possible hidden gems right under our noses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/holiday-happiness-1065996.html
30-12-2021||Second Edit||An urgent, but out of sight, threat||There has been grim news from glaciers the world over for many decades and it has got more serious and alarming in recent years. The poles of the earth are repositories of massive quantities of ice and they have a big role in regulating the world’s climate. Both the poles — the Antarctic and the Arctic — and the Himalayan ranges, known as the third pole, have been losing ice because of the retreat of glaciers. That has raised the prospect of drastic changes in climate and weather patterns, rise in sea levels, inundation of coastal cities and other habitats and large-scale loss of marine life, including fish. There have been studies on the general impact of the melting of glaciers and on how particular regions and eco-systems would be hit. All of them have sent distressing messages about the approaching apocalypse.  A new study has found that the Himalayan glaciers are melting at such an accelerated pace that they are losing ice 10 times more quickly in recent decades than in some centuries before that. They have lost 40% of their ice from their peak period and the shrinkage is faster than that of glaciers in other parts of the world. Satellite images have shown that thousands of glaciers have lost their ice, leading to lake formations and flash floods. It is not just the Himalayan glacier system that is under stress. Thwaites, the widest glacier on earth situated in western Antarctica, stretching across 120 km and over 1,000 metres deep, is also shedding its ice at a fast pace. In the last two decades, it has lost more than 1,000 billion tons of ice. All other glaciers are also unfreezing, upsetting nature’s balance across the world.  The retreat of the Himalayan glaciers will affect the water flow in the rivers that originate in those ranges and are fed by them. Some of these are the Indus, the Ganges and the Brahmaputra. These rivers form the lifelines of the countries in South Asia and over 40% of the region’s population is dependent on them. Rivers that flow to the other side of the Himalayas will also be affected. The collapse of Thwaites and other glaciers can send the sea levels very high across the world. Global warming is the reason for the retreat and eventual collapse of the glaciers. But warming is still only a distant idea for most people and climate change means only errant rains and cyclones for many. The role of glaciers in holding the world together has not entered the public consciousness at all. But the threat from the receding glaciers is real and coming generations will have to pay a heavy price for our neglect.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/an-urgent-but-out-of-sight-threat-1065992.html
30-12-2021||South||Tamil Nadu to Foxconn: Take care of your employees||Proper washrooms, adequate drinking water, 50-square-feet space for every employee in hostels, and inverters to combat any disruption in power supply — these are suggestions given to the management of Taiwanese electronics firm Foxconn by the Tamil Nadu government as part of efforts to improve living conditions of its employees in its hostels. The recommendations were made during a visit by a high-level team consisting of ministers and senior officials over the weekend to a couple of hostel facilities managed by Foxconn, which is a key supplier of Apple Inc. Some of the hostels were lacking in basic amenities, including enough space for the employees to sleep at night, a member of the team told DH. “We saw six to nine people being housed in a small room and we told the management to ensure that a person gets 50 square feet (of) space in a room,” that person said. Another member said basic rules to be followed while housing employees, especially women, in hostels were reiterated to Foxconn, which has “assured to implement them”. The government urged Foxconn to ensure each employee had access to four litres of drinking water a day, adequate washrooms to avoid infections and inverter facilities. It also asked the company to ensure proper security arrangements and fencing of the premises that house women. Tamil Nadu Labour Minister Ganesan C V told DH that the government planned to continue engaging with Foxconn to ensure the well-being of employees.  “We have given a set of suggestions to the Foxconn management, and they have assured us that they will be followed,” the minister said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/take-care-of-your-employees-tamil-nadu-to-foxconn-1066114.html
30-12-2021||South||Kerala ranked 5th in India in Good Governance Index, says CM Pinarayi Vijayan||Kerala was ranked fifth in the country and first among southern states in the Good Governance Index (GGI) published by the central government, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Thursday. The CM initially took to Twitter to announce the state's achievement and later put up a detailed post about it on his Facebook page. "Kerala has been ranked 5th in the #GoodGovernanceIndex & made huge improvements in many areas including the ease of doing business and industrial growth, and also ranked 1st among southern states. This reflects the progress achieved during the last five years," he tweeted. Later, in his Facebook post, the CM said that Kerala, which recorded significant progress in the commercial and industrial sectors, increased its Ease of Doing Business Implementation score from 44.82 to 85.00. Except Punjab, Kerala was the only state to improve its score in such a significant manner, he added. Vijayan also said that the state's combined annual growth rate in the industrial sector increased from 1.00 in 2019 to 7.91 in 2021. Besides improving its Ease of Doing Business Implementation score, the state also improved its scores in human resource development, skills training and employment availability ratio, he said and added that Kerala topped in the public health and environmental sectors. The state also came second in the judiciary and public safety categories and third in the social welfare development category. Vijayan noted that these achievements reflect the benefits of the changes made by the government to improve governance and make it more transparent and popular while the GGI ranking indicates that the changes were accelerating the state's progress.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-ranked-5th-in-india-in-good-governance-index-says-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-1066247.html
30-12-2021||South||‘Rename the Andaman & Nicobar islands as Netaji wanted’||A section of Netaji’s family feels that while the Centre renamed three islands - Ross, Neil and Havelock as Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, Shaheed Dweep, and Swaraj Dweep, respectively, in 2018, it doesn’t reflect Netaji’s original desire and decision. “As the first Prime Minister of the united free India, Netaji had gone to the Islands and hoisted the tricolour on 30 December, 1943. This region became part of free India. He named the islands Shaheed and Swaraj,” Chandra Bose, Netaji’s grand nephew told Deccan Herald. “We had submitted a proposal to PM Modi in 2016. Subsequently, the Centre renamed (three) islands. Netaji’s declaration was for the clusters of islands. Just renaming two islands wasn’t proper. Also it wasn’t essential to name one island after him. I fail to understand why the government didn’t rename the clusters. This should be reconsidered. I am to write to the PM, again,” Bose added. At present, Netaji’s 125th birth anniversary year is being observed. Anuj Dhar, an investigative writer on Netaji, told Deccan Herald that such demand has been there for decades, perhaps, due to certain sensitivities involved, this hasn’t been taken forward. “My sources reveal that there was a great resistance in renaming, as it is claimed that the Japanese were brutal with islanders. This is an old western narrative. The demand to rename the clusters is justified.” Abhijit Ray, another grand nephew of Netaji, says, it’s not unclear that after Netaji had named the islands, why after 1947, the islands were again called the Andaman & Nicobar. “History says something else. We want what Netaji and the provisional government declared,” he told Deccan Herald.  Chandrachur Ghose, author, who has delved into Netaji’s life feels that the “opportunity has been missed” and there’s no point going back afresh.  The Japanese occupied the islands from the British in 1942. After the provisional government was formed in 1943, Netaji on his visit in December that year renamed the islands.  "A chief administrator from the Azad Hind government took over, and, in principle, a phased-handover was agreed to,” Ghose told Deccan Herald. “What’s more important is that the remaining files on Netaji be declassified,” he added. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/rename-the-andaman-nicobar-islands-as-netaji-wanted-1066257.html
30-12-2021||South||INSACOG recognises Tamil Nadu genomic sequencing lab||Genomic sequencing of Covid-19 samples can now be done at the State Public Health Laboratory here set up by the Tamil Nadu government earlier this year instead of sending them to Pune or Bengaluru.  Health Minister Ma Subramanian said the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium (INSACOG) recognized the whole genome sequencing (WGS) laboratory at the SPHL on December 29. “With this recognition from INSACOG, the Tamil Nadu government can get the results of the genomic sequencing of samples of Covid-19 patients much faster which could help in better containment of the spread of the virus,” Subramanian said.  The SPHL at the Directorate of Public Health (DPH) campus in Chennai is an initiative of the DMK government which assumed office in May this year after it was noticed that sending samples to Pune or Bengaluru was leading to delay in the results.  While the lab was announced in July, Chief Minister M K Stalin inaugurated the laboratory set up at a cost of Rs 4 crore in September.  Subramanian said this is the first time that a state government has set up a genomic sequencing lab on its own. The state has so far been sending samples for genomic sequencing to the National Institute of Virology, Pune or the Institute For Stem Cell Science and Regenerative Medicine (InStem), Bengaluru.  The state had sent hundreds of samples during the second wave and in the past few weeks to the above-mentioned institutes for genomic sequencing of Covid-19 samples to find out their variants – Delta or Omicron. As of December 30, Tamil Nadu has 45 confirmed cases of Omicron variant, while nearly 100 people have S-gene dropout in their samples. INSACOG, jointly initiated by the Union Health Ministry of Health, and the Department of Biotechnology (DBT) with the Council for Scientific & Industrial Research (CSIR) and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), is a consortium of 38 laboratories to monitor the genomic variations in the SARS-CoV-2. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/insacog-recognises-tamil-nadu-genomic-sequencing-lab-1066259.html
30-12-2021||South||Merge cess and surcharge with basic rates of tax: Tamil Nadu Finance Minister tells Centre||Contending that the increased levy of cesses and surcharges which do not form part of the divisible pool of taxes has “adversely affected” the transfer of resources to states, Tamil Nadu on Thursday nudged the Centre to merge cess and surcharge into basic rates of tax to enable states to receive their “legitimate share in devolution. In his speech at a meeting organised by Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman seeking suggestions for the 2022-2023 Budget, Finance Minister P T R Palanivel Thiaga Rajan demanded that the period of compensation for GST introduction be extended by at least two years beyond June 2022 and release of the pending compensation of Rs. 16,725 crores for the state. Launching of a comprehensive revival package for MSMEs including concessional credit, loan moratorium and deferment of statutory dues, roll-back the increase in the rate of tax from 5 per cent to 12 per cent for textile and apparel sector, and immediate intervention in controlling the rising prices of steel, copper, aluminium, coke, brass and cotton yarn are some of the key demands put forth by Thiaga Rajan, a former top banker. Merge cess and surcharge He also demanded the formulation of a policy to compensate the state government if any Central public sector undertaking (PSU) for which the state had given lands for free or at concessional rate is privatized. This could be done through payment of land cost at current market value or through an equivalent equity stake in the new entity, Rajan said. On the Vehicle Scrappage Policy 2021, Thiaga Rajan asked the Union Government to contribute financially for promoting scrappage of vehicles such as a rebate on road tax, and incentives for the establishment of scrapping centres, while opining that mega industrial park projects be given to states based on their competitive advantages and the existing ecosystem to support such industries. The increased levy of cesses and surcharges, which do not form part of the divisible pool of taxes, has adversely affected the transfer of resources to the states, Thiaga Rajan said, adding that cesses and surcharges as a proportion of the Gross Tax Revenue of the Centre have almost tripled from 6.26 per cent in 2010-11 to 19.9 per cent in 2020-21. “In effect, States are deprived of a share in approximately 20 per cent of the revenue collected by the Union. If these taxes were added to the divisible pool, the states would have obtained an additional transfer of approximately Rs. 1.5 lakh crores as their share from the pool of central taxes in FY 2021-22,” the Finance Minister said. Extend GST compensation by at least two years As a consequence of this realignment, he said, the ratio of Grants-in-aid to share in central taxes has increased from 62.67 per cent in 2010-11 to 130.7 per cent in 2020-21 for Tamil Nadu. “While the share in taxes is a legitimate right and provides the State with the autonomy to cater to local needs and aspirations, the grants-in-aid are discretionary and tied funds. This greatly impinges on the federal structure enshrined in the Constitution. I strongly urge the Union Government to merge the cesses and surcharges into the basic rates of tax so that the states receive their legitimate share in devolution,” Rajan added. On GST, the Finance Minister reminded the Centre of its promise that states’ revenues will be protected during the introduction of the tax and opined that there has been a wide gap between the actual revenues realised and the protected revenues guaranteed. “The States’ revenues are yet to recover, and considering the huge revenue shortfall that is expected, I urge the Union Government to extend the period of compensation by at least two years beyond June 2022 and also request the immediate release of the pending compensation of Rs. 16,725 crores,” he said, and demanded an announcement in the Budget speech. He also batted for the Union Government to maintain a ratio of 60:40 between Direct taxes and Indirect taxes and urged the Government to permit borrowing of 5 per cent of GSDP without any conditions for FY 2022-23. “Going even further still, I request that the borrowing limits under the FRBM and related State Acts should be set dynamically – at 5% or higher levels during recessions (when the base GSDP is dropping, and hence the need for greater State spending is required) and below 3% during high growth periods (when the base GSDP is rising rapidly and hence State spending should be curtailed to avoid inflation),” he added.   Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/merge-cess-and-surcharge-with-basic-rates-of-tax-tamil-nadu-finance-minister-tells-centre-1066267.html
30-12-2021||South||Kerala logs 2,423 fresh Covid-19 cases, 164 deaths||Kerala on Thursday logged 2,423 new Covid-19 infections and 164 deaths, which took the caseload to 52,32,672 and the fatalities to 47,441 till date. Of the 164 deaths, 15 were recorded over the last few days and 149 designated as Covid-19 deaths after receiving appeals based on the new guidelines of the Centre and the directions of the Supreme Court. With 2,879 more people recovering from the virus since Wednesday, the total recoveries reached 51,76,535 and the active cases dropped to 19,835, an official press release said. As many as 58,459 samples were tested in the last 24 hours. Among the 14 districts, Ernakulam recorded the highest with 455 fresh cases, followed by Thiruvananthapuram (416) and Kozhikode (266). Of the new cases, 26 were health workers, 27 from outside the State and 2,262 infected through contact, with the source of it not being clear in 108. There are currently 1,10,680 people under surveillance in various districts, of whom 1,07,074 are in home or institutional quarantine and 3,606 in hospitals, the release said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-logs-2423-fresh-covid-19-cases-164-deaths-1066271.html
30-12-2021||South||BJP demands Guntur's Jinnah tower be renamed||BJP's Andhra Pradesh chief Somu Veerraju on Thursday demanded a change in the name of Guntur's Jinnah Tower, which is named after Pakistan's founder Muhammad Ali Jinnah. He said since Jinnah was the cause of India's division, the state government should change the name of the Tower. "How can we continue to use the name of a man who was responsible for the country's division for the tower or the area," he asked. The BJP leader said wherever there are names of anti-nationals, they should be removed. Meanwhile, BJP MLA in Telangana, Raja Singh also demanded that name of Jinnah Tower should be changed immediately by the Andhra Pradesh government. "How can you continue to use the name of a man who is responsible for the division of the country and death of many people," he asked. The MLA, who represents Goshamahal constituency in Hyderabad, demanded that the tower be named after freedom fighter Abul Kalam or Gurram Jashua. Jinnah Tower in Guntur is a key landmark located on Mahatma Gandhi Road, the main artery of the city. Despite wars and conflicts between India and Pakistan, the tower stood as a symbol of peace and harmony. The tower, built in honour of Jinnah in pre-independence era, is standing tall on six pillars and opens to a dome. This tower is considered the symbol of the Islamic architecture. According to historians, the tower was built by a local Muslim leader Lal Jan Basha after the visit of Jinnah's representative Judaliyaquat Ali Khan to Guntur. Heritage activists in the past raised concern over parts of the tower crumbling due to negligence by authorities. They had called for protecting the edifice. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bjp-demands-gunturs-jinnah-tower-be-renamed-1066290.html
30-12-2021||South||Rift in DMK’s first family comes out in the open yet again||A political storm seems to be brewing in the DMK's first family, this time between two scions -- Kanimozhi and Udhayanidhi Stalin. Udhayanidhi Stalin, Chief Minister M K Stalin’s son and MLA from Chepauk- Tiruvallikeni constituency in Chennai, kicked up a storm earlier this week by inducting women members into the party’s youth wing which he has been heading since July 2019.  Udhayanidhi’s action in Coimbatore where he was on a day-long visit as part of the DMK’s concerted plan to make inroads into western Tamil Nadu, a known AIADMK bastion, on December 26 irked Kanimozhi, who heads the women’s wing. The DMK MLA’s camp maintains there was “nothing wrong” in women being enrolled in the youth wing with a few leaders batting for “healthy competition” between the frontal organisations. The move also came amid a clamour among a few ministers for Udhayanidhi’s induction into the Stalin cabinet. The first family is not new to differences within – Stalin and his elder brother M K Alagiri has had a running feud for years before the former trumped the latter.  Kanimozhi, Lok Sabha MP from Thoothukudi in southern Tamil Nadu, did not take his nephew’s move lying down – she put out a strong statement on her verified Twitter page underlining that party cadres should enrol women in the age group of 18-30 into the women’s wing. The developments have led to visible friction between Kanimozhi and Udhayanidhi in the DMK, which formed its government in the state in May this year after a decade. Sources in the DMK told Deccan Herald that Kanimozhi was upset because this is the second time that the youth wing was trying to enrol women members despite strong objections from the womens’ wing.  “A few months after Udhayanidhi took over as secretary of the youth wing, he had proposed to launch a drive to enrol women into his frontal organisation. The project was shelved after our party president (Stalin) intervened at the request of Kanimozhi,” a senior DMK leader said.  In her statement, Kanimozhi invoked Stalin’s speech at a party meeting on December 18 in which he had exhorted leaders to bring more youngsters into the DMK to drive home her point that women should be enrolled to the women’s wing and not to the youth wing. “Half of Tamil Nadu’s population is women and those between the age of 18 and 30 have the potential to shape the future. These women will play an integral role in the future of the DMK…Women of this age should be given space in politics,” Kanimozhi said and asked her wing functionaries to send a daily update on the enrolment.  Kanimozhi’s camp suspects that Udhayanidhi’s act is yet another move to sideline her within the DMK. After the issue came to the fore, it is understood that women enrolled on the youth wing will be added to the women’s wing as per “instructions from the top.”  However, political analysts feel this could just be the beginning of a cold war between Kanimozhi and Udhayanidhi.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/rift-in-dmk-s-first-family-comes-out-in-the-open-yet-again-1066326.html
30-12-2021||South||Sudden heavy rains drench Chennai; claim 3 lives||At least three persons lost their lives on Thursday as extremely heavy rainfall up to 20 cm in just a few hours plunged this metropolis into chaos with several low-lying areas going under water and traffic on arterial roads going out of gear for several hours together due to waterlogging.  Three persons – two women and a child – died of electrocution in different parts of the city as several streets went under the water. Four subways and several roads were closed for traffic as the Chennai Metro Rail Limited (CMRL) extended its services till midnight to cater to a huge rush of passengers who opted for the new age transport system due to gridlocked roads.  Chennai district (MRC Nagar) recorded an unprecedented 20.8 cm rainfall in the last 12 hours ending at 8.30 pm on Thursday, while Nungambakkam registered 15.95 cm, YMCA Nandanam (15.9 cm), Meenambakkam (10.8 cm), Anna University (12.1 cm), Sathyabhama University (5.8 cm), and Tiruvallur (4.65 cm).  Sudden rains which began at around 2 pm on Thursday surprised Chennaiites and heavy showers were continuing in many parts of the city at the time of writing. Traffic snarls were reported from across Chennai with motorists and those travelling by car stuck on the roads for several hours together.  The shopping district of T. Nagar, the arterial Anna Salai, Triplicane, Mylapore, K K Nagar, Vadapalani, Kodambakkam, Ramapuram, Porur, Valasaravakkam, are some of the areas where heavy rains led to severe waterlogging bringing many localities under water. Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) said it has deployed over 150 giant pumps to drain water from low-lying areas. Till 11 pm, 27 trees were uprooted.  Several localities received 10 to 20 cm of rainfall, categorised as heavy to extremely heavy, in just a few hours, in what weather bloggers termed as “unprecedented.” Chennai district (MRC Nagar) recorded an unprecedented 20.8 cm rainfall till 6.30 pm on Thursday, while Nungambakkam and YMCA Nandanam registered 15.9 cm each, Meenambakkam (10.8 cm), Anna University (12.1 cm), Sathyabhama University (5.8 cm each ), and Tiruvallur (4.65 cm).  The city’s infrastructure seems to have crumbled as more than 3 subways closed for traffic and the civic body was also caught unaware due to sudden heavy rains.  The infrastructure came under extreme stress in November when the city received rains for over 20 of the 30 days – the civic body, Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) came under criticism for not being prepared to handle the North-east Monsoon (NEM).  Though weather bloggers forecast rains for the city, some of them took to Twitter later Thursday to term the rains as a “completely freak event” and “some crazy stuff.”  “Though I expected rains today in the city, what happened today was completely freak event and some crazy stuff. There was not even a hint from even one of the 50 members of the ensembles of the heavy rains. On average 5 mm was expected from 50 members. The reality was 100-200 mm,” independent weather blogger Pradeep John said.  He said such an event has never happened in the past 15 years. “We have seen a 5 mm forecast giving 50 mm rains but not 200 mm rains,” he added. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sudden-heavy-rains-drench-chennai-claim-3-lives-1066329.html
30-12-2021||South||Chennai increases RT-PCR tests as Covid-19 cases increase||With the number of Covid-19 cases on the rise, the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) on Thursday increased the number of RT-PCR tests and accelerated the vaccination drive by identifying people who are yet to take their jabs. The steps came as the Union Health Ministry wrote to the Health Department seeking immediate and proactive steps to prevent faster transmission of the virus. The cases have been on the rise in the past ten days, especially after the spread of the Omicron variant of Covid-19, prompting the GCC to bring back containment zones within the city limits and the police to impose more restrictions on New Year’s eve. As part of the efforts to reduce the spread, the GCC increased the number of tests to 25,000 from 22,000 beginning Thursday and asked people to get tested immediately if they report any symptoms. Besides, efforts are on to find out and convince unvaccinated people to take their jabs and those who have missed their second dose to take it without fail. The GCC also increased the number of screening centres to facilitate people to get screened for Covid-19. While the first week of December reported 1,088 cases, it went down to 987 in the second week, saw a marginal increase to 1,039 in the third week and a massive spurt in the fourth week with 1,720 cases. On Wednesday, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan wrote to Principal Secretary (Health), Tamil Nadu, J Radhakrishnan seeking enhanced testing in a focused manner, pro-active contact tracing and isolation/ quarantine of contacts of positive cases, and follow-up.   Bhushan also asked Radhakrishnan to set up containment zones and buffer zones as per extant Standard Operating Procedure (SOPs). Tamil Nadu has so far reported 46 Omicron cases, with Covid-19 samples of nearly 100 more people showing S-gene dropout. The majority of these people are from Chennai. The only solace is 86 per cent of the city’s population has been administered with one dose of the Covid-19 vaccine, while the second dose coverage is 58 per cent. Officials said efforts are on to identify the unvaccinated, especially above 60 years of age, and ensure that they get their jabs. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/chennai-increases-rt-pcr-tests-as-covid-19-cases-increase-1066331.html
30-12-2021||State||Government to form anti-conversion task force: CM Bommai||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said a special task force will be constituted to implement the Anti-conversion Bill once it becomes a law.  The Bill has been passed in the Assembly. The government is expected to push for its passage in the Legislative Council in the next session of the legislature in January or February.  “The law was languishing for many years. By making it a law in the coming days, I will also constitute a special task force to implement it,” Bommai said at the state BJP executive meeting. Bommai noted Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah’s statement that the Congress would repeal the law if it is voted to power. “His dream will not materialise. You won’t come to power because of this. The Anti-conversion Bill, which gives freedom to people to follow their faiths, will remain,” he said.  Anjanadri Bommai said his government has decided to develop the Anjanadri hill in Koppal, believed to be the birthplace of Lord Hanuman, as an international destination. “After the Ram Mandir is inaugurated, we will have PM Modi to flag off the development work at Anjanadri,” he said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/government-to-form-anti-conversion-task-force-cm-bommai-1066051.html
30-12-2021||State||Temple chariot catches fire at fair in Belagavi's Ramdurg||The temple chariot caught fire during the Jadishankaralinga Devara Jathra Mahotsava creating panic among devotees at Shivapete village in Ramdurg taluk on Tuesday evening. However, no casualties have been reported. A large number of devotees had gathered during the 38th Maharathotsava ceremony of the temple. After the event, devotees began bursting crackers. The sparks from the crackers fell on the chariot’s Kalasha. The paper flags used for decorating the chariot caught fire and soon the entire chariot was engulfed in fire. The devotees immediately doused the fire with clothes and plantain leaves. In the meeting held later, seers Shivamurthy Swami of Avaradhi Mutt, Channamalla Shivacharya Swami of Torgal Mutt and Shanthaveera Swami of Shivamurtheshwara Mutt of Ramdurg, urged the devotees not to worry due over the incident. Pictures and videos of the incident went viral on social media. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/temple-chariot-catches-fire-at-fair-in-belagavis-ramdurg-1066052.html
30-12-2021||State||Play Store rules: CCI assures no action till next date, HC adjourns Google plea||The High Court of Karnataka on Wednesday adjourned the petition filed by Google India Private Limited in the matter of the Competition Commission of India’s (CCI) probe into Play Store rules. The matter was posted to January 5, 2022.  The CCI has passed an order on December 14, 2021 on a complaint regarding Google Play store payments policy 2020 seeking response of Google by December 31, 2021. Vacation bench of Justice B M Shyam Prasad heard the arguments of senior advocates Gopal Subramanium and Sajan Poovayya representing Google. Gopal Subramanium said that the CCI had not disclosed the identity of the app developers/start-ups which provided certain evidence and information in the complaint. He further said that the deadline for Indian developers to comply with the Google Play Billing Clarifications has already been extended until October 31, 2022. Appearing for CCI, Additional Solicitor General (ASG) N Venkataraman said that all information has been provided except the names of the informants. Venkataraman further said that as part of gentleman’s agreement, he would orally assure the court that no precipitative action will be taken till the next date of hearing, in pursuance of the order passed by the CCI on December 14, 2021. Considering the submission made by the ASG, Justice B M Shyam Prasad posted the matter to January 5, 2022. It could be recalled that on November 9, 2020, based on an anonymous complaint filed on February 20, 2020, CIC directed the director general to initiate an investigation. The investigation was to determine whether Google anti-competitively requires developers distributing their apps through the Play Store to use Google Play’s billing system and to pay on the sale of digital goods as a service fee. Indian startups have been raising concerns around Google’s Play billing system, saying the tech giant cannot force Indian app developers to sell digital services by compulsorily using its billing system. On its part Google has maintained that its payments policy is not new and it has always required developers who distribute their apps on Play Store to use Google Play’s billing system if they offer in-app purchases of digital goods. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/play-store-rules-cci-assures-no-action-till-next-date-hc-adjourns-google-plea-1066055.html
30-12-2021||State||Plan to decontrol Hindu temples is ‘historic blunder’: DK Shivakumar||Karnataka Congress president DK Shivakumar on Thursday termed the BJP government’s plan to free Hindu temples from state control as “a historic blunder”. Shivakumar was responding to Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai who said that a new law would be introduced to keep Hindu temples out of the government’s control.  “They’re doing a historic blunder,” Shivakumar said. “How can Muzrai temples be given to local people for administration? Temples are the wealth of the government, a wealth of the treasury. Crores of rupees are collected by these temples. They’re trying to take a political stand by looking at other states. We won’t allow it,” he said.  Shivakumar said that Congress will take a formal stand on the issue after a meeting of senior leaders on January 4.  That Hindu temples should be freed from state control is a long-standing demand of various Sangh Parivar groups.  Bommai’s promise is seen as him pushing the Hindutva plank further ahead of the 2023 Assembly polls, after bringing the Anti-conversion Bill. Karnataka has 34,563 temples under the Muzrai department. Of them, 205 are in the ‘A’ category with annual revenue of over Rs 25 lakh. There are 139 temples in the ‘B’ category (Rs 5 lakh and Rs 25 lakh). The remaining 34219 temples are in the ‘C’ category.  The Banashankari temple in Bengaluru, the Kollur Mookambika temple in Udupi and the Kukke Subramanya temple in Dakshina Kannada temples are some famous temples under Muzrai.  Temples in the ‘A’ and ‘B’ categories earned Rs 1383.63 crore between 2018 and 2020. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/plan-to-decontrol-hindu-temples-is-historic-blunder-dk-shivakumar-1066191.html
30-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports 566 new Covid-19 cases, a first since October 3||In a sudden spike in daily Covid cases, Karnataka on Wednesday reported 566 fresh infections with Bengaluru Urban alone accounting for 400 of them, pushing the active cases in the state to 7,771. The last time the state reported more than 566 new cases in a single day was on October 3 when it recorded 664 cases. On October 6, the state reported 523 cases. The total number of infections has risen to 30,05,798 and the toll to 38,324. Bengaluru also reported four of the six deaths reported across the state on Wednesday. Two others were recorded in Chitradurga and Tumakuru. While Dakshina Kannada logged 33 cases, Kodagu and Kolar reported 14 cases each, Udupi saw 17 and Hassan clocked 31. The case fatality rate for the day stood at 1.06% while the positivity rate is now at 0.52%. The day also saw 245 discharges. Students test +ve A total of 10 Morarji Desai residential school students at Somayajalahalli in Srinivaspur taluk of Kolar district have tested positive for Covid-19, said block education officer V Umadevi. The infected students have been quarantined. The classes were resumed after sanitising the classrooms and the hostel, the BEO said. In Maddur taluk of Mandya district, five students of Hallikere government primary school have contracted Covid. “The school has a strength of 50 students. Students from nearby villages attend the school. As a few students complained of Covid symptoms like cold and fever, tests were conducted on all the students and teachers recently. Samples of five students returned positive for the virus,” said district surveillance officer Dr Sanjay. 23 workers from WB Twenty-three labourers from West Bengal, working in the coffee estates in Devihalli and Anemahal in Sakleshpur taluk, have tested positive for Covid-19. According to sources, the labourers had returned to the taluk from West Bengal, last week. The workers were subjected to Covid test following their return as a precautionary measure. The samples have been sent for further tests to rule out Omicron spread. District Health Officer K M Sathish said, “The Covid-infected are placed under isolation. The workers in the nearby estates too will be tested as a precautionary measure,” he said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-566-new-covid-19-cases-a-first-since-october-3-1066050.html
30-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Escaped convict can't take benefit of concurrent sentence: HC||The Kalaburagi bench of the high court has said that an escaped convict cannot seek the benefit under Section 427 (2) of CrPC, which states that subsequent conviction and sentence shall run concurrently with such previous sentence. The petitioner, a murder convict, had jumped parole for more than five and a half years and was subsequently sentenced to six months’ imprisonment under Section 58 of the Karnataka Prisons Act. The petitioner, a resident of Sindhagi in Vijayapura district, was convicted in a case of murder (2005) and his life sentence was confirmed by the Supreme Court in 2019. Released on parole for 15 days on November 5, 2011, he did not return and was finally re-arrested on September 28, 2017. A JMFC court in Vijayapura ordered him to undergo simple imprisonment for a period of six months and clarified that the period of imprisonment would commence after he completed the life imprisonment in the murder case. The petitioner contended before the high court that he is entitled for the benefit under Section 427 (2) of CrPC. He submitted that the clarification issued by the trial court was harsh as it would mean that he has to spend six more months in prison, after remission of life sentence. The court said that if such lenience is shown to the petitioner, who did not turn up for a period of more than five years, it would be a mockery of justice. “In the case on hand, petitioner has committed murder, which is against the society at large. Apart from that, he escaped from the punishment when he was on parole. Hence, the petitioner is not entitled for the relief as contended in the petition to make the sentence as concurrent instead of consecutive and there is an explicit proviso under Section 426 of CrPC with regard to the sentence on escaped convict when to take effect,” Justice H P Sandesh said. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/escaped-convict-cant-take-benefit-of-concurrent-sentence-hc-1066053.html
30-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||KDA tells state cricket body to implement Kannada in administration||The Kannada Development Authority (KDA) has insisted the Karnataka State Cricket Association (KSCA) to implement Kannada at all levels of administration.  A team lead by KDA chairperson Nagabharana visited the Association at Chinnaswamy Stadium in Bengaluru on Wednesday. The visit came in the wake of a complaint by a Bengaluru-based social activist Marilingegowda Mali Patil alleging that KSCA had not adopted Kannada in administration.  During the visit, the KDA authorities verified all the communications and reports of  the KSCA and insisted them to implement Kannada in administration. The Association was told to prepare its annual report in Kannada.  "We have asked for the details of the cricket clubs affiliated to the KSCA and also instructed them to design website in Kannada," a statement by the KDA said. The sources from the KDA told DH that the KSCA had been directed to conduct training camps at government schools to encourage and identify the talents who are not capable of availing private coaching. The chairperson of KDA also directed the association members to take necessary measures for selecting maximum players from Karnataka to the team, said a source. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kda-tells-state-cricket-body-to-implement-kannada-in-administration-1066054.html
30-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19: Parents in Karnataka not too keen on getting teens jabbed||The announcement of vaccinations for children aged 15 to 17 years has evinced mixed reaction from parents and even caution from certain experts. Several parents, while speaking to DH, said they were not confident about vaccinating their kids due to a lack of trial data and rumours about side-effects.  “There are many forwarded messages on social media about the possible adverse effects on children because of the vaccination. I am not willing to get my 16-year-old daughter vaccinated,” one parent said. Going by scientific evidence, however, Dr Jayaprakash Muliyil, chairman of the Scientific Advisory Committee of the ICMR-National Institute of Epidemiology, said child vaccines were unnecessary. “Covid-19 does not cause severity of infection in most paediatric cases. Furthermore, out of all cases of mortality we examined, death was largely caused by comorbid conditions. Data shows there have not been deaths of children below the age of 12 years that is directly attributable to complications arising out of Covid-19,” Dr Muliyil said.  In Karnataka, 92 deaths have been reported among children aged 0 to 17 years due to Covid-19, since the start of the pandemic. Out of these, 26 were children aged 15 to 17 years.  Another 57 were below the age of 12 years. However, an assessment about the actual causes of death has not been disclosed by the government. This mortality quotient means vaccinations are necessary especially for older children, said Dr Asha Benakappa, head of the department of paediatrics, Chandramma Dayananda Sagar Institute of Medical Education and Research. “Children above the age of 15 are as vulnerable to disease as adults. Vaccination must be taken as we still haven’t fully understood the novel coronavirus,” she said. However, some parents pointed to brisk vaccine trials as not instilling confidence.  “As per my knowledge, the trials of the vaccinations only lasted for a few months whereas other vaccines are put through at least a decade of trials before releasing into the market. We, parents, have the right to decide and hope the government will not make it mandatory,” said Shamsheer Ahmed, the parent of a 15-year-old. A paucity of trial data, especially regarding Covaxin, is a matter of concern, said Dr Srikanta J T, a paediatrician at Aster CMI hospital and a member of the third wave committee. “These vaccines have been tested primarily against clinical cases with moderate or severe disease - which is not common in kids. On top of this, the experience of vaccines already in use in adolescents suggests that the risk of rare adverse events is relatively higher in adolescents than in adults,” Dr Srikanta said.   He also pointed out that Covaxin doses to be given to children will be the same as those given to adults: 0.5 ml dose (twice). “Parents must keep in mind that, for paediatric cases, the doses must be given exactly 28 days apart. Any delay in the second dose will mean poor antibody generation,” he added. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-parents-in-karnataka-not-too-keen-on-getting-teens-jabbed-1066056.html
30-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||'Outdated' infra made it easy to hack govt portal: Sriki||The government’s e-procurement portal was infiltrated by hacker Srikrishna Ramesh aka Sriki to access and decrypt bids of tenders of various departments before they are finalised.  According to the charge sheet filed by the CID cyber crime police station, Sunish Hegde and Hardik, who are said to be contractors, had asked Sriki to hack the portal to gain information of “certain tenders for which they were bidding”.   ‘No monetary benefit’ In his voluntary statement, Sriki said “severely outdated” infrastructure of the Karnataka e-procurement website developed on an outdated web application framework allowed him to hack the sensitive government portal. He claimed that he did not receive any money from this hack, but benefited by enjoying a luxurious lifestyle.  “They (Sunish and Hardik) told me to decrypt bids for certain tenders for which they were bidding,” Sriki told CID. EMD refund His attempts to hack into the portal bore its first success when he gained access to bank credentials dealing with earnest money deposit (EMD) refund.  Using this, Sriki first transferred Rs 1.05 crore to a person identified as Susheel. And, Rs 20 lakh was encashed via hawala network. “After this test transaction, I initiated a transaction at the behest of Hemanth Muddappa (another accused in the case) to an account.”  Of the Rs 18 crore for which the transfer was initiated, Rs 11 crore was successfully transferred and “I was promised Rs 2 crore on this,” the hacker said.  The hack was carried out while staying at a posh hotel in the city for four months. “The initial bank transaction of (Rs) 1.05 crore, which I tested, was my idea and my idea alone. However, the larger (Rs) 11 crore transaction was the idea of Sunish and Hemanth, who were in dire need of money. Sunish appeared to be in some kind of financial trouble, which needed to be solved at the earliest, which was apparently a gambling debt,” the hacker said. Sriki said that the “infrastructure of Karnataka e-proc website was severely outdated as the web application framework it was built on had “reached its end of life in 2017”. During the course of his hack, Sriki was able to identify several bugs in the portal, which allowed him to transfer EMD refunds to accounts of his choice. These statements are part of the charge sheet filed by the CID cyber crime police recently. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/outdated-infra-made-it-easy-to-hack-govt-portal-sriki-1066059.html
30-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka first state to draft a bill protecting pedestrians, cyclists||The government is preparing a first-of-its-kind bill offering protection to pedestrians and cyclists, which will also ensure their rights in all cities of Karnataka. The Directorate of Urban Land transport (DULT) has published the draft ‘Active Mobility Bill, Karnataka 2021’ mandating Urban Local Bodies (ULBs) to design and build infrastructure for pedestrians and fix penalties for failure. The bill envisages equitable space on roads and streets, while striving to create safe and accessible environment for walking and cycling. Pedestrians and cyclists are classified as most vulnerable since they account for most road fatalities.  The bill holds urban local bodies dutybound and responsible to design, construct and maintain a network of “complete and connected streets, with footpaths of adequate width and cycle tracks or shared paths”.  Making provisions to inspect infrastructure works, the bill also prescribes penalties up to Rs 2 lakh on anyone failing to comply with its rules, including the head of the ULB. Continued non-compliance will attract an additional Rs 5,000 penalty per day. Dubbing the draft legislation progressive, Janaagraha’s head of civic participation Srinivas Alavilli said it offers hope by legislating the rights of pedestrians and cyclists. He also called for a thorough debate on all the cities and towns in Karnataka. “Right now, pedestrians have to fend for themselves,” Alavilli noted. “Many want to cycle but safety remains a serious concern. Walking and cycling remain our best weapons against the impending climate crises and laws (like the Active Mobility Bill) make them the front and centre of our cities as they should be.” He said Indian cities are infested with private vehicles due to lack of vision in urban planning, especially lack of adequate public transport and non-motorable transport options.The bill also promises to create pedestrianised zones where private vehicles, except that of local residents, will be barred. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-first-state-to-draft-a-bill-protecting-pedestrians-cyclists-1066081.html
30-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Five more Omicron cases detected in Karnataka, tally at 43||The state reported five new cases of Omicron infections on Wednesday. Out of these, four have a history of international travel from the United States, Dubai and Ghana. The fifth person is a domestic traveller. This raises the official number of cases in Karnataka to 43.  Four of the cases were fully vaccinated and one, a 22-year-old Davangere woman who flew in from the United States on December 22, even had a Pfizer booster shot. Vaccination details of one case, a 53-year-old Tamil Nadu native who arrived at Kempegowda International Airport from Dubai on December 23, were unavailable. This person had left the airport without waiting for the results of his RT-PCR test and travelled to his hometown Tiruchirapalli by car, where he was informed about the test result. In a tweet, Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar noted “all positive persons have been isolated and primary and secondary contacts have been identified and tested.” 5) 41 yr male, Mumbai (Travelled from Mumbai to Bengaluru by flight) All positive persons have been isolated and primary and secondary contacts have been identified and tested. The remaining cases include a 24 year-old man from Bengaluru (who returned from the United States via Qatar), a 61 year-old man from Bengaluru who flew in from Ghana via Doha and a 41-year-old man, a Mumbai native who was found to be positive upon arrival in Mumbai from Bengaluru on December 23. Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/five-more-omicron-cases-detected-in-karnataka-tally-at-43-1066085.html
30-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Security checks at Bengaluru airport stalled after man refuses to remove Rolex||Security checks at Bengaluru's Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) were held up briefly after a man refused to remove his expensive Rolex watch and place it on a tray for the mandatory screening process of passengers by Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) personnel. A video posted by a witness about the incident that took place on Tuesday media has gone viral. According to sources at the airport, the man, who was boarding a Vistara flight to Delhi, declined to remove Rolex Submariner and maintained that it is worth Rs 40 lakhs and that it may get stolen during the screening. The argument stalled security checks and senior CISF officers had to intervene. The traveller . However, CISF personnel stood their ground and warned the man that they would not allow him to board his flight if he refused to cooperate even as he boasted about his contacts in New Delhi. The passenger finally agreed to cooperate and removed his watch for security clearance. No case was registered against the man and he was let off with a warning. However, the other passengers who witnessed the incident appreciated the courage of CISF officers for not buckling under pressure.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/security-checks-at-bengaluru-airport-stalled-after-man-refuses-to-remove-rolex-1066126.html
30-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Husband, daughter held for woman's murder in Karnataka||The Karnataka police on Thursday cracked the murder case of a married woman and arrested seven persons, including her husband and daughter, in connection with it. According to DCP South East Srinath M Joshi, the victim's second husband Naveen Kumar and his associates Santhosh and others were arrested after preliminary inquiry. Since the police suspected the role of her daughter, they took her also into custody. The murder had taken place on December 27. A gang of miscreants had dragged Archana Reddy out of her vehicle and attacked with lethal weapons at 11 PM. The accused had conspired to kill the woman to get her property and lead a luxurious life. The accused confessed to the crime and the motive during questioning. Naveen Kumar and his daughter had moved out of the house after a fight with Archana Reddy. However, when they could not afford a luxurious life,the father-daughter duo hatched a conspiracy to kill her and get the property. The investigation was taken up based on eyewitness accounts, CCTV footage and complaint. The police have secured the custody of the accused and still investigating the case. The victim had once approached the Jigani police station. More details are being obtained. DCP Srinath M Joshi stated that more arrests would be made in the case. Further investigation is on. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/husband-daughter-held-for-womans-murder-in-karnataka-1066163.html
30-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka bandh on December 31st unlikely to affect normal life||Divide among the pro-Kannada organisations is likely to make the state wide band called by them on Friday, demanding a complete ban on the activities of the Maharashtra Ekikaran Samithi (MES), impactless. Also business, establishments and transport organisations have decided not participate in the bandh. Several organisations under the leadership of Vatal Nagaraj, the leader of the Kannada Okkuta, had last week called for a day-long state wide bandh on December 31, demanding a complete ban on the activities of Maharashtra Ekikaran Samithi in the state over its repeated involvement in "anti-Karnataka and anti-Kannada activities". The demand follows the recent incidents of burning of the Kannada flag in Maharashtra's Kolhapur and defacement of the statue of historical icon Sangolli Rayanna in Belagavi, allegedly by MES activists. The MES, a Marathi outfit, has been campaigning for long to merge Marathi speaking regions in Belagavi with Maharashtra. However, several organisations like the Karnataka Film Chamber of Commerce (KFCC), Karnataka Rakshana Vedike (KRV), Bruhat Bangalore Hotels Association, Auto, schools and college associations, shopping malls association and several other commercial establishments have offered only moral support and said they will not participate in the bandh and will function as usual. Business establishments have cited New Year brisk business for not physically supporting the bandh call. Now, even those who were supporting Vatal Nagaraj in his call for bandh, like Karnataka Rakshana Vedike Praveen Shetty faction among others, have made a u-turn and have requested him to call off the bandh, and efforts are on to convince him. Nagaraj earlier in the day campaigned in different parts of the city urging people to support the bandh. "Maharashtra Ekikaran Samithi has to be banned....demanding this, Kannada Okkuta has called for a complete Karnataka bandh from 6AM to 6PM tomorrow, several pro-Kannada organisations have supported the bandh call, it is a matter of Kanndigas pride. I appeal to everyone to participate," he said. Praveen Shetty, who met Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, said he has requested the CM to ensure the safety of Kannadigas in Maharashtra and to ban MES. Stating that the CM listed actions taken by his government by booking sedition cases against miscreants involved in the incidents and sought withdrawal of the bandh, he said, "we will discuss with Vatal Nagaraj and take a decision." Chief Minister Bommai also appealed to Vatal Nagaraj to call off the bandh in the interest of the people and the economy that is recovering from Covid. He said the government has already acted on most of the demands and will stand for Kannada cause. Bommai had yesterday said the government had already taken action against "anti-Kannada forces" and was examining the demand for banning MES legally.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-bandh-on-december-31st-unlikely-to-affect-normal-life-1066277.html
30-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||565 of 707 new Covid cases in Karnataka from Bengaluru Urban||Witnessing a spike for the second consecutive day, Karnataka on Thursday reported 707 new Covid-19 cases and three deaths, taking the total number of infections to 3,006,505 and the toll to 38,327. In a sudden spike in daily Covid cases, the state on Wednesday had reported 566 fresh infections, compared to 356 on Tuesday. There were 252 discharges today, taking the total number of recoveries in the state so far to 29,59,926, a health department bulletin said. Out of 707 new cases reported on Thursday, 565 were from Bengaluru Urban, as the city saw 104 discharges and 3 deaths. The total number of active cases in the state is now 8,223. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 0.61 per cent, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) was 0.42 per cent. All the three deaths reported on Thursday were from Bengaluru Urban. Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 565, Udupi 19, Mysuru 53, Hassan 17, Mysuru 16, Kodagu 12, Dakshina Kannada 11, followed by others, the bulletin said. Bengaluru Urban district topped the list of positive cases, with a total of 12,62,962, followed by Mysuru 1,80,266 and Tumakuru 1,21,338. Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban was on top with 12,39,720, followed by Mysuru 1,77,741 and Tumakuru 1,20,127. Cumulatively a total of 5,63,50,280 samples have been tested in the state so far, out of which 1,14,686 were done on Thursday alone. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/565-of-707-new-covid-cases-in-karnataka-from-bengaluru-urban-1066292.html
30-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Kannada organisations withdraw December 31 Karnataka Bandh||Kannada organisations have withdrawn the 'Karnataka Bandh' scheduled to be held on 31 December following the state government's assurance to the leaders of Kannada organisations on Thursday. Holding a meeting with the leaders of Kannada organisations in Bengaluru, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai was successful in convincing the Kannada organisations to withdraw their bandh call. Addressing the media after the meeting with the leaders, Bommai said, "We had a long meeting with the leaders of Kannada organisations and discussed various issues. We have reiterated that the state government will always support the Kannada activists to safeguard the interests of the state and requested them to withdraw the bandh as it would severely impact the traders and other industries. Responding to our request, they have withdrawn the Karnataka Bandh. All trade and transport activities will remain as usual on Friday. Asked whether the government has given any word on the major demand of banning Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti (MES) activities in Karnataka, Bommai replied, "I have already made our (state government) stand clear. We also explained to them the legal options that we are exploring currently and they were convinced by it." Vatal Nagaraj, President of the Kannada Organizations Federations said, "The Chief Minister has appealed to withdraw the bandh and he has assured us of all the help in the interest of the state and language in the coming days. Hence we have withdrawn the Karnataka Bandh scheduled to be held on 31 December." Meanwhile, the Pro-Kannada activists led by Praveen Kumar Shetty of Karnataka Rakshana Vedike had a tough time in convincing Vatal Nagaraj to withdraw the bandh initially. Nagaraj was reportedly hellbent on continuing with the Bandh regardless of the support. However, with CM Bommai holding talks with the Kannada leaders, the confusion over the bandh was cleared. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kannada-organisations-withdraw-december-31-karnataka-bandh-1066295.html
30-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Kannada biographer among 20 writers to win Sahitya Akademi Award||Kannada biographer DS Nagabhushan, English author Namita Gokhale, Telugu poet Goreti Venkanna, Tamil writer Ambai are among the 20 awardees of the Sahitya Akademi Award 2021. The award, which carries an amount of Rs 1,00,000 was announced Thursday and will be awarded on a later date.  The Sahitya Yuva and Sahitya Bal Puraskar, too, were awarded in various languages.  While Gokhale won the award for her novel ‘Things To Leave Behind’ under the novel category, Nagabhushan was awarded in the biography category. Assamese novelist Anuradha Sarma Pujari, playwrights Bratya Basu (Bengali) and Daya Prakash Sinha (Hindi), short story writers Khalid Hussain (Punjabi), Raj Rahi (Dogri), Kiran Gurav (Marathi), and Niranjan Hansda (Santali) are some of the other awardees.  Poets Mwdai Gahai (Bodo), Sanjiv Verenkar (Konkani), Hrushikesh Mallick (Odia), Meethesh Nirmohi (Rajasthani), Vindeshwariprasad Mishr ‘Vinay’ (Sanskrit), Chhabilal Upadhyaya (Nepali) and Arjun Chawla (Sindhi) were awarded for the poetry category.  Kashmiri critic Wali Mohd Aseer Kashtawari and Malayali biographer George Onakkoor, too, were awarded. The Akademi said that winners of Gujarati, Maithili, Manipuri, and Urdu languages will be announced at a later date.     Awardees of the Sahitya Yuva Puraskar include English author Megha Majumder (for her novel A Burning), Kannada poet H Lakshmi Narayan Swamy (for his poems in Togala Cheelada Kara), Konkani poet Shraddha Garad (for her poems in Kavya Pamal), Malayali novelist Mobin Mohan (for his novel Jacaranda), among others.  All the 22 awardees of the Sahitya Yuva Puraskar will receive Rs 50,000 each. The Akademi said that the award in Tamil will be declared at a later date, and there will be no award in Rajasthani this year.  Awardees of the Bal Sahitya Puraskar 2021 include Basu Bevinagida (Kannada), Mu. Murugesh (Tamil), Devaraju Maharaju (Telugu), Anita Vaccharajani (English), among the 22 awardees this year. The Akademi is skipping the Bal Sahitya Puraskar in Gujarati and Punjabi this year. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kannada-biographer-among-20-writers-to-win-sahitya-akademi-award-1066314.html
30-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||ULB polls: JD(S) down, but not out, says Kumaraswamy||A stumbling JD(S) managed to win just 45 out of the 1,184 seats in the urban local body (ULB) elections, whose results came out on Thursday. Still, former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy chose to see a silver lining. Kumaraswamy said the JD(S), which has faced a series of electoral setbacks, can spring back strongly in the 2023 Assembly elections, in which it wants to win 123 seats.  The results, according to him, show that JD(S) candidates won in some places against many odds. “In Chikkamagaluru, nobody can come to power without the support of the JD(S). This is the case in many other ULBs,” he pointed out.  “We won two seats in Sandur (Kurekuppa town municipal council) and (four) seats in the Devarahippargi town panchayat. Our workers fought on their own. In the coastal region, in Kaup town municipal council where we had no base, we have won one seat. In Sira, where we faced a setback in the Assembly polls, we have won seven seats,” he said.  “In 2023, with the blessings of the people, we will upset everybody’s predictions, including those of political pundits. The next one year will be dedicated towards building the party organization. We’re formulating programmes to win the confidence of the people,” Kumaraswamy said.  A big relief for Kumaraswamy is that the JD(S) managed to retain the Bidadi town municipal council by winning 14 out of the 23 seats. The Congress, which was keen on taking control of Bidadi, won only nine, despite Bangalore Rural MP D K Suresh and former Magadi MLA H C Balakrishna sweating it out there. “Bidadi is the place that gave me political birth,” Kumaraswamy said.  The Asaduddin Owaisi-led AIMIM also registered two wins in the Kolhar town panchayat in Vijayapura. The SDPI won six seats - one each in Chikkamagaluru CMC, Vittal and Kotekaru TPs and three in Kaup TMC.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ulb-polls-jds-down-but-not-out-says-kumaraswamy-1066367.html
30-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Former Karnataka chief justice N K Sodhi passes away||Former chief justice of Karnataka and Kerala high courts Justice N K Sodhi passed away in Chandigarh on Tuesday. Justice Sodhi (78) is survived by his wife Neelam Sodhi, daughter Gayatri Sodhi and grandson Sidharth.  Justice Sodhi was appointed as a judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court in March 1991. In January 2004, he was elevated as chief justice of Kerala High Court and subsequently transferred to Karnataka as chief justice. He was chief justice of the Karnataka High Court between November 19, 2004, and November 29, 2005. After his superannuation in 2005, Justice Sodhi was appointed as the presiding officer of the Securities Appellate Tribunal at Mumbai. He returned to Chandigarh in December 2011 and had been handling arbitration cases as an arbitrator/presiding arbitrator as appointed by the high courts of Punjab and Haryana, Bombay, Karnataka and Madras. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/former-karnataka-chief-justice-n-k-sodhi-passes-away-1066375.html
30-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Hospitals in Karnataka complain of issues with PM Cares ventilators||At a review meeting held recently on the state’s preparedness for Covid treatment, it was revealed that the state, in all, has 2,871 ventilators. However, functioning issues dog ventilators given under PM Cares, even seven months after they were distributed to various hospitals in the state during the second wave. The hospitals have said the problems of them not working beyond eight hours to ten hours at a stretch still persist. However, ventilators bought from companies abroad by the hospitals themselves, in contrast, are working fine with no oxygenation problems, heating problems or breakdown problems. The hospitals said that during the peak of the second Covid wave, the problem was with increased load and the availability of technicians to fix the machines. Due to the high demand, personnel were not able to tend to the equipment days on end leaving the patients in the lurch.  M S Ramaiah Memorial Hospital Associate Dean Dr Harish K said, “Even now, after eight to ten hours of continuous usage, the output of these 40 PM Cares ventilators is sub-optimal. They don’t provide adequate oxygenation and doesn’t ventilate as expected. The state has been apprised about it but there’s been no replacement. We are currently using 10 of our own ventilators from German and Swiss companies. They work at a stretch even for days together.” Dr Vivek G, Consultant Interventional Pulmonologist, Rajarajeshwari Medical College and Hospital, said, “We have 20 PM Cares ventilators. When we had an increased case burden, engineers couldn’t come and repair them. As of now, services are available. But once the caseload increases, I don’t know how they will perform. It is not on par with ventilators from German companies.” “We cannot run it continuously for eight to 12 hours as it will heat up and break down. We will use 16 of our ventilators and alternate every 12 hours. During the last Covid wave, PM Cares engineers did not come to rectify for two weeks after the ventilators broke down. We faced a lot of problems last time. We don’t know what will happen this wave,” he said. Dr Ranganath V, District Health Officer, Chitradurga, said 20 out of the 64 ventilators in the district were of PM Cares and that they had faced the same issues. “This is the problem generally with all PM Cares ventilators, especially in the periphery,” he said. In the Bidar, more than 50% of the ventilators were that of PM Cares. DHO Dr VG Reddy said, “Out of 151 ventilators, 73 are from PM Cares, which had issues with pressure. We got them repaired. The rest are of two German companies.” Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/hospitals-in-karnataka-complain-of-issues-with-pm-cares-ventilators-1066378.html
30-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Kodagu, Udupi, U-K districts witness surge in Covid-19 cases||Parts of Uttara Kannada and Kodagu districts have recorded a surge in Covid-19 cases over the past week, amid fears of a possible third wave of the pandemic. Anekad Forest in Kodagu district, which did not have a single case in the last three weeks, has recorded 29 cases in the last seven days. A similar trend is observed in Ramanagara of Uttara Kannada district, which saw 23 cases this week compared to just two cases over the last three weeks. These figures were laid before Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai during his five-hour-long meeting with chief executives of zilla panchayats. Other parts of the state recording a significant increase in cases is Dandeli and Joida in Uttara Kannada, andUdupi. As many as 40 people have tested positive in Udupi in the current week, up from 7 and 12 cases respectively in the last two weeks. Dandeli had 18 cases this week, compared to just two in the last two weeks. District-wise data on cases revealed that 15 of the 30 districts had an increase in caseload, while case numbers were the same as the previous week in two districts. In 13 districts, the numbers have dipped marginally. The hospitalisation rate, which saw a downward trend, is now up by 24 per cent compared to the previous week.  Authorities have identified five districts where the positivity rate has increased during the past week - Kodagu (0.85 per cent), Uttara Kannada (0.71 per cent), Bengaluru (0.56 per cent), Kolar (0.46 per cent) and Mysuru (0.4 per cent). The positivity rate, however, is lower than the figure recorded during the peak of the second wave. Currently, the number of active cases in the state is 7,271 of which 5,890 are in Bengaluru Urban. Kodagu had the second-highest caseload with 187 cases, followed by Uttara Kannada (129) and Mysuru (122). Data presented at the meeting showed that districts such as Mysuru, Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, Hassan and Belagavi were testing fewer people for Covid than the numbers specified by the state government.   Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kodagu-udupi-u-k-districts-witness-surge-in-covid-19-cases-1066380.html
30-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Kannada biographer Nagabhushana among Sahitya Akademi awardees||Kannada biographer D S Nagabhushan, English author Namita Gokhale, Telugu poet Goreti Venkanna and Tamil writer Ambai are among the 20 winners of the Sahitya Akademi award, 2021. The awards, which carry a cash prize of Rs 1 lakh, were announced on Thursday. They will be presented at a later date.   While Gokhale won the award for her novel ‘Things To Leave Behind,’ Nagabhushan was awarded in biography category for ‘Gandhi Kathana’.  Assamese novelist Anuradha Sarma Pujari, playwrights Bratya Basu (Bengali) and Daya Prakash Sinha (Hindi), short story writers Khalid Hussain (Punjabi), Raj Rahi (Dogri), Kiran Gurav (Marathi) and Niranjan Hansda (Santali) are some of the other awardees.  Poets Mwdai Gahai (Bodo), Sanjiv Verenkar (Konkani), Hrushikesh Mallick (Odia), Meethesh Nirmohi (Rajasthani), Vindeshwariprasad Mishr ‘Vinay’ (Sanskrit), Chhabilal Upadhyaya (Nepali) and Arjun Chawla (Sindhi) were awarded in the poetry category.  Kashmiri critic Wali Mohd Aseer Kashtawari and Malayalee biographer George Onakkoor, too, have got the award. The Akademi said winners from Gujarati, Maithili, Manipuri and Urdu will be announced at a later date.     Awardees of the Sahitya Yuva Puraskar include English author Megha Majumder (for her novel ‘A Burning’), Kannada poet H Lakshmi Narayan Swamy (for his poems in ‘Togala Cheelada Kara’), Konkani poet Shraddha Garad (for her poems in ‘Kavya Pamal’) and Malayalee novelist Mobin Mohan (for his novel ‘Jacaranda’).  All 22 awardees of Sahitya Yuva Puraskar will receive a cash prize of Rs 50,000 each. Awardees of the Bal Sahitya Puraskar 2021 include Basu Bevinagida (Kannada), Mu Murugesh (Tamil), Devaraju Maharaju (Telugu), Anita Vaccharajani (English) among the 22 awardees this year. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kannada-biographer-nagabhushana-among-sahitya-akademi-awardees-1066385.html
30-12-2021||West||Scribes allowing to be co-opted by an ideology is recipe for disaster: CJI Ramana||Describing freedom of the press as a “sacrosanct Constitutional right”, Chief Justice of India NV Ramana said journalists allowing themselves to be co-opted by an ideology or the State is a recipe for disaster. “Allowing yourself to be co-opted by an ideology or the State is a recipe for disaster. Journalists are like judges in one sense. Regardless of the ideology, you profess and the beliefs you hold dear, you must do your duty without being influenced by them. You must report only the facts, with a view to give a complete and accurate picture,” he said in his address. News mixed with views is a dangerous cocktail, he said, expressing deep concern over cherry-picking facts and biased reports. “…Another trend that I witness in reporting nowadays, is the seeping of ideological stances and biases into the news story. Interpretation and opinions are colouring what should be factual reports. News mixed with views is a dangerous cocktail. Connected to this is the problem of partial reporting, of cherry-picking facts to give it a particular colour,” CJI said. “Elect portions of a speech get highlighted – mostly out of context - to suit a certain agenda,” he said at the Mumbai Press Club’s RedInk Awards 2021, which he addressed online. According to him, nothing can be more lethal to democracy than the deadly combination of confrontational polity and competitive journalism. Quoting famous US reporter, Walter Cronkite, he said: “We all have our likes and our dislikes. But... when we’re doing the news - when we're doing the front-page news, not the back page, not the op-ed pages, but when we're doing the daily news, covering politics - it is our duty to be sure that we do not permit our prejudices to show. That is simply basic journalism.” Justice Ramana pointed out that the freedom of the press is a sacrosanct Constitutional right. “From the very beginning, the Supreme Court of India has upheld the freedom of the press as an important facet of our Constitution, from Sakal Papers and R Rajagopal to Anuradha Bhasin. However, this freedom comes with an enormous responsibility that must be borne by every individual who is part of the journalistic enterprise, the journalists, editors, and management,” he said.  Check out latest DH videos here||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/scribes-allowing-to-be-co-opted-by-an-ideology-is-recipe-for-disaster-cji-ramana-1066091.html
30-12-2021||West||PM wanted BJP-NCP tie-up for Maharashtra govt, I rejected offer: Pawar||A fresh political row erupted after Nationalist Congress Party President Sharad Pawar reiterated that Prime Minister Narendra Modi was keen for an NCP-Bharatiya Janata Party alliance government in Maharashtra after the October 2019 Assembly polls threw up a fractured verdict. Pawar referred to his meeting with the PM on November 20, 2019, at the release of a coffee table book, "Ashtavadhani" launched by The Indian Express Group's 'Loksatta' Marathi daily, and released by Bharat Force MD Baba Kalyani, as part of the NCP supremo's 81st birthday celebrations. At that time, Pawar had confirmed how Modi wanted NCP-BJP to "work together" and even offered a central Cabinet berth to his daughter and Baramati MP Supriya Sule. "There was a discussion about an alliance... I had told the PM right in his office that it was not possible... I would not like to keep them in the dark," Pawar recalled the incident. NCP National Spokesperson and Minority Affairs Minister Nawab Malik endorsed the statement saying it happened in Parliament House and he was also present then. "Yes... There was an offer from the PM and we discussed it in our party and decided against it... Then Pawar Saheb conveyed it to the PM," Malik said. Pawar felt that the BJP offer may have come as there were frictions between the Congress-NCP at that time, but the Shiv Sena had come forward for the three-party alliance which was ultimately sworn-in as the Maha Vikas Aghadi government headed by Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on November 28, 2019. On whether the NCP chieftain -- just three days after his meeting with PM -- had 'sent' his nephew Ajit Pawar to form the 80-hour long, two-legged government sworn-in early morning with BJP's Devendra Fadnavis as the CM, Pawar quipped: "If that was so, then I would not have left the job incomplete!" Reacting, Sena MP Sanjay Raut said that there was "complete transparency" at that time when the three parties were finalising the nitty-gritties of the government formation with nail-biting political suspense. "We all were aware of who's talking what and with whom... We even had knowledge of what was happening on the Devendra Fadnavis-Ajit Pawar front... Later, he and other MLAs returned to the fold," said Raut with a sly glint. "The BJP had made this offer, but we know about it... In fact, they were desperate to come to power at all costs and ready to join hands with any party... But they did not succeed," Raut added. However, in a guarded response, Leader of Opposition (Council) Pravin Darekar said that certain things may have happened owing to political exigencies at that time, but wondered "why the issue was being raised now". The BJP suffered one of its biggest political setbacks in November 2019 when it failed to take along Shiv Sena President Uddhav Thackeray on the issue of power-sharing and virtually called him a 'liar' publicly. Simultaneously, there were backdoor efforts to woo Thackeray, even through middle-of-the-night phone calls from central BJP leaders, attempts to lure away Sena-NCP legislators, etc. Pawar recalled that Thackeray changed his position as "the BJP did not honour what was agreed upon between them", and finally the NCP decided to back the Sena chief as the CM. Giving full marks to Modi for putting in a lot of hard work to complete any task, attention to the administration, strongly implementing policies in his own style, Pawar said "if the problems of the masses are not solved, there will be no impact, which is where he lags". Regarding the upcoming Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, Pawar predicted a '50-50' chance and the manner in which the PM has announced many projects indicates the BJP could face a serious situation there. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pm-wanted-bjp-ncp-tie-up-for-maharashtra-govt-i-rejected-offer-pawar-1066158.html
30-12-2021||West||No New Year gatherings in open or closed spaces in Mumbai||In the wake of emergence of the new Omicron variant of Covid-19, the Mumbai Police have prohibited New Year celebrations and gatherings in any closed or open space, including hotels and restaurants, an official said on Thursday. Deputy Commissioner of Police (operations) S Chaitanya issued an order to this effect on Wednesday under Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC). The order will be in force from Thursday till January 7, 2022, the official said. The police order prohibits all New Year celebrations, programmes, functions and gatherings in any closed or open space, including hotels, restaurants, banquet halls, bars, pubs, orchestras, resorts, clubs and rooftops. Trains, buses and private cars may ply as per the current guidelines and norms, the order stated. Mumbai continues to be threatened by the rise in cases of Covid-19 and emergence of the new variant Omicron, it noted. The prohibitory orders have been issued to prevent danger to human life, for the health and safety of people, and to curtail transmission of the virus, the order said. Any person contravening the order shall be liable for punishment under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code as well as provisions of the Epidemic Diseases Act Pandemic Act and the Disaster Management Act, the order stated. On Wednesday, Mumbai reported 2,510 Covid-19 cases, the highest daily addition since May 8, and one death, taking its tally to 7,75,808 and toll to 16,375, a civic official said. The spike in the country's financial capital has got pronounced since December 20, when just 283 cases were reported. Maharashtra on Wednesday reported 85 fresh cases of Omicron, the highest single-day tally recorded so far by any state in the country, taking the overall count to 252, as per the state health department. State minister Aaditya Thackeray had urged people not to panic, but exercise extreme caution in the wake sharp rise in coronavirus cases in Mumbai and stressed on vaccination and widespread use of face masks. Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope on Wednesday expressed concern over the rise in the number of fresh as well as active Covid-19 cases in the state, terming it as an "alarming" situation, and said stricter measures will be imposed to stem the infection spread. He urged people and authorities to exercise caution at a time when the new coronavirus variant Omicron has fuelled worries about a fresh spurt in cases. The minister emphasised on strict adherence to Covid-19 protocols and ramping up of vaccination against the infection.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/no-new-year-gatherings-in-open-or-closed-spaces-in-mumbai-1066159.html
30-12-2021||West||6 returning from marriage function killed, 7 injured as tempo hits tractor in Maharashtra||Six passengers were killed and seven others injured when a tempo carrying people back from a wedding function hit a tractor in Maharashtra's Aurangabad district on Thursday, police said. The accident took place around 2 AM at Modha fata in Sillod taluka of the district, they said. The sugarcane-laden tractor was hit by the tempo, which was carrying people back from a marriage function to Mangrul village from Ghatshendra village, Sillod rural police station's inspector Sitaram Mhetre said. Six tempo passengers were killed, while seven others received injuries and they were taken to a government hospital in Sillod for treatment, the official said. The deceased were identified as Jijabai Sonavane (60), Sanjay Khelavane (42), Sangeeta Khelavane (35), Ashok Khelavne (45), Ashok Sampat Khelavne (52) and Ranjana Khelavane (40), he added. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/6-returning-from-marriage-function-killed-7-injured-as-tempo-hits-tractor-in-maharashtra-1066183.html
30-12-2021||West||Goa beaches packed with domestic tourists as India tightens Covid rules||Thousands of domestic tourists have thronged the beaches, pubs and nightclubs of Goa to usher in the New Year, even as the government imposed tougher restrictions to curb the latest variant of the coronavirus. India's suspension of international commercial flights due to the pandemic has boosted domestic tourism, with hotels and restaurants in popular destinations such as Goa enjoying roaring trade. However, a spike in Covid-19 infections prompted India to tighten restrictions on Thursday, including night curfews in all major cities. In Goa, authorities issued directives to hotels, restaurants and casinos to admit only guests with valid vaccination certificates or proof of a negative test result. The palm-fringed beach at Calangute in northern Goa was nonetheless abuzz with activity on Thursday as tourists zoomed around on jetskis and took selfies against the sunset. "I really wanted to get some beach air ... you know, wind in my hair, sand in my feet - so for that, I thought Goa would be the best place to go," said Jaya Pandey, a young software engineer visiting Goa from the eastern Indian city of Patna. Cruise boats and restaurants in Goa were busy, with managers and owners saying they were finding it hard to keep up with the surge in customers. "It is very busy ... we start at 11 (a.m.) and finish up at 11 (p.m), it's 12 hours. Very hectic all the time," said Simplis Gomes, who owns a popular restaurant near the beach. India reported 13,154 new Covid-19 cases and 268 deaths in the last 24 hours, the federal health ministry said, with urban centres reporting a big jump. It was the highest number of daily infections since October. Cases of infection by the Omicron variant rose to 961 across India.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-beaches-packed-with-domestic-tourists-as-india-tightens-covid-rules-1066236.html
30-12-2021||West||I follow PM: Sanjay Raut on not wearing mask at event||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut, who was seen without a mask at an event here on Thursday, claimed he was following the prime minister's 'example'. On the sidelines of the event at Nashik in Maharashtra, some reporters asked the Rajya Sabha member why he was not wearing a mask, a norm to be followed to curb the spread of Covid-19. To this, Raut said, “Prime Minister Narendra Modi tells people to wear mask, but he himself doesn't wear one. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray wears mask, but Modi is the leader of the nation. I follow the prime minister and therefore, I do not wear a mask, and even people do not wear masks." At the same time, the Shiv Sena's spokesperson also said everyone should take care while attending public programmes. “Prohibitory orders are on at present, but I wish there should be no such curbs during the day as it will stop the economic growth. (NCP MP) Supriya Sule, (her husband) Sadanand Sule, (NCP legislator) Prajakt Tanpure, (Maharashtra school education minister) Varsha Gaikwad have been detected corona positive. Therefore, everyone should take care while attending public programmes,” Raut said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/i-follow-pm-sanjay-raut-on-not-wearing-mask-at-event-1066243.html
30-12-2021||West||Maharashtra sees big jump in daily Covid-19 infection count with 5,368 new cases; 22 patients die||The Covid-19 ground situation in Mumbai and the rest of Maharashtra seems to be worsening with the 24-hour cases jumping past the 5,000-mark coinciding with the New Year festivities on Thursday.  Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray chaired a high-level meeting with top officials and Covid-19 Task Force members.   “The increasing positivity rate is a matter of concern,” state public health and family welfare minister Rajesh Tope said. On Thursday, 5,368 cases and 22 deaths were reported in Maharashtra taking the progressive total to 66,70,754 and 1,41,518, respectively.  This is a significant jump from the 3,900 cases reported in the case a day ago. During the day, 198 Omicron cases were reported pushing the progressive total to 450. These include the 327 cases reported in Mumbai which include foreign travellers landing at the Chhatrapati Shivaji International Airport, one of the busiest airports of Asia.  Of the 5,368 cases, 3,671 cases were reported in Mumbai while the same for the Mumbai metropolitan region 4,566 cases.  A day ago, Mumbai and MMR reported 2,445 and 3,173 cases, respectively.  “With 8.14% Covid positivity rate in Mumbai, the scenario is extremely critical and we are closer to lockdown. People should visualise the second wave and strictly practise Covid appropriate behaviour/CAB, irrespective of what step administrative machinery takes. Extremely difficult time ahead,” said Dr Ishwar Gilada, the secretary-general, Organised Medicine Academic Guild.  Elaborating further Tope said, “Around 4000 cases in Mumbai were reported in Mumbai today. Today’s positivity rate is 8.48%. SGTF kits must be used to differentiate between Omicron and Delta Plus variants. Vaccination drives to be done at full speed, everyone must be fully vaccinated”. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-sees-big-jump-in-daily-covid-19-infection-count-with-5368-new-cases-22-patients-die-1066274.html
30-12-2021||West||MVA competing with each other to join hands with BJP: Chandrakant Patil||Maharashtra BJP chief Chandrakant Patil said here on Thursday that each constituent of the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) in the state was eager to jump the ship and join hands with the BJP. "A competition is underway among the constituents of the government as to who would be the first to leave the alliance and form a new government with the BJP," he claimed, speaking to reporters. The MVA, comprising Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress, was formed in 2019 after the Sena fell out with the BJP. Commenting on NCP chief Sharad Pawar's claim that Prime Minister Narendra Modi wanted the BJP and Nationalist Congress Party to come together to form government in the state in 2019, Patil asked why Pawar took so long to reveal this if it was true. "Modi and Pawar are very senior leaders, so for people like us it would be difficult to find out what conversation had taken place between them," he said. "But if such an offer was ever made (by Modi), I do not think Pawar was so indecisive that he would reject it," the state BJP chief said. It was not as if Pawar was known for always speaking the truth, he added. The way the MVA government had `harassed' BJP workers and MLAs, ordinary party workers like him were not inclined to join hands with any of the MVA constituents, but such decisions will be taken by the BJP's central leadership, Patil added. The state BJP chief also criticized the MVA government for wrapping up the winter session of the legislature `without discussing the issues concerning common people'.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mva-competing-with-each-other-to-join-hands-with-bjp-chandrakant-patil-1066293.html
30-12-2021||West||Goa Assembly polls: AAP to make candidates sign affidavits to avoid defections||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), which will be contesting next year's Goa Assembly elections, on Thursday said its candidates will have to sign legal affidavits mentioning that they will not quit the party to join another one. The Arvind Kejriwal-led party has taken this decision to stem defections as it feels that the coastal state is "notorious" for politicians jumping to other parties, an AAP leader said. The AAP has decided to contest all 40 seats in Goa assembly polls, scheduled to be held in February 2022. "Goa, despite being a tiny state is notorious for political defections," AAP leader Amit Palekar told reporters. "In order to resolve the problem, the AAP candidates will sign a legal affidavit, promising that they will not quit the party to join another one," he said. He asked the Congress whether it could provide any guarantee that its candidates would not defect. "There is not a single party in the state, which can assure that its candidate will not join the BJP. In 2019, as many as 10 Congress MLAs had joined the BJP," he said. Palekar said that Aleixo Reginaldo Lourenco, who had figured in the first list of candidates of the Congress, has joined the Trinamool Congress (TMC), which is also contesting all the seats in Goa. "Another Congress candidate is also likely join the BJP soon. Such poaching in the state indicates that the ruling BJP has learned that majority wins cannot be achieved," he added. Palekar said that to resolve this problem, AAP candidates will sign affidavits, which will be distributed among their voters, assuring them they would not join any other party. "If they do so, voters can take a legal action against them," he added. As soon as the AAP announces its candidate, they will sign the affidavits, Palekar said. "If a candidate quits AAP and joins another party, they are immediately disqualified as MLAs," he said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-assembly-polls-aap-to-make-candidates-sign-affidavits-to-avoid-defections-1066309.html
30-12-2021||West||Maharashtra court rejects bail plea of Narayan Rane's son||In a massive political setback for BJP lawmaker Nitesh Rane - the son of Union MSME Minister Narayan Rane, a court in Maharashtra's Sindhudurg on Thursday rejected his anticipatory bail application. Advocate Sangram Desai said that since the bail plea has been declined, they would move the Bombay High Court soon after getting the copy of the court orders. The bail rejection order was pronounced by District and Sessions Principal Judge Shirishkumar V Hande this evening after a tough legal battle between Special Public Prosecutor Pradeep Gharat and the defence team since Tuesday. Along with Nitesh Rane, 39, - who has gone "incommunicado" - the bail plea of one of his associates and co-accused Gotya Sawant, was also rejected in an assault case. However, advocate Desai said it was wrong to describe Nitesh Rane as an "absconder"- though the Maharashtra Police are now likely to step up efforts to arrest him. This is the second major embarrassment in the past five months for the Rane family - one of the prime political clans in the coastal Konkan. On August 24, the Union Minister was arrested amid high drama, before being released on bail, for his infamous "slap-slur" against Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, sparking off a massive row between the BJP and the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government. Shortly after the court verdict, the Shiv Sena erupted in celebrations, bursting fire-crackers, raising victory slogans and cheering the outcome. Known for brashness, Rane Jr. had filed the plea in the Sindhudurg court for reliefs against any coercive action against him in an attempt to murder case lodged against him in his political bastion, Kankavli. The complainant is Santosh Parab who said that some time ago, he was riding on his motorcycle when a SUV without registration plates knocked him down, a person jumped out, stabbed him in the chest, and sped off. Later, Parab, 44, complained to the police that before the assailant left, he was heard saying that "we must inform Gotya Sawant and Nitesh Rane". Based on the complaint, the Sindhudurg police registered a FIR charging Nitesh Rane and others with attempt to murder, common intent, etc, and served a notice to them. Rane Jr. subsequently responded to the notice and was questioned by the police for over two hours last Saturday. The Rane family and the BJP have alleged that the entire issue is fabricated and politically motivated to influence the elections to the board of directors of the district bank, which were due on Thursday, and the recent verbal duel between Nitesh Rane and Maharashtra Ministers Aditya Thackeray and Nawab Malik in which hens, cats and pigs were invoked. In his bail plea, among other things, Nitesh Rane said he was busy canvassing for the BJP candidates standing for the district bank polls and any coercive action would affect his work. He also assured he would be available for investigations whenever needed by the police, and contended that there was nothing to prove his involvement in the attempt to murder case, etc. Nevertheless, since the past few days, he suddenly became "incommunicado", his phone switched off, his aides denying knowledge of his whereabouts even as the police were on the lookout for him. On December 29, the Maharashtra Police even served a notice to Union Minister Narayan Rane and called him to join the probe, but the latter declined saying he was ready to engage in a video-conference call with the investigators. Questioned on his son's current bearings, the former Chief Minister flared up, saying: "I am not a fool to disclose where he (Nitesh) is." Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-court-rejects-bail-plea-of-narayan-ranes-son-1066313.html
30-12-2021||West||141 Mumbai residents without travel history tested positive for Omicron, says BMC||As many as 141 Mumbai residents who had not travelled abroad recently tested positive for the Omicron variant of coronavirus on Thursday, the civic body said. Out of 153 persons who were found to have Omicron infection in the city, only 12 had international travel history, said the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation. But as per the Maharashtra government's release, issued earlier in the evening, out of 198 Omicron cases reported in the state, a whopping 190 were from Mumbai. The difference in state and BMC statistics could not be reconciled. As per the BMC update, the tally of Omicron-infected Mumbai residents without a history of overseas travel rose to 160. The total of Omicron cases in the city rose to 290. Of 141 Mumbai residents without travel history who tested positive to Omicron, the highest 21 are from the K-west ward which includes Andheri West, Juhu and Versova, followed by the D ward that includes Malabar Hill, Mahalaxmi and Tardeo areas. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/141-mumbai-residents-without-travel-history-tested-positive-for-omicron-says-bmc-1066351.html
30-12-2021||West||International travellers to be tested on arrival in Goa||Amid a surge of Covid cases in the coastal state, Goa Health Minister Vishwajit Rane on Thursday said that the government had made it mandatory for all foreigners -- irrespective of whether they are travelling from high risk or non high risk countries -- arriving in Goa to be subject to Covid testing. “In view of the rising cases and as per the circular issued by the government of Goa, we shall be testing all international passengers on arrival, travelling from high risk countries as well as non-high risk countries", the Health Minister said. "Earlier, we tested only 2 percent of passengers travelling from non-high-risk countries. However, the government of Goa has now taken a decision in public interest to test all international passengers,” he added. The Health Minister's comment comes at a time when the state is playing host to hundreds and thousands of tourists, who have descended in Goa to ring in the festive season of Christmas and New Year. Opposition parties have cried hoarse about the poor enforcement of Covid protocols, especially in the coastal areas, where tourists can be seen moving in large groups, attending parties, or visiting beaches without masks or maintaining social distancing.  Fresh Covid cases in the state have also witnessed a surge with 261 new infections being reported. The infection rate has now crossed seven per cent. Amid the surge, the Goa government on Wednesday imposed restrictions on casinos, nightclubs, bars and restaurants, and entertainment parks, with a Revenue Department order stating that such business operations can only function at 50 per cent capacity. The order also said that only guests who are either fully vaccinated or those who have a Covid negative certificate issued less than 24 hours prior will be allowed entry into the listed business premises. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/international-travellers-to-be-tested-on-arrival-in-goa-1066363.html
