31-12-2021||First Edit||Electoral bonds: Supreme Court must hear case quickly||A number of eminent citizens, including former bureaucrats, lawyers and academics, recently wrote to Chief Justice of India N V Ramana requesting him for early listing and hearing of some important cases that have been pending for a long time before Constitution benches. One of the cases is the petition challenging the issue of electoral bonds, pending for nearly four years. The case was listed recently but was not heard. An early decision on the legality and constitutionality of electoral bonds is vital for the health and integrity of the election system. The electoral bonds scheme, notified in 2018 after controversial amendments were made to multiple laws the previous year, legalised anonymous and unlimited donations to political parties.    Electoral bonds are banking instruments that can be purchased by any citizen or company to make donations to political parties, without the donor’s identity being disclosed. The government has claimed that the scheme would make political donations free of black money, but it is faulty on many grounds, such as lack of transparency, the anonymity of the donors, and bias in favour of the ruling party, for reasons both obvious and not-so-obvious. More than 92% of the donations made so far have been through bonds of Rs 1 crore denomination, and more than 70% of these donations have been to the BJP, which has collected thousands of crores of rupees in this fashion. Voters do not know who made the donations, to which parties and how much, but the government has access to that information. This is a violation of the voters’ right to know whether donations have influenced the government's policies. Money plays an important part in elections. So, it is particularly important for the system of donations to be fair, transparent and right. The Election Commission had expressed its disapproval of electoral bonds, though later it took a different stand on it in the court.  A number of elections have been held since 2018, both at central and state levels, without a decision on electoral bonds. The Supreme Court had refused to stay the sale of the bonds. An urgent application was filed in the court for a stay on the sale that was scheduled in April, ahead of this year’s Assembly elections in some states. A bench headed by the then CJI SA Bobde held that there was no justification for staying the scheme as electoral bonds had been allowed in previous years without any legal impediment! Another round of elections is due soon in some states, and a 10-day window for purchasing electoral bonds will open on January 1. The apex court will hopefully take up the matter and take a decision on the merit and legality of the scheme in time. It should be noted that the court had remarked that “weighty issues which have a tremendous bearing on the sanctity of the electoral process in the country” were involved in the electoral bond scheme. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/electoral-bonds-supreme-court-must-hear-case-quickly-1066317.html
31-12-2021||In Perspective||Electricity reforms shelved||During a review meeting with the bureaucrats of states and UTs and CEOs of power sector CPSUs on December 18, Union Power Minister R K Singh expressed satisfaction over the country becoming power-surplus and increasing the power availability to 22 hours in rural areas and 23.5 hours in urban areas. He opined that “the next step is to take it to 24X7 guaranteed power supply at an affordable price and ensure the viability of power distribution companies (discoms).” The two issues require close examination.  A sizeable chunk of electricity is supplied to households and farmers at a fraction of the cost of purchase and distribution, or even free (in some states, subsidy accounts for 30-40% of discoms’ revenue). That goes far beyond what could be termed ‘affordable’; it is a freebie. Such supplies are made possible because the state governments order discoms under their ownership and control to charge low/nil tariff from these preferred consumers, with a promise to reimburse the discoms for it.  But most states either don’t make reimbursements at all or do it partially and that too after considerable delay. As a result, on units sold to the beneficiaries of subsidised power, discoms incur huge under-recovery. This is aggravated by power theft that happens under the patronage of the political class. Inflated tariff, based on a cost-plus formula, allowed to power producers under power purchase agreements (PPAs) increases the under-recovery.  In a bid to offset the loss, and under instruction from their masters, discoms charge high tariffs on supplies to industries and businesses. Considering that the former are sole suppliers of power, the latter have no option but to pay. It is a different matter that despite this cross-subsidisation, overall discoms continue to incur huge losses.  When the minister talks of making power affordable, the implied reference is to the exorbitant tariff charged on supplies to industries and businesses. As for the viability and sustainability of discoms, his concern is primarily over their persistent losses (as of March 31, 2021, they had piled up a mammoth debt of over Rs 4.5 lakh crore) which, in turn, has led to high pending dues to power producers, currently over Rs 1 lakh crore. To tackle the losses of discoms, the power ministry has initiated several measures including denial of extra borrowing limits, non-release of funds to states under ‘Reforms-Linked, Result-Based Scheme for Distribution’ (RLRBSD), cap on hike in tariff, linking payment by discoms to LoC (letter of credit), etc. But none of these measures have delivered as they don’t address the fundamental factors contributing to their losses. The way forward is to delink subsidy to preferred consumers from the discoms. The state government should pay subsidy directly to the beneficiary using the DBT mechanism, on the lines of the LPG subsidy, while letting discoms fix tariff, taking into account the cost of purchase, wheeling and distribution. Concurrently, private firms should be allowed in the distribution business to give competition to discoms and ensure that consumers are not taken for a ride. At present, almost the entire infrastructure for transmission, wheeling and last-mile delivery of power is owned and controlled by discoms. To ensure that there is a level playing field, this infrastructure should be stripped from the discoms and vested in an independent entity. All suppliers should have access to it on ‘common carrier’ principle in a transparent and non-discriminatory manner.  The discoms should be unshackled from State control by converting them into autonomous entities (preferably, they should be made ‘corporate enterprises’ and allowed to function like any private firm). This will enable them to independently run their operations, including tariff-setting and negotiations with producers for purchase of electricity, in a professional manner.  These steps will reduce the cost of purchase, increase realisation from the sale of electricity, and help eliminate theft. All three outcomes will combine to turn discoms into profit-making entities. Moreover, being under no obligation to supply power to farmers/households at subsidised rates (or free), there won’t be any under-recovery, hence no reason to charge more from industries, thereby making power affordable to the latter.  Pertinently, DBT and de-licensing of the electricity distribution business were included in the draft Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2021, apart from another crucial reform, namely, the creation of Electricity Contract Enforcement Authority (ECEA) for adjudication of contract disputes (needed to rein in violation of PPAs by states). Unfortunately, all three proposals have been dropped from the draft.   It seems no political party is in a mood to let go of their populist stance of giving cheap/free electricity to the people who matter in elections (farmers, households) and use State-owned and controlled discoms to achieve it. They know that if these reforms are implemented, the leverage they have hitherto enjoyed will no longer exist. For now, it is abundantly clear that electricity reforms have been deferred indefinitely. (The writer is a Delhi-based policy analyst) Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/electricity-reforms-shelved-1066318.html
31-12-2021||In Perspective||India’s leaders are playing with fire||The north Indian town of Haridwar, where the Ganges flows out of the Himalayas onto India’s vast plains, has been for centuries a destination for pilgrims. For three days in December, it also played host to what the Indian media has called a “hate-speech conclave,” in which multiple speakers — all dressed in saffron garb, the traditional signifier of sanctity in India — called for Muslims and Christians in India to be killed. One hailed the persecution of Rohingya Muslims in Myanmar and exhorted Indian “politicians, the army and every Hindu” to “pick up weapons” and “conduct a cleanliness drive.” There was, he said, “no solution apart from this.” Even in a country that has turned worryingly majoritarian in recent years, such open promotion of genocide and ethnic cleansing should have set off alarms. It is not only tens of millions of minorities — as well as India’s increasingly tenuous connection to liberal values — that are at risk. The Indian State itself risks being undermined by its leaders’ tacit acceptance of religious vigilantism. The BJP would not be the first political party to wink at ethno-nationalist extremism among its followers. The states of Uttarakhand, where the town of Haridwar is located, and neighbouring Uttar Pradesh — from which Uttarakhand was split off two decades ago — are due for elections in the coming months. The BJP, in power in both states, might be tempted to think that heightened inter-religious tension is a useful distraction from a struggling economy and the devastation caused by the Covid-19 pandemic. But India’s opposition parties have not pushed back strongly either. They are struggling to formulate a response to this sort of rhetoric that does not result in them being labelled “anti-Hindu.” In parts of north India, the secularism guaranteed by India’s Constitution has become so politically toxic that many politicians no longer seem able to defend the right of citizens to profess whatever faith they choose. As a consequence, the entire Indian political class seems increasingly complicit in enabling hate speech. The organisers of the Haridwar hate fest have already planned another for the Uttar Pradesh town of Aligarh, home to a government-run university long known as a centre of Indian Muslim scholarship.  Tolerating such events is devastatingly short-sighted. Words have consequences, especially in a country with as awful a history of inter-religious violence as India. Just last week, in the Sikh-majority state of Punjab, two men accused of “sacrilege” were lynched by Sikh mobs. Punjab will also hold elections soon, and newspapers pointed out that most politicians condemned the alleged sacrilege but “said little else.” Elsewhere in India, Christmas services were interrupted by mobs, and Santa Claus was burned — in effigy, obviously. If India’s leaders want to see where tolerance of religious militancy leads, they need only look across the border to arch-rival Pakistan. In a particularly brutal example of mob violence this month, Priyantha Kumara, a Sri Lankan factory manager in the Pakistani town of Sialkot, was beaten, stoned and then set on fire by his own workers — supposedly because he had committed blasphemy.  Kumara worked in one of Sialkot’s many export-focused garment factories; the city’s businessmen worry that if it gets a reputation for violence and sectarianism, their trade and investment partners will look elsewhere. National leaders should be no less concerned. Some analysts have suggested the US might seek to reorient its relationship with Pakistan toward boosting trade and increasing investment by American firms. That seems, to put it mildly, unlikely in a place where expatriate executives fear possible lynching.  Practical considerations should shock India’s politicians into action, if moral ones don’t. The states that the Ganges flows through after passing Haridwar are India’s heartland and central to the BJP’s stranglehold on power in New Delhi. And yet, the 300 million-plus people who live there are — according to the government’s own figures — among the poorest and most deprived in the world. The current government of Uttar Pradesh has failed to improve matters: The state grew by only 2% a year over the BJP’s five-year tenure and even prior to the pandemic underperformed the national average by 1.6 percentage points a year. To secure the future of this Gangetic plain, investment and trade will need to increase many times over. Economic transformation on such a scale cannot happen where the State fails to protect its citizens or society is fractured, xenophobic and violent. Nobody is going to invest billions in areas that appear vulnerable to religious civil war. Politicians may believe they can ride this tiger. Trying to distract voters with sectarian hatred, however, is a bit like concealing the lack of paint on your house by burning it down. (Bloomberg Opinion) Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/india-s-leaders-are-playing-with-fire-1066635.html
31-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||Hijab-clad students denied entry to classrooms in Udupi college in Karnataka||Six girls, studying in first and second PU in Government Women’s PU College, have accused the principal of not allowing them to wear ‘Hijab’ (headscarf) and attend classes. “For past three days we have been visiting college daily and returning home without attending the classes,” the students charged. College principal Rudra Gowda had reportedly told the students that they will not be allowed to wear hijab inside the classrooms.  The students also complained of being discriminated. “We are not allowed to talk in Urdu, Arabic and Beary languages. While other girls were allowed to speak in Tulu, Konkani and Kannada languages, the students alleged. The ‘aggrieved’ students feared that they might face attendance shortage. “Our parents also tried to meet the principal. But the principal was not ready to talk to them. He is insisting that hijab is not allowed inside the classrooms,” the studentssaid. Members of Campus Front of India and SDPI urged principal to allow the students to attend classes with thehijab. “If the six girl students are not allowed to attend classes, we will stage a protest against these ‘fascists’,” Udupi SDPI president Nazeer Ahmed warned. Principal Gowda clarified that there were more than 60 Muslim girl students studying in the college. “Barring these six students, none of them wear hijab,” he said. The principal said the parents had agreed to adhere to the college rules during a meeting. Udupi Deputy commissioner Kurma Rao told DH that he had asked Deputy Director of PU department (DDPU) to submit a report on the incident at the earliest. Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/hijab-clad-students-denied-entry-to-classrooms-in-udupi-college-in-karnataka-1066669.html
31-12-2021||Karnataka Districts||MIA commissions state-of-the-art security operation control room||Mangaluru International Airport (MIA) bid a farewell to the year 2021 on a secure note by commissioning the state-of-the-art security operation control room (SOCC) of the aviation security group (ASG) of the CISF. The new SOCC will effectively assist ASG to eliminate any vulnerable areas in security at the terminal building and the city side area of the airport. This step will further enhance security for every stakeholder using these areas. The SOCC will receive the information feed from high-definition cameras placed at vantage locations that will help the ASG personnel keep vigil on every area of operation in the above-mentioned areas. Plans are under way to install additional cameras that will further enhance the security operations. Mangaluru International Airport and CISF continues to work in tandem to elevate the security apparatus. Krishna Prakash, deputy commandant, CISF and chief airport security officer (CASO) appreciated Mangaluru International Airport for executing the project in a time-bound manner.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mia-commissions-state-of-the-art-security-operation-control-room-1066690.html
31-12-2021||Karnataka Politics||Congress accuses Bommai of trying to sell Hindu temples to BJP members; CM denies||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Friday clarified that the proposed law is aimed at freeing Hindu temples from the government control, as the Congress accused the ruling BJP of planning to sell or hand over them to party cadres. With plans to free Hindu temples from state control, the Chief Minister earlier this week had announced that his government will bring in a law aimed at freeing temples from laws and rules that control them at present. "....we are not handing over temples to anyone, we are only freeing them from the government regimen," Bommai told reporters in response to a question. "It is clear that D K Shivakumar's (state Congress chief) views on Hindu temples are against the feelings of the Hindu worshipers and temple goers," he said. Expressing Congress' opposition to the proposed law, its state president Shivakumar today accused the BJP government of trying to hand over Hindu temples to its workers. "Most of the temples in the state are run under the government's administration, devotees put crores of rupees in donation boxes at these temples, many of the them even have properties that have come from a number of years. They are going to hand them over to their (BJP) workers," he said. "We too are Hindus, who believe in our religion and culture...they (BJP) are trying to push their agenda by raising emotive issues, we will not allow it. I'm telling the Chief Minister to leave aside his false illusions that they will get votes by doing such things," he added. Further asking the government not to meddle with the system in which the temples have been running for years, Shivakumar said, "or else you (BJP) will burn out. We are not anti-Hindu, it is you. Hindu temples are not your property, it is the property of the people of this state." "How cruel...you (BJP) are trying to sell gods and temples," he said, adding that the Congress will not allow it, and that he has called a meeting of senior party leaders on January 4, during which they will come out with a clear stand on the issue. The Chief Minister's announcement to bring in a law to free Hindu temples from state control is seen as another major move by the BJP government after the contentious "Karnataka Protection of Right to Freedom of Religion Bill, 2021," popularly known as the 'anti-conversion bill', that is yet to be passed by the legislative council to become a law. A total of 34,563 temples in the state come under Muzrai (Hindu religious endowment) department, and they have been categorised as grade A, B and C, based on their revenue generation. A total of 207 temples with annual revenue above Rs 25 lakh come under category A, 139 temples between Rs five lakh to Rs 25 lakh come under category B, and 34,217 temples with less than Rs 5 lakh annual revenue under category C. It has been a long-standing demand from several Hindu organisations including the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) that temples should be freed from government control and they be handed over to the Hindu society. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/congress-accuses-bommai-of-trying-to-sell-hindu-temples-to-bjp-members-cm-denies-1066620.html
31-12-2021||Main Article||Hate speech: Time to step back from the brink||On October 30, 1947, when I was a three-year-old, my family had to flee the small Kashmiri town of Budgam, before the onslaught of Pakistani tribals advancing from Baramulla. My father, a J&K government civil servant, managed to hustle us into one of the Dakota aircraft that were shuttling between Delhi and Srinagar, ferrying troops to defend this vital airfield against the marauders. We rejoined father, six months later, to find our home burnt to cinders. We were lucky. The rest of our extended family lived in the small town of Mirpur, now in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir. Within days of Partition, approximately 25,000 Hindu men, women and children — amongst them, my close relatives — were force-marched, by Pakistani irregulars, from Mirpur to a refugee camp in Ali Beg. Only 5,000 made it to the camp, and a year later, the International Red Cross found a mere 1,600 survivors awaiting repatriation to India; the rest, were killed, kidnapped or had taken their own lives. My reason for recalling these personal details is to share two thoughts with the reader. Firstly, notwithstanding the bloodbath and trauma of 1947, as well as loss of home and hearth, I do not recall either my parents or others of their generation teaching us to bear hatred towards Muslims, or to carry a sense of ‘victimhood’.  As they struggled, against huge odds, to rebuild their lives, and grieved for lost family and friends, they acknowledged that in the madness of Partition, such tragedies had occurred on both sides of the Radcliff Line.  Secondly, as a septuagenarian military veteran who has witnessed or participated in all the post-Independence wars and national crises, I wish to convey that rarely have I felt such a deep sense of dismay and apprehension as I do today. The sequence of events that have unfolded over the past few days has given rise to foreboding about the future of my country.  The so-called ‘religious conclave’, held in the holy town of Haridwar December 17-19, saw brazen and open incitement to violence, whereby participants took an oath to “fight, die and kill” in order to make the country a ‘Hindu Rashtra’, and the speakers openly called for every Hindu to bear arms and undertake a “safai abhiyan” (cleansing campaign) to finish off the minority population. Mahatma Gandhi was abused and his assassin Nathuram Godse received fulsome praise; a former Prime Minister was threatened with violence. The aim of transforming a democratic nation, uniquely rich in its religious, cultural, linguistic and caste diversity, into a majority-dominated ‘Hindu Rashtra’ could have been dismissed as absurd, had it not been for its ominous connotations and the manner in which it is being sought.    In addition to this deeply disturbing event, there has emerged a worrisome sequence of incidents across the country. Some examples: the repeated obstruction of Friday namaz in Gurugram, the disruption of Christian prayers and the vandalising of churches in Karnataka, Assam and Haryana. A common thread running through all these unsavoury incidents is the total silence of the political establishment and unabashed foot-dragging by police forces everywhere. The obvious message being conveyed is that mobs and fringe groups can take the law into their own hands and threaten or actually inflict violence with impunity, as long as they claim to be acting in the ‘cause’ of the majority’s religion.  Rational politicians must realise that even if such repulsive and unethical ploys win them votes or elections, they would have created a socio-political Frankenstein’s monster which will certainly come back to devour them, before it destroys the whole country. Neighbouring Pakistan provides a stark example of how simplistic approaches, dreamt-up by religious fanatics, can have disastrous consequences. Created as the first theocratic State of modern times, Pakistan started unravelling as soon as it adopted religious fundamentalism as State policy and mobilised Sharia law to victimise religious minorities and even some non-conformist Muslims. By 1971, culture, language and ethnicity had provided a far stronger magnetic force than Islam, and East Pakistan broke away to become independent Bangladesh. To view the situation through a national security prism, let us pay heed to our military leadership, which continues to warn the nation about the possibility of a “two and a half front war”. While the “two fronts” obviously refer to our nuclear-armed adversaries, China and Pakistan, who covet our territory, the “half front” that worries our Generals is the internal security threat represented by the existing Naxal insurgency and ongoing separatist movements in Kashmir and the North-Eastern states. Over this volatile scenario, if you now superimpose religious/sectarian fratricidal conflicts, the cumulative threat could overwhelm India’s security apparatus and bring us to the brink of disaster. Thus, as India struggles to cope with the triple-crisis posed by Covid-19, China’s border incursions, and the economic downslide, we need to reflect upon the adverse impact that the pursuit of majoritarianism is having on our heterogeneous society as well as on our security, well-being and international image.  Tolerance is the hallmark of a self-confident and dynamic civilisation. India’s Hindus must, therefore, retain faith in their proud identity and repel attempts to induce paranoid sentiments of victimhood in their own homeland, where they outnumber minorities 80 to 20.  Elections come and go, but India’s ruling elite must recognise that in a multi-faith society like ours, religious polarisation can cause irreparable damage to the fragile fabric of our nationhood. India’s supreme national interest will be best served if we retain a sharp focus on unity and internal cohesion through assimilation, inclusivity and maintenance of domestic harmony; everything else is a distraction from the vital task of nation-building. If such wisdom dawns on them, there is still time for India to step back from the brink.  (Admiral Arun Prakash, who was awarded Vir Chakra for his gallantry in the India-Pakistan war in 1971, retired as the chief of Indian Navy and the chairman of the Chiefs of Staff Committee in 2006.) Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/hate-speech-time-to-step-back-from-the-brink-1066322.html
31-12-2021||National||'Invented' names do not alter status: India rejects Chinese names for areas in Arunachal Pradesh||India on Thursday strongly rejected China renaming some places in Arunachal Pradesh and asserted that the state has "always been" and will "always be" an integral part of India and that assigning "invented" names does not alter this fact. India's reaction came in response to Beijing announcing Chinese names for 15 more places in Arunachal Pradesh which the neighbouring country claims as South Tibet. "We have seen such. This is not the first time China has attempted such a renaming of places in the state of Arunachal Pradesh. China had also sought to assign such names in April 2017," External Affairs Ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said. "Arunachal Pradesh has always been, and will always be an integral part of India. Assigning invented names to places in Arunachal Pradesh does not alter this fact," he said. Bagchi was responding to a media query on reports that China has renamed some places in Arunachal Pradesh in its own language. China's Ministry of Civil Affairs announced on Wednesday that it had standardised in Chinese characters, Tibetan and Roman alphabet the names of 15 places in Zangnan, the Chinese name for Arunachal Pradesh, according to state-run Global Times. This is in accordance with regulations on geographical names issued by the State Council, China's cabinet, it said in a report. Among the official names of the 15 places, which were given exact longitude and latitude, eight are residential places, four are mountains, two are rivers and one is a mountain pass, the report said. This is the second batch of standardised names of places in Arunachal Pradesh given by China. The first batch of the standardised names of six places was released in 2017. China claims Arunachal Pradesh as part of South Tibet. The eight residential places in the second batch are Sengkezong and Daglungzong in Cona County of Shannan Prefecture, Mani'gang, Duding and Migpain in Medog County of Nyingchi, Goling, Damba in Zayu County of Nyingchi, and Mejag in Lhunze County of Shannan Prefecture, the Global Times report said. The four mountains are Wamo Ri, Dêu Ri, Lhünzhub Ri and Kunmingxingzê Feng, it said. The two rivers are Xenyogmo He and Dulain He, and the mountain pass is named Se La, in Cona County. The report quoted Lian Xiangmin, stated to be an expert with the China Tibetology Research Centre in Beijing, claiming that the announcement is part of the national survey on place names that have existed for hundreds of years. China's renaming of the places in Arunachal Pradesh came in the midst of the lingering eastern Ladakh border standoff that began in May last year. Following the standoff, India bolstered its overall military preparedness along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the Arunachal Pradesh sector as well. Eastern Army Commander Lt Gen Manoj Pande said in October that China has increased the intensity of its military exercises and deployment of troops in its depth areas opposite the LAC in the Arunachal Pradesh sector. He said that India has correspondingly readied contingency plans to deal with any eventualities. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/invented-names-do-not-alter-status-india-rejects-chinese-names-for-areas-in-arunachal-pradesh-1066425.html
31-12-2021||National||Community spread of Omicron can overwhelm hospitals: Experts||Senior doctors in Delhi on Thursday warned that though the data collected so far suggests that the Omicron variant of coronavirus causes mild infection, there is a need to remain watchful as a community spread can still strain hospitals. The elderly and those having comorbidities are at serious risk, they said. Earlier in the day, Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain said Omicron is gradually spreading in the community and the new, fast-spreading variant of concern has been found in 54 per cent of the latest samples analysed in the national capital. He also said that the variant will only spread further in the coming days. Dr Piyush Jain, Medicine Department, Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital, said, "Data from some foreign countries shows that the Omicron variant causes mild infection in most of the cases. But we do not have the data from India yet." However, it can still put the elderly and those having comorbidities at serious risk. Dr Jugal Kishore, head of community medicine at Safdarjung Hospital said people who are "immunocompromised, or have HIV or secondary infections need to take care of themselves and not step out... take regular medications and monitor their sleep cycle." Sumit Ray, head of department of Critical Care Medicine at Holy Family Hospital said the sheer number of Omicron cases can overwhelm hospitals. "We have to be watchful. In South Africa, there have been fewer hospitalisations (due to Omicron). Most of the hospitalisations in other foreign countries are because of Delta. But if the number of infections is 2 lakh per day, like in France, and the hospitalisations due to Omicron are one-seventh or one-eighth of that number, it's a fairly high number," he said. Delhi on Thursday recorded 1,313 new Covid-19 cases, the highest single-day rise since May 26, while the positivity rate mounted to 1.73 per cent, according to health department data. According to Union health ministry data updated on Thursday, India recorded the highest daily rise of 180 Omicron cases, taking the total tally of such infections in the country to 961. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/community-spread-of-omicron-can-overwhelm-hospitals-experts-1066428.html
31-12-2021||National||Centre notifies sale of electoral bonds through SBI||In a significant notification ahead of the Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, Goa, Punjab, Manipur and Uttarakhand scheduled early next year, the Finance Ministry said on Thursday that the State Bank of India (SBI) has been assigned to issue and encash electoral bonds through its 29 authorised branches from January 1-10 next year. The electoral bonds shall be valid for 15 calendar days from the date of issue and no payment shall be made to any payee political party if the bond is deposited after the expiry of the validity period, according to an official statement. "The electoral bond deposited by an eligible political party in its account shall be credited on the same day," it read. The Centre had notified the Electoral Bond Scheme in 2018. As per the provisions of the scheme, electoral bonds may be purchased by a person who is a citizen of India or incorporated or established in India. A person being an individual can buy electoral bonds, either singly or jointly with other individuals. "Only the political parties registered under Section 29A of the Representation of the People Act, 1951 (43 of 1951) and which secured not less than 1 per cent of the votes polled in the last general elections to the House of the People or the Legislative Assembly of the state, shall be eligible to receive the electoral bonds," the Finance Ministry statement said. The electoral bonds shall be encashed by an eligible political party only through a bank account with the authorised bank. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-notifies-sale-of-electoral-bonds-through-sbi-1066435.html
31-12-2021||National||DH Toon | Rahul Gandhi is now 'working from plane'||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has left for a brief visit abroad, a day after the party celebrated its 137th foundation day. Gandhi is learnt to be on a short visit to Italy. "Rahul Gandhi is on a brief personal visit. BJP and its friends in the media should not spread unnecessary rumours," AICC chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-rahul-gandhi-is-now-working-from-plane-1066443.html
31-12-2021||National||Rajya Sabha secretariat to conduct study to improve functionality, efficiency||The Rajya Sabha Secretariat is embarking on a study in the new year to improve its functioning, equip its officials for higher leadership positions and make Parliamentary committee reports more comprehensible so that it attracts more space in the media. A brainchild of Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu, sources said, the study will examine process redesign and leadership promotion with an "imaginative and interpretative approach". Advisor in the Rajya Sabha Secretariat Dr P P K Ramacharyulu, who was Secretary-General till recently, has been assigned to examine in detail 10 aspects of the functioning of the Secretariat and suggest a framework for redesigning the systems for better performance on a sustainable basis. The study will focus on improving the functional systems in the Secretariat that enable evidence-based interpretation of the functioning of Rajya Sabha. Sources said the study will seek to integrate various initiatives taken during the last four years under Naidu for better monitoring of output and service delivery. It will also examine in detail the inadequacies in the functioning of the Secretariat. With Naidu taking a personal interest in the functioning of the Parliamentary committees under Rajya Sabha, sources said Naidu is keen that there is an amplification of the content and recommendations contained in the reports. Concerned over the "sub-optimal media coverage" in this regard, he has specifically said that the study should examine the structure of preparation of reports by the Committees. The reports should be easily comprehensible and there could be a briefing of the media on major reports, he has suggested. For preparing the report, Ramacharyulu will look into process re-engineering, quantification of output/services to be delivered by 12 divisions measures to improve the functioning of the Committees of Rajya Sabha and leadership promotion by equipping Secretariat officials for higher positions through a holistic understanding of various aspects and nuances of the functioning of the House. He would also look at the aspects of promotion of team spirit and a sense of involvement and coordinated effort for better communication outreach through media on various aspects of the functioning of the House. Sources said Naidu felt that various divisions need to function in a more integrated manner and since the assumption of office, he has emphasised the need for quantification of various aspects of the functioning of Rajya Sabha for effective monitoring of the performance of the Secretariat and the House. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajya-sabha-secretariat-to-conduct-study-to-improve-functionality-efficiency-1066431.html
31-12-2021||National||India's Omicron tally at 1,270; 16,764 new Covid-19 cases||India saw the highest single-day rise of 309 cases of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus, taking the country's tally of such cases to 1,270, the Union health ministry said on Friday. It also recorded 16,764 fresh Covid-19 cases and 220 more fatalities due to the viral disease. Of the 1,270 patients infected with the Omicron variant of the virus, 374 have either recuperated or migrated, according to the ministry's data updated at 8 am. Of the 23 states and Union territories that have recorded Omicron cases so far, Maharashtra has registered the highest number of 450, followed by Delhi (320), Kerala (109) and Gujarat (97). The daily rise in the number of coronavirus cases crossed the 16,000 mark after 64 days, taking the country's Covid-19 tally to 3,48,38,804, while the number of active cases of the infection has gone up to 91,361, according to the data. The death toll due to the viral disease has climbed to 4,81,080 with 220 more fatalities, the data stated. The country had witnessed 16,156 fresh coronavirus cases on October 27.   The 91,361 active Covid cases account for 0.26 per cent of the total caseload, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.36 per cent, the ministry said. An increase of 8,959 cases was recorded in the active Covid-19 tally in a span of 24 hours. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.34 per cent. It has remained below two per cent for 88 days now. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 0.89 per cent. It has remained below one per cent for 47 days now, according to the ministry. The number of patients who have recuperated has gone up to 3,42,66,363, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.38 per cent. The cumulative number of Covid vaccine doses administered in the country so far has exceeded 144.54 crore. India's Covid-19 tally crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and the one-crore mark on December 19 last year.  The country crossed the grim milestone of two crore coronavirus cases on May 4 this year and the three-crore mark on June 23. The 220 new fatalities include 164 from Kerala and 22 from Maharashtra. Of the 4,81,080 Covid deaths reported so far in the country, 1,41,518 are from Maharashtra, 47,441 from Kerala, 38,327 from Karnataka, 36,765 from Tamil Nadu, 25,107 from Delhi, 22,915 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,757 from West Bengal. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that a state-wise distribution of the figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-omicron-tally-at-1270-16764-new-covid-19-cases-1066462.html
31-12-2021||National||Loss of taste and smell not noted in Omicron Covid-19 cases: IMA||Loss of taste and smell, which were noted to be common symptoms during the Covid-19 pandemic’s first and second waves, are not being reported among the cases of the Covid-19 Omicron variant, said medical experts while issuing guidelines for the public.  The Indian Medical Association-Maharashtra State (IMA-MS) categorically stated that the Omicron variant cannot be taken lightly, stating that during a pandemic, the virus changes character. “We have to take all precautions. Any problems, one must consult a doctor and not engage in self-medication. Masks and Covid-appropriate-behaviour must be a rule. Besides, the unvaccinated must get jabbed," Dr Suhas Pingle, President, IMA-MS, told DH Friday.  The third wave seems to be different from the first and second waves of the pandemic. Accordingly, the IMA-Maharashtra State has come out with a detailed advisory note, entailing dos and don’ts.  “Omicron is a new variant of Covid-19 virus. The second wave was worse with the Delta variant. Fortunately, in most of the countries where the Omicron wave is witnessed, in spite of high spread and infectivity, the virulence appears to be milder than the Delta variant. Symptoms of Omicron seen are fever, sore throat, running nose, weakness, fatigue, backache, bodyache and headache,” the advisory states.  “Loss of taste and smell, which were noted to be common symptoms during the first and second waves, are not seen in the new cases,” it stated.  “Though it appears to be a milder viral variant, we can't take it lightly. It can pose a risk as viruses and variants have varying and changing natural history, which we are still evaluating for the new variants,” it said. Omicron, a new variant of SARS-CoV-2 that was recently reported from South Africa on November 24, 2021 is called B.1.1.529 or Omicron.  This variant has exhibited more than 30 mutations on the viral spike protein, which is the key target of the immune response. “Given the collection of mutations in Omicron, which earlier individually have been associated with increased infectivity and/or immune evasion, and the sudden rise in the number of positive cases in South Africa, the World Health Organization had declared Omicron as a Variant of Concern. Now we are witnessing it in our country,” the advisory points out.  In an explainer, it said: “Variants are a normal part of evolution and as long as the virus is able to infect, replicate and transmit, they will continue to evolve. Evolution, change in genetic sequences, mutations are a natural and known nature of viruses. Further, all variants are not dangerous and most often we don’t even notice them. Only when they are more infectious or can reinfect people, they are noticed. The most important step to avoid the generation of variants is to reduce the number of infections. So, everybody taking care, safeguarding themselves is going to be essential for now and for the future as well.” Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/loss-of-taste-and-smell-not-noted-in-omicron-covid-19-cases-ima-1066468.html
31-12-2021||National||Bajrang Dal says 'no' to New Year celebrations||After Valentine's Day, the right-wing Bajrang Dal is now targeting New Year celebrations. Bajrang Dal activists in Varanasi have put up posters in malls and hotels, warning people "not to promote western culture in Kashi by celebrating New Year". The Bajrang Dal has termed the promotion of western culture as "immoral and anti-religious" and warned that its activists will strongly oppose any such New year celebrations and events in the city. Bajrang Dal convener Nikhil Tripathi 'Rudra' said: "New Year celebration is a meaningless event. It has no morality and has nothing to do with spirituality. Such events take the youth of the country on the wrong path." Tripathi alleged that the liquor and drug mafia try to take advantage of the situation on the pretext of celebration. "As there will be celebrations at many places in the city, we will stage protest peacefully and within the limits of law after the permission of the police administration." However, the police said that no one will be allowed to disturb law and order. The Bajrang Dal has also demanded a ban on the sale of liquor in bars, pubs, hotels and clubs during New Year. Commissioner of Police A Satish Ganesh said: "No one will be allowed to take law in their hands. If anything goes wrong, the police will take action. We have made proper arrangements for the peaceful New Year celebration." Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bajrang-dal-says-no-to-new-year-celebrations-1066482.html
31-12-2021||National||Serum Institute applies for full approval of Covishield||Serum Institute of India (SII) CEO Adar Poonawala on Friday said the vaccines major has applied to Indian authorities for full market authorisation of Covishield, stating supplies of the Covid-19 vaccine have exceeded 125 crore doses. SII had partnered with the developer of Covishield, AstraZeneca, for the supply of the vaccine to the Indian government, which had in January this year granted emergency use authorisation in the country. "Supplies of the COVISHIELD vaccine in India, have exceeded 1.25 billion doses. The government of India now has enough data for full market authorisation, and therefore @SerumInstIndia has applied to the @CDSCO_INDIA_INF (DCGI) and @MoHFW_INDIA  for this permission," Poonawala said in a tweet tagging the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) and Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. Covishield, along with Bharat Biotech's Covaxin were the first two vaccines approved by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) in January this year, under emergency use authorisation against the pandemic. Already in the US, Pfizer-BioNTech's Covid-19 vaccine has received full USFDA approval for use in individuals 16 years of age and older, transitioning from an earlier emergency use authorisation (EUA) approval. EUA is granted by authorities during public health emergencies to provide access to medical products after determining that the known and potential benefits of a product, when used to prevent, diagnose, or treat the disease, outweigh the known and potential risks of the product. In case of full market authorisation, the vaccines need to undergo the standard regulatory process for reviewing the quality, safety and effectiveness of medical products. In October this year, the Pune-based SII had submitted the final phase 2/3 clinical study report of India with its application for grant of regular market authorization for Covishield. The firm had also submitted phase-3 clinical study results of 24,244 subjects from the UK, Brazil and South Africa on June 8, 2021, to the CDSCO. Also, phase-3 clinical study results of 32,379 subjects from the US, Chile and Peru were submitted on July 9. Earlier this week, SII's Covid-19 vaccine Covovax, Biological E's jab Corbevax and anti-Covid pill Molnupiravir were granted emergency use authorisation in India. Prior to that, six Covid-19 vaccines -- SII's Covishield, Bharat Biotech's Covaxin, Zydus Cadila's ZyCoV-D, Russia's Sputnik V and the US-made Moderna and Johnson and Johnson -- had already received EUA from the Indian drug regulator.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/serum-institute-applies-for-full-approval-of-covishield-1066495.html
31-12-2021||National||Cong slams govt for 'inaction' against China over naming places in Arunachal Pradesh||After the Chinese government renamed 15 places of Arunachal Pradesh, the Congress on Friday slammed the Modi-led government for "inaction and shying away from naming China for the land grab of Indian Territory." Leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge said, "China is 'renaming' 15 places in Arunachal Pradesh. Satellite images had recently showed China has also built two villages in our territory. PM Modi and his Beijing Janata Party leaders shy away from even naming China! All they do is distract and deny this land grab by the Chinese." China's Ministry of Civil Affairs issued a statement stating that they have 'standardised' names for 15 places in Arunachal Pradesh, to be used on the Chinese maps. This is the second time China has renamed some places of Arunachal Pradesh. Earlier, in 2017, China had changed the names of six places. On October 23, the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress, China's top legislative body, passed a new law citing "protection and exploitation of the country's land border areas". The committee had stated that the new law will come into effect from January 1. The law is not meant specifically for the border with India. China shares its 22,457-km land boundary with 14 countries, including India, the third-longest after the borders with Mongolia and Russia. The new border law has 62 articles and seven chapters. As per the law, the People's Republic of China shall set up boundary markers on all its land borders to clearly mark the border. The type of marker is to be decided in agreement with the relevant neighbouring state. Congress has been critical of the government's handling of disputes with China. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cong-slams-govt-for-inaction-against-china-over-naming-places-in-arunachal-pradesh-1066498.html
31-12-2021||National||GST hike on textiles deferred amid industry pushback||The GST Council in an emergency meeting on Friday decided to withdraw its decision to hike the goods and services tax on textiles up to Rs 1,000 to 12% from January 1 from the existing 5%. A similar demand for tax rationalisation for footwear below Rs 1,000 was not agreed to in the meeting. As a consequence, with effect from January 1, 2022, all footwear, irrespective of prices, will attract GST at 12%. Also, there was no discussion on extending the period of compensation cess to five more years beyond June 2022. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said that she got representations from many states saying the decision would impact the lower end of buyers. “This was not the intent,” she said. ”While the decision has come in a day before the rate change for textiles was to go live, it is a welcome one and should benefit the textile sector as well as consumers. An alternate mechanism to correct the inverted duty structure could also be to enhance the refund route to cover a refund of input services as well, which could address the accumulation in the hands of the manufacturers, said Mahesh Jaising, Partner, Deloitte India. Issue related to the GST rate on textile will be sent to the rate rationalisation committee which will submit a report by February, the finance minister said. The Council in its previous meeting on September 17 had decided to correct the inverted duty structure in footwear and textile sectors. Gujarat, West Bengal, Delhi, Rajasthan and Tamil Nadu had demanded rollback of the proposed hike on textiles. States including Kerala raised the demand for extension of the compensation period for five years but there was no response. Traders' body CAIT hailed the decision on textiles saying it would have shut shops of lakhs of small companies but said the Council should also adhere to the demand of the footwear industry. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gst-hike-on-textiles-deferred-amid-industry-pushback-1066500.html
31-12-2021||National||Maharashtra tops India's Omicron tally with 450 cases||With 309 new cases of highly transmissible Covid variant Omicron detected in the last 24 hours, India's Omicron tally on Friday rose to 1,270 cases. Of total, 374 have been discharged. Among the 23 states and UTs that have reported the Omicron infection so far, Maharashtra tops the list with 450 cases of this variant. Of them, 125 patients have been discharged as per the health ministry data. Delhi has the second-highest cases of Omicron infection at 320. However, 57 of them have been discharged from the hospital. Delhi is followed by Kerala with 109 Omicron cases. The Union health ministry on Friday morning said that the Omicron infection has so far spread into 23 states and UTs. Among other states, Gujarat has so far reported 97 Omicron cases and Rajasthan has a total of 69 cases. In Telangana, 62 people have so far tested positive for Omicton while in Tamil Nadu the count stands at 46. Karnataka has logged 34 cases and Andhra Pradesh so far has 16 cases of this variant. Haryana and Odisha have 14 Omicron cases each while West Bengal has reported 11 cases so far. However, the Omicron case count is in single digit for Madhya Pradesh at 9 and Uttarakhand at 4 cases while Chandigarh and Jammu &amp; Kashmir have 3 cases each. Uttar Pradesh and Andaman and Nicobar Islands have 2 cases so far. Meanwhile, Goa, Himachal Pradesh and Ladakh, Manipur and Punjab have one case each so far. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-tops-indias-omicron-tally-with-450-cases-1066501.html
31-12-2021||National||NIA registers case against Sikhs for Justice operative for 'attempts to revive terrorism in Punjab'||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has registered a case against Jaswinder Singh Multani, an alleged operative of the Sikhs for Justice (SFJ) who has been detained in Germany, for hatching a criminal conspiracy to wage war against India and attempting to revive terrorism in Punjab, officials said on Friday. According to the officials, a case against Multani, who was detained in Germany last week, was booked under various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), including those related to waging war against the country, and the relevant provisions of the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). The officials said the case relates to a criminal conspiracy hatched by Multani with several other pro-Khalistani elements located abroad for radicalising, motivating and recruiting youngsters in Punjab, on the ground and online through social media platforms, to propagate their ideology with an aim to secede Punjab from the Union of India. They have been involved in raising funds to procure arms, ammunition and explosives by using smuggling networks in Punjab to revive terrorism in the state, the officials said, adding that Multani has also been in contact with ISI operatives for carrying out terror attacks in Mumbai and other parts of the country. The registration of the case would help the government take requisite action in accordance with law for expeditious investigation so that Multani could either be deported or extradited to India, they said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nia-registers-case-against-sikhs-for-justice-operative-for-attempts-to-revive-terrorism-in-punjab-1066508.html
31-12-2021||National||SFI to form 'anti-drop out squads' in 2022 to bring dropped out students back to campuses||With Covid-19 wrecking the lives of marginalised sections, the Students’ Federation of India is launching ‘anti-dropout squads’ across the country in the new year to identify students dropped out during the pandemic and bring them back to schools and colleges. The CPI(M)-backed students organisation is also planning to intensify its struggle against digital divide in the education sector by opposing increase in mobile data rates by private mobile operators and urging the government to come out with student friendly data packs. The survey would record income loss during lockdown, fees, details on continuation of studies, access to digital learning and reasons for dropout. The SFI will be fanning out its activists in college units to identify dropped out students through a survey in January, then prepare a report and ask state governments to take steps to support such youth to come back to campuses. The SFI initiated the pilot survey in 24 North Parganas recently. The action plan comes after the SFI released 'A Pandemic that Ended Education for Many' in its publication 'Indian Researcher' earlier this year after studying the trends of enrollment and facilities available at households based on government and private studies.  “Pandemic has impacted the lives of people. Mostly those from the Dalit and tribal sections are suffering. Earlier, students used to do part-time jobs. But now, it is full-time job and part-time education,” SFI National General Secretary Mayukh Biswas told DH. Dipsita Dhar, SFI National Joint Secretary, said the last two years have witnessed increasing dropout rates, especially from the marginalised sections. “Many of their parents lost jobs and many of them had to forcefully take up different economic activities. The girl students got most affected, some of them were married off, some of them became mothers at a very early age. We missed out all these people from our education system,” she said. “We see education in a developing country as a tool of mobility. It is supposed to give opportunities for employment and empowerment. Majority of people who need this tool most, they are pushed out from the system,” Dhar told DH. Biswas said the re-opening of schools and colleges are a must, as it is adding to the dropout rates. He said the government’s National Education Policy that allows closure of schools with less than 30 students will be detrimental to people in rural India. On fighting digital divide, Biswas said the SFI has already staged protests against mobile operators jacking up data prices. He demanded special data packs for students and urged the government to introduce data packs for students. According to the study released by the SFI, opening of physical classrooms along with mass vaccination of students is the only option to retain students within education. “Covid-19 pandemic and subsequent lockdown have created an enormous social and economic divide, which often pushes the students out of their school and college education if there is no state support available,” it said. Students from marginalised sections were forced to leave education and remain either casually employed or even unemployed while seeking work, it said. The study also highlighted “forced work” for girl students pursuing higher education. Citing the Time Use Survey Data of 2019, it said the burden of domestic work and reproductive labour was almost thrice for girl students in the age group of 18-30 years compared to men of the same age group.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sfi-to-form-anti-drop-out-squads-in-2022-to-bring-dropped-out-students-back-to-campuses-1066510.html
31-12-2021||National||Explained: Covid-19 'R value' and where India stands||India on Friday reported a spike of 16,764 new Covid-19 cases — the Omicron tally reached 1,270 — indicating that the newest fast-spreading variant is behind the spike in infections. The rating, or simply 'R' in scientific terms, is currently exceeding the value of 1 in major cities, which indicates that the infections are spreading at a faster rate.  Even as there has been no official declaration of a third wave, the situation is currently edging towards a widespread re-emergence of Covid-19 in the country. What is the R number? The R number is a way of rating coronavirus or any disease's ability to spread. It indicates, on average, the number of people that an infected person will pass on the virus to. However, R cannot be captured at the moment people are infected. Hence, experts work by analysing data of the number of cases, deaths and hospital admissions to estimate how fast the virus is spreading. An R number lower than 1 indicates that the disease will stop spreading as there aren't enough people being infected to sustain the outbreak. However, an R value of 1 or above indicates that the chain of an outbreak has not been broken, with one person spreading the virus to at least one other. The current scenario The report stated that the sharpest spikes are being reported in Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru, Pune, Kolkata and Chennai, among other major cities. Experts said that it is not just the large population that is the main cause, but the arrival of foreigners as well as a lack of better testing infrastructure. According to the report, the magnitude or the quality of the current surge cannot be estimated, as the Omicron variant deviates from the previous variants of the coronavirus. While initial data in Germany and South Africa suggest that the cases seem to be stabilising after a sharp spike, experts pointed to an unprecedented surge in cases in the US.Despite reports of less severe disease amid higher transmissibility of the Omicron variant, experts also pointed out inconsistent testing during the festive period. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/explained-covid-19-r-value-and-where-india-stands-1066517.html
31-12-2021||National||MHA extends validity of FCRA registration of NGOs by three months till March 31||The Union home ministry on Friday extended the validity of the FCRA registration of NGOs by three months till March 31. However, organisations such as the Missionaries of Charity will not be eligible for the extension benefits as their applications for a renewal of the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act registration have already been rejected, according to a notice issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA). The Centre, in public interest, has decided to extend the validity of the FCRA registration certificates of NGOs up to March 31, 2022 or till the date of disposal of their renewal applications, whichever is earlier, in respect of only those entities that fulfil certain criteria, the notice said. The NGOs with FCRA registration certificates expiring between September 29, 2020 and March 31, 2022 and that have applied for renewal on the FCRA portal before the expiry of the certificates, in accordance with rule 12 of the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Rules, 2011, are eligible for the benefits. "All FCRA registered associations are therefore advised to take note of the fact that in case of refusal of the application for renewal of certificate of registration, the validity of the certificate shall be deemed to have expired on the date of refusal of the application of renewal and the association shall not be eligible either to receive foreign contribution or utilise the foreign contribution received," the notice said. The NGOs that have valid registration certificates under the FCRA are eligible to receive funding from abroad. A total of 22,762 NGOs are registered under the FCRA and the renewal applications of about 6,500 have so far been processed. The MHA, on December 25, rejected the renewal application of the Missionaries of Charity, founded by Mother Teresa in Kolkata, for not meeting the eligibility conditions under the FCRA as some adverse inputs were received. In a statement, the MHA also said it did not freeze any bank account of the Missionaries of Charity, but the State Bank of India had informed that the organisation itself had sent a request to the bank to freeze its accounts. Several political leaders, including West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, slammed the Centre for the rejection of the Missionaries of Charity's FCRA registration renewal application. Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik directed all district collectors on Thursday to ensure that no unit of the Missionaries of Charity operating in the state faces any financial crisis and, if necessary, to use the Chief Minister's Relief Fund to help them.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mha-extends-validity-of-fcra-registration-of-ngos-by-three-months-till-march-31-1066525.html
31-12-2021||National||Hyderpora encounter was transparent; hurt by political leaders’ comments on probe: J&K DGP||Jammu and Kashmir DGP Dilbag Singh on Friday asserted that Hyderpora encounter was “transparent” and that political leaders who have been questioning the “clean chit” given to the forces should submit evidence to the investigation panels. “We have made it clear Hyderpora operation was transparent. If they have evidence, they should present it to the investigation panels,” he said at a press conference on asked about the political leaders’ comments against the probe by the local police. “We feel hurt about the utterances,” Singh added. The top cop also said the political leaders’ comments are unlawful and the law will take its own course in the matter. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hyderpora-encounter-was-transparent-hurt-by-political-leaders-comments-on-probe-jk-dgp-1066535.html
31-12-2021||National||Chinese Embassy's letter to MPs over meeting with Tibetan Parliament-in-Exile evokes strong reaction||A letter by the Chinese Embassy to several Indian lawmakers over attending a reception hosted by the Tibetan Parliament-in-Exile triggered sharp political reactions on Friday, with a prominent parliamentarian slamming the mission for commenting on a matter in which it does not have a locus standi. At least six MPs from various political parties attended the dinner reception in Delhi last week. The Chinese Embassy, in a letter to some of the members of the All-Party Indian Parliamentary Forum for Tibet, expressed concern over their attendance at the event and asked them to refrain from providing support to Tibetan forces. Sujeet Kumar, the convenor of the forum, said the Chinese Embassy has no locus standi to write to an Indian MP. There was no immediate reaction from the government on the issue. Generally, India does not approve of any foreign embassy commenting on the country's internal matters. The Chinese Embassy's letter came in the backdrop of strain in ties between the two countries following the eastern Ladakh border row. Kumar, a BJD MP, said he himself has not received the letter but several other members of Parliament have got it. "I personally treat the letter with the contempt it deserves. It is not the first time the embassy has written to me, it has written to me several times. The embassy does not have any locus standi to write to an Indian parliamentarian. If it had any issue, it could have written to the Ministry of External Affairs. It has violated the protocol," he told PTI. Underlining that the meeting of the Indian MPs with the Tibetan government-in-exile was not a political engagement, Kumar said it was aimed at promoting cultural and trade ties. "We have not met the Tibetan government-in-exile on behalf of the Ministry of External Affairs or the Indian government. We attended the dinner as members of the All-Party Indian Parliamentary Forum for Tibet. Our meeting was aimed at promoting cultural and trade ties between India and Tibet. The forum is advocating for the preservation of Tibetan art, culture and philosophy. We do not want to engage in political activities but wish to increase people-to-people interaction," he said. Kumar added that as an Indian citizen, he can express his views and so can other MPs. He said the members of the forum do intend to visit Dharamshala in Himachal Pradesh and meet the Dalai Lama. When contacted, Manish Tewari of the Congress, who is also a member of the forum, said, "My attention has been drawn to a report published in some English newspaper. Neither have I received any letter nor will I demean or diminish myself by responding to such imbecile missives. Had (Chinese Foreign Minister) Wang Yi written, perhaps I would have considered responding." After a failed anti-Chinese uprising in 1959, the 14th Dalai Lama fled Tibet and came to India, where he set up a government-in-exile. Beijing has, in the past, accused the Dalai Lama of indulging in "separatist" activities and trying to split Tibet, and considers him as a divisive figure. However, the Tibetan spiritual leader has insisted that he is not seeking independence but "genuine autonomy" for all Tibetans living in the three traditional provinces of Tibet. Kumar, who was recently appointed as the convenor of the All-Party Indian Parliamentary Forum for Tibet, said the forum was almost defunct for several years, but it is being revived now. "The forum was very active when late George Fernandes was its convenor. Later, I think it got defunct, it was not very active. Now, it is being revived. We have plans to visit Dharamshala and meet his holiness the Dalai Lama. We also want to talk about the cultural genocide in Tibet," he said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chinese-embassys-letter-to-mps-over-meeting-with-tibetan-parliament-in-exile-evokes-strong-reaction-1066536.html
31-12-2021||National||Rahul Gandhi slams Centre for 'missing' vaccination target||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday slammed the Modi government for not fulfilling its “promise” to fully vaccinate all eligible beneficiaries against Covid-19 by the end of the year. The government had told the Supreme Court in June that it expected the entire eligible population to be vaccinated against Covid-19 by end of the year. “The Centre had promised to vaccinate everyone with two doses of vaccines by end of 2021. Today, the year comes to an end. The country is still away from the vaccine. Another rhetoric bites the dust,” Gandhi said on Twitter. As on Friday afternoon, more than 144.67 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccines had been administered across the country. More than 84.51 crore beneficiaries have received the first dose of the vaccines, while more than 60.15 crore beneficiaries have been received both the doses. The total number of eligible beneficiaries above 18 years of age is 94 crore. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rahul-gandhi-slams-centre-for-missing-vaccination-target-1066537.html
31-12-2021||National||Reserved categories inadequately represented in 8 IITs||Eight IITs in India have inadequate representation of reserved categories in student enrollment, a report by the Comptroller and Auditor General has noted. Shortfalls in some of the IITs were as much as 69% in the post graduate courses, and in PhD courses went up to 100%.  The report, ‘Performance Audit of Setting up of new Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs)’  audited the performance of eight IITs -- Bhubaneswar, Gandhinagar, Hyderabad, Indore, Jodhpur, Mandi, Patna and Ropar -- between 2014 and 2019.  In post graduate courses, IIT Gandhinagar had a shortfall of 30% in the enrollment of Scheduled Caste students, while IIT Hyderabad had a shortfall of 25% and IIT Mandi a shortfall of 23% The shortfall in the enrollment of Scheduled Tribes students in postgraduate courses was again the highest in IIT Gandhinagar (69%), followed by IIT Mandi (66%) and IIT Jodhpur (55%). The shortfall of enrollment of OBC students was significantly lower and IIT Mandi fared the worst at 13%.   The shortfall in PhD courses was more alarming. There was a 100% shortall of ST students in PhD courses at IIT Jodhpur, followed by IIT Indore (97%), IIT Mandi (96%), and IIT Ropar (94%). In all the eight IITs the shortfall of ST students in PhD courses was above 65% For SC students in PhD courses, IIT Ropar fared the worst at 75% followed by IIT Indore (70%) and IIT Gandhinagar (68%). Under the OBC category, the shortfall was high in IIT Gandhinagar (37%), IIT Ropar (36%) and IIT Mandi (32%).  “As per the Central Educational Institutions (Reservation in admission) Act, 2006, out of the annual permitted strength in each branch of study or faculty, 15 per cent, seven and half per cent and 27 per cent seats shall be reserved for the Scheduled Castes (SC), the Scheduled Tribes (ST) and Other Backward Classes (OBC) respectively. Audit observed that the representation of the reserved category was not as prescribed, particularly, in respect of PG and PhD admissions,” said the CAG report.   The report further said that the union ministry of education provided some replies by the IITs in this regard. While IIT Bhunaneshwar said that efforts are being made, IIT Gandhinagar replied that despite adopting measures like fee waivers, peer group assisted learning, lower application fee, relaxations in admission process, seats remain vacant.  The report also said that IIT Hyderabad did not address the shortfall, and IIT Indore said that there was inadequate response by the students belonging to these categories and that it will start special admission drives to fill up the vacancies. IIT Jodhpur, IIT Patna and IIT Mandi, too, cited inadequate number of applicants, and IIT Ropar did not reply. "The Ministry did not state whether it had thought of any measures for filling up the shortfalls,” the CAG report noted.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/reserved-categories-inadequately-represented-in-8-iits-1066543.html
31-12-2021||National||Mustard seed sowing up 22%; wheat slightly down this rabi season: Agriculture Ministry||Area sown under rapeseed/mustard seed crop is higher 22.46 per cent to 88.54 lakh hectare, while the coverage under wheat crop remains slightly lower so far in the ongoing 2021-22 rabi season, according to the latest data released by the agriculture ministry. Wheat, the main rabi crop, has been planted at 325.88 lakh hectare as on Friday, compared with 329.11 lakh hectare in the year-ago period, it said. Sowing of rabi crops like wheat begins in October and harvesting from April onwards. According to the data, total area under oilseeds has increased sharply to 97.07 lakh hectare as on December 31, 2021 from 80.64 lakh hectare in the year-ago period. Among oilseeds, rapeseed and mustard seed were covered in a maximum area of about 88.54 lakh hectare in the period under review as against 72.30 lakh hectare in the year-ago period. Area sown under groundnut remained flat at 3.64 lakh hectare, linseed at 2.57 lakh hectare, sunflower at 1.01 lakh hectare, safflower at 0.68 lakh hectare, sesamum at 0.30 lakh hectare, and other oilseeds at 0.33 lakh hectare in the period, the data showed. Rise in the area under mustard seed crop is a positive sign for a country that depends on imports to meet 60 per cent of its domestic requirement and is struggling to keep retail prices under check amid a global price rise situation. In case of other major rabi crops, area sown under pulses remained slightly lower at 152.62 lakh hectare as on December 31, 2021 as against 154.04 lakh hectare in the year-ago period. Gram, the main rabi pulse, was grown in a slightly higher area of 107.69 lakh hectare as against 105.68 lakh hectare in the year-ago period. Area sown to lentil was marginally higher at 16.76 lakh hectare, while field pea was sown in 9.61 lakh hectare, kulthi in 3.34 lakh hectare, urad bean in 5.66 lakh hectare, moong bean in 2.29 lakh hectare and lathyrus in 3.32 lakh hectare so far in the ongoing rabi season of 2021-22 crop year (July-June). There was less coverage under coarse-cum-nutri cereals as the total area was down at 45.05 lakh hectare as against 46.19 lakh hectare. Jowar sowing was lagging behind at 23.17 lakh hectare so far this rabi season as against 26.05 lakh hectare in the year-ago period, while coverage under maize was up at 14.80 lakh hectare as against 12.89 lakh hectare. Total area under all rabi crops rose to 634.68 lakh hectare so far in the 2021-22 rabi season from 625.04 lakh hectare in the year-ago period, the data showed. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mustard-seed-sowing-up-22-wheat-slightly-down-this-rabi-season-agriculture-ministry-1066544.html
31-12-2021||National||PM Modi likely to celebrate Pongal in Madurai on January 12||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to celebrate Pongal, a harvest festival of Tamils, on January 12 by participating in an event organised by the Tamil Nadu unit of BJP in the temple city of Madurai. Named ‘ModiPongal’, the event will include the cooking of Pongal, a dish, besides other programmes that showcase the vibrant Tamil culture.    Modi is likely to be in Tamil Nadu on January 12 to inaugurate 11 medical colleges from Virudhunagar, 60 km from Madurai. The 11 medical colleges have come up in Virudhunagar, Udhagamandalam (Ooty), Dindigul, Namakkal, Nagapattinam, Kallakurichi, Krishnagiri, Tiruvallur, Ramanathapuram, Ariyalur, and Tiruppur.  This is the first time Modi will visit Tamil Nadu after the DMK won the April 6 assembly elections. Though an ally of the Congress, the DMK is preparing to roll out a red carpet welcome to Modi during his visit terming him as “our guest.” The government medical colleges are part of the ambitious plan to have one medical college for each district. Though it was M Karunanidhi who conceptualised the idea, the AIADMK government led by Edappadi K Palaniswami got sanction for the 11 medical colleges from the Centre.  Sources in Tamil Nadu BJP chief said ModiPongal will be celebrated in Madurai on January 12. Last year, Congress MP Rahul Gandhi had celebrated Pongal near Madurai where he had come to witness Jallikattu, the traditional bull-fighting sport.  Annamalai constituted committees to organise the festival and accord a grand welcome to the Prime Minister. Modi’s visit and participation in Pongal festivities are part of the BJP’s concerted efforts to make inroads into Tamil Nadu. In 2021, BJP chief J P Nadda flew down to Chennai to participate in Pongal celebrations.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-likely-to-celebrate-pongal-in-madurai-on-january-12-1066556.html
31-12-2021||National||India aimed to reshape regional power balance in 2021||In a year bookended by the Coronavirus pandemic, India displayed a firm resolve to expand its strategic influence in reshaping the regional power balance in the face of an increasingly complex geopolitical entanglement of confronting an aggressive China and dealing with the aftermath of the Taliban's swift takeover of power in Kabul. Distrustful of China's politics and policies, India shifted gears in rejuvenating strategic ties with its major partners like the US and Russia and focused on drumming up global support for its distinct strategy in the Indo-Pacific to check Beijing's increasing muscle-flexing in the region. As the bitter border standoff in eastern Ladakh lingered on for over 18 months despite multiple rounds of diplomatic and military talks, India made it amply clear to China that the two countries cannot simultaneously have a "tense, high friction" border and great relations at the same time in all other spheres. India was also among the leading voices globally that focused on rallying support of democratic nations to put in place resilient supply chains and create trusted technologies, a move largely seen as aimed at minimising reliance on China. Another key foreign policy challenge for India was complexities arising out of the situation after the Taliban's lightning military triumph and capture of power in Kabul on August 15 following the departure of the US troops from Afghanistan. Caught by surprise by the speed of the Taliban's juggernaut across Afghanistan, India reached out to major global powers to craft a broad framework in confronting the situation as it was concerned over the possibility of the war-torn country becoming a hotbed for terrorist groups including those having bases in Pakistan. Under India's presidency, the United Nations Security Council adopted a resolution on August 30, demanding that Afghan territory should not be used for terrorism, called for upholding of human rights and pitched for a negotiated political settlement to the crisis. Subsequently, the resolution became the basis for discussions on the Afghan crisis at various global forums and dialogues. Following the Taliban's capture of power, India evacuated a total of 448 Indians and 206 Afghans from Afghanistan as part of its evacuation mission christened "Operation Devi Shakti". In November, India hosted a regional dialogue on Afghanistan that was attended by the national security advisors of Russia, Iran and all the five Central Asian countries. Weeks later, India hosted the foreign ministers of the Central Asian countries at a conclave that called for immediate humanitarian aid to the Afghan people and renewed demand for a "truly inclusive" government in Kabul. One of the key takeaways of India's diplomatic engagement in 2021 was the significant expansion of strategic partnership with the US under the Biden administration that assumed power on January 20. In March, American President Joe Biden hosted the first-ever summit of the Quad leaders in the virtual format that was followed by an in-person summit in Washington in September for which Prime Minister Narendra Modi had travelled to the US. During the visit, Modi held separate bilateral talks with Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris, covering a range of critical areas including tackling climate change and ramping up cooperation in the Indo-Pacific region. "I think that the relationship between India and the United States -- the largest democracies in the world -- is destined to be stronger, closer, and tighter. And I think it can benefit the whole world," Biden said at the meeting with Modi. India's ties with Russia also witnessed major expansion as both sides signed 28 agreements to further broad-base the relations at a summit between Modi and President Vladimir Putin in early December. In the neighbourhood, India's relations with Bangladesh, Nepal, Bhutan, Sri Lanka and the Maldives remained on an upward trajectory. However, India's relations with Pakistan remained unchanged as Islamabad continued its support to cross border terrorism to create unrest in Jammu and Kashmir. India also maintained its diplomatic offensive against Pakistan on the issue of terrorism and remained firm on its position on not having any talks with Islamabad until it stops cross border terrorism. At the fag end of the year, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla paid a two-day visit to Myanmar in the first such high-level outreach from India after that country's military evicted the democratically-elected government of Aung San Suu Kyi in a coup on February 1. In his meetings with the leaders of the ruling dispensation, Shringla sought the restoration of democracy in the country. India's ties with Australia, France, Japan, Germany, the UK, Vietnam, the European Union, G-20 and the African continent also saw an upswing. In late October, Modi travelled to Rome to attend the 16th G-20 Summit. During the visit, he also met Pope Francis in the Vatican. From Italy, Modi flew into Glasgow to attend the COP26 Summit where he made a big announcement that India will reach the target of net zero emissions by 2070. In February, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) had to deal with the situation arising out of criticism by American singer Rihanna, Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg, American actress Amanda Cerniand and several other global celebrities on farmer protests. The MEA reacted sharply to the adverse comments by the global celebrities and activists saying the facts on the issue must be ascertained before rushing to comment on it. As India was reeling under a devastating second wave of coronavirus pandemic, countries across the globe extended a helping hand to it by sending Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO), ventilators, oxygen concentrators and other medical supplies. India also played a significant role in ensuring vaccine equity as it sent around 10 crore doses to around 97 countries under its 'Vaccine Maitri' initiative. The country also pitched for a united global approach to deal with the pandemic with the external affairs minister saying that it has not just been a once-in-a-century shock to the international system but it also thoroughly exposed all its fault-lines and shortcomings. The year 2021 also saw the MEA speeding up its economic diplomacy with a sharper reorientation on achieving concrete outcomes. The Indian missions and posts abroad were conveyed to further the goal of promoting three Ts -- trade, tourism and technology.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-aimed-to-reshape-regional-power-balance-in-2021-1066557.html
31-12-2021||National||No science behind night curfews in India: WHO's Swaminathan||There is no science behind night curfews when it comes to tackling the spread of Covid variants, WHO Chief Scientist Soumya Swaminathan said. In a TV interview, she said that countries like India must formulate science-based policies for curbing the spread of the virus. "Things like night curfew, there is no science behind it. One has to take evidence-based measures. There is a whole list of public health measures," she told CNBC-TV18. "Entertainment venues are places where these viruses spread the most. It's natural to bring in some restrictions there," Swaminathan added. She said that Indians need to be prepared, but not panic. "What we can expect to see in India is a surge of Omicron cases, I think it is just beginning now in some of the cities and is going to infect a lot of people," the WHO scientist said. With 309 new cases of highly transmissible Covid variant Omicron detected in the last 24 hours, India's Omicron tally on Friday rose to 1,270 cases. Of total, 374 have been discharged. Among the 23 states and Union Territories that have reported the Omicron infection so far, Maharashtra tops the list with 450 cases of this variant. Of them, 125 patients have been discharged as per the Health Ministry data. Delhi has the second highest cases of Omicron infection at 320. However, 57 of them have been discharged from the hospital. In a separate tweet on Friday, Swaminathan said: "Hospitalisations are also rising, mostly in unvaccinated people. Though Omicron may cause less severe disease, a small per cent of a huge number is still very large and can overwhelm health systems". "Whatever the #covidvariant, #Omicron or #delta - vaccination protects against hospitalisation and death," she added. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-science-behind-night-curfews-in-india-whos-swaminathan-1066559.html
31-12-2021||National||In Ayodhya, Amit Shah asks people to 'remember' sacrifices for Ram Temple||Union home minister Amit Shah on Friday asked the people not to forget the 'sacrifices' made for the Ram Temple as he likened the laying of the foundation stone of the Ram Temple by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to the reconstruction of Somenath Temple in Gujarat by India's first home minister Vallabhbahi Patel. Addressing a public meeting at Ayodhya, Shah accused the Congress, Samajwadi Party (SP) and BSP of "creating hurdles" in the way of the Ram Temple and asked the people not to support those who never 'respected' the places of worship of the Hindus. "Ram Lala had to spend many years in the tent... people had to make many sacrifices for the Ram Temple... and today a grand Ram Temple is being built here," the former BJP national president said. Shah said that the sacrifices made for the Ram Temple must not be forgotten. "We must remember the sacrifices and also remember those who did not allow the Ram Temple to be built for so many years and who ordered firing on the karsevaks," he added. He also referred to the Kashi Vishwanath Dham in Varanasi and the famous Vindhyavasini Temple in Mirzapur district and said that the Hindu places of worship were not given the respect they deserved by the previous regimes. "Under the Modi-Yogi government these places are being renovated and our cultural heritage is being restored," he said. Earlier the union minister visited the makeshift Ram Temple in Ayodhya and the famous Hanumangarhi temple. He also met the office bearers of the Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust and inquired about the construction status of the Ram Temple. In his earlier public meetings also Shah focussed mainly on the Hindutva issues and sought to paint his rivals as 'Pro-Muslim' and 'anti-Hindu'. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/in-ayodhya-amit-shah-asks-people-to-remember-sacrifices-for-ram-temple-1066560.html
31-12-2021||National||MHA allows some NGOs to collect foreign donations till March 31||Days after rejecting the application of Mother Teresa-founded Missionaries of Charity (MoC) and with over 15,000 applications pending, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on Friday extended the validity of licences of NGOs to collect foreign donations by three months till March 31. Only those NGOs whose renewal applications are pending can avail the benefits of the extension while organisations like the MOC will not be eligible as their applications for renewal of the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act registration has already been rejected. According to the public notice, the MHA said it has "in public interest,...decided to extend the validity of the FCRA registration certificates of NGOs up to March 31, 2022 or till the date of disposal of their renewal applications, whichever is earlier, in respect of only those entities that fulfil certain criteria". The NGOs with FCRA registration certificates expiring between September 29, 2020 and March 31, 2022 and that have applied for renewal on the FCRA portal before the expiry of the certificates, in accordance with rule 12 of the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Rules, 2011, are eligible for the benefits. "All FCRA registered associations are therefore advised to take note of the fact that in case of refusal of the application for renewal of certificate of registration, the validity of the certificate shall be deemed to have expired on the date of refusal of the application of renewal and the association shall not be eligible either to receive foreign contribution or utilise the foreign contribution received," it said. According to MHA, 22,762 NGOs are registered under the FCRA and the renewal applications of about 6,500 have so far been processed. On December 25, the MHA rejected the renewal application of the MoC for not meeting the eligibility conditions under the FCRA following "some adverse inputs". The MHA decision had led to accusations from the Opposition of squeezing the charity organisation. On Thursday, Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik directed all district collectors to ensure that no unit of the MoC in the state faces any financial crisis. If necessary, Patnaik directed, they should use the Chief Minister's Relief Fund to help the MoC.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mha-allows-some-ngos-to-collect-foreign-donations-till-march-31-1066568.html
31-12-2021||National||Tax evasion of Rs 40,000 crore reported in over a year||This has largely been attributed to false invoices or fraud input tax credit claims. The Centre is set to launch a slew of measures on January 1, 2022, hoping to 'plug these loopholes' and counter tax fraud. 'Adequate care was being taken to ensure these did not compromise with the government's ease of doing business initiative', a government official told the publication. An All-India Enforcement Drive was launched on November 9 by the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs, through the Directorate General of GST Intelligence and many Central GST formations. The government official said that more than 5,700 cases, involving an amount of about Rs 40,000 crore, had been spotted. Apart from countering fraud, the new measures seek to 'impart better payment discipline' as well as safeguard the recipient as they may not always be able to determine if their supplier has paid the taxes "These amendments will not, in any way, impact ease of doing business which is achieved in GST through a liberal registration, refund regime and self-compliance mechanism based on self-assessment and self-policing, with little or no manual checks," the official said. Pratik Jain, partner at Price Waterhouse & Co, told The Economic Times, "Most of these changes are aimed at plugging the misuse of input credit and are in the right direction". Several big companies already have in place a system of claiming only matched credit, he said, adding that others would now need to follow suit. However, Jain said that if volumes of transactions are large it would require the use of robust technology - something that is not available at the moment. There is no way for a buyer to tell if the seller has paid the tax, he said. In order to combat tax loopholes, the Centre has taken the GST Council's recommendations and made some amendments to the CGST Act 2017, through the Finance Act, 2021. These take effect on January 1, 2022. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tax-evasion-of-rs-40000-crore-reported-in-over-a-year-1066571.html
31-12-2021||National||Plea filed in SC by Jamiat Ulama-i-Hind against alleged attack on beliefs of Muslims||A petition has been filed in the Supreme Court by Jamiat Ulama-i-Hind and its chief Maulana Syed Mahmood Asad Madani for issuance directions against continuous "attack" on the personality of Prophet Mohammad (PBUH) and alleged disparaging remarks by various persons in different parts of the country "attacking" the very belief system of the Muslim community at large.  The plea also sought a report from the central government in relation to the action taken by different state mechanisms regarding the hate speeches, more particularly targeting the personality of Prophet Mohammad (PBUH), in the light of mandatory direction passed in the case of Tehseen Poonawala Vs Union of India.  The plea contended that insulting Prophet Mohammad was akin to attacking the very foundation of Islam.  It was also contended that such speeches go beyond the limits of a permitted critical denial of another’s beliefs, and were certainly likely to incite religious intolerance, and the state and central government authorities ought to consider the same to be incompatible with respect to  the freedom of thought, conscience and religion, and must take proportionate restrictive measures.  It has been pointed out in the petition that such speeches destroy the secular fabric of the nation which also forms a part of the basic structure of the Constitution. The petition emphasised that the state machinery, bound by the Constitution, ought to have an adversarial relationship with the proponents of such speeches and must take adequate remedial and preventive steps.  However, even after a considerable amount of time, the state authorities have allegedly failed to uphold their duties in this regard. The petitioners also mentioned other steps already taken by them such as lodging complaints before the Police authorities. It was also claimed that through such hate speeches, specifically when made against the religious personalities and Muslim community at large, the diversity of the country and peaceful co-existence of the followers of different religious beliefs come under serious threat. The petition further said that multiple violent acts have taken place in which many precious lives have been lost, mostly of the people belonging to the weaker section of the society, majority of them belonging to the Muslim community.  The plea also sought a direction for setting up an independent committee for compiling all the complaints relating to hate crime in the country and for court-monitored investigation and prosecution of the hate crimes. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plea-filed-in-sc-by-jamiat-ulama-i-hind-against-alleged-attack-on-beliefs-of-muslims-1066582.html
31-12-2021||National||I-T dept detects evasion worth crores after raids on 'foreign-controlled' mobile companies||The Income Tax Department has detected alleged unaccounted income worth over Rs 6,500 crore after it recently raided some "foreign-controlled" mobile communication and handset manufacturing companies and persons linked to them, the CBDT said on Friday. The searches were carried out on December 21 and premises in Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Assam, West Bengal, Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Bihar, Rajasthan and Delhi-NCR were covered. "The search action has revealed that two major companies have made remittance in the nature of royalty, to and on behalf of its group companies located abroad, which aggregates to more than Rs 5,500 crore. "The claim of such expenses does not seem to be appropriate in light of the facts and evidence gathered during the search action," the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT), the policy-making body for the I-T Department, claimed in an official statement issued here. It did not identify the entities searched. The raids "brought out the modus operandi of purchase of the components for manufacturing of mobile handsets. "It is gathered that both these companies had not complied with the regulatory mandate prescribed under the Income Tax Act for disclosure of transactions with associated enterprises," the statement said. Such a lapse, it said, makes them liable for penal action under the I-T Act and the quantum could be more than Rs 1,000 crore. A modus operandi was detected "whereby foreign funds have been introduced in the books of the Indian company but it transpires that the source from which such funds have been received are of doubtful nature, purportedly with no creditworthiness of the lender. "The quantum of such borrowings is about Rs 5,000 crore, on which interest expenses have also been claimed," it said. The CBDT said, "evidence with regard to the inflation of expenses, payments on behalf of the associated enterprises, etc. have also been noticed which led to the reduction of taxable profits of the Indian mobile handset manufacturing company." "Such amount could be in excess of Rs 1,400 crore," it said. The statement claimed one of the companies raided had utilised the services of another entity located in India but did not comply with the provisions of tax deduction at the source introduced from April 2020. "The quantum of liability of TDS on this account could be around Rs 300 crore," it said. In the case of another company covered in the search action, the statement said, it was detected that the control of the affairs of the company was "substantively" managed from a neighbouring country. "The Indian directors of the said company admitted that they had no role in the management of the company and lent their names for directorship for namesake purposes. "Evidence have been gathered on an attempt to transfer the entire reserves of the company to the tune of Rs 42 crore out of India without payment of due taxes," it said. The CBDT said a survey action was also undertaken against certain fintech and software service companies and it was found that a number of such companies had been created for the purposes of inflating expenses and siphoning out funds. "For this purpose, such companies have made payments for unrelated business purposes, as also utilised the bills issued by a Tamil Nadu-based non-existent business concern. "The quantum of such outflow is found to be around Rs 50 crore," it said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/i-t-dept-detects-evasion-worth-crores-after-raids-on-foreign-controlled-mobile-companies-1066606.html
31-12-2021||National||Merchant vessel captain returns to India after spending 16 months in Mauritius jail over oil spill||Merchant vessel captain Sunil Kumar Nandeshwar, who was arrested and jailed for 16 months in Mauritius after his ship ran aground in July 2020 and triggered oil spill off its coast, has returned to India following his release from the island country. Nandeshwar, who resides with his family members in Madhya Pradesh capital Bhopal, reunited with them on Thursday. "I am extremely thankful to the Maritime Union of India (MUI) for its support and help in securing my release from Mauritius jail. I am back home because of the relentless efforts of the MUI general secretary Amar Singh Thakur, who consistently pursued my release from the jail through a series of negotiations and representations with the local maritime union of Mauritius, High Commission of India in Port Louis, Shipping Ministry of India and External Affairs Ministry of India," said Nandeshwar in a release issued by the MUI, India's oldest union of merchant navy officers. Expressing happiness over his return, his wife Namrata said, "Yes, finally my husband is back and our ordeal is over. He is fine and has safely reached home." The 300-meter-long Japanese bulk carrier MV Wakashio under the command of Captain Nandeshwar was en route to Brazil from China when it veered off its course in the evening on July 25, 2020 and hit a coral reef. Two weeks later, fuel oil started leaking with about 1,000 tonnes of it reaching the shores. The vessel then broke into two and sank, it said. Mauritius battled widespread pollution following the oil spill from MV Wakashio, which threatened the livelihoods of local communities that solely depend on the ocean and tourism, the release said. Captain Nandeshwar was arrested by the local police and sentenced in the Intermediate Court of Mauritius, it added. MUI general secretary Thakur said, "The MUI remains committed to provide help, support and legal assistance to all members of the union and Indian seafarers in any part of the world during crisis-like situation and distress." Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/merchant-vessel-captain-returns-to-india-after-spending-16-months-in-mauritius-jail-over-oil-spill-1066621.html
31-12-2021||National||Bengal asks teachers, other staffers with cough, cold, fever to not attend schools||With daily Covid-19 cases doubling within one day, the West Bengal School Education Department has asked teachers and non-teaching staffers having cough, cold or mild fever to not attend schools till they test negative for the infection. The state registered more than 1,000 fresh cases on Wednesday after a gap of nearly six months. The daily count crossed 2,000 on Thursday. "Primary, secondary and higher secondary schools have been asked to ensure that teachers and non-teaching employees don't come to the institutions if they have a cold, cough or mild fever. "Also, they must get tested for COVID-19, and will be allowed to enter the schools only if the results return negative. They will have to produce the reports to the health department," an official told PTI on Friday. While physical classes for standards 9-12 have resumed on November 16, the state government has been mulling to restart lower classes in the offline mode in a phased manner from next year, Education Minister Bratya Basu had earlier said. However, with the fresh spike in cases, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee recently said that the government will review the situation and take steps accordingly, keeping in mind the safety of the students. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bengal-asks-teachers-other-staffers-with-cough-cold-fever-to-not-attend-schools-1066638.html
31-12-2021||National||India's wheat exports rise to $872 mn in Apr-Oct period||India's wheat exports jumped to $872 million during April-October period in the current fiscal on account of healthy demand, with Bangladesh emerging as the top destination, the commerce ministry said on Friday. In volume terms, wheat exports during the said period rose by more than 527 per cent to 3.2 Million Tonnes (MT) from 0.51 MT in the year-ago period. "India's wheat exports in the current fiscal (April – October) rose by 546 per cent to $872 million from $135 million reported during the same period of the previous fiscal," the ministry said. In the current fiscal, wheat exports are expected to achieve an all-time record high in volume terms, it added. India's wheat exports are mainly to neighbouring countries, with Bangladesh having the largest share of more than 54 per cent in both volume and value terms in FY21. Other major wheat export destinations include Nepal, United Arab Emirates, Sri Lanka, Yemen, Afghanistan, Qatar, Indonesia, Oman and Malaysia. These 10 countries account for nearly 99 per cent share of exports in both volume and value terms for FY21. "Though India is not among the top ten wheat exporters in the global trade, its rate of growth in exports have surpassed that of all these countries, indicating the rapid strides it is taking in reaching new markets worldwide," the ministry said. India accounts for even less than one per cent of the world wheat exports. However, its share has increased from 0.14 per cent in 2016 to 0.54 per cent in 2020. India is the second largest producer of wheat with a share of around 13.53 per cent of the world's total production. The country produces around 107.59 MT of wheat annually and a major chunk goes towards domestic consumption. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-wheat-exports-rise-to-872-mn-in-apr-oct-period-1066641.html
31-12-2021||National||Test everyone with flu symptoms, expand RAT facilities, Centre tells states as Covid-19 cases rise||With India’s Covid-19 numbers racing past the 20,000-mark – a three-fold increase in daily case count within four days – the Union Health Ministry on Friday asked the states to commence emergency purchase of rapid diagnostic kits to test everybody having flu or diarrhoea symptoms so that a large section of Covid-19 positive individual scan be isolated quickly. “Any individual presenting with fever with or without cough, headache, sore throat, breathlessness, bodyache, recent loss of taste or smell, fatigue and diarrhoea should be considered as suspected case of Covid-19 unless proven otherwise by confirmation of another etiology,” Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan and ICMR director general Balram Bhargava said in a joint letter to the states. The advice is to test all such individuals and while awating the test results, they should be advised to immediately isolate themselves and follow the home isolation guidelines. The states have been asked to institute emergency procurement procedures to facilitate unhindered supply of diagnostic commodities for Covid-19 and appropriately refine the procurement procedures for emergency procurement from market to expedite the process of expanding the diagnostic network. The latest directive from the Centre comes on a day when India’s Covid-19 numbers raced past the 20,000-mark – a dramatically high jump of 7,000 odd daily cases reported daily between Dec 15-27, riding high on increased caseload in Maharashtra and Delhi, and in the metro cities. The states have been asked to rapidly augment the rapid antigen test network if the number of cases rises above a threshold value as RT-PCR test takes about 5-8 hours to give results. The advice is to set up multiple RAT booths that would give citizens round-the-clock options to test themselves. “RATS may be allowed at government and private health care facilities including all hospitals, dispensaries, nursing homes, clinics, district hospitals, primary health centers, etc. No accreditation is required for undertaking rapid antigen testing by any healthcare facility,” the order said. Since December 15, India’s Covid-19 testing numbers remained somewhat stagnant at around 10-12 lakh tests per day. The highest 12.50 lakh tests were conducted on December 30. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/test-everyone-with-flu-symptoms-expand-rat-facilities-centre-tells-states-as-covid-19-cases-rise-1066651.html
31-12-2021||National||Over 145 crore Covid jabs administered in India: Centre||India's Covid-19 vaccination coverage crossed 145 crore on Friday with more than 52 lakh vaccine doses being administered in the day, the Union health ministry said. The daily vaccination tally is expected to increase with the compilation of the final reports for the day by late tonight, it said. In a tweet, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said, "Ending the year on a great note by crossing the milestone of 145 crore #COVID19 vaccinations. My gratitude to our doctors, scientists, healthcare & frontline workers for displaying immense grit, determination & resolve in the challenging 2021 year." The ministry said India's Covid-19 vaccination coverage has crossed 145 crore (145,09,24,269). As many as 52,29,437 vaccine doses were administered till 7 pm on Friday. As many as 49,98,44,248 first doses and 33,35,17,687 second doses of the Covid vaccine have been administered to individuals in the 18-44 age group across the country since the start of phase-3 of the vaccination drive on May 1, according to ministry data. Cumulatively, 84,46,46,530 first doses and 60,62,77,739 second doses have been administered, the ministry said. The vaccination exercise as a tool to protect the most vulnerable population groups in the country from Covid-19 continues to be regularly reviewed and monitored at the highest level, it underlined. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-145-crore-covid-jabs-administered-in-india-centre-1066689.html
31-12-2021||National||Will give Rs 22L to police officer if Owaisi arrested, announce right wing members||Demanding the release of Hindu seer Kalicharan Maharaj, members of several right wing organisations took to streets here on Friday. They also announced a cash reward of Rs 22 lakh for any police officer that arrests All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) chief Asaduddin Owaisi. Kalicharan was arrested by the Chhattisgarh Police on Thursday for allegedly making derogatory remarks against Mahatma Gandhi and praising his assassinator Nathuram Godse during 'Dharma Sansad' in Raipur a few days ago. Scores of activists gathered at Tank Park opposite the deputy commissioner's residence and marched to the Mini Secretariat raising slogans demanding the release of Kalicharan and the arrest of Owaisi. They said they will not tolerate the 'humiliation' meted out to seers and other religious figures. “Everyone has the right to freedom of expression. Sant Kalicharan was nabbed with an agenda. Why have the police and the government not arrested Owaisi? The police officer that nabs Owaisi will be awarded Rs 22 lakh," Hindu leader and advocate Kulbhushan Bhardwaj, who headed the protest march, said. He also submitted a memorandum to Naib Tehshildar Sushil Kumar keeping forth the two demands. Recently, an undated video clip of Owaisi's speech was making the rounds on social media. Several right wing activists had alleged that the Hyderabad MP had issued threats to Hindus during the speech.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/will-give-rs-22l-to-police-officer-if-owaisi-arrested-announce-right-wing-members-1066693.html
31-12-2021||National||Uttarakhand: Sacked Dalit cook reappointed, 31 booked for issuing threats, casteist remarks||A Dalit woman cook was reappointed at a Champawat school in Uttarakhand, days after she was sacked as some students belonging to upper castes refused to eat midday meal cooked by her. Police have lodged a case against 31 people, six of which have been named in the FIR, for issuing threats and making casteist comments against her. The issue had snowballed into a controversy and the state government had earlier ordered a probe into it. Demanding justice for her, the Uttarakhand SC/ST Commission had also threatened to approach the court. She was reappointed by the school's management committee, which met on Friday, Champawat's Chief Education Officer R C Purohit said. "The decision to reappoint her was taken on the basis of a government order which says that if a consensus is not reached in such cases, candidates from SC/ST or OBC communities should be given priority," he added. Twenty-one of 26 members of the school management committee were present at the meeting but all of them were not of the same view. As a consensus could not evolve, the decision was taken on the basis of the government order. After the sacking of Sunita Devi, Purohit had earlier said there were "procedural lapses" in her appointment. Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami had ordered a inquiry into the case. Police have registered a case against 31 people under the SC/ST Act and Section 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC on the basis of a complaint lodged by Sunita Devi. Six of those booked have been identified as Mahesh Chaurakoti, Deepa Joshi, Bablu Gehtori, Satish Chandra, Nagendra Joshi and Shankar Dutt while 25 others are unknown persons, Champawat Superintendent of Police Devendra Pincha, said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uttarakhand-sacked-dalit-cook-reappointed-31-booked-for-issuing-threats-casteist-remarks-1066699.html
31-12-2021||National||Third Covid wave in Bihar has begun: Nitish||A day after Bihar reported its first Omicron case, Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Friday said that the third wave of Covid-19 has begun in the state and urged people to remain vigilant. He also mooted opening a genome sequencing laboratory in the state. "Bihar has recorded the first Omicron case. Everyone has to be alert. The state is witnessing a sharp rise in cases, with the maximum being registered in Patna and Gaya. A large number of people from other states reside in these two places, and this could be a reason behind the spike in cases in these areas," he told reporters. "The third Covid wave has begun in the state. We are fully prepared to tackle this wave. The health department has upgraded hospital infrastructure," Kumar said. The chief minister said that a review meeting will soon be convened to assess the situation, and the possibility of imposing curbs will be discussed. "People from outside the state are being tested for Covid -19, and if anyone's result is returning positive, his/her samples are being sent to Delhi for genome sequencing. We will discuss in the review meeting on opening a genome sequencing laboratory in the state," Kumar said. A senior health official said that the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS) at Patna already has the required permission to open a genome sequencing laboratory. The first case of the Omicron strain was detected in Patna on Thursday. The 26-year-old patient, a resident of Kidwaipuri locality of the state capital, had recently returned from Delhi. Bihar registered 100 Covid -19 cases on the previous day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/third-covid-wave-in-bihar-has-begun-nitish-1066712.html
31-12-2021||National||Finance Ministry mandates ticket booking from 3 agents for govt-funded air travels||The finance ministry on Friday said that for all air travels where the government bears the cost, the tickets will be purchased from either of the three agents -- Balmer Lawrie, Ashok Travels & Tours, and IRCTC. In an office memorandum, the Department of Expenditure under the finance ministry said the decision has been taken in view of the disinvestment of Air India. "In all cases of air travel where the Government of India bears the cost of air passage, air tickets shall be purchased from the three authorised travel agents viz. Balmer Lawrie & Company Limited (BLCL), Ashok Travels & Tours (ATT), Indian Railways Catering and Tourism Corporation Ltd (IRCTC)," it said. The choice of the travel agent for booking of the ticket by the individual ministry/ department will depend on the quality of service provided, additional facilities viz. excess baggage., cancellation and rescheduling facility, said the expenditure department. The administrative ministries of the three authorised agents will also ensure that all the three agencies, apart from providing facilities through dedicated staff, also provide an option for booking tickets directly through an application as functionality on their website, specifically for the central government employees posted in areas in the country where the services of authorised travel agents may not be easily available. The Department of Expenditure in a 2009 order had said in cases of air travel (both domestic and international), including LTC where the Government of India bears the cost of air passage, the officials may travel only by Air India. After its decision to sell Air India to Tata group for Rs 18,000 crore, the government in October had asked ministries and departments to clear dues of debt-laden Air India immediately and, henceforth, purchase tickets only in cash. The government is looking to complete the sale process of Air India to the Tata group by next month. Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/finance-ministry-mandates-ticket-booking-from-3-agents-for-govt-funded-air-travels-1066745.html
31-12-2021||National||India insisted on 'complete disengagement' in all its talks with China on eastern Ladakh row: Centre||India held several rounds of military talks with the Chinese side to deescalate the situation in eastern Ladakh without compromising on its stand of 'complete disengagement and immediate restoration of status quo ante', the defence ministry said on Friday. In a year-end review, the ministry also said that "inimical" elements "re-energised" their attempts at disrupting peace in the Kashmir valley by selective targeting of minorities and non-locals. It said, however, proactive measures in the "non-kinetic" domain and intelligence based "kinetic operations" by the security forces resulted in countering the "nefarious" designs of Pakistan-sponsored terrorist groups. Referring to the ambitious initiative to bring in reforms in the Army, Navy and Air Force, the ministry said concerted efforts are being made to move forward from a single service approach to an integrated planning and execution. Towards this, it said three joint doctrines have been formulated in the last one year, while four new joint doctrines namely "Capstone, Space, Cyber and Intelligence Surveillance and Reconnaissance (ISR)" are at an advantage stage. The ministry said a 'tri–services joint working group' has also been set up to study and work out the nuances of integrating communication networks between the services. It said a review is being done to "right-size/reshape" the units of the Army. "Numerous rounds of talks have taken place with the Chinese counterparts to deescalate the situation without compromising on India's stand of 'complete disengagement and immediate restoration of status quo ante'," the ministry said. "To this effect, 13 rounds of senior military commanders' meetings have already been concluded," it said in the year-end review released for the media. India and Chinese troops are locked in a standoff in several friction points in eastern Ladakh for over 18 months though they managed to complete the disengagement process in the Gogra and north and south banks of the Pangong lake in August and February respectively. India has been insisting on returning to the status quo that existed before the face-off took place in early May last year. The review listed major events, highlights of functioning of the armed forces and the government's initiative to further bolster India's military prowess among others. On Jammu and Kashmir, the ministry said the Army ensured that the internal situation in the Union Territory remained under control. "In the year 2021, a total number of 165 terrorists were neutralised by the security forces in which 39 security forces personnel also laid down their lives. The normalcy so brought in by the security forces in the year 2021 was amply evident wherein the tourism as well as local employment showed a positive trend," it said. Mentioning the developments in Afghanistan, the ministry said the situation that emerged following the Taliban's takeover of Afghanistan posed a unique challenge. It said the IAF was called upon to evacuate Indians and some other nationals from Afghanistan, adding evacuation was undertaken from Kandahar, Mazar-e-Sharif and Kabul. "Chaotic situation existed in Kabul as a result of the withdrawal of troops belonging to the US and its allies. IAF deployed its C-17 and C-130J aircraft for the evacuation," the ministry said. "A C-17 each was utilised for evacuation from Kandahar (July 10) and Mazar-e-Sharif (August 10). In addition, five aircraft (four C-17s and one C-130J) were utilised between August 15 and 28 to rescue 132 government officials, 316 Indian citizens and 126 persons of other nationalities," it said. India had evacuated its India-based staff from its consulates in Kandahar and Mazar-e-Sharif before the Taliban seized control of Kabul. The work of establishing Theatre/Joint Commands is also progressing swiftly. The study group reports have been analysed and the implementation Roadmap is under deliberation. On the functioning of the Department of Military Affairs (DMA), the ministry said it is striving to promote the integration of the three services through joint planning, for the best use of military capabilities. "Military procedures are being worked out to integrate defence planning, procurement and operations. Some other measures are also being progressed to rationalise the utilisation of existing resources," it said. It said the appointment of Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) in 2020 and the creation of the Department of Military Affairs (DMA) remained the most significant and transformative defence reform undertaken by any government since Independence. "Being seized of its import, the DMA has taken on the responsibility of spearheading several reforms within the military establishment towards ensuring optimum utilisation of scarce national resources, enhancing synergy and jointness between the services and steering the modernisation of the military to face the 'ever-changing challenges of modern warfare'," the ministry said. It said the logistics structure is being fully revamped to make it more efficient. In this regard, three joint services study groups (JSSG) are developing common logistic policies for services that will enhance all supply chain functions such as planning, procurement, inventory maintenance, distribution, disposal and documentation. It said a pilot project based on the establishment of Joint Logistic Nodes (JLN) each at Mumbai, Guwahati and Port Blair has already been rolled out. "In order to enhance combat capability and balance defence expenditure, more than 270 logistic installations of the Indian Army have been closed or scaled-down, resulting in substantial savings to the exchequer," the ministry said. It also highlighted initiatives undertaken by the services towards empowering women including the permanent commission of women officers. The ministry also cited the induction of 10 women officers into the fighter stream of the Air Force, deployment of women officers on board ships and appointment of women officers in missions abroad. It said the first batch of women naval operations officers were inducted into rotary-wing and joined the helicopter squadron INAS 336 at INS Garuda in Kochi in February. Lt Kumudini Tyagi and Lt Riti Singh have operated onboard warships as combat aircrew. It also mentioned the Border Roads Organisation appointing women officers to command important road construction companies (RCC) along border areas. In April, Vaishali S Hiwase, a GREF (General Reserve Engineer Force) officer took over the reins of 83 road construction company and was employed on an important Indo-China road connecting Munisairi-Bughdiar-Milam. The ministry said the National Cadet Corps (NCC) inducted one lakh more cadets in 173 border and coastal districts.  Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-insisted-on-complete-disengagement-in-all-its-talks-with-china-on-eastern-ladakh-row-centre-1066746.html
31-12-2021||National Politics||Modi to lay foundation stone of sports university in UP on Jan 2||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will lay the foundation stone of the Major Dhyan Chand Sports University in Meerut on January 2. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath had announced the setting up of the university to promote sports in the state. According to the government spokesman, "The Major Dhyan Chand Sports University will be a milestone in equipping the youth to give an excellent performance on the national and international platforms. Training in all kinds of sports will be given here and based on performance in national and international competitions, a degree will also be given. "The university will have BA in sports courses and offer diploma, certificate, postgraduation, M.Phil and Ph.D degrees. It will have the capacity for 540 male and 540 female candidates." The university will come up in an area of about 91 acres. It will have an indoor stadium, skating rink, synthetic hockey field, a swimming pool of Olympics standards, football field, volleyball court, basketball court, handball, kabaddi grounds, tennis court, gymnasium and multi-purpose hall. The spokesperson said that the chief minister has asked the home department to formulate a policy to give jobs to sportspersons in the police. The diet money for sportspersons has also been increased from Rs 250 per month to Rs 375. Directions have been issued to appoint 50 international level coaches for various games while appointments should be made at the earliest to 266 vacant posts in the sports department. "The government will also be constructing rural stadiums and open gyms to promote sports in the rural interiors of the state. A policy to develop sports academies with the help of private institutions has also been promulgated so that better training can be provided to the sportspersons," the spokesperson said. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/modi-to-lay-foundation-stone-of-sports-university-in-up-on-jan-2-1066479.html
31-12-2021||National Politics||NIA arrests one for radicalising youngsters to join terror ranks in Jammu and Kashmir||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has arrested one Arsalan Feroz, an operative of The Resistance Front (TRF) terror group, for allegedly being involved in radicalising and recruiting youngsters to join terror ranks, officials said on Friday. A spokesperson of the agency said searches were conducted in Kashmir on Thursday during which Feroz, a resident of downtown Srinagar, was arrested. The case relates to a conspiracy hatched for radicalising, motivating and recruiting youngsters of Jammu and Kashmir to effect violent activities in the Union Territory and in other parts of the country by Sajjad Gul, Salim Rehmani alias Abu Saad and Saifullah Sajid Jutt, who are commanders of the TRF, a shadow organisation of the banned Lashker-e-Toiba terror outfit. According to the officials, Feroz, in a criminal conspiracy with these people, was recruiting individuals to carry out reconnaissance of pre-determined targets, coordinating and transporting weapons to support Lashkar and its frontal affiliate, TRF. The agency has so far arrested four accused in the case.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/nia-arrests-one-for-radicalising-youngsters-to-join-terror-ranks-in-jammu-and-kashmir-1066546.html
31-12-2021||National Politics||After Peeyush Jain, I-T dept raids on SP leader Pushpraj Jain||Within days of raids on Kanpur perfume trader Peeyush Jain during which cash worth hundreds of crores was recovered along with gold and silver, the Income Tax department sleuths raided another perfume trader Pushpraj Jain alias Pammi Jain, who was a Samajwadi Party (SP) leader and member of the UP legislative assembly. SP president Akhilesh Yadav termed the I-T raid on his party leader as an act reflective of BJP's 'desperation' and said that the people of Uttar Pradesh would give a 'befitting' reply to the saffron party in the forthcoming assembly polls in the state due in two months' time. According to the sources, the I-T team raided the offices and residence of Pushpraj Jain, who had made the 'Samajwadi Perfume' during the previous SP regime, at Kannauj and other places. It was not clear if the I-T team recovered cash or other items in the raid. Pushpraj's name had cropped up after the raids on Peeyush Jain, who the BJP leaders claimed was associated with the SP. The SP denied any connection with Peeyush and claimed that the BJP got its own man raided by 'mistake'. Both Pushpraj and Peeyush had a common surname and both lived in the same lane in Kannauj. Akhilesh slammed the I-T raids on Pushpraj and said that the BJP was now 'desperate' and was 'misusing' central agencies to target its rivals. ''After it mistakenly got its own leader raided, BJP got its closest associate, the I-T department, to raid Pushpraj Jain.....it is a blatant misuse of central agencies...the people are watching and will give a befitting reply to the BJP,'' Akhilesh said. The raids on Peeyush Jain, which had yielded Rs 284 crore cash, 25 kg of gold and 250 kg of silver, triggered a political slugfest in UP with both SP and BJP claiming that Jain was associated with the other party. Prime minister Narendra Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah as well as UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath launched scathing attacks on Akhilesh after the recovery during their public meetings. Addressing a public meeting at Kanpur on Tuesday, Modi said that the ''perfume of their corruption in UP has come out...the mountain of notes is their only achievement'' referring to the raid. ''Will they take credit for the boxes of notes?....They are silent now,'' Modi added. Adityanath also attacked Akhilesh over the raid and said that the recovery was proof of large scale corruption during his regime. Akhilesh, however, hit back claiming that the trader had links with the BJP leaders. ''The BJP government wanted the I-T to raid some other perfume trader but then one of its own workers, who was also a perfume trader, was raided,'' he said and claimed that the cell phone records of the trader could reveal names of several prominent BJP leaders. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/after-peeyush-jain-i-t-dept-raids-on-sp-leader-pushpraj-jain-1066549.html
31-12-2021||National Politics||SP regime ordered firing at 'kar sevaks'; Lord Ram stayed in tent for years: Shah in Ayodhya||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Friday asked people to seek an answer from Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav for the firing on ‘kar sewaks’ during his party's government in the past and asked why Lord Ram had to "stay in a tent" for years. He was referring to the makeshift temple on the site, which was disputed in the Babri Masjid-Ram Janmabhoomi case. Addressing a rally during BJP’s Jan Vishwas Yatra, he alleged the SP, BSP and the Congress governments made efforts to stop the construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya. "Do you remember that ‘kar sewaks’ were shot in Ayodhya and bodies were thrown into the Saryu," he said referring to a 1990 incident during the SP regime while addressing a rally at Government Inter College in Faizabad. He alleged that under the SP and BSP rule, "symbols of faith were not respected". Today, PM Narendra Modi and UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath are working for the glory of every faith, he said. "When Akhileshji comes here, seeking votes in Ayodhya, ask him what was the crime of the kar sewaks? why did your government open fire on them? what is your objection to the removal of Article 370," he said. "Akhilesh Babu, if your second generation also comes, neither Article 370 is going to come back nor the triple talaq," Amit Shah said. He said the SP, BSP, the Congress and TMC chief Mamta Banerjee worked together to oppose the scrapping Jammu and Kashmir’s special status under Article 370. On August 5, 2019, Modiji uprooted Article 370 in Parliament," he said. He also credited PM Modi with the construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya. On the other hand, "Whenever the SP, BSP and the Congress were in power, they made efforts to stop this. Don’t you remember that the kar sewaks were fired upon, sticks were used on Ram's sewaks, Ram sewaks were killed and thrown into the mother Saryu." "I want to tell all those who wanted to stop it, if you can, try and stop it because no one has the power to stop it. A grand temple will come up in a few months at the place where Lord Shri Ram was born, " he said. He also asked Why Ramlala had to "stay in a tent" for years. "It is time for the people of Ayodhya, citizens of the country and people of UP to think why Ramlalla had to live in a tent for so many years," he said. Referring to the raids conducted by the Income Tax department on the house of a perfume trader in Kanpur, Shah said bundles of notes were seized and the stench of the Samajwadi perfume has spread all over UP. He said there used to be three "Ps" during the SP government—"pariwarvaad", "pakshpaat" and "palayan"--and today there are three 'Vs'—"vikas, "vyapar" and "sanskratik virasat"--and Ayodhya is the biggest example of the three Vs. Attacking the Congress, he said when it was in power at the Centre with the SP-BSP support, terrorists from Pakistan used to take away heads of jawans but when Modi became the PM, air and surgical strikes eliminated terrorists." At the rally, Shah started his speech amid the chants of "Jai Shri Ram". Earlier in the day, he offered prayers at the Ram Janmabhoomi and the H||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sp-regime-ordered-firing-at-kar-sevaks-lord-ram-stayed-in-tent-for-years-shah-in-ayodhya-1066671.html
31-12-2021||North and Central||Delhi govt likely to isolate asymptomatic, mild cases of Omicron at home||The Delhi government is considering isolating Omicron patients, who are asymptomatic and have mild symptoms, at home, officials said on Thursday. Also, the government will send only a limited number of all samples for genome sequencing, they said. "The number of new cases has crossed the 1,000-mark and 54 per cent of them have the Omicron variant. This number is going to rise in the next few days. And, we have seen that most Omicron patients do not require hospitalisation -- they are either asymptomatic or have mild symptoms. They do not need medical care in hospitals," a senior government official said. "Hospital care is for the sick. If they are sick, we will take them to the hospital; if not, why (take them to the) hospital. So isolating Omicron patients, who are asymptomatic or have mild symptoms, at home is the natural corollary," he said. Similarly, genome sequencing labs have a limited capacity. They can sequence 50 to 100 samples a day, but cases are now in thousands, the official said. Accordingly, up to 5 per cent of the total samples will be sent for genome sequencing as per the directions of the Government of India, he said. The government had earlier ordered genome sequencing of samples of all Covid-infected people in Delhi to ascertain if the Omicron variant has spread in the community. Labs in the national capital can sequence 400 to 500 samples daily. The Delhi government-run labs at the Lok Nayak Hospital and the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences can sequence 100 samples each day. Two Centre-run labs in Delhi can sequence 200-300 samples a day. Earlier in the day, Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain said Omicron is gradually spreading in the community and the new, fast-spreading variant of concern has been found in 54 per cent of the latest samples analysed in the national capital. "The latest genome sequencing report showed 54 per cent of the cases have Omicron. These people include those who do not have any travel history. It means Omicron is now inside Delhi," he said. "Indeed, the variant is gradually spreading in the community and its proportion will increase in the coming days," the minister said when asked if Omicron will be the dominant variant in an imminent third wave of the pandemic.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-likely-to-isolate-asymptomatic-mild-cases-of-omicron-at-home-1066413.html
31-12-2021||North and Central||Delhi HC, district courts to work only through virtual mode Jan 3-15||In view of the sudden spurt and spike in Covid-19 cases in Delhi and issuance of yellow alert, the Delhi High Court and the district courts in the national capital will hold hearings only through the virtual mode from January 3 to 15, it was announced on Thursday. As per the instructions of Delhi High Court's Chief Justice D N Patel, the courts will take up the matters, as per the existing arrangement with regard to the listing of cases, through videoconferencing mode. "I have also consulted with the esteemed members of the Administrative and General Supervision Committee of this Court. They all are also of the view that immediate steps are required to be taken to safeguard the health and well-being of all the stakeholders while also ensuring that the justice delivery system remains functional. The inputs have also been taken from the President of Delhi High Court Bar Association as well as from the Chairman of Coordination Committee of All District Court Bar Associations of Delhi and other senior office bearers. As expected, they, too, have assured fullest cooperation on behalf of the Members of the Bar," the Chief Justice said. The present grim scenario has left us with no other viable option, he added. The video-conferencing links of the courts shall be made available on the website. The Principal District and Sessions Judges, in consultation with the DG (Prisons), shall make necessary arrangements for extension of remand of undertrial prisoners. Wherever required, such prisoners may be produced through video-conferencing, according to the office order released on Thursday. The arrangement will continue till January 15 when it will be reviewed. Welcoming the step, on behalf of North Delhi Lawyers Association(NDLA), advocate Vineet Jindal said: "I welcome this step but directions to pass adverse orders shall be there on non-attending of VC by either party to conduct effective hearings." All the stakeholders including court staff, required to come to the courts, shall get themselves fully vaccinated and shall strictly adhere to the norms of social distancing and Covid-19 protocols, guidelines, directions, etc. issued by the Centre, the Delhi government and the court from time to time, the order read. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-hc-district-courts-to-work-only-through-virtual-mode-jan-3-15-1066414.html
31-12-2021||North and Central||NEET PG counselling: Doctors protest at LHMC, MAMC; seek withdrawal of police cases||Patient care remained affected at several major hospitals in Delhi on Thursday as resident doctors protesting over the delay in NEET PG counselling for nearly two weeks, intensified their agitation, and also sought the withdrawal of police cases lodged against some of their colleagues. Several resident doctors gathered on the premises of Lady Hardinge Medical College (LHMC) and chanted slogans as their stir, led by Federation of Resident Doctors' Association (FORDA), entered into 14th day. Meanwhile, a new set of office-bearers took charge of the resident doctors' association of Maulana Azad Medical College (MAMC), which comes under the Delhi government, and three facilities, including LNJP Hospital attached to it. The MAMC RDA and FORDA, both have demanded the withdrawal of police cases lodged against some of the protesting doctors after a face-off between the protesters and police personnel in the streets on Monday. After much deliberations and in light of events that have surfaced since last evening, the resident doctors of MAMC, and the three attached hospitals, "have unanimously decided to elect new representatives to the RDA," MAMC RDA said in a statement on Thursday. "We along with national/state representatives from other RDAs have been protesting against the delay in NEET-PG counselling since one month. After the police brutality against doctors' peaceful protest on 27/12/21, individual FIRs were filed against resident doctors along with COVID-19 challans for breach of COVID-19 protocols," it said. The Delhi Police has rejected these charges from resident doctors. MAMC RDA said, it stood "united with the decision to continue the protest by complete withdrawal of all essential and non-essential services w.e.f. 9 am from December 31, 202, until our demands are met and Delhi Police issues an apology to doctors and all the FIRs and cases lodged against them are taken back unconditionally". "If any of the participants are forcibly asked to do duties and disciplinary action is taken against them in due course, we will be forced to continue the protest in support of our colleagues along with the ongoing strike," it added. Sir Ganga Ram Hospital's consultant doctors, residents doctors and DNB students on Thursday took out a protest march in the campus against the delay in NEET-PG counselling. This was also to show solidarity with other doctors protesting all over India, according to an official statement. Without making the patient's services suffer, about 200 students took out symbolic protest march with placards, and many also wore black bands. Resident doctors association of Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital (RGSSH) on Wednesday morning had issued a statement that its members were "withdrawing services" to protest the alleged police action during a face-off between them and medics on Monday, and demanded expediting of the NEET PG counselling process. Members of the RDAs at Chacha Nehru Bal Chikitsalaya and Northern Railway Central Hospital, one of the busiest facilities in Delhi, also protested and boycotted services. FORDA president Dr Manish on Thursday said, "The strike was still on." As the stir, led by FORDA, stretched to nearly two weeks, patient care remained affected at three Centre-run facilities -- Safdarjung, RML and Lady Hardinge hospitals -- and some of the Delhi government-run facilities as well. On Tuesday, FORDA had decided to continue the stir, as a meeting between their federation's delegation and the Union health minister failed to make any headway.  Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/neet-pg-counselling-doctors-protest-at-lhmc-mamc-seek-withdrawal-of-police-cases-1066433.html
31-12-2021||North and Central||Three militants killed, four security personnel injured in Srinagar gunfight||Three militants were killed while four security personnel were injured in a nocturnal gunfight with security forces in the Pantha Chowk area on the outskirts of Srinagar city on Saturday. In another tweet, the police identified one of the slain militants as Suhail Ahmad, affiliated with the Jaish-e-Mohammad outfit.  "One of the killed #terrorists has been identified as Suhail Ahmad Rather of #terror outfit JeM. As revealed during yesterday’s PC, terrorist Suhail was also involved in #ZewanTerrorAttack. All terrorists involved in Zewan attack have been #neutralised," the police said.  Earlier, an official said that a joint team of Police, Army and CRPF launched a Cordon and Search Operation (CASO) in Pantha Chowk after input about the presence of militants in the area. As the joint team approached the suspected spot, hiding militants fired upon them, which was retaliated, triggering a gunfight in which three policemen and a CRPF man were reportedly injured.  The injured were immediately shifted to a hospital, where their condition is stated to be stable.  The latest encounter came a day after six Jaish militants, including two Pakistani nationals, were killed in two separate gunfights with security forces in the South Kashmir districts of Anantnag and Kulgam.  This year in 88 encounters, 171 militants have been killed by the security forces in Kashmir.  Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/three-militants-killed-four-security-personnel-injured-in-srinagar-gunfight-1066452.html
31-12-2021||North and Central||Sisodia demands increased share in central tax for Delhi||Citing Covid-induced inflation as the reason, Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia has urged the Centre to increase the national capital's share in the central tax, as it has been getting only Rs 325 crore for the last 21 years and said it is unfair to the Union Territory. "Also, for the last 21 years, Delhi has been getting only Rs 325 crore out of central tax, now it is necessary that the Central government must increase it," Sisodia said during the annual meeting of Chief Ministers with the Union Finance Minister Niramala Sitharaman for the Union Budget 2022-2023 held on Thursday. Central assistance to National Capital Territory of Delhi (NCT) which was Rs 370 crore in 2000-01 has been raised to only Rs 626 crore in 2020-21. However, the expenditure of Delhi has increased more than nine times from Rs 7,200 crore in 2000-01 to Rs 69,000 crore in 2021-22, he added. "Delhi government has incurred expenditure on various Covid-related urgent and emergent activities which is still continuing in view of the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic. Thus an increase in central assistance is required now, the Delhi Deputy Chief Minister said, adding, "It has been requested to the Ministry of Home Affairs to allocate 1,925 crore in revised estimates (RE) 2021-22 and Rs 2,020 crore in 2022-23. The AAP leader said, "Delhi's contribution to the country's GDP is 4.4 per cent, despite the fact that Delhiites constitute only 1.49 per cent of the total population of the country." "Per capita income of Delhi is three times the national average. Per capita income of Delhi is Rs 3,54,004 at current prices which is about three times higher than the national average of Rs 1,28,829 for 2020-21." Seeking Goods and Services Tax (GST) for the national capital, Sisodia said that in the pre-GST scheme, every state used to take big or small decisions regarding tax, budget or revenue according to their challenges. Now, these decisions are taken collectively. "Many times the state is facing a lot of difficulties. Due to Covid-19, business came to a standstill. In Delhi, due to pollution also we have to face the lockdown. So in view of all this, if GST compensation is not carried forward, then it will definitely be difficult for all the states to run the governments," he added. The Deputy Chief Minister underlined the importance for an increase in allocation of funds to the three Municipal Corporations of Delhi (MCDs), saying, "The national capital is the face of the country but today the MCD is facing acute shortage of funds and are not able to maintain the cleanliness and development in the capital. Therefore, funds should be provided to the MCDs like other states." He also demanded the Centre to establish a Sainik school in the capital city so that children can get quality education. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sisodia-demands-increased-share-in-central-tax-for-delhi-1066454.html
31-12-2021||North and Central||I-T raids Uttar Pradesh entities engaged in perfume trade; SP says Kannauj MLC searched||The Income Tax department on Friday raided multiple premises linked to perfume traders and some others in Uttar Pradesh as part of a tax evasion investigation, official sources said. They said the searches are being conducted in Kannauj, Kanpur, the national capital region, Surat, Mumbai and few other places, and about 20 premises are being covered. The Samajwadi Party (SP) said through a post on its official Twitter handle that the premises of its MLC Pushpraj alias Pampi Jain in Kannauj, Uttar Pradesh, have been raided. Party chief Akhilesh Yadav is slated to hold a press conference at the SP office in Kannauj at 12:30 PM.  The party's Twitter post said the raids were launched by the "BJP government" soon after Yadav announced the media conference there and dubbed the action as an "open misuse of central agencies by a scared BJP." आदरणीय राष्ट्रीय अध्यक्ष श्री अखिलेश यादव जी के कन्नौज में प्रेसवार्ता की घोषणा करते ही भाजपा सरकार ने सपा एमएलसी पम्पी जैन के यहां छापामार कार्यवाही करनी शुरू कर दी। भाजपा का डर और बौखलाहट साफ है, जनता भाजपा को सबक सिखाने के लिए तैयार है! Yadav had recently launched a perfume called 'Samajwadi ittra' prepared by Jain in the run-up to the assembly polls in the state that are expected to be held early next year. The department is searching multiple locations of some entities linked to the perfume trade and related businesses, the sources said. The exact identities of those raided were not confirmed by authorities. Sources said the action was launched after the department obtained details from the Goods and Service Tax (GST) department about possible income tax evasion by perfume business entities and others by allegedly claiming bogus input tax credit. The Directorate General of GST Intelligence (DGGI), an investigation agency under the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC), had recently carried out large-scale raids in Kanpur and Kannauj against Shikhar brand pan masala, a transporter and others and later arrested perfume trader Peeyush Jain, seized over Rs 197 crore cash apart from 26 kg gold and huge quantity of sandalwood oil.  The I-T department functions under the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT).  The DGGI raids and recovery of cash have triggered a war of words between political parties in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, during a rally in Kanpur on Tuesday, took a veiled dig at the Samajwadi Party over the cash seizure, saying the 'ittar' (perfume) of corruption that it had sprinkled all over Uttar Pradesh before 2017 is there for everyone to see. The Samajwadi Party took to Twitter to hit out at the BJP over the raids. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/i-t-raids-uttar-pradesh-entities-engaged-in-perfume-trade-sp-says-kannauj-mlc-searched-1066464.html
31-12-2021||North and Central||NC to submit its dissent note on delimitation exercise in Jammu and Kashmir||With politics over the proposed allocation of Assembly seats in Jammu and Kashmir continuing to heat up, National Conference (NC) is submitting its dissent note to the Delimitation Commission on Friday while on Saturday, the PAGD is holding a demonstration against recent recommendations of the commission. NC Members of Parliament — Farooq Abdullah, Akbar Lone and Hasnain Masoodi — who are associate members of the commission, are submitting their dissent note over the proposed allocation of six additional Assembly seats to Jammu and only one to Kashmir by the commission. In its December 20 meeting in New Delhi, the commission, headed by Justice (retired) Ranjana Prakash Desai, had shared the draft proposal with associate members, which, besides three NC MPs, include two members from the BJP, namely MP and Union Minister Jitendra Singh and MP Jugal Kishor Sharma. Besides proposing six additional seats for Jammu and one for Kashmir, the panel also reserved 16 constituencies for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. This triggered strong protests from Kashmir-based parties, such as the NC, which made it clear that it would not sign the report in its present form. Political parties, including the NC and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), have opposed the proposal, saying it reeks of bias and partisan approach. The PAGD, a grouping of Kashmir parties led by Farooq Abdullah, which was formed in October 2020 to strive for the restoration of statehood and the special status of J&K, termed the commission's proposal “divisive that will deepen alienation.” The alliance is holding a peaceful demonstration on January 1 to protest against the recommendations of the commission. Kashmir division currently has 46 seats and Jammu 37. The population of the Jammu region is 53.72 lakh and Kashmir division 68.83 lakh, according to the 2011 census.  Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nc-to-submit-its-dissent-note-on-delimitation-exercise-in-jammu-and-kashmir-1066477.html
31-12-2021||North and Central||Samajwadi Party leader Shatarudra Prakash joins BJP||In a setback to the Samajwadi Party (SP), its MLC and former Uttar Pradesh minister Shatarudra Prakash joined the BJP at the saffron party's state headquarters here on Friday. A socialist since his student days, Prakash joined the BJP in the presence of the party's state unit chief Swatantra Dev Singh. Prakash, who joined politics while studying in the Banaras Hindu University (BHU), was elected as a member of the Legislative Assembly for the first time in 1974 from Varanasi Cantonment as a Socialist Party nominee. Three years later, he was again elected from the same constituency as a Janata Party candidate. Praksh won the polls as a Lok Dal candidate in 1985 and as a Janata Dal nominee in 1989. He was a cabinet minister in the Uttar Pradesh government headed by Mulayam Singh Yadav. Prakash had praised Prime Minister Narendra Modi after the inauguration of the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor. During the recent winter session of the state legislature, he congratulated Modi and Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath in the Legislative Council for making the Vishwanath Dham temple complex spacious and beautiful. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/samajwadi-party-leader-shatarudra-prakash-joins-bjp-1066489.html
31-12-2021||North and Central||NEET-PG counselling row: Delhi resident doctors call off strike||The agitating resident doctors on Friday called off their 14-day long nationwide agitation over the delay in NEET-PG counselling and alleged manhandling of doctors by the police. The doctors will resume work from 12 pm. The strike was called after a meeting between the members of the Federation of Resident Doctors' Association (FORDA) and Joint Commissioner of Delhi Police. "Last evening we met the Joint CP of Delhi. The Delhi Police have initiated the process of quashing the FIR," said Dr Manish Nigam, president of FORDA. Joint CP has sent a video message to rebuild the trust between the doctors and the police, he said. In a statement, FORDA said that a series of meetings of FORDA Representatives was held with multiple Delhi Police officials. It was highlighted by the Delhi Police that they have the highest regard for doctors. They are well aware of the hardships of Doctors and as earlier, they are willing to cooperate with the Medical fraternity for any issue at any time. "A virtual meeting of FORDA with all RDA Representatives was convened late in the evening whereby all the proceedings were conveyed and all concerning points were discussed in detail. It was unanimously decided to call off the agitation on 31st December 2021, 12.00 PM, considering various factors including patient care," said FORDA. However, the doctors association has said that a national meeting with all the RDA representatives will be convened by FORDA on January 6. As the health ministry is supposed to submit the Committee Report to the Supreme Court before January 6, 2022, and will publish the NEET-PG 2021 Counselling schedule following the Court hearing, the association said. The resident doctors had called for a total shutdown of medical services in the hospitals after the police action during their march towards the apex court on December 27. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/neet-pg-counselling-row-delhi-resident-doctors-call-off-strike-1066493.html
31-12-2021||North and Central||NEET-PG counselling to start before January 6, 2022, assures Mandaviya||The Indian Medical Association President Friday said Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya has assured that the NEET-PG counselling will start before January 6, 2022. There will also not be any FIRs on the doctors. The agitating resident doctors on Friday called off their 14-day long nationwide agitation over the delay in NEET-PG counselling and alleged manhandling of doctors by the police. The strike was called after a meeting between the members of the Federation of Resident Doctors' Association (FORDA) and the Joint Commissioner of Delhi Police. (With inputs from agencies) Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/neet-pg-counselling-to-start-before-january-6-2022-assures-mandaviya-1066512.html
31-12-2021||North and Central||Congress, NCP actual 'Dharma Sansad' organisers: BJP||A day after religious leader Kalicharan Maharaj was arrested and charged with sedition for allegedly abusing Mahatma Gandhi, the BJP on Friday said that the actual organisers of the 'Dharma Sansad' (religious congregation) at Raipur were Congress and NCP leaders. Former Chhattisgarh minister and senior BJP leader Brijmohan Agarwal told IANS that all the organisers are associated Congressmen and some are accorded ministerial status in the state. "Former Congress MLA and Chairman of Chhattisgarh Gau Seva Ayog, Mahant Ram Sundar Das was one of the organisers. Das is accorded the status of minister by the Congress government. Pramod Dubey is chairman of Raipur Municipal Corporation and Vikash Upadhyay is parliamentary secretary. All the key people are Congressmen. They tried to counter BJP's Hindutva by organising such an event but it backfired," Agarwal said. In-charge of BJP's national Information and Technology Department Amit Malviya too made similar claims. "The Dharma Sansad at Raipur is making news and the usual suspects, like always, are maligning the BJP and other Hindu organisations. But who is the actual organiser? Neelkanth Tripathi, state president of NCP Chhattisgarh. You see it is convenient to cloak bigotry in secularism!," Malviya tweeted. The Dharma Sansad at Raipur is making news and the usual suspects, like always, are maligning the BJP and other Hindu organisations. But who is the actual organiser? Neelkanth Tripathi, state president of NCP Chattisgarh! The arrest of Kalicharan Maharaj from Madhya Pradesh has triggered a political war of words between the ruling parties in Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh. Madhya Pradesh Home Minister Narottam Mishra had accused the Congress-led Chhattisgarh government of "breaching inter-state protocol." Mishra has also directed Madhya Pradesh Director General of Police (DGP) Vivek Johri to speak with Chhattisgarh DGP on the matter of breach of inter-state protocol. On Thursday, Kalicharan was arrested by a team of Chhattisgarh Police from Madhya Pradesh's Khajuraho and taken to Raipur. Kalicharan was arrested on the complaint filed by Congress leader Dubey, who had also attended the Dharma Sansad. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-ncp-actual-dharma-sansad-organisers-bjp-1066527.html
31-12-2021||North and Central||'Fight, die and if required, kill': UP school students made to take pledge of 'Hindu Rashtra'||Within days of the alleged 'hate speech' by some seers and saints at a religious meet at Haridwar where Hindu youths were asked to take up arms to 'protect' Hindu religion and make India a 'Hindu Rashtra', a video of school children in Uttar Pradesh's Sonebhadra district, about 450 kilometres from here, showing them taking a pledge to be ready to ''fight, die and kill'' to make the country a 'Hindu Rashtra', went viral on social media. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fight-die-and-if-required-kill-up-school-students-made-to-take-pledge-of-hindu-rashtra-1066530.html
31-12-2021||North and Central||'Hybrid' militancy biggest challenge for security agencies in 2022: J&K police||At a time when the number of active militants in Kashmir has come down to less than 200 for the first time since the insurgency began in 1990, dealing with the 'hybrid' or 'part time' militants has emerged as a new challenge for the security agencies. 'Hybrid' militants are not listed as militants, but radicalised and trained enough to carry out terror attacks and then slip back into the routine life. As most of them are teenagers and highly motivated, they do not cross the border for arms training nor do they go underground to commit violent acts. The word 'hybrid' first emerged after militants believed to be affiliated with The Resistance Front (TRF), an affiliate of Pakistan-based Lashker-e-Taiba (LeT), killed two non-Muslim teachers inside the premises of a government school in Srinagar on October 7. Inspector General of police (IGP), Kashmir, Vijay Kumar acknowledges that for 2022, ‘hybrid’ militancy will remain as the biggest challenge for the police. “After examining various CCTV footages, it was observed that young boys aged 17 years carry out attacks on policemen and security forces. These boys aren’t categorised anywhere nor do we have their photographs in police stations,” he said while addressing a year-end presser. “We have made a list of 25 hybrid militants who aren’t categorized,” the IGP said and added the second major challenge next year will be to prevent policemen from becoming soft targets. “Terrorists attacked unarmed policemen and few were killed while coming out of masjids, some while going to markets and some while sleeping,” he said, adding curbing narco-terrorism will also be the top priority for the police in 2022. Kumar termed the burial of hardline separatist leader Syed Ali Geelani as major achievement of 2021. “There was no law and order incident and burial remained peaceful. So I count this as a major achievement for police in 2021,” he said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hybrid-militancy-biggest-challenge-for-security-agencies-in-2022-jk-police-1066531.html
31-12-2021||North and Central||Farm law protests, first dalit chief minister and sacrilege mark Punjab's 2021||A bitter tussle between Amarinder Singh and Navjot Singh Sidhu in the state unit of the ruling Congress led to dramatic results in 2021, a year that also saw the jubilant return of Punjabi farmers after months of protest at Delhi’s borders against the Centre’s agriculture laws. Congress veteran Amarinder Singh was ousted as chief minister by the party’s central leadership, which sprung a surprise by picking Charanjit Singh Channi, who became the state’s first Dalit CM. Sidhu was earlier appointed the party’s state unit president, but he seems to want more. Amarinder Singh’s exit from the Congress and the farmers’ year-long agitation led to the emergence of new political parties and alliances, setting the scene for multi-cornered contests in the Assembly polls that are now just weeks away. In December, two men were lynched by people who accused them of trying to commit sacrilege at gurdwaras. In the Kapurthala case, police found that there was actually no desecration bid and have charged the gurdwara manager for murder. In Amritsar’s Golden Temple where a man jumped over the railings of the sanctum sanctorum, police lodged an FIR for the alleged sacrilege attempt. But there is no word yet on any case in connection with the murder that followed. At Delhi’s Singhu border in October, another man was similarly lynched by a group of Nihangs camping at the farmers’ protest site over an alleged desecration of a sacred text. A bomb went off in Ludhiana’s court complex killing a former policeman, who was allegedly trying to assemble it and injuring six others. At least initially, politicians linked the blast to the two alleged desecration bids only days earlier and called it an attempt to destabilise the state. Sacrilege has been an emotive issue in Punjab and a past case provided much ammunition to Sidhu in his no-holds-fight against Amarinder Singh. He accused Singh of failing to bring to justice those involved in the 2015 desecration of the Guru Granth Sahib in Faridkot and the subsequent police firing on protesters that killed two people. This year, the Punjab and Haryana high court quashed a special investigation team’s report into the firing. Sidhu, who had quit Amarinder Singh’s cabinet and gone into a sulk in 2019 after being stripped of a key portfolio, targeted his former boss for months, saying he had not fulfilled the election promises made by their party in 2017. Some cabinet ministers and MLAs rallied around him. The ex-cricketer and the veteran politician pulled no punches as their fight escalated, and continued with their barbs even after Sidhu seemed to have won the contest. Sidhu termed Singh a “spent cartridge”. The elder politician found him to be “anti-national, dangerous, unstable and incompetent”. After another slanging match between Punjab politicians over Amarinder Singh’s friendship with Pakistani journalist Aroosa Alam, Congress MP Manish Tewari said party leaders were squabbling like children, using language “even fishwives would not use“. "For the past five months, it is INC Punjab vs INC Punjab. Do we think that people of Punjab are not disgusted by this daily soap opera,” he tweeted. Amarinder Singh’s fate was sealed in September when the high command called a meeting of the state’s Congress Legislative Party, bypassing him though he was the CLP leader. He resigned ahead of the meeting. “I felt humiliated,” he said. Weeks later, Singh announced his own Punjab Lok Congress. Despite the changes made by the party’s central leadership, things in Punjab Congress are yet to settle down. Whenever he spots an opportunity, Sidhu now targets the new CM appointed by his party. He also “resigned” as the party’s state unit president, demanding the replacement of the advocate general and the director-general of police appointed by the new Channi government. Both officials were eventually replaced. Channi has been busy casting himself in a populist mould. His government has already waived many pending power and water bills, reduced domestic electricity rates, made sand bought at quarries cheaper and lowered cable TV charges. His is not a “Channi Sarkar”, the CM has claimed, but a “changi sarkar” or good government. The Channi government opposed the Centre’s decision to increase the jurisdiction of the Border Security Force and piloted a resolution in the assembly that called it an “insult” to the state police. In November, he led some members of his ministry to the Kartarpur gurdwara in Pakistan as soon as the visa-free corridor reopened after a gap of 20 months. With Arvind Kejriwal’s Aam Aadmi Party putting up a stiff challenge, the divided Congress will find the going tough in the assembly polls. The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), now no longer with the Bharatiya Janata Party, has joined hands with the Bahujan Samaj Party, eyeing Dalit votes. Amarinder Singh’s new party has tied up with the BJP and the SAD (Sanyukt). The farmers’ unions have also entered the scene. Twenty two of them have announced a political front, the Samyukt Samaj Morcha, to fight the Punjab polls. They were among the 32 farmer organisations from Punjab that formed part of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, camping at Delhi’s border for a year to compel the Centre into withdrawing three contentious laws. Days earlier, Haryana Bhartiya Kisan Union President Gurnam Singh Chaduni floated his own Sanyukt Sangharsh Party, also to contest in Punjab. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farm-law-protests-first-dalit-chief-minister-and-sacrilege-mark-punjabs-2021-1066538.html
31-12-2021||North and Central||Covid curbs overwhelm Delhi's public transport: Citizens face hassle in buses, metros||Officials in Delhi sounded a Yellow alert in the national capital due to a sharp rise in Covid-19 cases, strengthening their arsenal in case of a new coronavirus wave, a move that ended up overwhelming the city's public transport system.  Long queues and delays caused due to the city's Covid response action plan enraged travelers, some of whom resorted to violence.  The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) imposed a number of restrictions on Tuesday under the Yellow Alert of the Covid graded response action plan. Under the system, only 50 per cent sitting is permitted on both Metro and public buses and standing passengers are not permitted. Commuters vandalised six Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) buses in Badarpur and Sangam Vihar on Thursday, enraged by long bus lines and the fact that they were not allowed to board due to Covid restrictions, police said. Six people were arrested. All of those detained, according to police, were factory workers. A few passengers were on board one of the buses, but they were swiftly evacuated and sent to safety. According to police, none of them were hurt. In videos of the incident that have emerged on social media, it was seen that a green and a red air-conditioned bus have been damaged. Windshields and side mirrors were broken. The conductor of a bus, in a video, said, "We have instructions to allow only 17 commuters at a time. When there are 20 people, including the driver, conductor and marshal, on the bus, we do not stop it. If we stop and more people enter the bus, we will be fined Rs 2,000." Delhi| Commuters face difficulties as city buses operate at 50% seating, in view of Covid restrictions imposed in national capital "We're facing several problems. We've to stand for hours because of which we are late for our work," say commuters The Capital's extensive metro network was also seen jam-packed, with many pictures of the same going viral. Metro commuters in Delhi on Wednesday morning were in for a harrowing time with the queues outside stretching nearly 2 kilometres. The queues increased as the Metro is operating with 50 per cent capacity amid rising cases of Omicron. The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) on Thursday announced to have reduced capacity down to 200 per train from the usual 2,400. An eight-coach Metro train can generally carry about 2,400 passengers, which comprises approximately 50 seating passengers and 250 standing passengers per coach. With present restrictions of 50 per cent seating and no standing, each coach can now accommodate only about 25 passengers, the DMRC said in a release. Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, the Leader of the Opposition in the Delhi Assembly, accused the AAP administration of failing to make sufficient commuting accommodations. "The question is, how will the general populace go to their workplace? People have grown powerless and are driven to protest in the streets," according to the LoP. (With PTI inputs) Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-curbs-overwhelm-delhis-public-transport-citizens-face-hassle-in-buses-metros-1066540.html
31-12-2021||North and Central||Delhi records 9 Covid deaths in December; highest in last 4 months||Nine Covid-19 deaths have been reported in Delhi in December so far this year, the highest count of fatalities due to coronavirus infection in the last four months in the national capital, according to official data. Delhi had recorded seven deaths due to Covid in November, four in October and five in September. The city on December 30 recorded 1,313 fresh Covid cases, the highest single-day rise since May 26, while the positivity rate mounted to 1.73 per cent, according to the data shared by the health department. No fresh fatality was reported in the city on Thursday. On December 27 and December 28, one death each due to the infection was registered, according to official figures. The number of cumulative cases on Monday stood at 14,46,415. Over 14.18 lakh patients have recovered from the infection, as per the latest bulletin. The death toll due to the coronavirus infection in Delhi stood at 25,098 by the end of November, which has risen to 25,107 till December 30, as per official data. The solitary death recorded on December 28 was the ninth fatality due to coronavirus infection, reported in December. Eight other deaths were reported prior to it in the last month of 2021, amid a scare of Omicron variant of Covid. India logged 309 fresh Omicron infections, taking the total tally of such cases in the country to 1,270, according to the Union health ministry data updated on Friday. The 1,270 cases have been detected across 23 states and UTs so far, and 374 people have recovered or migrated. Maharashtra recording the maximum number of 450 cases followed by Delhi at 320, Kerala 109 and Gujarat 97. In July, the last time zero death was recorded was on July 29 when 51 cases were reported with a positivity rate of 0.08 per cent, according to official figures. In August too, the last time nil fatality was recorded was on August 29 when 31 cases were logged. Daily case count had dropped to 17 on September 13, with no death being recorded that day, while the positivity rate stood at 0.04 per cent, according to official data. Delhi had reeled under a brutal second wave of the pandemic that swept the country early 2021, claiming a massive number of lives daily, and the oxygen supply shortage issue at various hospitals had added to the woes. Since April 19, both daily cases and single-day deaths count had spiralled up in Delhi, with over 28,000 cases and 277 deaths recorded on April 20; rising to 306 fatalities on April 22. On May 3, the city registered a record 448 deaths, as per the official data. However, the number of cases had shown a downward trend and the positivity rate too had been shrinking from June, though death cases continued to be reported in subsequent months. However, in the last one week, the coronavirus cases have surged in a big way. On December 18, the city had recorded 86 cases with a positivity rate of 0.13 per cent.  The daily cases count breached the 1,000-mark after a gap of seven months. On May 28, the city had logged 1,141 cases A total of 75,953 tests -- 68,590 RT-PCR tests and 7,363 rapid antigen tests -- were conducted a day ago, the bulletin said.  The number of people under home isolation stood at 1,560 on Thursday while it was 1,068 a day before, and the number of containment zones in the city stood at 645 a significant jump from 502 on Wednesday, the bulletin said. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-records-9-covid-deaths-in-december-highest-in-last-4-months-1066542.html
31-12-2021||North and Central||Rejuvenating Ganga can help fight climate change, keep Sundarbans alive, says NMCG chief||Rejuvenating the Ganga's waters and maintaining the river's purity can be one of the best ways to keep the Sundarbans alive and protect it from effects of climate change, NMCG Director General Rajiv Ranjan Mishra said. According to Mishra, it is crucial to have a minimum environmental flow in the river at all times to prevent the sea from degrading the soil, and making the groundwater unfit for drinking and irrigation. Climate change could accelerate salt water intrusion into fertile soils due to rise in sea levels. Excess groundwater extraction in dry regions of the world could also increase soil and groundwater salinity, he said. Due to climate change, the Sundarbans, one of the world's largest mangrove forest, faces several challenges. With rising sea levels, islands are disappearing and the increasing salinity in the water and soil has severely threatened the health of mangrove forests and the quality of soil and crops. "In the monsoons, when the rivers are in full spate, they keep the saline waters of the Bay of Bengal at an arm's length by pushing them deeper into the sea. This prevents the saline water from entering the mangrove forests," Mishra told PTI. However, when the water level recedes during the lean season, the saltwater pushes into the mangrove forest and even further into the farmlands, thereby destroying not just the crops but the soil for future cultivation. "Hence, it is extremely important to have a minimum environmental flow in the river at all times to prevent the sea from degrading the soil, making the groundwater unfit for drinking and irrigation," he said. The government has mandated the minimum quantity of water that various stretches of river Ganga must necessarily have all through the year.  Mishra, who superannuates on Friday, further elaborated on his journey as the chief of National Mission for Clean Ganga (NMCG) and also how the project to rejuvenate the river progressed, in his new book 'Ganga: Reimagining Rejuvenating Reconnecting'. He has co-authored the book with Puskal Upadhyay, an IDAS official who has been a part of the mission. Mishra, an alumnus of IIT Kanpur and a 1987 batch IAS officer, said the book is an attempt to put in perspective the challenges, the new approach and thinking which developed the Namami Gange Programme into the most comprehensive river rejuvenation exercise. Noting that the 'sacred' river is now crying out for rejuvenation, Mishra said returning the Ganges to its virgin state, as officials of the NMCG realised soon enough, was an extraordinarily difficult and a complex task that called for cooperation and activism from all stakeholders on a mission mode, a perfect example of tackling the so-called 'wicked problem'. "What makes Namami Gange truly stand out from previous efforts for the Ganga rejuvenation is its adoption of a holistic and multi-sectoral approach which does not limit itself to cleaning of the river but extends to rejuvenation and restoration of the entire riverine ecosystem. And I think this has been its biggest strength, as well as challenge for the future," he said. According to Mishra, the Dissolved Oxygen (DO) level has improved in 27 locations, the Biological Oxygen Demand (BOD) levels has improved in 42 areas and the quantity of Faecal Coliform (FC) in the water has been reduced in 21 places. The important parameter to be met, keeping DO more than 5 mg/l, has now been successfully achieved and attained throughout the 2,525-km-long river, which is a proof of the improved river water quality, he said. "The BOD level is also under the set standards, i.e. 3 mg/l, except at two stretches of the river, where it is just exceeding the limit ranging 3 mg/l - 5mg/l. Moreover, the water quality has reached Class A, the highest standard for water quality, up till Haridwar in Uttarakhand. This has been a big achievement for the mission," Mishra said. He said the work is now being extended to include River Ganga's tributaries such as River Yamuna, River Hindon, River Gomti, River Ramganga, amongst others. "In the future, deliberate action plans must be rolled out to take this work further and rejuvenate the riverine ecosystems of these smaller rivers as well. In the same line, as you may be aware, we have released the ecological flow notification for River Ganga, which recognizes the right of the river over its own water. We are also in the process of releasing the notification for River Yamuna," he said. The biggest challenge ahead of the mission is to sustain the various measures undertaken so far, Mishra said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rejuvenating-ganga-can-help-fight-climate-change-keep-sundarbans-alive-says-nmcg-chief-1066551.html
31-12-2021||North and Central||It's not BJP money, says Finance Minister on Rs 200 cr seized from perfume maker in Kannauj||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Friday attacked former Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Akhilesh Yadav saying he is “shaken” by the raids in Kannauj and sought to know if Yadav was a partner of a perfume maker from whom more than Rs 197 crore was seized. “Are you his partner? Because only partners know whose money is kept," she said dismissing Opposition charge that the Rs 197.49 crore cash recovered from perfume maker Peeyush Jain in UP's Kannauj was her party's money and the tax authorities had raided the person by "mistake" and are now raiding the other Jain they had originally wanted to target. She also dismissed the charge that the raids were politically motivated. “Recovery of money shows there was actionable intelligence,” she said talking to reporters after the GST Council meeting. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/its-not-bjp-money-says-finance-minister-on-rs-200-cr-seized-from-perfume-maker-in-kannauj-1066566.html
31-12-2021||North and Central||Medical oxygen infrastructure augmented in Delhi over Omicron scare||Amid a spike in Omicron cases, the Delhi government has ramped up medical oxygen infrastructure to ensure availability of the life saving gas, according to official data. The government has also procured 6,000 D-type cylinders. One D-type cylinder can hold 46 litres of oxygen. Such cylinders were not available in the city till May 31. The data showed that the Delhi Transport Corporation has over 9,115 cylinders in its possession.  The city also has Pressure Adsorption plants that have a capacity of producing 99.66 metric tonnes of oxygen. There were no such facilities in Delhi till May 31. The government will also be installing four more plants by January 5, 2022. Two cryogenic bottling plants with capacity of 12.5 metric tonne will be commissioned this week, and these will have the capacity to refill 1,400 jumbo cylinders in a day. Till May 31, the government had three refillers that could fill about 1,500 cylinders per day. The national capital has been seeing a surge in coronavirus cases in the last few days with 1,313 cases being recorded on Thursday and the positivity rate crossing the one per cent mark. Delhi has recorded 320 Omicron cases so far. Delhi was hit by a brutal second wave of the pandemic in April-May, which claimed a massive number of lives daily, and the oxygen supply shortage issue at various hospitals had added to the woes. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/medical-oxygen-infrastructure-augmented-in-delhi-over-omicron-scare-1066570.html
31-12-2021||North and Central||Baghel slams Gandhi's detractors, cites Bose, Tagore's admiration for Gandhi||Lashing out at religious leader Kalicharan Maharaj, Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel on Friday cautioned people to be alert about the forces spreading hatred in society. Referring to the arrested religious leader's comments against Mahatma Gandhi, Baghel said great people like Rabindranath Tagore and Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose were admirers of Gandhi. While Tagore had called Gandhi a Mahatma, Bose, despite ideological differences, referred to Gandhi as Father of Nation during a radio broadcast from Rangoon in 1944, Baghel pointed out. The Congress leader was speaking at a function here, titled `Gandhi Hamare Abhiman' (Gandhi, Our Pride). “And these `tutpunjiye' (petty) people refuse to consider Gandhi the Father of Nation. Who are you? Are you bigger than Subhas Babu? Do these people not believe in Tagore?" Baghel asked. He also referred to Kalichaan as "Gaali-charan". `Gaali' in Hindi means a term of abuse. "Some people want to spread hatred in society and cultivate a crop of hate. There is a need to be careful about them," Baghel said, accusing such elements of trying to created a religious divide even during a pandemeic. He also claimed that it was Vinayak Damodar Savarkar who "laid the foundation for the partition of the country" while Mohammad Ali Jinnah "fuelled it". Raipur Police on Thursday arrested Kalicharan Maharaj from neighbouring Madhya Pradesh over his alleged derogatory remarks about Mahatma Gandhi.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/baghel-slams-gandhis-detractors-cites-bose-tagores-admiration-for-gandhi-1066578.html
31-12-2021||North and Central||Road transport ministry for allowing vehicles to have maximum 3 decks to transport 2-wheelers||The Union Ministry of Road Transport and Highways has proposed to allow rigid vehicles as well as trailers to have a maximum of three decks to transport two-wheelers, with the load body not projecting over the driver's cabin. The Ministry issued a draft notification on the proposal to amend the Central Motor Vehicles Rules (CMVR). This will enhance the carriage capacity of two wheelers by 40-50 per cent, it said in a statement. This has been done after examining the issue of static stability tests and dynamic stability  of the three deck vehicles, the statement said. Stakeholders can send their comments within a period of thirty days. The Ministry also said that a new rule will be inserted regarding safety requirements like braking, power to weight ratio, lighting, maneuverability for road trains, said the statement. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/road-transport-ministry-for-allowing-vehicles-to-have-maximum-3-decks-to-transport-2-wheelers-1066600.html
31-12-2021||North and Central||V K Tripathi new Railway Board Chairman||The Appointments Committee of the Cabinet (ACC) has approved the appointment of Vinay Kumar Tripathi as the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Railway Board.   Tripathi is currently working as the General Manager of North-Eastern Railway, Gorakhpur. He has been appointed in place of outgoing Chairman and CEO Suneet Sharma, who retired on Friday.  Tripathi did his Bachelors in Electrical Engineering from Roorkee and joined the Railways through Indian Railway Service of Electrical Engineers (IRSEE), batch of 1983. He was first posted as an assistant electrical engineer in the Northern Railway and has successfully discharged the duties in important posts in the electrical department of Northern, Central & Western Railway. He also served in key posts including Divisional Railway Manager North Central Railway, Chief Electrical Locomotive Engineer and Additional General Manager Western Railway, Additional Member (Traction) in Railway Board . He was also involved in the commissioning of the three-phase locomotives and their indigenizaton. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/v-k-tripathi-new-railway-board-chairman-1066605.html
31-12-2021||North and Central||Some mainstream Valley politicians trying to 'instigate' people: Kashmir Police chief||Kashmir Police chief Vijay Kumar on Friday hit out at the mainstream politicians in the valley for trying to "instigate" the people, even as he said the political leaders or media do not have a right to term the police investigation as wrong and only court can decide that. Addressing a press conference here to list out the achievements of Kashmir Zone Police, the Inspector General of Police, Kashmir, asked the politicians to desist from instigating the public and “destroying the youth”. Kumar said the situation in the valley had improved in 2021, contrary to what some of the mainstream politicians or some media persons suggest. “Some political party leaders, some section of media, keep on saying that the situation has not improved. Some have gone to the extent of saying that the situation was like 1990s. The factual data on the ground shows that whatever they are saying is wrong. There has been much improvement in the situation,” the IGP told reporters at a press conference where only selected media persons were invited. Giving details, he said, last year, 238 terror incidents took place in Kashmir, while only 192 happened this year. “The number of civilians killed last year was 37, while it was 34 this year, even as the militants openly instigated that they will kill civilians, political workers and forces. And just to hide their terror crime, legitimise it, they call them informers. We took several preventive measures to protect the people,” he said. He said some politicians were “legitimising” the killings of civilians and policemen by terrorists, and added it was a challenge for the security forces. “Unfortunately, we see some politicians also legitimising the killings. What was the need to the encounter of the dreaded terrorist (TRF commander) Mehran (Shalla) with his photo and say it was cruel, there is a human rights violation. He killed many civilians. “Is it wrong to kill a terrorist like (TRF chief) Abbas (Sheikh) in an encounter? Why show sympathy with him. This is wrong? I want to tell the politicians, request them to stop this, that this is wrong, you are destroying the youth, the society,” he said. When asked about National Conference (NC) president Farooq Abdullah terming the police's special investigation team (SIT)'s investigation into Hyderpora encounter as “wrong”, Kumar said while the politicians have a right to not be satisfied with an investigation and demand a probe on a higher level, they have no right to term the inquiry as wrong. “This is a democratic set up and media persons, politicians and the families have the right to not be satisfied with the investigation and seek a higher-level probe thorough the NIA, CBI, High Court. We do not have any objection to that. But, only court can decide whether any investigation is wrong,” he said. The IGP said the SIT investigated the incident and will frame a chargesheet which then it will submit to the court which will take a judicial review. “A judge will decide whether the investigation is wrong or not. No politician, family member or media person can do that or say it is concocted, they have no such right,” he said. Referring to Abdullah, Kumar said the NC president has been a chief minister under whom the Home Department falls and so he understands what policing is. “The court will decide that. It is not that we have given a clean chit. Our each case will be decided by court. We will not decide that. So, I request such a leader to not instigate the public. Let the court decide. If the court thinks it is wrong, it will order to reinvestigate it,” he said. Continuing his tirade against the mainstream politicians in the valley, the IGP said some political leaders questioned the use of the term 'Hybrid' militants by J-K Police – militants who carry out attacks and then go on with their normal activities. “The fact remains that police coined the term in January 2021, the Goggle has also accepted it... We identify them from their digital signature. This is a challenge and will remain so. So far, we have identified 25 of them,” he said. The Kashmir Police chief also took a dig at the New Delhi-based media for talking about the impact of the spillover of the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan. “The people, the media talked much about new recruitment, many articles were written by Delhi media that there will be spurt (in militancy in Kashmir) after the Taliban takeover. But, by the support of the people, the families, we have been able to stop it to a large extent,” he said. He said last year, 167 youth had joined militancy, while as this year only 128. “Out of 128, 30 were killed within a month only after their joining,” he added. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/some-mainstream-valley-politicians-trying-to-instigate-people-kashmir-police-chief-1066609.html
31-12-2021||North and Central||Congress leaders fighting for CM's chair, 'weak govt' needs to be shunned, says Arvind Kejriwal||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) chief Arvind Kejriwal on Friday said there was infighting in the Congress for the chief minister's chair and that the leaders were not bothered about the people. Continuing his tirade against the Charanjit Singh Channi-led dispensation, Kejriwal said the "weak government" had still not been able to crack the sacrilege and bomb blast cases that rocked Punjab recently.         “There is a weak government and they (ruling party leaders) are fighting amongst themselves for the chief minister's position. The fight for power is underway... We have to oust this government and bring an honest government," Kejriwal said during the party's “Peace March” in Patiala. "A few days ago, there was a sacrilege attempt in Golden Temple. There was one who attempted it (who was later beaten to death)... but there must be a mastermind, who has not been caught yet. The state government had said he would be caught within 48 hours. But, 10 days have passed," Kejriwal said.         "A few days after this incident, there was a bomb blast in Ludhiana. Nobody knows who the mastermind is," he added. Kejriwal alleged that the cases of sacrilege and explosion were created to vitiate the peaceful atmosphere in the state and that a similar strategy was used in the run up to the previous Assembly polls.         "Before 2017 polls too, there was a bomb blast in Maur Mandi... In 2015, there was a sacrilege incident. Had the masterminds of these incidents been dealt with an iron hand, no one would dare repeat such acts," he said. The Delhi chief minister, who is eyeing the polls in Punjab early next year, said only the state's 'aam aadmi' (common man) can save it. "Three crore Punjabis will have to come together to achieve this," he said.         Pointing at the crowd, he said, "Thousands of Punjabis carrying the tri-colour in hands have gathered here on behalf of three crore Punjabis to give out a message those inimical forces, to Punjab's enemies, that their nefarious designs will be defeated, and peace and brotherhood in the state will be maintained." Kejriwal said his party believes in giving power to the people and enabling them to take decisions. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-leaders-fighting-for-cms-chair-weak-govt-needs-to-be-shunned-says-arvind-kejriwal-1066612.html
31-12-2021||North and Central||GoI nods Rs 600.50 crore additional aid for flood-hit Madhya Pradesh||The Centre has approved an additional assistance of Rs 600.50 crore for flood-affected Gwalior-Chambal division and Bidisha district in Madhya Pradesh. A high-level committee, headed by Home Minister Amit Shah, gave the approval for the central assistance of Rs 600.50 crore, the Union agriculture ministry said in a statement. Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar had visited the food-hit districts and also requested the Centre and Madhya Pradesh government for providing assistance. Eight districts of Gwalior-Chambal division and Bidisha district were badly impacted due to heavy rains during the south-west monsoon season. A central team was sent in August to affected districts to assess the damage. Based on the report of the central team, the amount of Rs 600.50 crore has been approved from the National Disaster Response Fund (NDRF). On Thursday, a high-level committee, headed by Union Home Minister Amit Shah, approved additional central assistance of Rs 3,063.21 crore from the NDRF to six states hit by floods, landslides and cyclones in 2021. The committee approved Rs 1,133.35 crore to Gujarat, which was affected by cyclone 'Tauktae', and Rs 586.59 crore to West Bengal, which was affected by cyclone 'Yaas'. Apart from Gujarat and West Bengal, flood-hit Assam received Rs 51.53 crore. Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh and Uttarakhand, all affected by floods and landslides during south-west monsoon, received Rs 504.06 crore, Rs 600.50 crore and Rs 187.18 crore respectively. The additional assistance is over and above the funds released by the Centre to the states in the State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF), already placed at the disposal of the states. This shows the resolve of the union government under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to help the people of the six states who faced these natural disasters, the statement had said.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/goi-nods-rs-60050-crore-additional-aid-for-flood-hit-madhya-pradesh-1066613.html
31-12-2021||North and Central||BJP out to defame SP in alliance with IT, ED: Akhilesh on raids at SP MLC's premises||Amid the ongoing Income Tax raids at the premises of another perfume dealer with the nickname Jain, this time an SP MLC, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Friday accused the BJP of rectifying its “earlier mistake” of raiding "own associate" Piyush Jain's premises. Yadav made the allegation claiming that his party has nothing to do with Kanpur-based perfume trader Peeyush Jain, who, he asserted, was close to the BJP. Jain was arrested earlier following a string of raids on his premises across the country. IT Department on Friday raided several premises of various perfume traders, including SP MLC Pushpraj alias Pampi Jain, in Uttar Pradesh and elsewhere in the country, including Kannauj, Kanpur, Delhi, Surat and Mumbai. Yadav also accused the BJP of “having shaken hands” with the IT and ED” sleuths to defame his party by raiding people associated with his party, besides arranging crowds at the BJP leaders’ poll rallies, which, he said, happens to be thinner than that on the “roadside chow mein-selling carts”. “Whenever a BJP programme is held in Lucknow or UP, it appears they either bring people of these departments with them or direct them to come here," he said. Talking of the IT raids at the residence and business premises of SP MLC’s residence, Yadav said “today's raids are being done out of frustration to overcome the earlier mistake wherein the BJP supporter was taken for a SP man”. “There already had been reports that raids will be conducted on Samajwadi Party people as has been seen in the past two weeks,” he said. “To defame Samajwadi Party, all leaders from Delhi to Lucknow had been telling lies from the dais about the IT raids conducted earlier in Kanpur. Hitler had a department of propaganda but the BJP has a government of propaganda,” he said. The BJP must tell the basis on which they had linked Piyush Jain with Samajwadi Party and all their leaders, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah to UP CM Yogi Adityanath has claiming his links with the SP, Yadav asserted. The recovery of huge amount of cash and gold, also demonstrates the failure of the government’s 2016 decision on demonetisation, he said. Accusing the BJP government of having forged an alliance with the IT and ED to “defame” his party, Yadav said, "This is not the first time that they have exhibited their 'chhapey wala' (raiding) behaviour.” “Remember West Bengal where all (enforcement) agencies had reached from Delhi during elections, Tamil Nadu, where CM Stalin’s house was raided and Bengaluru where Congress leaders’ houses were raided,” said Yadav. “Where ever elections are held, the BJP people take its alliance partners IT and ED with them," he added. Talking of raids on Kannauj-based perfume traders and raids on his party MLC Pampi Jain, who is behind launching a “Samajwadi itr (perfume)” ahead of the elections, Yadav said the BJP had the grudge why perfume was not being made in its name and why people associated with the Samajwadi Party were doing such innovative work. “The BJP resented how can anyone make 'itr” in the name of Samajwadi Party,” Yadav said while coining an impromptu slogan 'Itr ka inqilab hoga, 22 mein badlav hoga'. Dubbing the BJP as a “paper flower without any fragrance", Yadav said Kannauj is connected with Samajwadi Party and has a history of communal amity, but the BJP is out to spread the "nafrat ki durgandh" (stink of hatred). “How will they like "sauhardra ki sugandh" (fragrance of amity) and so knowingly want to defame the Samajwadi Party,” Yadav said.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-out-to-defame-sp-in-alliance-with-it-ed-akhilesh-on-raids-at-sp-mlcs-premises-1066619.html
31-12-2021||North and Central||Delhi HC asks Fortis Hospital to file genome test report of Omicron positive youth||The Delhi High Court on Friday directed Fortis Hospital to place on record the genome sequencing test report of a youth, who tested positive for Covid-19 at the international airport here upon arrival from the UK and was now not being discharged for lack of clarity on the virus variant. A vacation bench of Justice Anu Malhotra issued notice to Fortis Hospital at Vasant Kunj and also asked it to again conduct RT-PCR test on the 18-year-old student and place the report before the roster bench on January 4. The court further asked the hospital to supply copies of both the reports, genome sequencing and RT-PCR, to the petitioner who is mother of the patient, and the central and Delhi governments. The court was hearing a plea of the mother seeking to know the status and outcome of the genome sequencing test carried on her son who tested positive for Covid-19 at the airport here and was not being discharged by the hospital. Advocate Bharati Raju, representing the Centre, said according to the December 29 report, the youth has tested positive for Omicron variant and the Delhi government was managing the whole scenario. According to the guidelines, National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) provides the report to the state government which in turn has to inform the patient. However, advocate Arun Panwar, appearing for the Delhi government, said on testing positive for Covid-19, the youth was taken from the airport to LNJP Hospital from where he took discharge against medical advice and is now admitted to the private hospital and the Delhi government was not having the genome test report which must have been directly sent to the private hospital by NCDC. Advocate Vikram Hegde, representing the petitioner mother Archana Vaidya, said the son was shifted from LNJP Hospital to Fortis Hospital as the facilities in terms of hygiene and comfort were inadequate there and this private hospital is declared a Covid-dedicated facility by the Delhi government. He said that it's been over a week since the youth tested positive for the virus and he should be tested again for RT-PCR and be discharged if it turns out to be negative. On being asked by the court if the genome test report was a confidential document as it was not shared with the patient, the counsel for the Centre replied in negative. The high court had on December 29, sought responses of the Centre and Delhi government on the woman's petition and had said while the protocols imposed by the authorities ought to be followed, the petitioner mother was entitled to know the genome test result which was not a national secret. "They (governments) have to tell who has done the genome sequencing and when the report is going to come. The court will ensure that it comes to you (mother) and for that, we have to give them a day's time... It's your son and his genome sequencing. Why shouldn't you know it. I don't understand if there is any national secret in that," the court had earlier told the mother. The court was earlier informed that as per its latest guidelines, samples for genome testing of the virus have to be mandatorily sent in case of positive cases at the international airport.   Counsel for the petitioner had informed the court that upon the arrival at the Delhi international airport from one of the at-risk countries on December 24, the son tested positive for the virus and then a second swab was collected by the authorities for genome sequencing but no "lab reference number" was provided to enable the patients to track the report. The petitioner, who was present in person, claimed that her son was in isolation in a private hospital since the morning of December 25 and was not being discharged to await the result of the genome sequencing test.  She claimed that in spite of her son being a mild case of Covid-19, the private hospital was not re-testing him.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-hc-asks-fortis-hospital-to-file-genome-test-report-of-omicron-positive-youth-1066639.html
31-12-2021||North and Central||Chandigarh-based drug firm booked for Rs 1626.74 crore by CBI||The CBI has booked top executives of Chandigarh-based Parabolic Drugs Ltd for allegedly defrauding a consortium led by Central Bank of India of Rs 1626.74 crore, officials said Friday. Besides company’s Managing Director Paranav Gupta, the top agency has booked company directors Vineet Gupta, Deepali Gupta, Rama Gupta, Jagjit Singh Chahal, Sanjeev Kumar, Vandana Singla, Ishrat Gill, and its Guarantors TN Goyal and Nirmal Bansal, and one J D Gupta, an official said. Following the registration of an FIR, the CBI on Friday conducted searches at 12 locations in Chandigarh, Panchkula, Ludhiana, Faridabad and Delhi at the office and residential premises of the accused, CBI Spokesperson RC Joshi said. The raids resulted in recovery of incriminating documents, articles, and Rs 1.58 crore in cash, he said. According to the official, the private company was engaged in the manufacturing of drugs and allegedly defrauded the consortium of banks through criminal conspiracy and forgery, and funneled loans it took for other uses.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chandigarh-based-drug-firm-booked-for-rs-162674-crore-by-cbi-1066646.html
31-12-2021||North and Central||Vaccination centres gear up for vaccination of beneficiaries in 15-18 category in Delhi||From stocking up doses to keeping pediatricians on standby, inoculation centres in Delhi are gearing up ahead of the starting of Covid vaccination for children in the age group of 15-18 from January 3. According to official documents shared by sources, the cohort size for vaccination in this category is 10 lakh as per the Registrar General of India's figures. Authorities at LNJP Hospital and other facilities in Delhi, which are among the largest state-run vaccination centres since the start of the exercise on January 16, said infrastructure set up is ready to administer Covid vaccine shots to children, after having catered to the adult population, including healthcare workers and frontline staff, who were given priority to be the first in line to receive jabs. A large number of schools and other educational are also been used as Covid vaccination centres, and arrangements were being made there as well. Children aged between 15 and 18 years would be able to register on the CoWIN portal from January 1 and the vaccine option for them would only be Covaxin, officials said on Monday as preparations are underway to start inoculating children against Covid-19 from January 3. The vaccine option for those in the 15-18 age group has been stated under the "Guidelines for Covid-19 vaccination of children between 15-18 years and precaution dose to HCWs, FLWs and 60+ population with comorbidities", which was issued by the Union health ministry on Monday. According to the guidelines, which will come into effect from January 3, those aged 15 and above will be able to register on CoWIN. In other words, "all those whose birth year is 2007" or before, shall be eligible. Balance vaccine shots at disposal of the Delhi government as on December 29 morning, stood at 21.53 lakh doses, according to the official documents. Private hospitals too have geared up for this phase of the exercise, which will take place amid a massive spike in cases of Covid and an Omicron scare. Delhi on Thursday recorded 1,313 fresh Covid cases, the highest single-day spike since May 26, with a mounting positivity rate of 1.73 per cent, as Health Minister Satyendar Jain cautioned that the latest variant of the coronavirus is gradually spreading in the community. Doctors urged parents to bring their children for vaccination as soon as possible, to lend them protection amid a fear of a third wave of the coronavirus pandemic. "The Omicron variant of the virus is infecting people and it's spreading, but those who are vaccinated are largely asymptomatic, and essentially the unvaccinated ones are needing hospitalisation more. So, would appeal to people to wear mask, and get vaccinated at the earliest, if eligible," said Dr Bishnu Panigrahi, Group Head, Medical Strategy & Operations, Fortis Healthcare group. Asked about the preparation for the vaccination exercise for children starting January 3, he said, "we are all set". Fortis units at Vasant Kunj, Shalimar Bagh and Okhla, will be the vaccination centres of the healthcare group, he said. "Depending on the footfall, we can step up the logistics. Also, a team of paediatricians will be on standby in case there is any adverse events reported in a beneficiary," he said. "We had formed a core expert group last year to tackle the pandemic, and around mid-2021 we made a sub-group, paediatric core expert group to assess the situation and suggest ways to handle a crisis," the doctor said. A spokesperson of Max healthcare group said, Max hospital, Saket and few other units will be part of the vaccination exercise for the children group. "Paediatricians will be on standby when the vaccination begins for this group," she said. According to CoWIN portal, 2.63 crore doses have been administered in Delhi till date, including 1.52 crore first doses, and 1.11 crore second doses.  For precaution doses (third dose), there are about three lakh people who are eligible as per the January 10, 2022 reference point, according to theofficial documents.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/vaccination-centres-gear-up-for-vaccination-of-beneficiaries-in-15-18-category-in-delhi-1066649.html
31-12-2021||North and Central||Ahead of Uttarakhand polls, BJP reaching out to Sikh voters||Recognising the importance of Sikhs voters in next year's Assembly polls in Uttarakhand, the BJP is leaving no stones unturned to woo them. Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami and BJP national General Secretary Tarun Chugh met a delegation of influential Sikh leaders from the state on Friday and highlighted the works carried out by the Narendra Modi-led government for them. Sources said that the Sikh delegation was apprised about works like opening of Kartarpur Sahib Corridor, formation of SIT to probe 1984 riots, starting work for ropeway facility at Gurdwara Hemkund Sahib and repeal of three farm laws by the government, among others. The Sikh delegation was led by Sardar Ajmer Singh. "They have extended their support to the party for the upcoming elections," calimed a source. In a tweet after meeting, Chugh said, "Discussed the works done by Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the Sikh community with the local Sikh population and also discussed upcoming Uttarakhand Assembly polls." BJP youth wing national secretary and Uttarakhand in-charge, Tajinder Pal Singh Bagga, told IANS that after hearing about the works carried out by the Centre for the Sikh community, the delegation extended their support to the party. "The delegation of influential Sikh leaders also said that they will spread the word among the community members and ensure victory for the BJP in the upcoming Assembly polls," said Bagga, who was present during the meeting. Sikhs form 2.34 per cent of the state's population. The majority of Sikhs are residents of two districts -- Udham Singh Nagar and Dehradun, which have 19 Assembly constituencies, 10 in Dehradun and nine in Udham Singh Nagar. The 70-member Uttarakhand Assembly will go to the polls early next year, along with Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Manipur and Goa. The BJP has set a target of winning over 60 seats in the upcoming polls. In the last Assembly elections in 2017, the BJP had won 57 seats. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ahead-of-uttarakhand-polls-bjp-reaching-out-to-sikh-voters-1066691.html
31-12-2021||North and Central||Ashok Gehlot extends Covid health workers' tenure by 3 months in view of rising cases||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has approved a proposal to extend the work period of Covid health consultants and Covid health assistants by three months in view of rising number of coronavirus infections. Their tenure will now be extended from January, 2022 to March, 2022, according to the proposal. With this approval, the containing of spread of infection, door-to-door survey, and distribution of medicines will be conducted smoothly in the state, a government release said.' Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ashok-gehlot-extends-covid-health-workers-tenure-by-3-months-in-view-of-rising-cases-1066701.html
31-12-2021||North and Central||Delhi sees 1,796 new Covid cases, highest since May 22; positivity rate jumps to 2.44%||Delhi on Friday recorded 1,796 fresh Covid cases, the highest single-day rise since May 22, and zero death while the positivity rate mounted to 2.44 per cent, according to data shared by the city health department. On Thursday, 1,313 cases were recorded with a positivity rate of 1.73 per cent, according to official figures. The daily cases count had breached the 1000-mark after a gap of seven months. The daily cases count surged to 1,796 on Friday with an increased positivity rate of 2.44 per cent, as per the latest health bulletin. This single-day rise is the highest since May 22 when 2,260 cases were logged with a positivity rate of 3.58 per cent. As many as 182 deaths were also recorded on that day. The huge spike in fresh cases over the past few days here is being recorded amid a significant jump in cases of the new Omicron variant of Covid in Delhi. The number of coronavirus deaths in the national capital, logged in the month of December, stands at nine, the highest in the last four months. The death toll due to the coronavirus infection in Delhi stands at 25,107. On Wednesday, Tuesday and Monday the daily cases tally had stood at 923; 496 and 331 cases respectively, as per official data. The number of cumulative cases on Monday stood at 14,48,211. Over 14.18 lakh patients have recovered from the infection. Seven COVID-19 deaths were reported here in November this year, according to official data. Delhi had recorded four Covid deaths in October and five in September. A total of 73,590 tests -- 62,812 RT-PCR tests and 10,778 rapid antigen tests -- were conducted a day ago, the bulletin said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-sees-1796-new-covid-cases-highest-since-may-22-positivity-rate-jumps-to-244-1066720.html
31-12-2021||Oasis||Let's get rid of evils in society||There are four Cs - Communalism, Corruption, Casteism and Criminalisation of politics. These four Cs would convert peaceful India into a battlefield if we do not fight against these. Whenever communal riots occur, people from both communities are held responsible, but the handful who incite it is let scot-free. The majority are peace-loving. In our country, people from all communities and faiths live peacefully. Swami Vivekananda said religious coordination is the key to maintaining one’s religious qualities and remaining calm. In a multi-cultural, multi-religious country like India where various communities and religious groups observe festivals, and celebrations of their choice, they should always take enough care not to hurt the religious sentiments of other communities. Corruption destroys all the noble attributes of human beings in pursuit of material bereft of spiritual and divine knowledge. Bhagavat Gita asks people to embrace the world with an understanding of each other with love and respect to enjoy infinite happiness. Quran says: “Reduce not things that are due to the people and do not commit mischief in the land causing corruption.” We should not allow politicians to reap their political harvest on emotional issues. Prophet Mohammed asked that things be made easy for the public and hurdles not be created for the public. These are rarely followed. Religion is misunderstood to mean dogmas, doctrines, books and rituals. Every religion teaches us to rise above the base nature, through the practice of sense control and sacrifice. Jesus Christ said those who sincerely love each other find happiness in their lives. Man-made differences such as caste, colour can be removed by only one means, ie, love. Tibetian Spiritual leader Dalai Lama said, “All the religions, faiths, ideology and traditions give us the message of peace, unity and goodwill. Various religions emphasise the importance of compassion.” We Indians have adopted ourselves to a myriad of ideologies different ways of worshipping and several traditions and imbibed them in the art of co-existential living. Let us pledge towards a poverty-free India, corruption-free India, terrorism-free India, an India free of communalism and casteism.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/lets-get-rid-of-evils-in-society-1066321.html
31-12-2021||Opinion||Farmers' political ambitions in Punjab trump reality||The decision of 22 farm unions in Punjab to form a political party and contest elections is a big gamble. Under the stewardship of Balbir Singh Rajewal, they have decided to form a political front, the Samyukt Samaj Morcha, to contest all the 117 legislative assembly seats in the state. Rajewal leads his own faction of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) - the BKU (Rajewal). He has flirted in the past with the Shiromani Akali Dal, the Congress party and the Aam Adami Party. Another leader from Haryana BKU, Gurnam Singh Chaduni, has also floated a political party, the Sanyukt Sangharsh Party, to contest the Punjab polls. Chaduni's aim is "to purify politics and bring good people forward." He claimed that his party would work for the welfare of all sections of the society while existing political parties frame policies in favour of capitalists and ignore the poor. While these are laudable objectives, two important questions must be considered: Will these parties be able to ensure the effective participation of the farmers in governance? And, what would be the impact of a poll defeat on the farmers' movement? The farmers' mass mobilisation was largely focused on a single class ("farmers") with a single issue (remunerative prices) rather than on a wider social agenda. On the other hand, a political party has to address a broader cross-section of society. Therefore, when the farmers' unions, either singly or together, transform themselves into a political party, they will need to widen their agenda - evidence for which is so far wanting. Moreover, the strength and success of the 15 month long farmers' movement cannot just be attributed to the farmers' union leaders alone. It was also due to the support they received from civil society organisations, political parties opposed to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government at the Centre, gurudwaras who helped run free community kitchens and NGOs and volunteers from different sections of society. The strength of the farmers' movement was the combined energy and leadership shown by all of them and not of the farmers' leaders alone. The political parties that spoke out in favour of repealing the farm laws are no longer backing a new political formation of farmers in Punjab. They will, in fact, field their own candidates. Most importantly, to win elections, it is not sufficient to have good campaigners and canvassers – election management on the ground is essential. Only parties with structures on the ground, extending to the booth level, can convert intentions into votes cast. Unless there is massive public anger against the government (such as in the aftermath of the Emergency), traditional political parties have a clear advantage over newer political formations in this regard. Moreover, the farmers' movement is divided on the issue of direct political participation. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha, the common front of the farmers' unions which led the agitation against the three farm laws (now repealed), has distanced itself from those contesting the polls. Two of the largest farmer unions, Joginder Singh Ugrahan's BKU (Ekta-Ugrahan) and Jagjit Singh Dallewal-led BKU (Unity-Sidhupur), are also firmly opposed to poll participation. As opposed to those who want a direct role in policymaking, these groups want to continue as a pressure group to influence politics and policies. This dilemma is not new. The experience of the Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha (KRRS) of MD Nanjundaswamy and the Shetkari Sangathana of Sharad Joshi is something that today's farmers' leaders could learn from. Both subscribed to transformative agendas and were focused on remunerative prices for farm produce. The KRRS and the Shetkari Sangathana, however, were ideologically different. Nanjundaswamy stood up to the government's new economic policy/liberalisation and against the World Trade Organization (WTO) (as envisaged in the Dunkel Draft at that stage) and multinationals in the seed sector (Monsanto, in particular). He demanded not only remunerative prices but also an increase in loan grants, distribution of government land, reducing water levy, price policy based on man-hours, declaring agriculture an industry, reservation for farmers' children and free houses, education and healthcare for farm labour. Sharad Joshi's, on the other hand, was a more avowedly right-wing formation modelled on the Swatantra Party. Their entry into politics, however, turned their powerful grassroots organisations into virtual non-entities. It cannot be anyone's case that successful social movements should not institutionalise themselves by moving from the domain of civil society to politics. However, if mass mobilisation for a specific agenda does not morph into mass electoral support, the costs to the organisations can be high. Failure to demonstrate public support at the hustings would have disastrous consequences for the ongoing struggle for universal MSP (minimum support price). It would allow the government to say that it proved its claim that the agitation only represented "sectional interests". Remember, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, even when repealing the farm laws, underlined that only "some farmers" had not been convinced of their usefulness. The government would be able to claim that the farmers' unions never had mass support, and their leaders would be discredited. This turn of events may embolden the government to bring in its agricultural reforms in a different guise. After all, Union Minister for Agriculture Narendra Singh Tomar has said that the government had only "moved one step back" and "will move forward again". Even though he has clarified that he did not mean bringing back the controversial laws, he has not said what he really meant. The government's position on MSP is also bound to harden. And should the farmers' unions decide to agitate again, they would no longer be handled with kid gloves. They would meet the full vengeance of a state that has not still recovered from its display of weakness in repealing the farm laws. (The writer is a journalist based in Delhi) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/farmers-political-ambitions-in-punjab-trump-reality-1066455.html
31-12-2021||Opinion||UP: BJP struggling to win over farmers despite farm laws repeal||On new year's day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will transfer another tranche of the PM Kisan Nidhi payout to 10 crore farmers. The Modi government has made several attempts at setting a narrative of it being farmer-friendly. However, the issue of farm distress, which Congress leader Rahul Gandhi first raised in the run-up to the Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls in 2016, remains the albatross around the neck of Lucknow's "double engine government" as it prepares for the Assembly polls six weeks from now. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) strategists had expected the double anti-incumbency Yogi Adityanath government faces in Lucknow - five years of its own and nearly eight years of the Centre's - would subside with the repeal of the three contentious farm laws. But the anger against the government, as repeated opinion polls have indicated, has not abated. Will the disbursement of Rs 2,000 instalment under the PM Kisan Nidhi help assuage UP's farmers and arrest BJP's dipping popularity? The BJP has put in place "gram sanyojak", or village organisers, for each of the 403 assembly constituencies of UP. These party workers will head out into the villages to explain the "farm-friendly" schemes of the BJP governments in Lucknow and New Delhi. The focus currently is 104 seats of western UP that have sugarcane farmers. The Samajwadi Party (SP)-Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) alliance has consistently raised the issue of non-payment of dues to sugarcane farmers, which has struck a chord. Joblessness and price rise have further fanned the anti-BJP sentiment among farmers. According to official estimates, around 40 lakh farmers grow sugarcane in western UP, which they sell to 120 sugar mills. The Adityanath government tried to mollify farmers by increasing the sugarcane purchase price by Rs 25 per quintal. However, the opposition has continued to flag how sugar mills are yet to clear Rs 2,000 crore in pending dues to the farmers. In the 2017 Assembly polls, the BJP ended its 14-year "vanavas", or exile, from Lucknow's seat of power on the back of its promise of a farm loan waiver. After the BJP formed the government in Lucknow, it announced a loan waiver of Rs 36,000 crore, claiming to have benefitted 86 lakh farmers. In addition, according to government data, another 2.53 crore farmers in UP have received Rs 6000 annual PM Kisan Nidhi instalments since 2019. The state government has also claimed to improve irrigation in 20 lakh hectares and provided subsidised solar pumps to farmers. However, as the NSS Situational Assessment Survey has found, farm incomes have increased between 2013 to 2019, but so did indebtedness. If the average increase in farm incomes across the country was Rs 22,932 during this period, it was Rs 14,888 in UP. Similarly, the increase in loans on UP farmers was by Rs 23,807 against the countrywide rise by Rs 27,121. Farmers also complain of more immediate concerns, for example, that of stray cattle. Stricter anti-cow slaughter vigilance by law enforcement agencies and right-wing groups has increased the number of strays across UP's villages, harming standing crops. According to farmers, their six-monthly expenditure on erecting fences to ward off strays amounts to Rs 10,000. There is also anger at the prosecution of farmers because of the burning of stubble. Earlier this week, the heads of several Khaps held a meeting in western UP's Shamli, demanding fulfilment of the Centre's promises to agitating farmers in Delhi. They reiterated the demand for a legal guarantee on minimum support price (MSP), withdrawal of cases against farmers registered during the movement, and clearing sugarcane dues. They also opposed the Centre's decision to raise the legal age of marriage for women from 18 to 21 years. There is anticipation the prime minister could announce a farmers' friendly scheme at his mega rally in Lucknow, which is to be held days before the Election Commission announces the poll schedule for UP and four other poll-bound states.  Would that help the BJP sweep UP and bag the massive vote shares it did in the 2014 and 2019 Lok Sabha and 2017 Assembly polls? The BJP's success, at least in western UP, was helped by the communal polarisation after the 2013 communal riots in Muzaffarnagar. The RLD, under its leader Jayant Singh Chaudhary, is hopeful of rekindling the political and social alliance between the Jats and Muslims that his grandfather Chaudhary Charan Singh had helped shape.  In the 1984 Lok Sabha polls, the Congress swept most seats across India, particularly Uttar Pradesh. At that time, UP sent 85 MPs to the Lok Sabha. The Congress won 83 of those seats with a vote share of more than 50 per cent. Several opposition stalwarts in UP, like Chandra Shekhar and Hemwati Nandan Bahuguna, lost their seats. The two seats that the Congress lost in UP were to the Lok Dal - in Baghpat to Charan Singh and the Etah seat, which Mohammed Mahfooz Ali Khan won. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/up-bjp-struggling-to-win-over-farmers-despite-farm-laws-repeal-1066461.html
31-12-2021||Opinion||UP polls 2022: A ballad of east and west||"East is East, and West is West, and never the twain shall meet" - The Ballad of East and West by Rudyard Kipling. In a demographically diverse state like Uttar Pradesh, elections are held in half a dozen or more phases extended over a month. The scheduling of the polls, thus, is increasingly a discernible variable for political parties while firming up their strategy for the last lap. Whether elections start in the east and travel west or vice versa is now increasingly factored in by key contestants. Parties prefer to begin on a sure footing on a home pitch. In a digitally connected polity, words travel around. And a solid opening partnership can impart the right momentum, or 'hawa', to buffet a vulnerable middle-order or a wagging tail. Here we analyse the scheduling of the last six elections in Uttar Pradesh — three Lok Sabha and three Vidhan Sabha — to see if there indeed is any correlation between the scheduling of multi-phased polls and the results. 2004 Lok Sabha polls The Election Commission of India conducted the 2004 Lok Sabha polls in four phases. In UP, however, voting for its 80 Lok Sabha seats was held in three phases between April 20 and May 10, 2004. The elections travelled from east to west. The first phase covered constituencies in the far-eastern districts bordering Bihar. In the last phase, voting was held in 18 constituencies in western UP, including the Meerut division bordering Delhi and Haryana. When votes were counted on May 13, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) 's tally in UP had crashed to 10 seats. The Samajwadi Party (SP), and its ally, the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD), mopped up the lion's share. The Congress, however, emerged as the single largest party in the 14th Lok Sabha. It formed the government at the Centre with the support of the Left Front and some regional parties. 2007 UP Assembly polls The 2007 Assembly polls were a watershed election in UP's politics. After two decades of political fragmentation, a party finally won an absolute majority. It was also the first and until now, the last time, the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) formed a single-party government in any Indian state since its formation in the mid-1980s. The 2007 elections were held in seven phases spread over a month, between March 13 and April 13. The first phase was conducted in the assembly segments that fall in parts of central UP, Agra division and Bundelkhand, which were considered BSP strongholds. The elections then travelled west to the Meerut division in districts bordering Delhi. The third phase onwards, elections moved west to east, with the last two phases held in Varanasi and Gorakhpur divisions. The BSP won an absolute majority in these elections. The SP got less than a hundred seats (98), while the BJP's tally plummeted to 51 seats. 2009 Lok Sabha polls The 2009 Lok Sabha polls were held in the backdrop of the Left parties withdrawing their support to the Congress-led UPA government and Mayawati's aggressive bid to topple the government in the trust vote that the Manmohan Singh government faced, but survived. Elections in UP were held in five phases. The polls, on this occasion, travelled from east to west. The first phase was conducted in the Gorakhpur division and the last one in the Meerut division. The Congress emerged as the biggest gainer, winning 22 seats. The SP and BSP won 22 and 20 seats, respectively. The BJP was reduced to 10 seats of the 80. 2012 Assembly polls The 2012 Assembly elections were held in seven phases. The first phase was conducted in Agra and Rohilkhand divisions, and then the polls moved east. The districts in and around Bareilly, with a high concentration of minority population, have traditionally been considered SP strongholds. The polling in these elections took a circuitous route to travel further east and then ended in the far west, in the Meerut division. The SP won the elections by a majority. Mayawati lost power while BJP's tally remained close to 50 seats. 2014 Lok Sabha polls The 2014 polls were held in nine phases in the country. UP polls were conducted in six phases. The first phase of polling was held in the Meerut division, considered a BJP stronghold. A spate of communal flare-ups there had completely polarised the polity in districts in and around Muzaffarnagar. The elections then moved east and ended in Varanasi and Gorakhpur divisions. The BJP registered an emphatic victory winning almost 90 per cent of the 80 seats in the state. 2017 Assembly polls Elections again moved west to east, beginning in the Meerut division with the last phase in the far east in the Varanasi division. The BJP registered a three-fourths majority. 2019 Lok Sabha polls The polling for 80 seats in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls was held in seven phases. The scheduling was similar to the last Lok Sabha and Assembly polls in the state, with elections travelling west to east. Despite the SP, BSP and RLD tie-up, the BJP managed to win more than 60 of the 80-seats. The outcome of the last six elections in UP notwithstanding, it would be too simplistic to assume that merely the election schedule alone can make or mar the prospects of political parties. The results are invariably a cumulative product of a complex and competing socio-economic and political churn in a population. But it seems from the data analysed above that the BJP does well when elections begin in the far west in the Meerut division and travel linearly to the eastern frontiers. Others are better off if the first phase of polling is held in their respective strongholds. For example, the Rohilkhand and Agra divisions with a high concentration of Muslim and Yadav votes suits the SP. Similarly, non-BJP parties perform better if the start is made far east in districts where polarisation on caste lines far outweighs communal faultlines in the polity. (The writer is a journalist) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/up-polls-2022-a-ballad-of-east-and-west-1066522.html
31-12-2021||Panorama||Band-aid solutions won’t reduce suicides||Removing ceiling fans in the hostels and barring access to terraces and rooftops as a suicide prevention measure by the Indian Institute of Science (IISc) is as ludicrous as it can get. Because, firstly, students feeling suicidal have many other options; secondly, a band-aid solution is no way to deal with such a serious issue. In the last two years, IISc, one of the most prestigious institutes in the country, has lost six of its students to suicide. Each death is tragic, but suicides are particularly heart-wrenching for their sheer preventability and the trail of distress and guilt they leave behind for their families and friends; suicides of young are even more so. IISc, of course, cannot be singled out for such unfortunate incidents. The government data indicates that 122 students from IITs, IIMs and central institutes ended their own lives in the past seven years. The case of Rohit Vemula, a bright PhD scholar, that stirred up a huge student movement is still fresh in public memory. Suicide among college and university students is not limited to India either. It is the most common cause of student deaths in the US and UK. One wonders whether our premier education institutions are becoming stress centres for students. The bar on academic standards being higher and competition being fiercer, pressure to succeed is greater undoubtedly. However, only students with very high scholastic ability, strong dedication and passion join these institutions, many of whom will incur high financial liabilities. When they take the extreme step, it calls for serious introspection. Certain trigger points, when identified, can help in taking pre-emptive measures. It is important to look for reasons within the institutions as well as search for vulnerabilities. Each student faces a volley of academic, social and emotional stressors that can be further aggravated while staying away from the comforts of home and family for the first time. Poor, marginalised and women students especially, face the added burden of discrimination, isolation, bullying and harassment more often owing to the stereotypes that exist against them. These take a huge toll on their mental health and academic performances making them feel dejected, depressed and lonely. Research has found suicide to be strongly associated with depression and loneliness.   The onus to ensure a socially sensitive and gender-equal environment certainly lie with the institutes. Sadly, many of them do paltry little to tackle socio-cultural and gender violations. Mental health is another area that is grossly misunderstood, still stigmatised and seldom addressed. Student welfare units, wellness and counselling centres are often cosmetic in nature. Conversely, the rise in suicide is a reflection of poorer mental health in this generation of millennials. More numbers are diagnosed with anxiety and depression and are medicated more than ever before. Students often see failure and low academic performance as catastrophic and life-threatening, as evidenced by the sudden rise in suicide right after exam results. Derisive as it may sound, the youngsters tend to be easily upset and offended, and are unable to handle criticism and rejection. Blame it on the overprotective, overindulgent and achievement-oriented parents who inadvertently stunt the abilities of children to solve their own problems, deal with disappointments and cope with even normal challenges of life. Increasing bureaucratisation even at the school and midlevel education, fanning consumerist attitude and undermining the actual goal of learning has only made things worse. In order to mollify students and reduce their stress burden, academic quality and evaluation standards are compromised, shielding them from facing academic challenges and potential failure at an earlier age, denying an opportunity for resilience building. While implementing National Education Policy, this deserves due attention. The pandemic played havoc with the mental health of youngsters. Alongside academic courses, resilience building and mental fitness training imparted by mental health professionals in all educational institutions become all the more crucial. Also, early detection of mental health issues is vital in providing timely remedial actions and preventing mishaps. It is time mental health is taken more seriously in educational institutions and by parents, performance and excellence can always follow. (The author is a professor in Psychology, author and Director, Eudaimonic Centre for Change and Wellbeing, Bengaluru) Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/band-aid-solutions-won-t-reduce-suicides-1066327.html
31-12-2021||Panorama||Inflation: The changing nature of the beast||Though CPI (or retail) inflation in India is still within the RBI target band of 2-6 per cent, WPI (or wholesale) inflation has crossed the 14 per cent mark, a 12-year high. The recent surge in WPI is being regarded as an advance signal of a hike in CPI inflation in the near future. Why do WPI and CPI often follow different trajectories? This is because the weights given to different commodity groups in these two indexes are different. For example, nearly 50 per cent weight is accorded to food items in CPI while it is less than 20 per cent in WPI. In addition, services figure more in CPI since most services (like education, healthcare, transportation) are not bought and sold in the wholesale markets. Further, prices of machines and raw materials enter WPI but not CPI. Though our official measure of inflation (or ‘headline inflation’) used to be WPI, India switched to CPI in 2014. Also, the RBI, while targeting inflation, looks at CPI. But then, the range of CPI inflation (4 per cent plus/minus 2 per cent) is not the only target that RBI is concerned with. It also considers the so-called ‘output gap’ or the gap between actual GDP and potential GDP. At present, the prevailing view at RBI, despite WPI shooting up alarmingly, is that any tightening of monetary policy to control inflation runs the risk of derailing the ongoing economic recovery. But then, the way WPI is behaving, the day is not far off when RBI will have to tighten its monetary policy stance, even at the risk of hurting growth. The current surge in inflation is due to a number of factors, on both the demand and supply sides. The growth rebound following the sharp fall in GDP and employment (due to the onset of Covid pandemic) should not have caused such a big rise in inflation numbers, if there were no supply bottlenecks. Of course, some rise in prices of oil and metals is inevitable when demand rebounds just as these prices fall when economies go into a recession. In fact, the price of fuel and power has risen nearly 40 per cent between November 2020 and November 2021.   However, for general inflation to go up to this extent, a rise in the prices of manufactured goods has to occur. ‘Core inflation’ (which excludes food and fuel) has also reached a 5-month high of around 6 per cent in November 2021. Here, analysts are blaming shortages of crucial inputs like microchips due to Covid-related breakdowns in global supply chains and rising transport costs and logistical problems like shortages of shipping containers and congestion in ports. With the extremely swift spread of the Omicron variant, the chances of more closures, more disruption of supply chain logistics and labour shortages are high.  In developed countries, wages have also started to rise to keep pace with rising prices, leading to some kind of a wage-price spiral. Though this catching up of wages with prices does not happen to the same extent in India, it affects Indian prices to the extent the cost of imported consumer goods goes up and the rise in prices of imported inputs pushes up costs of manufacturing in India. With demand rebound, along with a shortage of supplies, the power of manufacturers to pass on rising costs to consumers is increasing. Weather factors (like unseasonal heavy rains destroying standing crops) have also played a major role in raising prices of food articles like vegetables and fruits, even in winter when such prices reach their lowest points.   The current bout of inflation is a global phenomenon. US inflation has reached the highest level in four decades while inflation in the UK is at its highest in over a decade. The stock markets have started factoring in the impact of the Fed ‘tapering’ off its bond purchases (which, by injecting money, keeps interest rates low). The expectation of an impending rise in interest rates in the US and EU is already causing a fall in stock prices in the emerging world, including India. It is simple arithmetic that stock prices are inversely related to interest rates. In addition, the tightening of monetary policy in the US, as and when it happens, will induce more outflow of foreign funds from the Indian stock market, leading to a further depreciation of the Indian rupee which, in turn, would raise the rupee cost of imports and the inflation rate.   The likely rise in interest rates by RBI to combat inflation would be good news for people living on bank fixed deposit interest and bad news for borrowers. In this connection, it is interesti ng to note the changing nature of inflation in India over the years. In post-Independence India, inflation used to be mainly food inflation, triggered by weather factors like drought or unseasonal rainfall. Subsequently, the success of the Green Revolution brought grain prices down, the importance of agriculture in GDP and CPI also declined. High fiscal deficits and loose monetary policy became increasingly important causes of inflation in the 1980s. Even within the food group, the importance of grains declined as people moving up the income ladder switched to a more diversified food basket, consisting of more vegetables, pulses, milk, eggs, fish and meat. Due to supply constraints, the relative prices of such food items have been going up while there is chronic excess supply in grains, thanks to rising government procurement prices incentivising farmers to grow grains. In more recent times, inflation has often been triggered by a rise in the international dollar price of petro-products, depreciation of the rupee,  which raises the rupee price of imports, and rise in government (central and state) taxes. Also, crop failures due to seasonal factors and a chronic shortage of pulses and edible oil have been contributing to food and CPI inflation. The role of fiscal deficit financed by printing of notes (‘deficit financing’) has been declining due to the steady decline in monetised fiscal deficit as a percentage of GDP, except for tackling exceptional situations like the Covid-induced sharp recession by big doses of fiscal and monetary stimulus. In the pre-liberalisation era, inflation in India used to cross the 10 per cent mark in many years. However, in the post-1991 period, the new normal for inflation became an average of 5-6 per cent. It seems, in the near future, the inflation trajectory would be well above this normal, with all its attendant consequences. In the prevailing global uncertainty, nobody knows, for how long. (The writer is a former Professor of Economics, IIM, Calcutta, and Cornell University, USA.) Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/inflation-the-changing-nature-of-the-beast-1066319.html
31-12-2021||Right in the Middle||Bidding adieu to 2021||One of my senior citizen friends was critical of boisterous, end-of-the-year celebrations. "It is not in our culture to celebrate the end," he asserted, "we mark the beginning of the year with a morning prayer." Deliberating over the remark, I realised that this was only partially right. Yes, it is our custom to launch a new activity with a prayer. But it is also in our tradition to celebrate the successful completion of a task with food, fun and frolic. The best example of this is the harvest festival celebrated across the country to mark the successful completion of a major crop-growing season. The happiness is expressed through colourful rangolis, flowers, new clothes, singing and dancing, culminating in a sumptuous feast!   Such celebrations are not mere exercises in unwinding. They are events to consciously mark the boxing of one set of activities and stamp it as finished. When one project finishes, the next is in line to commence. Hence, if the tasks are not compartmentalised, life would seem like one long weary road. Interestingly, understanding of this psychology is there for us to see in the Ramayana. Sundarakandam, the 5th chapter in Valmiki Ramayanam, begins with Hanuman poised for the ocean-leap, being seen off by the search party sent in the Southern direction. Earlier, the group had reached the tip of the Southern Ocean with no success in finding Sita. How could they cross the ocean and reach the island of Lanka? Hanuman successfully crosses the ocean, discovering Sita, creating havoc in Lanka and jumping back to join his comrades. Even though Valmiki’s focus stays entirely on Hanuman, his adventures and his successes, the description of the jubilation with which he is received by the waiting team provides a clue to the anxiety with which they were all waiting Hanuman’s safe return.  The big news had to be reached to their King and the troop race to get back. Soon they reach the ‘Madhu Vana’, the protected garden that had innumerable honeycombs laden with the sweet nectar. Hanuman suggests to the crown Prince Angada that the troop be allowed to partake of the honey. Permission is granted and the monkeys are overjoyed. They indulge in a honey-drinking binge, get boisterous and even destroy some parts of the garden. Why did Hanuman suggest the impromptu party? There was a reason. Hanuman knew that very soon they would all be headed South again to fight a bloody war with the mighty king of Lanka. The monkeys in the group were just returning after a stressful period of search. Hanuman wanted the monkeys to unwind, celebrate and cap the chapter of search. They needed to drop the memories of the project concluded and start the new one with a fresh mind. Partying on December 31 marks the closure of the year gone by, so that one may begin the New Year with fresh enthusiasm. It's the same logic! Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/bidding-adieu-to-2021-1066323.html
31-12-2021||Second Edit||Mobility bill, a welcome move||The proposed Karnataka Active Mobility Bill is welcome as it recognises the rights of all road users, including pedestrians and cyclists, and not just of motorists. The draft bill published by the Directorate of Urban Land Transport (DULT) prioritises the mobility of people over vehicles. It lays down that all new roads and existing ones that are being redeveloped should have cycle paths and footpaths of adequate width. To ensure hassle-free movement, the missing links in existing pedestrian and cycle networks have to be connected with safe crossings at intersections. Pedestrians and cyclists, the most vulnerable of road users, have had to fend for themselves so far. The bill proposes a plan that is people-centric, aiming to promote sustainable urban mobility and build healthy communities. It is thus heartening to note that by law, streets and public places will henceforth have to be designed and developed keeping in view the needs of all road users. The bill also fixes responsibility on heads of urban local bodies and has a provision for imposing a penalty of Rs 2 lakh for non-compliance with its provisions. Continued violation will attract an additional penalty of Rs 5,000 per day.  With 50 per cent of Karnataka’s population projected to live in urban areas by 2025, the exponential increase in the number of private vehicles in towns and cities will not only lead to increased congestion but also likely result in high road fatalities, and pedestrians and cyclists will be at greatest risk of injury and loss of life. It is therefore important to keep pathways safe as they are used by people of all age groups and abilities, more so by those from lower-income groups who walk or cycle to reach places of work or to avail public transport. The equitable allocation of road space to all users will go a long way in ensuring this, besides the obvious benefit to environment and air quality.  While there has been no dearth of ideas in the past, what has been lacking is the political will and long-term vision to evolve a comprehensive mobility plan, especially for Bengaluru. The proposed bill is a step in the right direction. The government must hold wide consultations on the bill and bring the law to life at the earliest. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/mobility-bill-a-welcome-move-1066316.html
31-12-2021||Second Edit||Reform prisons, start with jail officials||For its powerful inmates, the Bengaluru Central Prison at Parappana Agrahara has far long been a home away from home, rather than a jail.  The recent seizure of a consignment of ganja, which arrived by post, only confirms this and gives an inkling of the kind of life that convicts have behind the high walls. Outsiders have been barred from visiting the prison since the start of the pandemic, so the resourceful inmates have taken recourse to the regular postal service to smuggle in banned items, including drugs. It is a mystery why they chose this method since it is common knowledge that all packets sent to the prison are opened and scrutinised by jail authorities. It is possible that such parcels are received on a regular basis and even reach their intended recipients with the connivance of staff. Earlier this year, the Central Crime Branch (CCB) had raided the prison and seized daggers, marijuana, smoking pipes, mobile phones, pen drives and SIM cards from the cells. The CCB conducts raids regularly and returns with a sizeable haul each time. Investigations have revealed that the jail has turned into a safe haven for notorious rowdies who continue their operations, such as extortions, from inside the prison. Mobile jammers are installed around it, but the inmates have managed to overcome this difficulty, too.  All these point to the active involvement of the prison staff which, of course, is nothing new. In 2013, for instance, two top jail officers were arrested by the CBI after it was found that they were helping the kingpin of the fake stamp paper racket, Abdul Karim Telgi, run his business from inside the central prison. Telgi had received a huge sum of money from his associates when in jail, and a part of it was passed on to the officers. More recently, the then DIG (prisons) D Roopa submitted a report that V K Sasikala, former Tamil Nadu Chief Minister J Jayalalitha’s aide, was given preferential treatment, allegedly in exchange for a couple of crores. An inquiry by a retired IAS officer confirmed the charge about preferential treatment, but the report then simply went out of sight and out of the government’s mind. Our criminal justice system and prison sentences are intended as a way to reform criminals. But it seems even the prisons’ police staff need to be reformed. The nexus between criminals and jail staff must be broken, and that calls for strong action, such as dismissal from service and arrest of guilty or negligent officers. Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/reform-prisons-start-with-jail-officials-1066633.html
31-12-2021||South||Heavy rains force closure of government offices, educational institutes in Chennai, adjoining districts||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister MK Stalin has declared a holiday on Friday for all government offices except those engaged in essential services, schools and colleges in Chennai, Kancheepuram, Tiruvallur, and Chengalpatu districts due to heavy rainfall. So far, three people died in Chennai due to electrocution and four subways were closed due to waterlogging. Stalin visited the waterlogged areas of the city and met the Greater Chennai Corporation Commissioner Gagan Singh Bedi and other officials at the commissioner's office in Rippon building on Thursday night to evaluate the situation. Traffic movement was slow due to the subways being shut and heavy waterlogging in certain areas of Chennai. Revenue and Disaster management minister, KKSSR Ramachandran while speaking to IANS, said, "Three people have lost their lives in Chennai and surrounding areas due to electrocution and disaster and relief work is in full swing. We have already shut four subways due to waterlogging and two companies of NDRF are already in the city." He also said that with respect to the heavy rain forecast, the chief minister has declared a holiday on Friday in Chennai and adjoining districts. Heavy rains have led to the increase in the water level of Chembarambakkam lake, rising to 98 per cent of the total capacity. The inflow, according to officials, is 2900 cusecs while the outflow from the lake is 1000 cusecs. Several parts of Chennai and Kancheepuram districts continue to suffer due to waterlogging and the weather department has issued an alert of heavy rainfall in the districts of Chennai, Kancheepuram, Chengalpattu, and Tiruvallur on Friday. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/heavy-rains-force-closure-of-government-offices-educational-institutes-in-chennai-adjoining-districts-1066474.html
31-12-2021||South||Medical centre inaugurated in seven Tamil Nadu temples||Seven temples in Tamil Nadu managed by the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) department will have medical centres with two dedicated doctors each to provide first-aid and basic treatment to devotees who develop a sudden illness.  The medical centres in seven temples spread across the state were inaugurated on Friday by Chief Minister M K Stalin at the Secretariat through video conferencing. The HR & CE department in its Demand for Grants had announced setting up of medical centres in 10 temples that attract huge crowds – as the first step, the centres will function from seven temples from Friday.   The temples where medical centres were inaugurated on Friday are Murugan temples in Tiruttani, Tiruchendur, Palani, and Marudhamalai, Arunachaleswarar Temple in Tiruvannamalai, Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy Temple in Sholingur, and Angalaparameshwari temple in Melmalayanur.   A release from the HR & CE department said the medical centres will have two doctors, two nurses, and two multi-disciplinary staff each to provide first-aid and basic treatment to devotees who develop a sudden illness. The medical centres will have first-aid kits, oxygen cylinders, beds, and blood pressure apparatus, among others.   Officials said Rs 30 lakh will be spent on each centre every year from temple funds. Under the DMK government, HR & CE department is set to launch 10 arts and science colleges, besides a Siddha University under the Lord Murugan Temple in Palani in the pipeline.   As many as 44,121 temples in Tamil Nadu come under HR & CE department which manages and controls them. The department is also reviving six Archakar Payirchi Palli (Priests’ Training Schools) to train people from all communities as priests.   All the six schools, which were set up by the then DMK Government in 2007, have invited applications from interested students between the age of 14 and 24 for the one-year course to get trained as priests. Only one batch of students passed out from the schools in 2008 after which they were closed due to a slew of court cases and a change of regime in 2011.   The four schools that will train students in Shaivite tradition are located in Tiruvannamalai, Madurai, Palani, and Tiruchendur, while the Parthasarathy Temple in Chennai and Ranganatha Swamy Temple in Srirangam will train students in Vaishnavite tradition.   Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/medical-centre-inaugurated-in-seven-tamil-nadu-temples-1066520.html
31-12-2021||South||Follow Maharashtra, curtail Governor’s powers on varsities: TN parties tell DMK||Political parties in Tamil Nadu are pushing the DMK government to adopt Maharashtra's model by bringing a law in the assembly curtailing powers of the Governor with respect to universities funded by the state.  Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi (VCK), an ally of the DMK, and Makkal Needhi Maiam's Kamal Haasan want the government to redefine the powers of the Governor in state universities.  While MNM wants a Maharashtra-style bill stripping the governor of his powers to appoint vice-chancellors, the VCK wants the Tamil Nadu government to go a step forward and keep educational institutions completely away from 'political intervention'. Maharashtra Assembly had earlier this week passed a bill curtailing the Governor’s power with respect to appointment of vice-chancellors. The new bill says the Governor will have to choose one person from a panel of five names suggested by a Search Committee appointed by the state government.  MNM demanded that the Tamil Nadu government appoint a committee of experts to examine the issue and pass a bill to amend provisions to redefine the scope of powers of the Governor with regard to state-funded universities. The party said redefining the scope of powers of the Governor will bode well for State autonomy and decentralisation of powers. VCK general secretary and Villupuram MP D Ravikumar said there was no logic in the Governor functioning as the Chancellor of universities that have been established with funds from the state government. With Governors “being used by the BJP for political gains”, Ravikumar wanted the government to appoint academics as chancellors to universities.  “Why should Governor or a government be involved in the appointment of vice-chancellors of universities? There should be no political interference in the functioning of higher academic institutions,” the MP told DH. The appointment of Mysuru-born M K Surappa as the vice-chancellor of the prestigious Anna University in 2018 by the then governor Banwarilal Purohit had triggered a major controversy on how a non-native of the state can head a varsity fully funded by the state government.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/follow-maharashtra-curtail-governor-s-powers-on-varsities-tn-parties-tell-dmk-1066523.html
31-12-2021||South||Northeast monsoon dumps 57% excess rainfall in Tamil Nadu in 2021||2021 was a “good year” for Tamil Nadu, especially Chennai and its neighbouring districts, in terms of rainfall with the North-east Monsoon (NEM), the state’s lifeline, alone registering 57 per cent excess rains between October 1 and December 30.  Chennai received rains through the year, barring March, with November and December turning to be “most bountiful.” However, the sudden rains, which were heavy to extremely heavy on a few days including on December 30, plunged the city into chaos a couple of times during which faultlines in the rain infrastructure were exposed.  Data released by the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) said Tamil Nadu received 701.88 mm of rainfall during the NEM season (October-December) against the normal rainfall of 447.1 mm.  “This is 59 per cent higher than the normal rainfall received during the NEM. Villupuram tops the list with 119 per cent excess rainfall during the season. As a whole, instead of 45 cm of rainfall, the state received 71 cm of rainfall,” the IMD said.  As far as Chennai is concerned, 2021 ended as the sixth-best year in terms of NEM rainfall with the city receiving 148.5 cm as against the normal amount of 80 cm. Weather blogger Pradeep John said with 210.8 cm rainfall, 2005 stands at the top for a 200 year period, 2015 (166.4 cm), 1888 (159.8 cm), 1946 (158.2 cm), and 1997 (157.1 cm), and 2021 (148.5 cm). The bountiful rains have brought cheer to the people of Tamil Nadu as the majority of reservoirs have almost their full capacities. In Chennai, all the five reservoirs that supply drinking water to the city are full in a clear indication that there will be no water crisis during the Summer of 2022.  Not just the last three months of the year, 2021 has been a bountiful rain year for Chennai with rains lashing the city every month, barring March, sparing a water crisis this time around. The city achieved the monthly average for November during the North-east Monsoon (NEM) in the first eight days of the month. While the average rainfall for November is 37.4 cm, the rainfall received from November 1 to 8 is 41.5 cm, data available with the IMD said.  K Srikanth, a weather blogger, told DH the pattern of the monsoon itself is changing as the number of rainy days could be lesser but the spells will be heavier.  On the extreme rainfall on December 30, Srikanth said the sudden change in direction of winds at 5.5 km ASL off the coast of Chennai enhanced the lower level of moisture brought in from the Bay.  “We have seen in the past interplay between lower-level Easterly winds & upper-level Westerly winds provide for Mid-Level Shear that enhances thunderstorms. Yesterday was possibly another instance of such interactions providing conducive conditions,” Srikanth said.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/northeast-monsoon-dumps-57-excess-rainfall-in-tamil-nadu-in-2021-1066547.html
31-12-2021||South||Parts of Tamil Nadu may see heavy rainfall, warns IMD||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted extremely heavy rains in one or two areas of Tamil Nadu's Nagapattinam district in the next couple of days. Heavy rains are also likely in the delta districts and in Villupuram, Chengalpattu, Cuddalore, Kancheepuram, Chennai, and Tiruvallur districts over the next few days. The regional meteorological centre has also predicted moderate to heavy rains with thunderstorms for the next five days in the Union Territory of Puducherry, in Karaikkal area, and most coastal districts of Tamil Nadu. The interior districts of the state will also experience heavy rains in the next couple of days. Chennai on Thursday witnessed heavy and uninterrupted rains due to a cloud burst for six hours, which the weathermen had not predicted, leading to heavy water-logging Three people were electrocuted in the waterlogging in Chennai and adjoining districts of Kancheepuram and Chengalpattu. Chief Minister, M.K. Stalin declared a holiday for all schools and colleges and non-essential government offices in the capital city and adjoining districts on Friday owing to incessant rains. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/parts-of-tamil-nadu-may-see-heavy-rainfall-warns-imd-1066558.html
31-12-2021||South||Did Friday's extreme rain in Chennai catch IMD off guard?||Chennai and its surrounding districts were pounded by more than 100 and 200 cms of rainfall between Thursday morning till early Friday, throwing the life of residents out of gear and leaving three people dead. The state government declared a holiday on Friday owing to further prediction of heavy rainfall in Chennai, Kancheepuram, Tiruvallur, and Chengalpattu districts due to heavy rainfall as a precautionary measure. But could the three lives have been saved? Could the damage to property, water-logging leading to traffic jams on Chennai roads, people being stuck in many offices and, in general, the troubles for the common citizen be avoided? The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) had in its 'All India Impact Based Weather Warning Bulletin' on Thursday afternoon predicted: "Thunderstorm accompanied with lightning at isolated places very likely over Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal" and for Friday, predicted: "Thunderstorm accompanied with lightning at isolated places very likely over coastal Andhra Pradesh and Yanam, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal." Even the Qualitative Precipitation Forecast (QPF) in IMD's Hydromet Bulletin from Chennai did not indicate anything beyond 25 mm rains with a 'NIL warning' for heavy rainfall. It was, however, the nowcast - special forecast for metro cities that warns of changing weather conditions two-three hours in advance - that predicted the extreme rainfall in Chennai and surrounding districts. The IMD's now cast has a limited reach and most people suffered due to sudden torrential downpour as they had no knowledge of it. "IMD Chennai had informed the disaster management and other relevant authorities with appropriate colour coding mention," an IMD official said. Colour coding refers to yellow, orange, red alerts commensurate to the quantum of precipitation. Stating that they were expecting the rainfall to increase from Friday, "but it occurred one day in advance," IMD's Director-General Dr Mrutyunjay Mohapatra said: "There was a trough in westerly winds and the easterly winds from north-east monsoon was approaching... both interacted. Large scale wind flow patterns, which interacted with each other led to this type of activity." K. Srikanth, who runs a widely followed blog about Chennai weather, 'Chennaiyil Oru Mazhaikkallam' but popular as Chennai Rains, concurred that "nobody predicted yesterday's event". He uses global model output and IMD's satellite and radar images for issuing warnings, forecasts on Chennai Rains' social media handles and writing his blogs. "The models did not show this event at all," he said. "While the focus was on the lower-level easterlies bringing in moisture from Bay of Bengal, the mid tropospheric winds created perfect conditions for the available moisture to develop into intense thunderstorms around Chennai and surrounding, Srikanth said, adding: "The sudden change in direction of winds at 5.5 kms above sea level (ASL) off the coast of Chennai enhanced the lower-level moisture brought in from the Bay." The IMD has predicted further rains on Friday and Saturday, which would be heavy but widespread, unlike Thursday's rainfall. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/did-fridays-extreme-rain-in-chennai-catch-imd-off-guard-1066564.html
31-12-2021||South||Proposal for D.Litt to President by Kerala University allegedly rejected||The row between Kerala Governor Arif Mohammed Khan and the CPM-led Left Democratic Front government in Kerala attained new dimension on Friday with the Congress alleging that a recommendation of the Governor to award honorary D.Litt to President Ram Nath Kovind was rejected by the Kerala University. Congress senior leader and former opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala asked the government and the University to clarify whether the proposal for awarding D.Litt to the President was rejected by the university following the government's intervention. Kerala Higher Education Minister R Bindu reject the allegation. She said that the government would not interfere in the University's powers to award D.Litt degrees. The Congress leader came out with the allegation after the Governor, who is also the chancellor of the universities in the state, said the other day that the issues between him and the government even involved matter affecting nation's integrity and nation's prestige. He however did not specify the matter. Chennithala also asked the government and the university to clarify whether the government had the rights to intervene in the university's autonomy on matters pertaining to awarding honarary D.Litt. The President was on a visit to the state last week. The fresh row in sequel to the differences between the Governor and the state government. Governor Khan recently alleged of political pressure on him on matters pertaining to appointments of vice-chancellors of universities, especially the extension given to Kannur University vice chancellor Gopinath Raveendran. The Governor also sent a letter to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan suggesting that the Chief Minister may take over the chancellor post from the Governor. But the Chief Minister strongly rejected the Governor's allegations. The Governor was sticking to his stand and even refused to accept a notice sent by the High Court to the Kannur University chancellor maintaining that he already relinquished the chancellor post. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/proposal-for-dlitt-to-president-by-kerala-university-allegedly-rejected-1066586.html
31-12-2021||South||Rename Guntur Jinnah tower or we'll raze it: Andhra BJP||After stalling a plan to install Tipu Sultan statue in Proddutur town in Rayalaseema, the BJP has now brought its attention to the Jinnah Tower in Andhra Padesh's Guntur. The tower, a landmark in Guntur with considerable presence of Muslims, is said to have been built about 80 years back and the area is popular as Jinnah tower centre. Muhammad Ali Jinnah, a barrister and All India Muslim League leader president, is regarded as the founder of Pakistan. The row now began with a tweet from Y Satya Kumar, BJP's national secretary and party's co-in-charge for Uttar Pradesh. “This tower is named after Jinnah & area as Jinnah Centre. Irony, it’s not in Pakistan but in Guntur City of AP. A centre that still carries the name of a traitor of India. Why shouldn’t it be named after Dr Kalam or son of the soil, a great Dalit poet, Gurram Jashuva? Just an idea!,” Kumar tweeted on Thursday, along with a picture of the green colored structure. This tower is named after Jinnah & area as Jinnah Centre Irony,it’s not in Pakistan but in Guntur City of AP. A centre that still carries the name of traitor of India. Why shouldn’t it be named after Dr Kalam or son of the soil,a great Dalit poet,Gurram Jashuva? Kumar followed up with another tweet, calling the tower a ‘Symbol of Shame’. “A shame that due to vote bank politics, we continue to have this tower despite 75 years of freedom! Let the youth of India decide whether to retain or demolish it.” Its a ‘Symbol of Shame’. A shame that due to vote bank politics, we continue to hv this tower despite 75 years of freedom! Irrespective of parties, the Guntur East assembly constituency is represented by a Muslim for about four decades now. State BJP leaders are supporting the demand to rename it, while some want it to be razed to the ground entirely. “It is unfortunate that while the nation is celebrating Azadi ka amrit mahotsav, we have roads/junctions bearing names of people responsible for the partition,” Andhra BJP chief Somu Veerraju said while asking the Jaganmohan Reddy government to alter all such disputable names in the state. Vishnu Vardhan Reddy, Andhra BJP general secretary, demanded the TDP and Congress to reveal their official stand on the issue. “If Aurangzeb Road in New Delhi can be changed to APJ Abdul Kalam, then why not rename the Jinnah tower centre also after the former president of India. We would agitate first and if the state government does not concede to the demand, we will be forced to raze the structure with public support,” Reddy told DH. BJP leaders say that the Pakistan government had in 2017 publicised “the tower in Guntur, India as a symbol of peace and harmony.” “When in fact, it has a history of communal riots. It was built as a mark of gratitude to Jinnah who is said to have saved few local Muslims facing death penalty for communal riots, killings, by arguing in their favour,” Reddy said. Local Muslims are appealing not to look at the tower with a communal angle. While the controversy is raging on, some analysts believe the BJP chose to rake the matter now to deflect the attention from the embarrassment it is facing because of Somu's offer to Andhra voters on Tuesday. Speaking at the party organised “Praja-agraha Sabha” against YSRCP's “anti-people policies,” Somu said that if “the one crore alcohol consumers in AP” vote BJP to power, “we will give you cheap liquor for Rs 70 only.” “And if the revenues are good, we would further reduce the price to Rs 50.” In June this year, a row erupted in Andhra Pradesh over Tipu Sultan, with a statue of the erstwhile Mysore ruler planned to be erected in Proddatur town in Kadapa district. The desire of the Muslim community in Proddatur was backed by YSRCP MLA Rachamallu Siva Prasad Reddy, while the attempt was met with opposition from BJP leaders. Projecting Tipu as a tormentor of Hindus, the Andhra BJP warned of agitation and demolition of the structure, if built. The project was shelved later. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/rename-guntur-jinnah-tower-or-well-raze-it-andhra-bjp-1066608.html
31-12-2021||South||Telangana stresses on technology to detect crime||Telangana has 851,644 Closed Circuit TV cameras, among the highest concentration in the country, installed across the state. While activists have been expressing concerns over the heightened surveillance, police officials said that the CCTV cameras have helped them detect 22,781 crimes in 2021. The state police department is applying technology of various kinds for crime deterrence and detection. According to the state police's 2021 round up released on Friday, the department has a database of 947,843 offenders’ fingerprint slips. While 5,624 suspects were traced using Mobile Security Check devices, 91 wanted criminals were apprehended through the use of a Criminal Apprehension Tool. 85 per cent of the cases of traffic enforcement, like imposition of fines for breaking rules, is using a non-contact and evidence-based technology. Officials said that they have launched various projects to combat the menace of Cyber crimes and crime against women. Cyber Warriors is one such initiative for capacity-building at Police Station level. Meanwhile, on the terror activities front, the department says it has thwarted the “desperate efforts of CPI (Maoist) to revive the movement in Telangana.” 98 extremists were arrested, 133 extremists including two district committee members surrendered, while six Maoists were killed in gunfight. No activities of Under Ground Armed Formations of CPI (Maoist) are noticed in Telangana. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-stresses-on-technology-to-detect-crime-1066625.html
31-12-2021||South||Tamil Nadu announces fresh curbs to contain Covid spread||With Tamil Nadu witnessing a spike in the number of coronavirus cases, the state government on Friday imposed a number of restrictions, including putting a cap on attendees of marriage and death-related events and halving the number of customers in different types of commercial establishments. Tamil Nadu reported 1,155 new cases of coronavirus on Friday, up from the 890 a day before. While playschools and kindergarten sections cannot be run, there won't be any direct classes for standards 1-8 till January 10, Chief Minister M K Stalin announced after holding a review meet here to take stock of the coronavirus situation and the spread of its latest variant, Omicron. "All exhibitions and book fairs are being postponed," he said in a statement. Classes for standards 9-12, colleges and ITIs will be held in compliance with Standard Operating Procedures while existing guidelines will apply for places of worship, he said. Dine-in services at restaurants, hotels and bakeries should be restricted to 50 per cent of the capacity, while amusement parks can be operated only with a similar number of persons. The 50 per cent cap will also apply to textile showrooms, jewellery shops, gyms and yoga centres, multiplex/cinema theatres (of the allowed seats), beauty spas and salons and indoor games, he said. Metro rail services here can operate only with 50 per cent seating capacity, while only seated passengers will be allowed in government bus services, the chief minister added. Participants in weddings should be restricted to 100 while only 50 persons would be allowed in death-related events, he said. Urging people to get vaccinated, the chief minister also stressed on other covid-appropriate behaviour such as wearing face-mask. All employees in commercial establishments should have been vaccinated against Covid-19. Further, action will be taken if mask wearing is not followed by establishments and customers. As part of virus containment measures, Test-Track-Treat-Vaccination-Covid-19 Appropriate Behaviour will be strictly implemented, Stalin said. Further, only essential services should be allowed in containment zones while door-to-door survey by committees in such areas will also be undertaken to prevent the spread of the contagion, he said. Those violating pandemic containment measures will be fined, the CM warned. He appealed to people to refrain from crowding during the coming festive season and stressed on social distancing and wearing of mask. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-announces-fresh-curbs-to-contain-covid-spread-1066643.html
31-12-2021||South||Omicron cases in Kerala cross 100, vaccine hesitancy towards second dose poses concern||As cases of the Omicron variant in Kerala escalated and crossed the 100 mark, with 44 fresh cases being confirmed on Friday,  a large number of people are still hesitating to take the second dose. It was reliably learnt from  health department sources that around 14 lakh people who took the first dose are either due or overdue to take the second dose, despite intensive campaigns. Kerala Health Minister Veena George said that a two day camp would be held on Saturday and Sunday and urged those keeping from taking the second dose should take the vaccine. Earlier also similar camps were conducted and Chief Minster Pinarayi Vijayan urged people not to hesitate to take the second dose. Among the estimated population of 2.67 crore persons above the age of 18 in Kerala, 2.60 crore took the first dose, whereas only 2.04 core took the second dose. A state government official told DH on the condition of anonymity that around 24 lakh people who took the first dose were found to be keeping off from the second dose even after it was due. But on scrutiny it was found that many of them had taken second dose either from other countries or by registering using another phone number. Hence the actual number of those who were yet to take the second dose even after the due date was around 14 lakh. Break through infection, lack of fear of the infection following relations in lockdown, minor side effects and certain misleading reports about the vaccination were found to be the reason why many were keeping off from the second dose. As 44 more fresh Omicron cases were confirmed in the state, the total cases of the variant reported in the state reached 107. Seven of the fresh cases were also caused by local contact which aggravates the state's concern. Among those infected the highest numbers were from UAE, 29, followed by UK, 23. The health minister said that a decision on imposing further restrictions in the state would be taken after reviewing the situations. Already night curfew was imposed in the state from Thursday to Sunday. Meanwhile, 2,676 more Covid cases were reported in Kerala on Friday. The number of Covid active cases in the state was 19,416. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/omicron-cases-in-kerala-cross-100-vaccine-hesitancy-towards-second-dose-poses-concern-1066654.html
31-12-2021||South||AIADMK slams DMK govt for 'foisting' cases, claims 'mini emergency' in Tamil Nadu||A delegation of AIADMK leaders on Friday called on Governor R N Ravi and submitted a memorandum alleging 'deterioration' of law and order in the state and the party claimed that a 'mini-emergency' has been clamped in Tamil Nadu to target the opposition by misusing the police. After submitting the memorandum, senior AIADMK leader and former Minister, C Ve Shanmugam alleged that the Tamil Nadu police has become a 'wing' of the DMK. Those who questioned Chief Minister M K Stalin-led government and the opposition leaders faced false cases, Shanmugam claimed. "We are not afraid of false cases and we will face them legally. We have seen Karunanidhi's regime.Today an undeclared emergency is enforced in Tamil Nadu, a mini-emergency is clamped in the state," the former Law Minister during the AIADMK regime claimed. Citing a police case against AIADMK's K T Rajenthra Bhalaji on alleged job scam, Shanmugam said Bhalaji had a right to explore all legal options including approaching the Supreme Court. Shanmugam slammed the DMK government for relentlessly trying to arrest Bhalaji as if he was an 'anti-national.' As many as 23 ministers of the DMK government faced 'criminal cases,' he claimed, adding, the incumbent Electricity Minister V Senthilbalaji too faced allegations on 'getting jobs. ' AIADMK's stand is that cases against such DMK leaders, who are now Ministers, should be transferred from Tamil Nadu to some other state, Shanmugam told reporters. Both Rajenthra Bhalaji and Senthilbalaji faced similar allegations, Shanmugam claimed and asked if the DMK regime has the 'courage' to 'arrest' Senthilbalaji. Relatives, friends and AIADMK workers associated with Rajenthra Bhalaji are being 'intimidated' by the government, Shanmugam, also the Villupuram district AIADMK secretary, alleged. "Two functionaries of the AIADMK belonging to Jolarpet have been abducted by the police. Today is the fourth day of their detention and we have been sending representations to authorities on the matter for the past three days. We don't know what happened to them." Shanmugam also alleged corruption, sale of illegal lottery, intoxicants/drugs, presence of gambling dens and claimed that crimes including murders and those against women and girl children are on the rise. AIADMK leaders who were former Ministers, including K C Veeramani, are under the scanner of the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption. The Governor was apprised on 'abuse' of power by the police department and Ravi has assured to look into the matter, Shanmugam said. A party release said a memorandum was submitted to the governor that dealt with issues including 'deterioration' of law and order, crimes against women and children and abuse of power by the DVAC. AIADMK leaders D Jayakumar and N Thalavaisundaram were part of the delegation that called on the Governor here at Raj Bhavan.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/aiadmk-slams-dmk-govt-for-foisting-cases-claims-mini-emergency-in-tamil-nadu-1066696.html
31-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19 spread rate in Karnataka surges||The R0 for Covid-19 of both Karnataka and Bengaluru has crossed the value of 1, indicating that the virus is once again spreading. R0 or reproduction number, indicates the rate of spread. The development comes even as Bengaluru city has been noting sharp increases in daily case numbers since Monday. In the last two days, 965 new cases have been made public in the city (including 565 on Tuesday alone), with the curve likely to go up further in the days to come, according to experts. These numbers represent 75 per cent of the state’s cases. According to data from various scientists, Karnataka’s R0 crossed 1 on Christmas day and was 1.29 as of Monday. A senior official from the Health Department confirmed to DH that the R0 has crossed 1 in Karnataka prompting the state government to bring in measures like ‘night curfew’ to contain the spread. While the R0 had crossed 1 sporadically in previous weeks, there had not been a sustained high as is being seen now.  Meanwhile, Bengaluru’s reproduction number rose from 1.02 on December 22 to 1.11 as of Monday, according to calculations by Professor (Dr) Sitabhra Sinha of the Institute of Mathematical Sciences (IMSc) who has been conducting extensive R0 calculations for metropolises around the country. Additional Professor (Dr) Ambarish Dutta, an epidemiologist with the Public Health Foundation of India (PHFI) said, “R0 is the number of cases that are expected to occur on average in a homogeneous population as a result of infection by a single individual,” he said, clarifying that an R0 of 1.29 means that one infected person is infecting at least one other person with a chance of infecting a second individual. If the R0 is 2, one infected person infects two other people. The state’s peak R0 during the second wave was 1.91, on April 18. “The increase in cases in urban areas across the country is likely due to Omicron even though genomic sequencing levels are too small to provide an accurate picture of which variants are driving the infection,” he added. One clue that Omicron may be partly responsible is that similar, large gatherings of people for festivities during the Deepavali season did not produce a similar surge in cases. “Evidence from other countries where genomic sequencing levels are adequate show Omicron’s hand in infections. In other countries beset by high levels of infection, the R0 is higher than 2,” Dr Dutta said. Doubling Rate Another scientist, who did not want to be named, pointed out Omicron’s case-doubling rate has reduced from three days a fortnight ago to two days currently and said that the number of cases in the country which are currently 974 could hit 2,000 by Sunday. He warned that places with at least 10 Omicron cases are just a few days from a surge. Special Commissioner (Health) Dr Thrilok Chandra of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) said that the city is still awaiting the genomic results from cluster cases which would better explain the driving force for these infections. “The results are expected this week,” Dr Chandra said. “We have all contingency measures in place if there is a further increase in cases. New Year’s restrictions have been approved. Surveillance, tracking and triaging activities are taking place. We are doing our best to track down every single case,” he added. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-spread-rate-in-karnataka-surges-1066405.html
31-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka UG-PG students may soon get maternity leave||Students pursuing undergraduate and postgraduate courses in Karnataka may soon get maternity/childcare leave facilities after the University Grants Commission (UGC) nudged universities on the issue. The Higher Education Department responded positively after the UGC asked universities to frame guidelines to extend maternity/childcare leave facilities at UG and PG level, a move academicians feel will help "women students to pursue higher education". The department will discuss the issue at the next meeting of Karnataka State Higher Education Council, which has vice chancellors of all the state-run universities as its members. On Dec 14, the UGC issued a communication stating: "The women candidate may be provided maternity leave/child care leave once in the entire duration of M.Phil/PhD for up to 240 days." The circular requested "all higher education institutions to frame appropriate rules/norms with regard to granting maternity leave to the women students enrolled in their respective institutions/affiliated colleges and also provide all relaxations/exemptions relating to attendance". Vice Chancellors of several state-run universities have responded positively on the issue. According to them, the implementation of the National Education Policy (NEP), where exit options are available, will make the implementation of maternity/childcare leave possible. Prof Karisiddappa, Vice Chancellor of Visvesvaraya Technological University (VTU) said the move "will encourage women students to pursue higher education". "The multiple entry and exit options available with NEP will make the implementation easier," he said. However, some of the universities have decided to place the issue before the academic council and syndicate meetings. "As the communication is from the UGC, it is not necessary to decide at the government level. The universities can decide by placing it in the academic council and syndicate meetings," said a vice chancellor of a state-run university. The Karnataka Government College Teachers Association has also welcomed the move. T M Manjunath, president of the association, said it will "definitely help women students to continue their higher education". Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-ug-pg-students-may-soon-get-maternity-leave-1066416.html
31-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||School dropouts pose vax hurdle to Kalyana Karnataka||With the Union government issuing guidelines to inoculate adolescents aged between 15 and 18 years against Covid-19 from January 3, the authorities in Kalyana Karnataka have a huge task on hand.  Identifying school dropouts (above 15 years) for administering the vaccine might become a challenge for both the education and health department, as several children migrate to Bengaluru, Pune, Mumbai and other cities in search of livelihood. Despite the official claim that school dropouts are being brought to the mainstream, the region has a sizeable number of such students.  Sakreppa Gouda, Kalaburagi Public Instruction Commissionerate's deputy director (planning), said the department and schools will have details of students aged up to 15 years. Dropouts can be identified in their villages. "If they have migrated to other places along with their parents for livelihood, we can ask their neighbourhood to inform us whenever they visit the village for festivals or other reasons," he said. With the compulsory education norm from first standard to ninth standard, the department is engaged in identifying school dropouts and bringing them to the mainstream. In 2020-21, the department identified a total of 5,539 school dropouts in six districts falling under the region. Of them, 4,136 children have been rehabilitated, he explained. In 2019-20, as many as 1,596 children were brought to the mainstream out of the 2,943 identified.   "As we have the details of the children, those above 15 years can be identified even if they dropped out of schools, and can be brought to the vaccine centre," Gouda said. Kalaburagi division's Public Instruction Commissioner Nalini Atul told DH that the district administration, in consultation with the respective deputy directors of public instruction, will take a call on administering the vaccine to eligible children. Another officer, who preferred anonymity, said it is difficult to identify children who dropped out of pre-university as most of them would have migrated to cities. They might receive the vaccine at their workplace. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/school-dropouts-pose-vax-hurdle-to-kalyana-karnataka-1066485.html
31-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Important decisions to counter Omicron to be taken soon: Bommai||Amid spike in Covid-19 and Omicron variant cases in the state, Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Friday said the government will take certain "important decisions" in the days to come, and put in place necessary health infrastructure to deal with the situation that might arise. "It is increasing across the country, the Centre has identified Karnataka also as one among the eight states. We have already taken certain precautions," Bommai said in response to a question on the increase in Covid-19 and Omicron cases in the state. Speaking to reporters here, he said looking at cases in the days to come, health infrastructure such as beds, oxygen, medicines, ICU have to be put in place. "In the days to come we will take certain important decisions," he added. The central government on Thursday had said that Maharashtra, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Karnataka and Gujarat are emerging as states and UTs of concern on the basis of weekly Covid-19 cases and positivity rate. In the letter, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan asked Delhi, Haryana, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Karnataka and Jharkhand to be vigilant in view of the recent increase in domestic travel and various events such as marriages, festive celebrations, and vacations having either recently concluded or underway. Witnessing a spike for the second consecutive day, Karnataka on Thursday reported 707 new Covid-19 cases and three deaths, taking the total number of infections to 3,006,505 and the toll to 38,327. Twenty-three more cases of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus have been detected in Karnataka on Friday. This takes the State's tally of Omicron cases to 66.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/important-decisions-to-counter-omicron-to-be-taken-soon-bommai-1066592.html
31-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Nelamangala-Tumakuru road widening hits legal hurdle||The delay in the upgrading of the Nelamangala-Tumakuru section of National Highway 4 into a six-lane road has not only turned several pockets of the stretch into bottlenecks but has also posed risk to commuters as seen on Thursday.  Realising the challenges, officials of the National Highways Authority of India had come up with the project to upgrade the Nelamangala and Tumakuru section more than three years ago. The project for widening the 46-km section between Nelamangala and Tumakuru was planned in 2019-20 with a tentative cost of Rs 1,152 crore.The final feasibility report and bid documents were submitted to the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) back in February 2019. Officials had hoped to begin the work in 2020 and invited bids for the project.  However, issues raised by the concessionaires have come as a major bump in the road for the authorities who had given priority to the project. The stretch was given to two companies under the build operate transfer (BOT) model. The contract for the 32.5 km stretch of the highway was given to JAS Toll Pvt Limited.While the concession period expired in June, 2021, the company moved the arbitration tribunal and succeeded in getting an extension of 474 days. The NHAI has now challenged the tribunal order at the Delhi HC. Even the contract with Navayuga Bengalooru Tollway Private Limited, which had a 20-year concession period till December 9, 2027 for 19.5 km of the section of the road, was cancelled in March due to a default. However, the NHAI and the company settled the issue amicably and the toll collection contract was given to Sai Enterprises till April 2022. “The bids are under evaluation. The legal dispute has delayed the project. We hope to finalise the issue by the end of March. If everything goes well, the bids will be awarded by March/April. The successful bidder will have four years to complete the work,” a NHAI senior official told DH. State officials, however, suggested that the NHAI should take up the widening project by giving an undertaking in the court that it will abide by the outcome of the legal proceedings. “The road connects Bengaluru with 23 districts. The NHAI should consider upgrading it to eight lanes instead of six lanes. The demand for service road should also be incorporated,” an official said. Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/nelamangala-tumakuru-road-widening-hits-legal-hurdle-1066656.html
31-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||New Year starts on a rainy note in South Karnataka||Kickstarting the New Year on a rainy note, the South Interior Karnataka districts witnessed light to moderate rainfall on Friday night and are expected to witness a few spells of isolated rainfall for the next two days. An upper air circulation forming over the Bay of Bengal has resulted in widespread rainfall in south interior districts, including Bengaluru, according to meteorologists at the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD).  "An upper air cyclonic circulation is formed on the Sri Lankan coast and southeastern Bay of Bengal 5.8 kilometre above sea level. Under the influence, eastern districts of the state will receive light rainfall on Friday and Saturday," said Sadananda Adiga, a meteorologist at IMD, Bengaluru.  The districts of Bengaluru, Kolar, Chikkaballapur, Ramanagar, Chamarajanagar, Mandya and Tumakuru are also expected to receive light rainfall on Saturday as well. Subsequently, dry weather is expected to prevail over these districts for three days. The dry, winter weather conditions are expected to continue in Coastal Karnataka and North Interior Karnataka for the next five days. In Bengaluru, cloudy skies had set in since Friday morning and many parts of the city witnessed light drizzle by early evening and moderate showers by late evening. Several party hoppers who had arrived on the streets for the New Year celebrations were drenched in the unexpected showers. As per the Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Cell (KSNDMC), 5 mm of rainfall was recorded at the Mahadevapura zone and the Bommanahalli zone. Cloudy conditions with light rains are expected at various places of Bengaluru over the next two days according to IMD officials. Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/new-year-starts-on-a-rainy-note-in-south-karnataka-1066684.html
31-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Vaccine for kids: Pvt hospitals in a fix over relabelling of Covaxin vials||Even as the country mobilises for child vaccinations, private hospitals may not be able to participate right off the bat, because of complications posed by the Centre’s ruling that label expired vials of Covaxin cannot be used. The confusion has placed private hospitals in the state with their supply of nearly six lakh label-expired doses in the lurch.  The Private Hospital and Nursing Homes Association (PHANA) said that although Bharat Biotech is supposed to take back the expired dose for relabeling or give hospitals credit, neither has happened.  While the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) had extended the shelf life of the vaccine to 12 months, up from nine months, on December 23, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare told the state that “all vaccines including Covid-19 vaccines should not be utilised beyond the expiry date as mentioned in the label of each vaccinevial.” Dr H M Prasanna, president, PHANA, said that as per an understanding, Bharat Biotech should take back the six lakh-odd doses for relabelling or give hospitals credit. “Neither has happened. This has placed the private sector in a difficult position,” he said, adding that on the face of things, it appears as though the firm wants hospitals to purchase newstock. Several hospitals across the city said they had no idea what to do with their expired stock of vaccines. At Sparsh Hospital, Guruprasad B R, Director of Strategy and Business Development, said that the hospital has 12,000 doses of label-expired Covaxin. At Manipal Hospital, Karthik Rajagopal, Chief Operating Officer, said the hospital had several hundred unexpired doses, which has prompted them to raise an initial indent of one lakh new doses from Bharat Biotech for all of its units across the country. “The situation is nebulous. But we are nevertheless conducting outreach programmes with schools to hold vaccination camps,” Rajagopal said, adding that 12 schools had shown interest. Dr Yatheesh Govindaiah, Unit Head, Apollo Hospital Jayanagar, specified that competition had erupted among hospitals vying to hold camps in schools but the uncertainty over the doses had cooled matters somewhat. One hospital representative predicted three outcomes: either private players would not be able to participate in the vaccination drive or Bharat Biotech would relabel the vials and lastly, some hospitals may end up administering doses from label expired doses to children. Dr Prasanna said that Phana is writing to the government in a bid to get further clarity on the matter. Even if doses were available, the hospitals face the added problem of low public interest. “We are reaching out to schools but there has not been much of a response,” said Dr Govindaiah. Watch the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/vaccine-for-kids-pvt-hospitals-in-a-fix-over-relabelling-of-covaxin-vials-1066687.html
31-12-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports 23 more Omicron cases||Twenty-three more cases of the Omicron variant of the Coronavirus have been detected in Karnataka, State's Health Minister K Sudhakar said on Friday. This takes the State's tally to 66. "Twenty-three new cases of Omicron confirmed in Karnataka today, of which 19 are international travellers from the USA, Europe, Middle-East and Africa," Sudhakar said in a tweet. The country's first two such cases were detected in the State on December 2.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-23-more-omicron-cases-1066695.html
31-12-2021||West||'Lawless' Goa becoming like 'Gangs of Wasseypur': Congress||Congress, the main opposition party in Goa, on Thursday likened the law and order situation in the coastal state to Anurag Kashyap's film 'Gangs of Wasseypur', two days after armed persons ransacked a popular beachside restaurant in the popular north Goa beach village of Calangute. "Calangute is on the world map of tourism. The incident which occurred there, when 50 to 80 armed persons attacked a restaurant run by Goans, shows that the law and order situation has completely collapsed in the state. People will have to think four times before visiting the coastal state. Local Goans are themselves not safe, forget tourists," Congress spokesperson Sunil Kawthankar told reporters at a press conference here. "It will not take long for Goa to be declared as a failed state. Goa is like the 'Gangs of Wasseypur'," he also said, adding that the state is slowly slipping into the grip of organised crime. The Congress spokesperson's comment came two days after dozens of persons, several of them armed with knives and other weapons, attacked 'Souza Lobo', a popular beach restaurant in the coastal village of Calangute in North Goa. After Chief Minister Pramod Sawant assured of action into the incident, which occurred late on Tuesday night, four persons have been arrested by the state police. "Three to four persons have been arrested. Where are the rest? How many weapons have been recovered," Kawthankar asked. He also said that the government is more keen on targeting opposition leaders, rather than bringing the failing law and order situation in the coastal state under control. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/lawless-goa-becoming-like-gangs-of-wasseypur-congress-1066417.html
31-12-2021||West||Goa polls: Fadnavis likens AITC, TMC to migratory birds||Former Maharashtra Chief Minister and the BJP's official in charge of the Goa polls Devendra Fadnavis, on Thursday, took an oblique dig at the Prashant Kishor-led Indian-Political Action Committee (I-PAC), accusing the All India Trinamool Congress of outsourcing elections to an event management agency. Speaking at a political rally in North Goa, Fadnavis also said that both the AITC and the Trinamool Congress were like migratory birds from Siberia who have flown to Goa ahead of elections and would fly back after the polls. "For them, elections are an event. They have outsourced elections to an event management company. Now elections are also being outsourced," Fadnavis said. "In the BJP, workers fight elections, workers make efforts. Leaders contest elections on the faith of these workers. They on the other hand outsource elections to an agency. This agency fights elections on their behalf and is keeping its bags open to buy and sell. They are trying to catch whichever goat comes their way and take him along. Such attempts are happening," the Maharashtra Leader of Opposition also said. The I-PAC has been engaged by the AITC for political lobbying. The organisation, led by ace strategist Prashant Kishor is largely credited with the Mamata Banerjee-led party's victory in the recently concluded West Bengal elections. Fadnavis also likened the AAP and AITC, which are also contesting the 2022 state Assembly polls in Goa to migratory birds from Siberia. "These parties are like Siberian birds. When there is a lot of snowfall in Siberia and there is no food, these birds fly to India. After two-three months of staying, feeding, drinking in India, they fly back to Siberia as soon as the snow melts. There are two such birds from Delhi and Bengal in Goa. These birds are in Goa for the elections," he said.   "As soon as elections are over, these two birds will fly back to their native places. They will get no shelter here. Therefore I feel, there is no reason to believe in their assurances," he added. Check out the latest DH videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-polls-fadnavis-likens-aitc-tmc-to-migratory-birds-1066432.html
31-12-2021||West||Maharashtra caps gatherings to 50 persons for events, 20 for funerals||The Maharashtra government has further capped the attendance at gatherings in open or closed spaces at 50, following a surge in coronavirus cases in the state. Earlier, not more than 100 persons in enclosed spaces and 250 persons in open spaces were allowed to attend events, including weddings, social, cultural, political and religious gatherings. However, in its revised guidelines on Thursday night, the number was further capped. The new order also stipulates that only 20 persons can attend funerals. Maharashtra recorded 5,368 coronavirus cases on Thursday, a spike of 1,468 cases from a day before. This propelled the state's Covid-19 tally to 6,670,754. At present, there are 18,217 active cases in the state. With 1,193 Covid-19 patients discharged in the day, the number of those recovered rose to 6,507,330. Maharashtra on Thursday reported 198 new cases of the Omicron variant, including 190 in Mumbai alone, taking the tally of cases of this latest coronavirus variant in the state up to 450. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-caps-gatherings-to-50-persons-for-events-20-for-funerals-1066484.html
31-12-2021||West||Section 144 extended in Mumbai till January 15; ban on visiting open spaces from 5 pm to 5 am||Mumbai Police has extended Section 144 of CrPC in the island city till January 15 as Maharashtra fights a fresh wave of Covid-19 led by the Omicron variant. Citizens have been prohibited from visiting beaches, open grounds, sea faces, promenades, gardens, parks, or similar public places from 5 pm to 5 am during this period. The Maharashtra government further capped the attendance at gatherings in open or closed spaces at 50, following a surge in coronavirus cases in the state. Earlier, not more than 100 persons in enclosed spaces and 250 persons in open spaces were allowed to attend events, including weddings, social, cultural, political and religious gatherings. However, in its revised guidelines on Thursday night, the number was further capped. The new order also stipulates that only 20 persons can attend funerals. Maharashtra recorded 5,368 coronavirus cases on Thursday, a spike of 1,468 cases from a day before. Among the 23 states and UTs that have reported the Omicron infection so far, Maharashtra tops the list with 450 cases of this variant. Of them, 125 patients have been discharged as per the health ministry data. Watch the latest DH Videos here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/section-144-extended-in-mumbai-till-january-15-ban-on-visiting-open-spaces-from-5-pm-to-5-am-1066507.html
31-12-2021||West||Mumbai Police is advising citizens to stay indoors on New Year's Eve with hilarious retweets||Mumbai cops urge people to stay indoors, avoid New Year parties amid terror threat inputs, pandemic Mumbai Police, who are on their toes in view of the intelligence inputs about a possible terror attack by Khalistani elements, on Friday appealed to citizens to remain indoors and avoid New Year parties. The police have beefed up security at prominent railway stations and other key locations in Mumbai in view of the intelligence inputs about the terror threat. The weekly offs and leaves of the police personnel have also been cancelled so that the entire force remains available to maintain law and order on New Year eve, officials have said. Besides that, in the wake of the emergence of the Omicron variant of coronavirus, the city police have prohibited New Year celebrations and gatherings in any closed or open space, including hotels and restaurants. The order to this effect was issued on Wednesday under section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC). Taking to Twitter to urge people to avoid parties, the Mumbai Police said, "When your 'F.R.I.E.N.D.S' ask what your New Year's Eve plans are tonight. You being a responsible citizen: I don't even have a 'pla'." When your 'F.R.I.E.N.D.S' ask what your New Year’s Eve plans are tonight. The tweet uses a snap that shows Lisa Kudrow, a female actor from this popular series, lying back relaxed and sipping some beverage with a straw. "What's Not Up tonight? - Irresponsible party plans!," said Mumbai police in another tweet with a five-second GIF. Another tweet shows a WhatsApp conversation between two friends, in which one asks the other, "Bro, Aaj ka kya scene, Where to celebrate New year?" Aakriti is smart Aakriti has a sense of humour Aakriti is sensible Aakriti is a responsible citizen Replying to it, his friend posts the news of prohibitory orders issued by Mumbai Police, which mentions a ban on New Year parties, to which the first person responds saying, "Oh, Okey" with an emoji of a face with rolling eyes. In yet another tweet, the police used images of prominent places in the city, where people gather in large numbers to ring in the New Year, with hashtag #StayIndoors #CelebrateSafety #31stDecember. The tweet shows pictures of Gateway of India, Marine Drive and Chowpatty with messages - 'Gateway' of safety', 'Home, Go home, back up the road 'Lokhandwala', "Don't line up at 'Marines'", "Chow-Party' with your family" and "Hope you 'sea' the 'link' between our request & your safety!" Replying to a Mumbai Police's tweet, a user named Akash Bharadwaj said, "Celebrating with Mom and Dad after 12 years. It took a pandemic to make me realise that I was never home for NYE".  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-police-is-advising-citizens-to-stay-indoors-on-new-years-eve-with-hilarious-retweets-1066518.html
31-12-2021||West||After turmoil and truce in 2021, will the New Year ring in some good news for Pilot?||The Rajasthan Congress saw it all in the year 2021 -- a face-off between Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and former deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot. When the party seemed to be headed for a split, the Congress high command managed a truce, and Gehlot and Sachin finally were able to strike a balance which was reflected in the cabinet expansion in the state. Those leaders who were removed from the state cabinet during the rebellion were inducted again, which sent a strong message to the workers that the high command had lent ears to Pilot's demands. As Gehlot convinced Pilot with his balancing equations, the latter was seen smiling later at the dinner hosted at the Chief Minister's residence a day before the national rally against inflation was organised in Jaipur. After a few days, Pilot sang the Bollywood song 'Jeena Yahan Marna Yahan' in a private programme. The political pandits decoded the message being given via the song and hinted that Pilot is here to stay. In fact, even the Congress workers from the Gehlot camp whispered through political corridors that Pilot, without position and post, is continuing to win millions of hearts and he is here to stay for a long time. While Gehlot was seen celebrating the third anniversary of his government with inaugurations and foundation laying of 3,700 development works in just two days, Pilot was seen busy with visits across the state and outside the state with leaders of party high command. His videos can be seen trending as he smashed records in safa-tying, in making a high jump to stand on his vehicle and a wave for his followers and his singing the 'Jeena Yahan Marna Yahan' continues to be discussed across the corridors, in political and non-political lobbies. His bungalow can be seen bustling with crowds who visit him from different corners of the state and nation. The party high command also knows that Pilot rules many hearts across the nation and hence is being sent to Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh and southern states too for campaigning. So, while the 2021 saw the turmoil and truce in the Congress in 2021, will it bring in something new and exciting for Pilot in the year 2022, is one of most frequently asked questions among the political circles in Rajasthan. Check out DH's latest videos||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/after-turmoil-and-truce-in-2021-will-the-new-year-ring-in-some-good-news-for-pilot-1066528.html
31-12-2021||West||I-PAC survey says 60% Goans undecided on which party to vote, says Goa MGP leader||With the Assembly polls less than two months away, nearly 60 per cent Goan voters are still undecided as to which party to vote for, former Deputy Chief Minister and Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP) leader Sudin Dhavalikar said on Friday quoting a survey conducted by the Prashant Kishor-led Indian-Political Action Committee. Dhavalikar, who's MGP is in alliance with the Trinamool Congress (TMC), whose political outreach is being managed by I-PAC, also blamed the indecision on the poor governance of the incumbent Bharatiya Janata Party-led coalition government. "Sixty per cent of Goans cannot decide whom to vote for. If they cannot decide with elections just around the corner, it is because of the poor governance, poor administration by the BJP government in Goa," Dhavalikar told reporters at a press conference in Panaji. "This is the IPAC survey report from yesterday. And this is the situation just a month and a half ahead of elections," the MGP leader also said. The MGP-TMC alliance was sealed earlier this month, but leaders from both parties are expected to thrash out its seat sharing arrangements over the next "seven to eight days" Dhavalikar also said. "We are going with TMC. All alliance related issues and seat sharing will be discussed and finalised over the next seven to eight days," Dhavalikar also said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/i-pac-survey-says-60-goans-undecided-on-which-party-to-vote-says-goa-mgp-leader-1066553.html
31-12-2021||West||Covid cases rise in Dharavi||In what comes as a matter of concern, the Covid-19 cases in Asia’s biggest slum cluster of Dharavi in Mumbai has shown a rise in number, prompting the Mumbai civic body and police to step up surveillance.  On Friday, Dharavi reported 34 cases - taking the total number of active cases to 95, according to the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). The progressive total of Dharavi since March, 2020 outbreak of Covid-19, now stands at 7,273. In fact, on December 20, Dharavi reported zero cases. Over the last three days - December 28 (2 cases), December 29 (17 cases), December 30 (20 cases) and December 31 (34 cases).  The situation in Dharavi is being monitored closely. Spread over 2.1 sq kms, Dharavi – between Central and Western suburban railway lines of Mumbai - has around 7 to 10 lakh people staying and working here. However, several of them have migrated back to their hometowns – because of the pandemic - waiting for businesses to start in full swing. The first Covid-19 positive case and death from Dharavi was reported on April 1, 2020, when a 56-year-old man died. During the first wave, the highest number of cases was reported on May 3, 2020, when 94 cases were recorded on that day, while in the second wave, the highest number of cases was recorded on April 9, 2021, when 99 cases were found. Throughout April-May, 2020, the cases zoomed but then it was brought down in June-July. In Dharavi, the BMC had adopted the 4Ts strategy - Tracing-Tracking-Testing-Treating as part of the ‘Chase the Virus’ initiative to break the cycle. The Dharavai-model of Covid combat strategy has been appreciated worldwide, including by the WHO.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-cases-rise-in-dharavi-1066598.html
31-12-2021||West||Mother Teresa's Missionaries of Charity facing stressful challenges: Goa Archbishop||Goa Archbishop Fr. Filipe Neri Ferrao on New Year's Eve urged people to come to the aid of the Mother Teresa-founded organisation Missionaries of Charity, which has been in controversy over the non-renewal of the Christian order's Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act registration. "It is perhaps fitting to recall here the stressful difficulties and challenges that these Sisters of the much revered Mother Teresa have been facing in our country in recent times, while carrying out their mission of heroic service to the last, the least and the lost," he said. In his annual New Year message, Ferrao also said that support to the organisation would help it continue its "noble service to the most neglected of the society can continue without undue hurdles". The order has been under the spotlight after the Union Home Ministry reportedly cancelled its FCRA registration, which is necessary by Indian law for availing international donations. "I have no doubt that all men and women of goodwill who are concerned about the plight of our less fortunate brothers and sisters will come forward and reach out to the Missionaries of Charity and to the thousands under their care who are facing an extremely difficult situation," the Goa Archbishop further said in his message. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mother-teresas-missionaries-of-charity-facing-stressful-challenges-goa-archbishop-1066604.html
31-12-2021||West||Bodies of 4 kids, mother found in well in Maharashtra; suicide suspected||The bodies of a 32-year-old woman and her four children including three daughters were found in a well in Maharashtra's Jalna district on Friday, with police suspecting that it was a case of suicide. The incident took place on Thursday at Ghungard Hadgaon village in Ambad tehsil, police said. The deceased were identified as Gangasagar (Ganga) Dnayneshwar Adani, her daughters Bhakti (13), Ishwari (11), Akshara (9), and son Yuvraj (7). The woman had left the house with children on Thursday morning. Search began when they did not return till late in the evening. The deaths came to light on Friday morning when the five bodies were spotted floating in a well in the field of one Ganesh Fiske. Officials of Gondi police station rushed to the spot and fished out the bodies. “Preliminary investigation indicates that the woman may have thrown the children into the well before jumping in herself," said inspector Sheetalkumar Ballal of Ambad police station. Police detained the woman's husband for questioning. A case of accidental deaths has been registered for now at the Gondi police station, inspector Ballal said, adding that further probe was on. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bodies-of-4-kids-mother-found-in-well-in-maharashtra-suicide-suspected-1066618.html
31-12-2021||West||With restrictions imposed, Maharashtra reports more than 8,000 new Covid cases||The fears of a community-level spread of Covid-19 seems to be coming true as Maharashtra’s daily cases crossed the 8,000-mark on Friday even as the government dropped hints of a possible lockdown.  During the last 24 hours, the state reported 8,097 cases and 8 deaths pushing the progressive total to 66,78,821 and 1,41,526, respectively, according to figures released by Integrated Diseases Surveillance Programme of the Public Health Department.  On Friday, the financial capital of Mumbai reported 5,428 cases while the same for the larger Mumbai metropolitan region was 6,868. During the day, four new Omicron cases were detected taking the total to 454. “We need not stop…but take total precautions,” chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said in his message on the eve of New Year.  Asked for a situation update and possible lockdown, state’s relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar said that what was expected was that people should follow Covid-appropriate behaviour.  “Already some restrictions have been announced…what more has to be done in what way is something that the chief minister would take a final call,” Wadettiwar said. Meanwhile, restrictions were imposed in connection with the attendees in the marriage, social, cultural, political or religious with total attendees being 50 persons.  According to the order, which is signed by chief secretary Debashish Chakrabarty, in case of last rites, the maximum number of attendees shall be restricted to 20 persons. The order further said that in any part of the state, which are tourist spots or other places that attract a large congregation of people such as beaches and open ground among others, the competent authority may deem as appropriate, impose section 144 of CrPC. Meanwhile, the IMA-Maharashtra State has come out with a detailed advisory note - entailing dos and don’ts.  “Omicron is a new variant of Covid-19 virus. Second wave was worse with the Delta variant. Fortunately, in most of the countries where Omicron wave is witnessed, in spite of high spread and infectivity, the virulence appears to be milder than the Delta Variant. Symptoms of Omicron seen are fever, sore throat, running nose, weakness, fatigue, backache, bodyache and headache,” the advisory states. “Loss of taste and smell, which were noted to be common symptoms during the first and second wave, are not seen in the new cases,” it points out.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/with-restrictions-imposed-maharashtra-reports-more-than-8000-new-covid-cases-1066632.html
31-12-2021||West||Amid covid, Gujarat says 26 countries participating in January's Vibrant Summit||The Gujarat government on Friday said that in the "Vibrant Gujarat Global Summit 2022", beginning January 10, a total 26 partner countries, 15 foreign ministers and four foreign governors are slated to attend. Claiming that "the enthusiasm and interest" for the event is "exceptional", the state government said that the 10th edition of the summit "is set to be a grand affair." The Bhupendra Patel led BJP government in a press note stated that the prime minister Narendra Modi will be inaugurating the summit on January 10 "in a glittering function at Mahatma Mandir, Gandhinagar, in the presence of leaders, business magnates, and investors from India and overseas." The release said that "for the first time, heads of states and governments of five nations would attend the summit" which includes Mikhail Mishustin, the prime minister of prime minister of Russia, Filipe Jacinto Nyu Meanwhile, the state recorded 654 new Covid-19 cases, taking the total active cases in the state to 2,371, out of which 11 are on ventilation. Besides, the state also reported 16 new cases of Omicron variant of the covid-19, taking the total figure to 113, of which 54 patients have been discharged. The maximum number of cases of this variant is in Ahmedabad (39), Anand (11), Kheda (6) and Gandhinagar (5). On Friday, state health minister Rushikesh Patel had said that the government will hold the summit with complete precautions that includes RT-PCR testing and vaccination certificates for every visitor. Patel defended the government's move to hold the mega event while referring to "economic distress" due to covid-19 situation. He said that on covid-19 protocols for foreign delegates, the state will rely on central government's advice. The opposition Congress has demanded cancellation of the summit while saying that it could become a "super-spreader" event. The government has said that "despite challenging times globally, the summit is on course to succeed and showcase the State’s potential to the world." It said that 26 countries have partnered for the summit including Germany, France, Italy, Canada, Australia, Japan, Russia, UK, UAE, Israel, Singapore, Sweden, South Korea, Denmark and Finland, among others. Among the foreign businessmen who are said to be participating are Sultan Ahmed bin Sulayem, DP World, Didier Casimiro, Rosneft, Tony Fountain, Nyara Energy Limited, Toshihiro Suzuki, Suzuki Motor Corp, Vivek Lall, Global Atomics Global Corporation, Maeda  Tadashi, Japan Bank for International Cooperation, Salil Gupte, Boeing India Pvt Ltd, and William L Blair, Lockheed Martin India Pvt. Ltd. Among the Indian businessmen are Mukesh Ambani, RIL, Gautam Adani, Adani Group, KM Birla, Aditya Birla Group, Sunil Bharati Mittal, Bharati Enterprises, Ashok Hinduja, Hinduja Group, N. Chandrasekharan, Tata Group and Harsh Goenka, RPG Group. The summit was first conceptualised in 2003 by then chief minister Narendra Modi. Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/amid-covid-gujarat-says-26-countries-participating-in-januarys-vibrant-summit-1066672.html
31-12-2021||West||55% of 282 samples of Covid patients from Mumbai test Omicron positive||As much as 55 per cent out of 282 samples of coronavirus patients from Mumbai, sent for genome sequencing, have tested positive for the Omicron variant, the civic body said on Friday. This was the seventh batch of samples sent to a lab at the Kasturba Hospital of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) and the National Institute of Virology, Pune, a BMC release said. Out of 282 samples, 156 (55 per cent) were found to be of Omicron variant, 89 (32 per cent) of Delta Derivative and 37 (13 per cent) of Delta variant. Only one of these patients, a senior citizen infected with the Delta Derivative, died, the BMC said. He also suffered from diabetes and hypertension and had taken only the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine, it added. Further, only 17 of these 282 patients needed hospitalization. Nine of the hospitalized patients had Omicron infection. "None of these Omicron patients showed any symptoms. In addition, they did not need oxygen supply or admission to ICU," the release said. Nevertheless, people should not let their guard down and should take precautions, the BMC added. Of the 17 patients who were hospitalized, 10 had taken both the doses of vaccines, three had taken only one dose, while four had not taken even one dose.  Watch the latest DH videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/55-of-282-samples-of-covid-patients-from-mumbai-test-omicron-positive-1066710.html
