13-09-2020||Chandigarh||Police question security personnel attached with Punjab ex-DGP Saini||An SIT of the Punjab Police has questioned 26 security personnel attached with former state DGP Sumedh Singh Saini, who is evading arrest in a 1991 disappearance case. The absconding former Punjab Director General of Police is a Z plus category protectee. Saini, whose whereabouts are still unknown, was booked in May in connection with the disappearance of Mohali resident Balwant Singh Multani, who worked as a junior engineer with Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Corporation. During questioning, some of his security personnel shared Saini’s last location with the special investigation team (SIT), officials said on Sunday. An inspector-rank security official told the investigators in a statement that he remained with Saini at his residence in Delhi from August 12 to 22, the official said. He was sent back to Punjab on August 22 by Saini. A head constable-rank security personnel told the SIT that he saw the former state police chief at his Delhi residence on August 22. He too was sent back and now deployed at Saini’s Chandigarh residence. An assistant sub-inspector told the SIT that he last met Saini on August 12 at the latter’s residence in Chandigarh, the officials said. Saini continues to remain elusive despite the SIT conducting raids at several places in Punjab, Chandigarh, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana and Delhi.A Mohali court on Saturday had issued an arrest warrant against him.Saini has moved the Supreme Court, seeking anticipatory bail in the case after the Punjab and Haryana High Court on Tuesday dismissed his plea.The high court also dismissed Saini’s second petition seeking the quashing of the FIR or the transfer of investigation to the Central Bureau of Investigation. A Mohali court had dismissed his bail plea on September 1. Police had last month added the murder charge in the FIR after two former Chandigarh Police personnel—Jagir Singh and Kuldeep Singh—turned approvers. They are co-accused in the case. The Punjab Police on September 3 had claimed that Saini had “absconded”, leaving behind his security cover. Saini, a 1982-batch IPS officer, was the youngest DGP in the country when he was appointed the state police chief in 2012. He was removed from the DGP post in 2015 after protests erupted following the desecration of religious texts in the state. Saini retired in 2018. Multani, a resident of Mohali, was picked by police after a terrorist attack on Saini, who was a senior superintendent of police in Chandigarh then. Later, police claimed that Multani, son of a former IAS officer, had escaped from the custody of the Qadian police in Gurdaspur.Saini and six others were booked on the complaint of the victim’s brother Palwinder Singh Multani, a resident of Jalandhar.The case was registered under Sections 120-B (criminal conspiracy), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence), 330 (voluntarily causes hurt), 344 (wrongful confinement) and 364 (kidnapping or abducting in order to murder) of the Indian Penal Code. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/police-question-security-personnel-attached-with-punjab-ex-dgp-saini-140770
13-09-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab reports new high at over 2,600 Covid cases; Mohali adds 433||Punjab reported 2,628 new coronavirus cases and 68 new deaths in a span of 24 hours, a state-government-issued health bulletin said on Sunday--- the highest single-day spike in cases yet.  All 22 districts of Punjab reported new cases on Sunday---a trend that the state has been observing throughout this month.The bulletin showed SAS Nagar (Mohali) as having reported the highest number of cases in the last 24 hours at 433. It also is the most cases reported by any district of the state thus far. Patiala came second with 327 cases, followed by Ludhiana (274), Jalandhar (252), Amritsar (188), Gurdaspur (260) and Bathinda (104).The seven districts accounted for almost 70 per cent of Sunday’s cases.Besides, Hoshiarpur (79), Sangrur (74), Ferozepur (67), Pathankot (49), Kapurthala (64), Faridkot (71), Moga (36), Muktsar (66), Barnala (29), Fazilka (57) Fategharh Sahib (47), Ropar (45), Tarn Taran (25), Mansa (48), and SBS Nagar (33) all reported new cases.All districts except for Muktsar and Ferozepur reported fatalities. Amritsar---the district that was once the most affected one in the state but has since been eclipsed---had the highest number of deaths at 11 followed by Patiala (10).Barnala (1), Bathinda (6), Faridkot (1), Fazilka (3), Gurdaspur (1), Hoshiarpur (3), Jalandhar (6), Kapurthala (4), Ludhiana (5), Mansa (2), Moga (2), SAS Nagar (3), SBS Nagar (1), Pathankot (3), Ropar (2), Sangrur (3) and Tarn Taran (1) also reported deaths.September is proving to be a devastating month for Punjab, especially in terms of its fatalities. The state's fatality count currently stands at 2.9 per cent---among the highest in the country.Punjab's COVID infection tally currently stands at 79,679. The state reported 27,153 cases since September 1 --- a 151 per cent rise since 52,526 cases recorded until August 31. For comparison, it reported 11,817 cases in the first 13 days of August.Punjab has been reporting 2,000 cases a day since September 7, and has recorded 14,096 new cases in less than a week since.The government had expected coronavirus cases in the state to peak in September: its estimates said infections would touch 1.10 lakh this month, with 3,000 deaths. The state’s fatality count, however, appears to be belying its own projections---the state’s death toll now stands at 2,356, a 167 per cent rise since the 1,404 deaths recorded till August 31.Punjab government has blamed the substantial rise in cases on misinformation campaign and patients’ reluctance in getting themselves treated in time.Twenty-four per cent of the state’s cases are still active. The bulletin shows that 501 people are on oxygen support, and 91 people are critical and on ventilator support.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-reports-new-high-at-over-2-600-covid-cases-mohali-adds-433-140769
13-09-2020||Patiala||NEET candidates wage battle to reach remote exam centre||Students taking the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test said they faced great inconvenience in reaching the exam centre at Patiala’s Patran---a development that comes as students across the country have protested the decision to conduct the test in the middle of a global pandemic.Students and parents alike criticised the decision of the National Testing Agency (NTA)---the authority that conducts the exam---of identifying an exam centre in a remote area 35 km away from the main city.“Despite the fact that all government schools, colleges and universities in the district were available for use, the testing agency identified this particular school in a village over 35 km away from Patran town,” one parent, RPS Malhotra, said.Poor roads and even poorer directions to the centre, the Shri Guru Tegh Bahadur Public School in Behar Sahib village, were some of the most common complaints.  One parent said that villagers had to help ferry students on their two-wheelers because they were running short of time.  “It (the road) turns from Khanauri area but the admit card has no mention of it. Most people got confused with the school in Patran town which goes by the same name and could only reach here with little time to spare. Villagers had to ferry the students on their two-wheelers for them to make it to the centre on time,” Jagjit Singh, a parent of a candidate and defence personnel from Patiala, said.Many others complained of poor management that led to crowding and disregard of the social distancing norms that have become imperative in the middle of the coronavirus pandemic.The agency had identified two schools in Rajpura, one in Patiala city and one in Patran for the test.Meanwhile, Patiala Police said they had to students faced no traffic problems.SP Traffic Palwinder Cheema said: “The police made sure there was not traffic chaos. I have received reports on the matter from both DSP Patran and SHO Shutrana”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/neet-candidates-wage-battle-to-reach-remote-exam-centre-140734
13-09-2020||Tarn Taran||Lt Akashdeep Singh visits Nishan-E-Sikhi in Khadoor Sahib||He met environmentalist Baba Sewa Singh, head of the Kar Sewa sect, Khadoor Sahib, and shared his training experience. Akashdeep completed his secondary education from Sainik School Kapurthala. He joined training at NDA, Khadakwasla (Pune) for first three years and completed his last year at IMA Dehradun in Uttarakhand.In a message to young students preparing for NDA in Nishan-E-Sikhi and other institute, he said: “One should focus on his goal all times.” Baba Sewa Singh honoured Akashdeep and his parents. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/lt-akashdeep-singh-visits-nishan-e-sikhi-in-khadoor-sahib-140703
13-09-2020||Ferozepur||Ferozepur DSP (City) Kesar Singh dies of brain hemorrhage||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ferozepur-dsp-city-kesar-singh-dies-of-brain-hemorrhage-140700
13-09-2020||---||Selling chanas, papad for livelihood, Class VII lad catches CM’s attention||Amritsar, September 12Impressed by the grit of a young boy from Amritsar selling roasted chanas, papad and golgappas to earn his livelihood and to bear the expenses of his education, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh announced Rs 5 lakh grant for him on Saturday.Sustaining his family a challenge for himManpreet Singh, a Class VII student, lives near the Gate Khazana area. His father used to sell vegetables but due to his ill health, he was not able to continue with the same. He has two elder sisters, while his mother died long ago. He started selling chanas and papad since the beginning of the lockdown period for survival and earning a livelihood.Manpreet Singh, a Class VII student, lives near the Gate Khazana area. His video of selling golgappa and roasted chana had gone viral in the social media. In the video, several members of the NGOs were seen interacting with him.During interaction, he said his father used to sell vegetables but due to ill health, he was not able to sell the same. He has two elder sisters while mother had died. He started selling chanas and papad during lockdown period for survival and earning livelihood. The lad was seen refusing the offer from an individual and said he wanted to rely only on his hard-earned money.The Chief Minister, while answering the query of a resident during the #AskCaptain programme yesterday said he had also seen the video, which captured the spirit of `Punjabiyat’. He agreed with the resident’s suggestion to be helped by the state government and immediately announced Rs 5 lakh grant for him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/selling-chanas-papad-for-livelihood-class-vii-lad-catches-cms-attention-140538
13-09-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||For the love of culture, she’s still active at the ripe age of 83||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 12Swaran Kaur Bal, a folklore researcher, who preserved ‘Bolian Tappe’ and other folklore of Majha region by visiting rural masses, is still active in her field. Even at the ripe age of 83, her participation in social and cultural events is as young. Recently, she organised ‘Tian da Mela’ to keep the tradition alive.Swaran Kaur Bal, a folklore researcherHow she utilised lockdown timeI had collected many books through literary events I attended in the past but never got a chance to read them. Now, they are my favourite companions, especially in the afternoons. I have been enjoying the feedback sessions directly to their authors over phone. I must say all these conversations remain so rich.Born on June 6, 1937 at Thatha village near Sarhali Kalan in Taran Tarn, she completed her schooling at Mata Sahib Devi Aashram in Kairon village, a gift for girls by late Punjab Chief Minister’s Partap Singh Kairon. She owes her interest in writing to Ram Kaur — CM’s wife — who not only looked after the school but also taught Punjabi.“I often think of her as she played a vital role to inspire us in various ways. She introduced several writing contests and various others events where we explored our talents,” says Swaran. Though she did cultural activism for several decades, her collection of folksongs of Majha region is remarkably a great contribution to the preservation of Punjabi culture.After completing her MA in Punjabi, she would teach at the village’s government school in Butala, near Amritsar. She visited more than 20 villages in various blocks of both the places and met old women well-known for singing traditional songs. She recorded those songs, which, however, are no more popular among the rural women.“With the emergence of TV and recording companies, the young generation remembers only those recorded songs. A large number of folksongs are no more the memories of the present generation,” she is worried. During her research, she found that every region of Punjab has a different folklore and folksongs. The Majha region has separate beliefs, traditions and culture from other areas.On paperOn the bedrock of it, she penned a book ‘Majhe De Main Jami Jayi’ comprising songs, boliyan and tapes of Majha region in 2000. She has mentioned every single woman who has been part of the contribution.With the book gaining popularity among populace, it was published four times. The maiden year of publication being 2000, followed by 2003, 2009 and 2017 by Punjabi Saath, an international literary body.Apart from this, she has been part of several radio station talks and Doordarshan as well. A source of encouragement for several women of her village for more than a decade, she has also promoted rural culture and folk singing in her ‘Mela Charkhe Da’ – organised at the village.“Collecting folksongs from old women was not enough. We need to preserve the musical tone, pitch, intensity of the folksongs, bolian, tappe mahiye. So I have encouraged some young woman from village and trained them about the rhythm of song. The mela was a great success. I have been actively participate in such events,” she tells.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/for-the-love-of-culture-shes-still-active-at-the-ripe-age-of-83-140550
13-09-2020||Our Correspondent||Weapons seized near Pakistan border in Abohar sector||Fazilka/Abohar, September 12Days after two suspected Pakistani drug smugglers were shot along the border, the BSF today seized a huge cache of arms and ammunition near the border in the Abohar sector.124 Battalion of the BSF seized three AK-47 rifles with six magazines and 91 rounds, two M-16 rifles with four magazines and 57 rounds and two pistols with four magazines and 20 rounds. Sources said a BSF patrol party observed a yellow plastic sack adjacent to the Zero Line track near the Gazniwala outpost. Another bag was found 2 metres away. Both contained arms.The BSF called it yet another attempt by anti-national elements to push illegal consignments across the border. A search operation was in progress, it added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/weapons-seized-near-pakistan-border-in-abohar-sector-140413
13-09-2020||---||Post protests, SAD makes U-turn on ordinances in Punjab||Chandigarh, September 12Amid widespread protests by farm organisations, BJP ally Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) today urged the Centre not to enact laws incorporating the provisions of the three farm ordinances during the monsoon session of Parliament that begins on September 14.The SAD core committee said the Centre must legislate only after apprehensions of the farmers were duly addressed.Sources said there was opposition within the SAD on the support given to the ordinances by the leadership. The SAD core committee took the decision today in what is being seen as a climbdown by the party on the issue. Besides farm organisations, the Congress and AAP were also against the ordinances. The Akalis were under pressure to take a stand in favour of farmers on the issue.Notably, the Akalis had earlier given statements in favour of the ordinances and even said it was beneficial to farmers.The Congress government had passed a resolution in the Vidhan Sabha against the ordinances, putting the SAD on the back foot. Sources said a section of leaders within the SAD were against the ordinances from the beginning.A press release said the SAD core committee felt that it was its responsibility to get the reservations of farmers on the MSP system addressed and asserted that it was committed to take up all issues raised by them with the Union Government. The committee noted that the SAD leadership had met farm organisations, farmer representatives and representatives of the ‘khet mazdoor’ unions during the past few days. “It also held discussions with farm experts to take their views besides taking the view of grass-roots level party workers as well as the senior party leadership,” the statement said. A considered view had emerged that the Centre should not rush through with the passing of the three Central ordinances till apprehensions conveyed to the SAD were not addressed.Sukhbir told to the core committee that he had also been approached by farmers from adjoining states and all of them had expressed apprehensions about the ordinances. “Taking this into account, the SAD is also of the view that the concerns should be taken up for consideration by the Centre,” he said.Meanwhile, the core committee felt it was appropriate that the SAD president led a delegation to the Central government to discuss the concerns of farmers. The delegation will hold meetings with the Union Government as well as other parties to address the apprehensions of farmers in the coming days.The core committee also passed a resolution that it would never compromise on the interests of farmers. “Farmers are the life and blood of our party. No sacrifice is too big to ensure the future of our farmers is safeguarded,” the SAD president told members of the core committee.Sukhbir to lead delegationThe SAD core committee said it was appropriate that the SAD president led a delegation to the Central government to discuss the concerns of farmers. The delegation would hold meetings with the Union Government as well as other parties to address the apprehensions of farmers in the coming days. The core committee also passed a resolution that it would never compromise with the interests of farmers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/post-protests-sad-makes-u-turn-on-ordinances-in-punjab-140378
13-09-2020||---||Punjab Govt rolls out Smart Ration Card Scheme||Chandigarh, September 12Even as he launched the Smart Ration Card Scheme to cover 1.41 crore beneficiaries across the state, Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today announced a separate state-funded scheme to provide subsidised ration to nine lakh beneficiaries not covered under the National Food Security Act (NFSA).With this, the total number of beneficiaries in the state would go up to 1.50 crore, the Chief Minister announced, while rolling out the smart card scheme under which 37.5 lakh cards would be distributed to the eligible beneficiaries this month.Capt Amarinder said the Centre had capped the maximum number of beneficiaries to 1.41 crore and, despite repeated requests, had not agreed to provide subsidised ration to the deserving nine lakh people not covered under the NFSA. His government had, therefore, decided to cover all such left out eligible persons under a state-funded scheme, the details of which would be announced shortly, he said.Launching the Smart Ration Card Scheme virtually, with connection to 100 places across the state, the Chief Minister said the scheme would help curb corruption and give freedom to the beneficiaries to buy from any depot. Describing it as a major step towards empowering the beneficiary, he said it would end the exploitation of beneficiaries by unscrupulous ration depot holders. The smart ration card empowers the beneficiary to get his entitled quota of foodgrain from any ration depot across the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-govt-rolls-out-smart-ration-card-scheme-140379
13-09-2020||Abohar||Fraud case: Liquor baron Shiv Lal Doda surrenders in Abohar court||Liquor baron Shiv Lal Doda, who was booked in July for allegedly cheating the wife of Satpal Thatai, a former Intelligence Bureau officer who had died of blood cancer a few months ago, today surrendered before the court of Lakhbir Singh, Civil Judge, Junior Division-cum-Judicial Magistrate (First Class). The court allowed his police custody till September 14.Doda had been sentenced to life imprisonment in the Bhim Tank murder case but was on the parole following relaxations due to Covid. The persons who were named in the case registered on July 9 include Suresh Sharma, Manoj Kumar Golyan, Rakesh Kumar, Shiv Lal Doda, his wife Sunita, daughter-in-law Suhani, property agents Rajiv Chugh, Surinder Kumar Tidda, Billa Kukkar and Rajiv Ratan Dhingra.Asha Rani, widow of Satpal Thatai, in a complaint to the Ferozepur DIG, had alleged that three Sirsa-based businessmen, who ran a firm in New Delhi, signed an agreement through some agents/brokers for the sale of seven-acre agricultural land with her son Neeraj Arora in 2013 at Rs 90 lakh per acre. Accordingly, he paid Rs 90 lakh through an online transfer and Rs 1.5 crore in cash as earnest money. However, without cancelling the contract and returning the amount (nearly Rs 2.40 crore), the owners allegedly sold the land to a Delhi-based realty firm of the Doda family. — OCWas on paroleThe court allowed Shivlal Doda’s police custody till September 14. Doda had been sentenced to life imprisonment in the Bhim Tank murder case but was on a parole following relaxations due to Covid.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fraud-case-liquor-baron-shiv-lal-doda-surrenders-in-abohar-court-140380
13-09-2020||Saurabh Malik||Bathinda police file case over dispute in US, get High Court notice||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 12Strange as it may sound, the Bathinda police had registered a case against an NRI family at the instance of an estranged wife settled abroad. The litigation initiated by the respondent-wife “through remote control” has now come under judicial scrutiny with the Punjab and Haryana High Court issuing a notice of motion to the state of Punjab.The estranged wife and the Bathinda police have also been put on notice by the High Court on a petition filed by the husband and his parents through counsel RS Bajaj for quashing of the FIR. Taking up the matter, Justice Manjari Nehru Kaul also directed that coercive would not be taken against the petitioners.Bajaj submitted the marriage took place in 2017 and immediately, the couple shifted to the US. Parents of the husband were living in Canada. But the complainant’s behaviour was not good towards her husband, following which he filed a petition for divorce in the US.It was mutually settled in the proceedings that the husband would pay the maintenance in nine monthly instalments as full and final settlement. On the basis of it, the US court granted divorce. In the meantime, she sent a complaint to the Punjab Police seeking registration of an FIR against her husband and in-laws. Though the husband and his parents sent a detailed reply to the Bathinda police clarifying their stand, the cops hurriedly registered an FIR against them.Bajaj contended the Bathinda police had no jurisdiction to register the FIR since the alleged incident of harassment had taken place in the US. As such, the FIR could not have been registered in Bathinda, especially when the complainant was residing in the US even to date.Bajaj further contended the complainant herself had agreed for divorce and had arrived at a settlement regarding the maintenance and had even received the amount from him. As such, she could not be now allowed to turn around and get the present FIR registered as it was a gross abuse of the process of law.Divorce caseThe counsel for the petitioners submitted the marriage took place in 2017 and immediately, the couple shifted to the US. Parents of the husband were living in Canada. However, the complainant’s behaviour was “not good” towards her husband, following which he filed a petition for divorce in the US.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bathinda-police-file-case-over-dispute-in-us-get-high-court-notice-140381
13-09-2020||---||BJP, Congress spar over shifting of Rs 9 crore projects in Sangrur||Sangrur, September 12The decision of the state government to shift development works to the tune of Rs 9 crore from the Sangrur Nagar Council to the Improvement Trust has kicked up a storm.The BJP leaders wrote to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and alleged that the Congress leaders would try to misappropriate Rs 9 crore.Randeep Singh Deol, chief of BJP’s Sangrur unit, said, “All estimates related to development works were prepared by the Nagar Council. Later, the works were shifted to the Improvement Trust as its chairman is from the Congress. The Nagar Council does not have any president and the SDM is its administrator. The joint tender will result in poor quality work.”AAP leader Avtar Ealwal said, “Why are officials posted in the Nagar Council if the government does not want to get any work done from them? The government should close this office permanently. There is no logic behind shifting development works to the Improvement Trust.”Baljit Kumar, SDO, Improvement Trust, denied the allegations and said the process was completed as per norms on Septmeber 10. Naresh Gaba, chairman, Improvement Trust, said, “Our opponents are making baseless allegations.”Charges false: BDOBaljit Kumar, SDO, Improvement Trust, denied the allegations levelled by the BJP and said the process was completed as per norms on Septmeber 10. Naresh Gaba, chairman, Improvement Trust, said, “Our opponents are making baseless allegations.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-congress-spar-over-shifting-of-rs-9-crore-projects-in-sangrur-140383
13-09-2020||---||Sand, gravel prices go up 50% in a month in Punjab||Chandigarh, September 12The mining mafia seems to be ruling the roost yet again as the prices of mined construction material have gone through the roof.Jaggi, a supplier in MohaliMining mafia to blameThe sites from where we sourced the material are no more supplying it. The crusher owners have held back the stock and jacked up the prices.Rs In the past one month, the prices of sand and gravel have gone up by almost 50 per cent. Till mid-August, the price of sand was Rs 22-25 per cubic foot, which has now gone up to Rs 30-33 per cubic foot. Similarly, the price of gravel has witnessed a steep rise from Rs 18-20 to Rs 28-30 per cubic foot.The prices started increasing dramatically after mid-August as the owners started hoarding material on the pretext of a ban on mining sites by the court. In the past one week alone, the prices have witnessed around 25 per cent hike.“Earlier, we used to source the material from Mubarkpur, near Dera Bassi, and Bharatgarh and Anandpur Sahib, near Ropar, which consumers in the area around Chandigarh were able to afford as the carriage cost was low. These sites are no more supplying the material. The crusher owners have held back the stock and jacked up the prices,” said Jaggi, a supplier in Sector 88, Mohali. Builders and those constructing individual houses have been hit hard. Ranjit Raina, building a house in Sector 115, said when he started the work in February, the price of sand was around Rs 20 per cubic foot. “Now, when I need it the most for plaster work, it is available at Rs 32 per cubic foot,” he said.A large number of owners and builders have slowed down the pace of construction work as they are waiting for the prices to reduce. Baljinder Singh, owner of BS Construction Company, said they were left with no option but to slow down the pace of work. “Otherwise, it will increase the cost of construction,” he said. Experts said if the current scenario continued, it may hit the skilled and unskilled labourers hard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sand-gravel-prices-go-up-50-in-a-month-in-punjab-140384
13-09-2020||Amritsar||Brothers commit suicide in Amritsar||Fazilka woman electrocutedFazilka: A 26-year-old woman has allegedly been electrocuted by her husband in border village Mahatam Nagar of Fazilka district. One Gurjant Singh has been booked under section 302 of the Indian Penal Code on complaint of the brother of the deceased. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/brothers-commit-suicide-in-amritsar-140385
13-09-2020||---||Arrest warrant against Sumedh Singh Saini in Multani case||Mohali, September 12A local court issued an arrest warrant against former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini in the alleged kidnapping and murder case of Balwant Singh Multani here today.Special public prosecutor Sartej Singh Narula said in the absence of the arrest warrant, the Special Investigation Team (SIT) was facing hurdles in getting assistance from the police of other states in the search and arrest of the accused.The SIT moved an application before Duty Magistrate Ravtesh Inderjit Singh for issuance of the arrest warrant against the former DGP who is evading arrest in the case.In the application, the SIT submitted that there was no stay regarding the arrest of the accused in the case and anticipatory bail application moved by the accused before the High Court had already been dismissed.The SIT stated that daily diary reports (DDR) had been registered at police station, Hauz Khas, South Delhi; police station, Sadar, Shimla; police chowki, Pangana in Mandi; police station, North, Chandigarh; police station, Sector 19, Chandigarh; and police station, Tanda, near Hoshiarpur.“Perusal of the DDRs specifically reveals that due to lack of an arrest warrant, there is an obstacle in getting assistance from the police at various police stations by the raiding police party from Mohali. Therefore, the application is allowed for facilitating arrest of the accused,” observed the court in its order and directed the SIT to arrest the accused and produced him before the court on September 25.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/arrest-warrant-against-sumedh-singh-saini-in-multani-case-140386
13-09-2020||---||SAD MLA, 35 others booked for protesting in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, September 12SAD MLA Pawan Tinu has been booked along with 35 others for holding a protest against Cabinet Minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot for the post-matric scholarship scam.On Thursday, SAD leaders also burnt an effigy of the minister. On Friday, an FIR was lodged against Tinu along with eight of his supporters by name and 27 other unidentified people. The FIR has been lodged under Section 188 of the IPC and section 51 of the Disaster Management Act.DSP Adampur, Harinder Singh said, “The MLA clearly violated the section 144 by organising a gathering of more than five persons. At Adampur we have already booked over 50 people earlier for similar violations as well.”Tinu claimed they had intimated the Naib Tehsildar about the protest at the Adampur bus stand and ensured the social distancing protocol was followed by everyone.”“The Chief Minister should get an FIR lodged against Dharamsot. We are being targeted, while their own leaders are holding gatherings. This is Rajwada shahi,” said the Adampur MLA.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-mla-35-others-booked-for-protesting-in-jalandhar-140387
13-09-2020||---||Covid-19: 76 more succumb to virus in Punjab||Chandigarh, September 12There seems to be no stopping the Covid spread in the state as on Saturday 2,441 cases, including 76 deaths, were reported in the past 24 hours.With these, the total number of cases has reached 77,057 and with fresh casualties, the number of deaths has reached 2,288.Besides, 55,385 patients have recovered from the deadly virus and at present 19,384 cases are active in the state. Apart from that, 521 patients are on oxygen and 82 are on ventilator.SAS Nagar topped the chart with 331 cases, followed by Jalandhar with 313 cases, Patiala 268, Ludhiana 267, Amritsar 257, Bathinda 137, Gurdaspur 118, Hoshiarpur 110 and Pathankot 100.As far as deaths are concerned, Ludhiana was the worst-hit with 14 deaths, followed by Amritsar 11, Jalandhar with 10 deaths, Gurdaspur seven, Hoshiarpur and Ropar five, Barnala, Kapurthala and Patiala four each, Fatehgarh Sahib three, Bathinda and Sangrur two each, SAS Nagar, Muktsar, Moga, Pathankot and Tarn Taran one each.Singla warns rumour-mongersPunjab Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla today warned rumour-mongers of registration of more FIRs and requested all residents to avoid sharing unverified information on social media.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-19-76-more-succumb-to-virus-in-punjab-140388
13-09-2020||---||Punjab CM ridicules AAP’s Covid scam charge||Chandigarh, September 12Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Saturday ridiculed the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) for seeing a scam in the procurement of Covid Care Kits even before the kits were procured by the state government.In their desperation to attack the government in Punjab they seem to have lost all sense of proportion, said the Chief Minister, reacting to AAP MLA Aman Arora’s allegation of a scam in the kit procurement.Arora’s scam accusation came even before the tender for procurement of the kits was finalised by the Health Department, Captain Amarinder pointed out, disclosing that the state government had eventually finalised the cost at Rs 748 per kit with Rs 360 (+GST) for pulse oximeter.The AAP MLA had based his allegation on a rate list (which he had also sent to the Health Department) that actually listed only 13 items as against the 16 being procured for the government kit.The Chief Minister said the allegation exposed the party’s strategy of unleashing baseless negative propaganda against his government.Can’t hide your failures, says LoP CheemaAAP senior leader and Leader of Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema said the CM couldn’t cover up his failures simply by attributing the growing outbreak of Covid to “public negligence”.He said the number of tests, beds and special corona care and special hospitals in Punjab should also be higher. Cheema demanded that the government provide door-to-door oximeters at its own expenses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-ridicules-aaps-covid-scam-charge-140389
13-09-2020||Aparna Banerji||Rehabilitation centre in Jalandhar now Covid care facility, addicts at receiving end||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 12In order to tackle the pandemic, the authorities have converted a de-addiction centre to a Covid care centre in Jalandhar. As a result, rehabilitation of drug addicts has taken a back seat.The de-addiction centre (25 rooms) had witnessed 603 indoor admissions between March and August in 2019, however, 164 patients have been admitted this year. In March 1,027 addicts visited the OPD, but the number reduced to 400 in August.Dr Avneet Kaur, Director, Health‘Will look into matter’We will provide additional beds to the centre if they face any problem. I will take up the issue with the Civil Surgeon and see if alternative arrangements can be made.Despite representations from the de-addiction centre to Director Health Services, Mental Health Cell in-charge, Head of Department Psychiatry (Medical College, Amritsar), Civil Surgeon and Jalandhar Deputy Commssioner, nothing concrete has happened on the ground.From March 24, de-addiction and psychiatry services are being offered to addicts from the Jalandhar Civil Hospital. From the 50 bed de-addiction centre, the bed capacity has been reduced to 12 and both men and women share bathrooms.In February 1,163 and March 1,027 cases were reported at the OPD of the de-addiction centre, respectively. In April, 365 cases were reported, 421 in May, 476 in June, 422 in July and 400 in August. The staff has now started to send the patients to the OOAT clinics.Jalandhar has the busiest de-addiction services in the state (7,734 OPD, IPD and rehab registrations at the de-addiction centre and 12,649 registrations at psychiatry OPD in 2019).Dr Aman Sood, In-charge, Jalandhar De-addiction Centre, said, “The present facilities are compromised. Higher authorities have been briefed.”Jalandhar Civil Surgeon Dr Gurinder Kaur Chawla said, “I haven’t received any information, but if there are any problems, we will definitely look into them.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rehabilitation-centre-in-jalandhar-now-covid-care-facility-addicts-at-receiving-end-140390
13-09-2020||Bathinda||Agitation on despite curbs in Bathinda||Despite the pandemic and the fact that Section 144 has been imposed in the district, farmer unions and other organisations have been continuously staging protests outside the District Administrative Complex (DAC) in Bathinda on almost a daily basis.Irked over non-fulfillment of demands, BKU Sidhupur activists have been staging an indefinite protest against the state government for the last 10 days outside the DAC. The activists on Friday intensified their protest and gheraoed the complex.BKU Sidhupur leader Kaka Singh Kotra said, “We are protesting against the decision of making Mandikalan nagar panchayat to gram panchayat and demanding cancelling of cases registered against farmers for stubble burning and removal of red entry in revenue for those who burnt stubble”. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/agitation-on-despite-curbs-in-bathinda-140391
13-09-2020||Bathinda||Toll on rise, Bathinda administration found wanting||A sudden spike in Covid-19 cases and deaths has put the district administration in Bathinda on tenterhooks. As per the health department, 34 deaths have been reported in past 12 days and more than 3,000 fresh Covid cases have surfaced in past one month, and as per officials, there is a possibility that cases might further increase in the third week of September.As many as 36 patients succumbed to the virus till August 31 but after that there has been a sudden spurt in deaths; in the past 10 days (till September 10) alone, 34 more patients have died in the district.Similarly, there were 949 Covid cases in the district until second week of August, but after that there has been a sudden spike, taking the case load to 4,000 in just one month.However, the positive development is the recovery rate has improved significantly. Of the total cases, 2,384 patients have recovered completely.A senior health official, requesting anonymity, said despite senior officials meeting regularly to make plans to contain the virus spread, there has been no let up in cases. Despite putting in place all required measures, the health department is struggling to contain the Covid spread.Dr Amrik Singh Sandhu, Civil Surgeon, Bathinda, said: “As per the department’s projections, the spike in Covid cases is on the expected lines. We had anticipated it and all arrangements were made in advance to meet the increased load. There is a possibility that cases might further increase in the third week of September. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/toll-on-rise-bathinda-administration-found-wanting-140392
13-09-2020||---||No social distancing at public meetings in Muktsar||Muktsar, September 12The Covid cases and deaths have more than doubled in the past fortnight in Muktsar district, but some politicians are still giving two hoots to the Covid safety norms and regularly holding gatherings.Furthermore, most people attending such events are seen neither wearing the face masks nor maintaining the social distancing.On August 30, the district had 281 active cases and nine deaths. However, now, the number of total active cases has reached 600 and total deaths reported are 21.In such a situation, when everyone needs to follow the Covid safety norms religiously, politicians like AAP’s Muktsar constituency incharge Jagdeep Singh Kaka Brar are regularly holding meetings with party workers and that too by defying the norms. He recently visited Thandewala and Khapianwali villages and addressed gatherings. Besides, he held a meeting with AAP workers regarding the party’s campaign to distribute oximeters.Similarly, on September 7, SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal visited some waterlogging-affected villages in the district where a large number of farmers gathered. Just after two days, PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar along with Cabinet Minister Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria too visited some villages and met farmers who allegedly did not follow social distancing norms.A number of politicians, including Deputy Speaker-cum-MLA Malout Ajaib Singh Bhatti, SAD’s Muktsar MLA Kanwarjit Singh Rozy Barkandi, SAD’s ex-MLA Malout Harpreet Singh and a number of police personnel were found positive for Covid in the past.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-social-distancing-at-public-meetings-in-muktsar-140394
13-09-2020||Chandigarh||Gagandeep Singh Wasu appointed NIA’s special public prosecutor||Punjab and Haryana High Court advocate Gagandeep Singh Wasu has been appointed as a special public prosecutor for the National Investigation Agency (NIA) by the Union Ministry ofHome Affairs’ Counter Terrorism and Counter Radicialism Division.Wasu will represent the NIA before the High Court. Wasu has served the state of Haryana as its deputy advocate-general from August 2008 to December 2011. He was then promoted as an Additional Advocate-General — a position he held till November 2019. Wasu has has been serving as an additional public prosecutor for Chandigarh since 2013. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/gagandeep-singh-wasu-appointed-nias-special-public-prosecutor-140396
13-09-2020||Amritsar||Won’t allow protest on missing ‘saroops’ at Diwan Hall: Longowal||SGPC chief Gobind Singh Longowal has refused to allow Gurdwara Manji Sahib Diwan Hall, situated inside the Golden Temple, to be used for organising a protest after the satkar committees and other Sikh religious organisations announced a stir at the site on September 14.The satkar committees, formed to uphold the dignity of Guru Granth Sahib in society, had announced a protest against the SGPC accusing it of failure in maintaining the dignity of the Guru Granth Sahib during its publication. They held it responsible for the missing 328 ‘saroops’ of Guru Granth Sahib and inadequate punishment to guilty officials.Longowal said the Manji Sahib Diwan Hall was a historic religious site associated with the Golden Temple, so its sanctity could not be allowed to be compromised at any cost.He said the ‘saroops’ were in the houses of the Sikh sangat as per the ‘rehat maryada’, so no desecration took place. He flayed the attempt to politicise the matter. — TNSDhindsa: sgpc failed to Punish guiltySangrur: SAD (Democratic) president Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa on Saturday alleged the SGPC chief had not been fulfilling his responsibility to punish the persons behind the disappearance of Guru Granth Sahib ‘saroops’. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/wont-allow-protest-on-missing-saroops-at-diwan-hall-longowal-140397
13-09-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana High Court asks live-in couple to pay Rs 50,000 to Covid relief fund||A live-in couple, who moved the Punjab and Haryana High Court seeking protection after levelling uncorroborated allegations against their spouses, will end up contributing to the Covid relief fund.Admonishing the couple for suppressing material facts, Justice Manoj Bajaj directed them to deposit Rs 50,000 in the Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana Covid relief fund. This is the second protection matter in which the Bench imposed costs on a couple, indicating a tough stand towards the petitions filed on frivolous grounds.Justice Bajaj asserted the petition contained bald allegation of cruelty, without supportive material. During the course of hearing, it was not disputed by the counsel that petitioner-woman left her husband’s company in 2016 and the complaints were filed by her two years later.The counsel further conceded that both the petitioners had not obtained divorce from their spouses and petition for divorce was pending. It was their case that they were previously known to each other, being resident of the same place. As such, they fell in love and decided to live together and it might have resulted in strained relationships between the legally wedded partners.Justice Bajaj added averments regarding an alleged incident of beating in the petition and the representation in the matter did not reveal material particulars, such as the date, time, place of the occurrence and did not, as such, inspire confidence. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-asks-live-in-couple-to-pay-rs-50-000-to-covid-relief-fund-140398
