01-10-2020||News||The Opposition must respect Parliament||Congress Member of Parliament (MP) Kapil Sibal, in an article in Hindustan Times on September 20, has made baseless allegations against the Narendra Modi government, when he called Parliament Aatmanirbhar (self-reliant), in that it did not need the Opposition voice. The monsoon session of Parliament was to have 18 sittings spread over 18 days without any break. All necessary arrangements were made in keeping with Covid-19 safety protocols. After consultations with the leaders of various political parties, a schedule was finalised which included dispensing with Question Hour. Unstarred questions, Special Mentions and other business were allowed by the chairpersons of the Houses. The leaders of various parties wanted the session to be concluded early keeping in mind the Covid-19 risk.The Opposition has repeatedly undermined the mandate given to Prime Minister (PM) Modi. They have been trying to block reform-related bills presented in Parliament. Important legislations such as the Triple Talaq Bill, Enemy Property Bill and Motor Vehicles Amendment Bill were delayed, thanks to the Opposition.The Opposition has brought disrepute to the institution of Parliament by the conduct of their Rajya Sabha MPs on September 20 during the debate on the farm reforms bills. After creating a ruckus in Parliament, these parties are trying to lay the blame at the doorstep of the government and the deputy chairman of the Rajya Sabha. The Opposition has no respect for the people’s mandate. It is trying to create false narratives.  Democracy does not envisage a consensus on all issues. Every MP is free to express their views without any influence or coercion on subjects which arise in Parliament. But no one has the right to violate the rights and privileges of other members in regard to freedom of speech.During the debate on the farm bills, 109 members of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) were present while only 70 members of the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) were in the House as per the attendance register. Some Opposition members had sought a leave of absence. The conduct of parliamentary proceedings in the Rajya Sabha on September 20, under the supervision of the deputy chairman, was strictly as per the constitutional mandate and Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business. The farm bills were discussed for more than the time allocated by the Business Advisory Committee of the Rajya Sabha. The Opposition is trying to create the impression that sense of the House means consensus in the House, which is a clear misrepresentation of constitutional and parliamentary rules. All decisions are taken in Parliament based on the majority. Allegations regarding the deputy chairman not allowing division on statutory resolutions and amendments sought by Opposition members, while these bills were being passed, are false. There are two basic conditions for seeking division in the House: The member seeking division should be in his seat, and the House should be in order so that the division may be conducted. Some members who demanded division were not in their seats, and this is a matter of record. The Opposition created all sorts of problems in the House such as tearing the rule book and formula papers of the Chair, sloganeering, manhandling officials of the secretariat and marshals, and standing on the tables of Rajya Sabha officials. Their conduct was not only in violation of the privileges of Parliament for which Parliament can penalise them (eight members were suspended from the service of the House for the remaining session), but also in violation of the Indian Penal Code for which action can be taken as there is no immunity for criminal conduct even in Parliament. Kapil Sibal also claimed that Question Hour, an essential element of parliamentary democracy, has been dispensed with and that way, executive accountability to Parliament has been eroded. As per practice on a particular day, in ordinary circumstances, 20 starred and 230 unstarred questions are listed in the Lok Sabha while 15 starred and 160 unstarred questions are listed in the Rajya Sabha. During this session, only starred questions were dispensed with, keeping in view the special circumstances. On a daily basis, the government has replied to 230/160 questions in the respective Houses. A false impression is being created of abrogation of executive accountability to Parliament. He has also criticised the passage of bills relating to ordinances without reference to the Standing Committees. This is baseless because such bills are usually not referred to committees since they are required to be replaced by Acts of Parliament within six weeks from reassembly of Parliament under Article 123 of the Constitution. It is not practically possible for Committees to examine and give reports on the bills in such a short time. Sibal made scathing personal attacks attributing different negative aspects to the PM while not saying a single word about his own party’s leader who was missing for the whole monsoon session. All this acrimony on the part of the Opposition in Parliament is symptomatic of a mindset that brooks no tolerance for the people’s mandate and majority in Parliament.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/the-opposition-must-respect-parliament/story-86G5D41ano2bBu2Y5n4M8M.html
01-10-2020||News||Those who invested in clean energy early must now be given the benefits||Clean and renewable energy sources have moved up on the agenda of most nations today. According to the International Energy Agency (IEA), the world energy mix is changing, and the contribution of renewable energy has grown to 26% of the energy basket. With governments adopting more sustainable sources of energy supply, the share of renewable energy source is expected to reach 30% by 2024.India has drawn up a progressive road map to lessen its dependence on coal and liquid hydrocarbon and build more renewable capacity instead. From 17.5 gigawatt (GW) in June 2010, India has added another 65 GW in 10 years. This has been possible largely due to the promotional regulatory and market structure which steered the renewable energy (RE) sector for a decade.It’s high time now that the consumer who had paid substantially for the promotion of RE generation is allowed to reap the benefits. Today solar and wind generation costs are much lower than even the conventional coal-based generation.The conventional and RE power segments are linked through the renewable power purchase obligation (RPO) which binds obligators (like Discoms, captive power plants) to either buy electricity-generated by specified ‘green’ sources, or buy renewable energy certificates (RECs) from the market. Government and the regulator-introduced RECs is a market-based instrument to promote renewable energy and facilitate compliance of renewable purchase obligations (RPO) by obligators who do not have solar RE generating resources like land, roofs or 270 days sunshine.Today, with the price of renewable energy falling below the purchase cost, the developer of renewable energy has to charge the consumer a reasonable price. Solar REC prices are as high as Rs 2.25 per unit, while solar power (i.e. power plus REC certificate) has been getting auctioned at an average rate of around Rs 2.50 /kwh since FY17-18.The plight of discoms (and their consumers) s further aggravated by delays in revising and publishing the revised ‘floor’ and ‘forbearance’ price for RECs by the Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (CERC) due to avoidable litigations by interested parties (RE generators) who want to benefit from current system which is skewed in their favour. This has resulted in unnecessary financial burden on consumers / obligators / conventional power distributors.Therefore, protection must be provided to the consumer from unreasonable REC prices. However, keeping the floor price at zero instead of making it obligatory to sell RECs at discounted price and keeping the forbearance price higher than zero is violative of the Electricity Act, 2003. The developers of RE generators have gained unreasonable recovery in addition to the admissible RE tariff. Until, the new pricing is notified by CERC, the inflated REC price will continue to burden the obligated entities. These entities will be required to pay high solar REC price that is not in line with the current market price for wind and solar energy. This is when the tariffs of solar and wind projects have declined considerably. However, the inflated price of solar REC continues to put a huge burden on consumers / obligators.In a progressive move, the Central commission (CERC) had taken note of this and reduced the forbearance and floor prices of RECs in June 2020. In the present scenario of low RE prices , it would not be misplaced to consider a negative price for the RECs and pass on the benefits to the consumer who has been funding the RE promotion by paying a higher tariff for a decade.Manish Garg is a regulatory expert and consultantThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/those-who-invested-in-clean-energy-early-must-now-be-given-the-benefits/story-ZJlZCvxrni8P9ZlTlUsjYK.html
01-10-2020||News||Curbs on tobacco products will help the fight against Covid, boost the economy||The Covid-19 pandemic has pushed us to adapt to a new normal, retrospect on underlying behaviours towards health and shun old harmful habits that are detrimental to one’s health and that of others. One such habit is smoking or using smokeless forms of tobacco.A recent review of studies by public health experts convened by WHO in April 2020 found that smokers are more likely to develop severe disease with Covid-19, compared to non-smokers. There is evidence that impaired lung function due to smoking and susceptibility to non-communicable diseases (NCD) like cardiovascular disease, cancer, and diabetes due to continued use of tobacco products, are putting people at higher risk of developing severe Covid-related health complications.In this pandemic, factors like social isolation for long periods, poor work-life balance, strained interpersonal relationships, lack of personal time, poor coping skills, pre-existing psychological conditions, financial distress, and job insecurities are major triggers for individuals to take up or increase the use of cigarettes, beedis and other tobacco products. It is crucial that the government focuses on tobacco control measures.In India, an estimated 1.3 million deaths are accounted for as due to the use of tobacco. As per WHO data, the most common way tobacco kills is from cardiovascular diseases (CVDs) which amounted to 4,49, 844 deaths in India as of 2018. The high prevalence of non-communicable diseases due to tobacco use poses a huge challenge to Covid-19 management and amplifies the health burden.In April 2020, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) urged the public to stop consuming tobacco products and spitting in public places during the pandemic. Subsequently, the government banned the sale of all forms of tobacco products under the National Directive for Covid-19 Management. The ministry of health and family welfare issued a warning against the use of any tobacco products in the current times. While these initiatives are important, there is also a need to view tobacco control from a long-term lens.The Covid-19 pandemic has highlighted the need for a robust public health system driven by effective policies and increased investment in the sector to improve health care outcomes as well as support economic growth through improved health indicators. WHO estimates that tobacco use burdens the global economy with an estimated $ 1.4 trillion in health care costs and lost productivity each year. According to studies in India, in 2011, the estimate of direct cost for treating four major tobacco-related noncommunicable diseases was Rs 104,500 crores, of which 16% was related to direct costs, and 84% to indirect costs. In this context, tobacco control has to become the centrepiece of public health debates across the world. This pandemic may have unwittingly led to a great opportunity to curb the use of tobacco and to positively shape the future of public health in India. By prioritising and strengthening tobacco control measures and implementing NCD prevention policies, India will improve health conditions and the economy. As India plans its road to recovery in a post-pandemic world, stringent tobacco control measures through simple but effective policy changes as part of the Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products Act (COTPA) Bill, increased focus on improving on-ground implementation especially checks on violations and stronger measures to reduce access and affordability to tobacco products through taxation and price, will pave way to a successful roadmap for better health indicators. WHO in its recent advisories and communications has also emphasised the need for stringent tobacco control for better management of the pandemic. It has highlighted increased tobacco taxation as an effective measure to help reduce consumption, reduce future health burden and to also increase revenues for governments for future management of health care costs. These efforts coupled with a collaborative approach with the private sector, civil society organisations, academia, and others will bolster our public health systems.As we cope with the varied socio-economic implications of this pandemic, there is an urgent need to develop a resilient health care system that complements our Atmanirbhar Bharat mission, which not only focuses on revival of the economy but also on overall improvement of the health of our citizens. K Madan Gopal is a senior consultant health, NITI AayogThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/curbs-on-tobacco-products-will-help-the-fight-against-covid-boost-the-economy/story-hz4PNdWBwWFD82qEMv71hO.html
