02-10-2020||News||MSMEs: Structural issues go beyond the standard challenges||The government has introduced several innovative monetary measures to promote Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs). While the current challenges are mostly related to finance, market and raw material, and have got aggravated due to the pandemic, other issues pertaining to MSMEs have been there for years.A deep dive suggests at least four structural issues which go beyond the standard challenges. The first is the sheer number – around 20 million manufacturing enterprises which is higher than the population of 75% of most countries. The second is the challenge of linkages, as only around 15% of MSMEs are registered. The estimated 17 million unregistered MSMEs are mostly Own Account Enterprises (OAEs) – operating mostly as household units and pose a regulatory challenge for formal institutions to support them. Third, the setting up of unregistered OAEs often happens as a livelihood of “last resort” or is inherited due to lack of options rather than entrepreneurial vision. Fourth, the OAEs mostly survive with surplus family labour, lack business records, linkages with market, knowledge and technology. These make them poor candidates for growth, Covid or no Covid.Such structural issues may be handled through a dual strategy – one for the estimated three million artisanal OAEs and the other for estimated 14 million non-artisanal OAEs and other unregistered micro-enterprises.While artisanal OAEs face some of these growth challenges, joint enterprises of owners of household enterprises are often successes. India has seen several schemes, mostly with an emphasis on the creation of common infrastructure. However, equal importance may be given in creating a formal joint market or business promotion organisations of artisanal enterprises which can allow informal units to manufacture and formal joint enterprises to manage the forward and backward linkages. India needs at least 5,000 such joint enterprises with appropriate technical support that will propel them to grow and make the artisanal OAEs to grow along with them. Covid has added a fresh agenda of e-marketing, where heavy investment is needed. It is estimated that non-artisanal OAEs (based on overall OAE composition), are mostly manufacturers of textiles and apparel (44%), food products (11%), furniture and wood products (10%) and metal and non-metal products (6%). Here, there is need for creation and consolidation of four types of stakeholders: One, locally available and affordable or “barefoot” service providers in the areas of energy savings, bank linkage, technical support; two, strengthening of existing and creation of new industry associations, wherever they are absent, at cluster/district level; three, provide linkage with buyers who can implant knowledge among the OAEs through a business (learning by doing) model and; four, provide linkages with knowledge nodes. Much of this can be achieved with the support of district and cluster-level associations. A majority of these associations, at present, are only occasional policy promoters/challengers and are otherwise dormant. But they are the most trusted ally of the MSMEs and they are our best option. One needs to build their capacities to train and create barefoot service providers at the local level and also become service providers themselves. There is an existing repository of 2,000 plus such associations and there may be 5,000 of them. One can also incentivise bigger MSMEs through tax benefits for outsourcing as this is also a very effective route for learning and making the entire ecosystem competitive. The district industry centres can be empowered as the knowledge provider by creating a panel of experts for the most important clusters in that region. However the places which are industrialised are not the real poverty hotspots. Poverty hotspots often see an exodus of labour and the same labour with business knowledge from the clusters in the metros, post- Covid, has in many cases, returned to its origin. This reverse migration will work both ways. While the urban clusters will go for mechanisation and will need support for technology upgradation, poverty hotspots need to be identified for industrialisation and “creation of clusters” based on the comparative advantages of skill influx through reverse migration and thereby fulfilling the vision of “vocal for local”.Tamal Sarkar is executive director, Foundation for MSME Clusters, New Delhi The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/msmes-structural-issues-go-beyond-the-standard-challenges/story-bGlGI3i8bflAhqXkg5PR2J.html
02-10-2020||News||The Mahatma’s life was his message, writes President Ram Nath Kovind||Gandhiji was jailed in 1922 for writing articles campaigning for non-cooperation and civil disobedience. His colleague Shankerlal Banker, also jailed with him, had seen the Mahatma starting the day at 4 am, and not wasting a single minute till late in the night. From spinning and weaving for six hours a day, to studying the scriptures, he was constantly occupied. Banker enthusiastically joined in, and Gandhiji drafted a timetable for him too. When he was released early, Banker told Gandhiji that he had learned a new way of life. Gandhiji asked him to tell others about his lessons. Gandhiji then asked him if he had any idea of how people would react. Banker had no clue. “I can tell you what people would say. They’d say, ‘He is a Mahatma and he can lead such a life. We can’t’,” Gandhiji said. Then Gandhiji asked him to tell them that he was not born a Mahatma. “I too had many faults and I carefully and relentlessly worked to remove them. Now people call me Mahatma, though I am far from that. But this is the way open to all, and every individual can walk on it if he or she thinks through it and make progress in that direction with confidence and commitment.”As we celebrate Gandhiji’s 151st birth anniversary, I think of his advice. It is humbling and empowering in equal measure. He himself never claimed to be a great soul — indeed, he went out of his way to tell the world about his vulnerabilities. Yet, he is the best example of realising the maximum human potential. If anything, his achievements seem superhuman to us. What Albert Einstein said in his tribute to the Mahatma is true, and the present generation has a hard time believing that a frail old man with a toothy smile could have made it possible to win freedom without taking up arms. As Gandhiji himself tells us, he was an average child with weaknesses. The difference was that he diligently worked on his moral foundations. In his youth, he was shy and diffident, but he was consolidating his ethical outlook. This constant effort to be a better human being and to be more sensitive towards those around him made him a Mahatma. This path was, of course, extremely difficult. There were many failures along the way. But he continued doggedly, one step at a time.In his autobiography, he writes that what he had been “striving and pining to achieve” was “self-realisation, to see God face to face, to attain moksha”. His striving was then unique in that he did not renounce the world, but sacrificed his whole life for the upliftment of the downtrodden, and for the empowerment of fellow Indians. He was more concerned about his duties than his rights, and took up cudgels on behalf of others — Dalits, peasants, labourers, women and others. In the process, he evolved a new kind of compassionate politics that has answers to all the contemporary world’s pressing questions. Gandhiji shows, in great detail, what needs to be done — by individuals, organisations and nations — to achieve peaceful coexistence, sustainable development, economic and social equality.Moreover, he accomplished so much while remaining utterly humble. His colleagues and followers saw him not as a father figure, but as a mother figure. George Orwell rightly speaks of a “clean smell” he managed to leave behind. I realised what the English author meant when I visited the Sabarmati Ashram in Ahmedabad three years ago. The ground still remains hallowed, and the place still vibrates with the serenity he brought about there. I have felt similar peaceful vibrations whenever I have visited his samadhi at Raj Ghat in Delhi.In a world riven by strife, Gandhiji’s teachings have universal resonance. In my visits abroad, I have found his busts in many countries. In some places, I have unveiled them myself. Such a life is but rare, and thus, it is our duty to nurture and build on his legacy. From Martin Luther King Jr and Nelson Mandela to living legends such as Zambia’s first President, Kenneth Kaunda, and former United States President, Barack Obama, they all unequivocally repose faith in Gandhiji’s teachings.The year-long celebrations of his 150th birth anniversary that culminate today have been an apt occasion to rejuvenate his memories and reorient the moral and ethical foundations of public life. Many young people, in India and abroad, must have discovered Gandhiji’s timeless message during this past year.Gandhiji has so much more to offer to us if we take lessons from his life, particularly when we are facing a pandemic. During the outbreak of a deadly plague, he flung himself into health care and sanitation duties that exemplified his selfless service. As he put it in a speech in Alappuzha (Alleppey) in January, 1934, “I have that implicit faith in my mission that, if it succeeds — as it will succeed, it is bound to succeed — history will record it as a movement designed to knit all people in the world together, not as hostile to one another but as parts of one whole.” By invoking that faith and attitude, I am confident, we will be able to imagine and build a better world. The 151st anniversary is a good occasion to think through our priorities in the light of Gandhiji’s life and thought, and prepare ourselves again to hear his voice in our hearts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/the-mahatma-s-life-was-his-message/story-1UiKhYplgvSHKoEqEYO0EN.html
02-10-2020||News||Covid-19: There are answers that lie in Gandhi’s Hind Swaraj||Gandhi Jayanti is an opportunity to reconsider some of Gandhi’s core thoughts on the nature of human existence. This is particularly relevant in the present context when the Covid-19 pandemic has already claimed over a million lives across the world. It is interesting to reflect on the trajectory of Western capitalist development which has defined human progress since the Industrial Revolution nearly two-and-a-half centuries ago. This was one of Gandhi’s pet themes. The basic tenets of classical economics were outlined in Adam Smith’s foundational tract, The Wealth of Nations, which appeared in 1776. Within the next four decades, Ricardo and Malthus in England and Jean-Baptiste Say in France had laid the full foundations of the classical system. The watchwords of the classical system were laissez-faire and free trade. Adam Smith was possibly the finest representative of the Scottish enlightenment, and believed that this arrangement would ensure progress for all. But the later writers soon established that the material reality of the world is defined by scarcity. The onset of the Industrial Revolution brought about extensive and severe disruptions in the lives of the labouring class, even as a wealthy capitalist class was emerging in England. By this time, England was already the premier imperial power. A mere chartered company of the British monarch, the East India Company, was ruling over most of the Indian subcontinent, and the colonies of imperial Britain extended to North America and other parts of the globe. Classical economics was premised on the basic precept that all rational beings are naturally conditioned to pursue their self-interest. This view was strongly critiqued by a number of radical thinkers, among whom was John Ruskin. In his Unto This Last, Ruskin rejected the Smithian notion of “division of labour” as dehumanising and argued that classical economics fails to consider the social affections that bind communities together.The young Gandhi read Ruskin’s book on a train journey from Johannesburg to Durban in South Africa in June 1904 when he was 34. He was to confess later that this book changed his life forever. He had not been exposed to the writings of Smith and Ricardo till then, but was now determined to apply the precepts of Ruskin in his daily life.Barely five years later, in 1909, on a voyage from London to South Africa, Gandhiji penned his Hind Swaraj or Indian Home Rule. This was a trenchant critique of Western civilisation, and capitalism in particular. The colonial British government reckoned this to be a seditious piece of work and the pamphlet was proscribed in British India.Hind Swaraj may be regarded as the social and economic testament of Gandhi. His focus was on those living in the countryside, and he made a strong case to develop rural India as self-sufficient village republics. He fundamentally believed that all able-bodied men and women must be gainfully employed, and he was against machinery to the extent that it displaced labour.Possibly the greatest original insight of Gandhi was to advocate the principle of “limitation of wants”. This was the exact obverse of the whole project of Western classical, and later neo-classical, economics, which believed in the continuous expansion of the production possibility frontier. The latter idea is fundamental to the modern-day obsession with growth economics in virtually all genres of Western economic thought.Among the key classical thinkers, a major exception was John Stuart Mill who argued in favour of a “stationary state” to conserve the world’s resources. There have been a few other notable voices too, such as the institutional economist Thorstein Veblen who warned against conspicuous consumption. Gandhi’s views, quite independently, were in tune with the concerns of these rebel thinkers. The present episode of the pandemic gives us yet another opportunity to revisit Gandhi’s critique of Western civilisation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/covid-19-there-are-answers-that-lie-in-gandhi-s-hind-swaraj/story-5Id3Z3kXhmkz3jGt1FzCvO.html
