12-10-2020||News||Mission Karmayogi: An ambitious plan to bolster State capacity||One of the many lessons that Covid-19 has brought to fore is the primacy of governments in providing their citizens effective means to deal with the impact of the crisis on lives and livelihoods. As the pandemic adds new complexities to education, income, food, and health systems, it is natural to look to the biggest players in development — the central and state governments — to increase expenditure and the quality of programme implementation.An important lever for improving public administration during and beyond the crisis is improving the quality of decisions made by officials at each level of government. The Centre recently launched Mission Karmayogi, a new initiative for civil service capacity-building. By providing training opportunities that map the competencies required for different jobs, this initiative has the potential to radically upgrade the management capacity of public officials, and, in turn, strengthen the capacity of the State to deliver. At the heart of the mission is the recognition that providing training opportunities to senior bureaucrats by sponsoring them to attend elite institutions has not been enough. Instead, India’s 20 million government officials need to be trained and retrained many times over during their career. For these trainings to have the desired effect, they need to be customised into thousands of highly relevant modules. The initiative aims to harness the potential of digital, face-to-face, and blended learning to create dynamic, highly customised learning systems with world class instructors. Achieving this ambitious vision will require collaboration among a range of institutions, including government training institutes, top universities in India and abroad, and multilateral agencies and development organisations. The department of personnel and training (DoPT) laid the foundation for Mission Karmayogi in 2018 when it launched the innovative Integrated Government Online Training (iGOT) platform to offer online training courses from leading global institutions to officers. Among the courses available on the iGOT platform is the MITx MicroMasters credential in Data, Economics, and Development Policy, an online course through which faculty from MIT have trained scores of government officers to incorporate cutting-edge economics research into the design, evaluation, and scale-up of social programs. The expanded iGOT-Karmayogi platform will provide officers the opportunity to select courses that best suit the skills required in their current role, and study at their convenience. For example, secretaries can take short custom courses on cutting edge practices in their sector, while section officers in their ministries can hone their management skills. For Mission Karmayogi to succeed, therefore, its training courses must speak to the needs of each officer’s specific job functions and must be designed with the most innovative pedagogical models available. To achieve this, a new initiative known as Creating Learning Opportunities for Public Officials (C-LOP), a partnership between DoPT, the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, and J-PAL South Asia, is working with ministries and departments to map the competencies required for specific jobs and match these requirements with new and existing online courses from top faculty in India and abroad. C-LOP will also work with government training institutes to redesign courses. With the right budget allocation and the active participation of line departments and training institutes in reimagining how our government officers learn, the potential of Mission Karmayogi is nothing short of transformative. Effective governance from a highly skilled bureaucracy is essential not only for recovery from the Covid crisis, but in grappling with the enduring challenges of poverty, inequality, and climate change. Iqbal Singh Dhaliwal is the global executive director of J-PAL at MIT, Cambridge, US. Shagun Sabarwal is the director of policy, training, and communications at J-PAL South Asia at IFMR, Delhi The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/mission-karmayogi-an-ambitious-plan-to-bolster-state-capacity/story-ENt8dhOENNmqTv16EDAfTL.html
12-10-2020||News||The fears about farm reforms are misplaced||The three bills enacted into law recently have been farmer-centric and far-reaching. Agricultural growth, in independent India, has passed through many phases. The new laws are in sync with input subsidy, minimum support price, government procurement and distribution of foodgrains, introduction of contract farming through the model Agricultural Produce Market Committee Act. The share of agriculture workers in the total workforce of the country has come down from 69.9% in 1951 to 54.6% in 2011, according to the Census. In the corresponding period, the share of agriculture as part of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) output has declined from 51.9% to 14.4%. The fall in employment share is not commensurate with the decline in the GDP share. The agriculture sector uses a workforce which far exceeds its economic value. The average income of an agricultural household as against its average monthly consumption is nearly on par. India’s agricultural policy right from Independence was geared towards food sufficiency. Remunerative crop pricing was never a priority. The standard approach towards increasing farmers’ income was always about devising supplementary means in the form of animal husbandry, poultry, fisheries and bee-keeping. This continued as a matter of policy even after we moved from food scarcity to food surplus.The Green Revolution is seen as the success of new technology, which brought with it high-yielding crops. However, what is often overlooked is the role of farmers. Since 1955, foodgrain imports from the United States (US) under the PL-480 scheme, in excess of market requirement, kept the prices artificially down. This resulted in farmers becoming demoralised. However, when imports were reduced to realistic levels, farmers felt the incentive to produce more. This is what we need today. Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi has advocated “doubling farmers” incomes by 2022 from the levels of 2016. He spoke of remunerative pricing in this regard.On April 13, 2016, the government set up a Committee on Doubling Farmers’ Income chaired by Dr Ashok Dalwai. The committee, after consultations, came up with 14 reports. The farm laws were based on the insights provided by this committee. There are 23 crops, including 14 kharif, seven rabi and two calendar-year crops for which the government notifies the minimum support price based on the recommendations of the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices. There is no legal prohibition to a farmer selling his/her produce in an open market in pursuit of a better price. What, however, was missing was a legal and marketing architecture to protect and incentivise the farmer.The minimum support price, since its introduction in the 1960s, has remained focused on the wheat belt of Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh. In the rice belt of eastern Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, West Bengal and Assam distress sales were often reported. Today, the wheat belt farmers is agitating, based on the misperception that the minimum support price will be withdrawn. The fact is that the government has provided a better minimum support price over the last six years, and will continue the policy as witnessed by the recent procurement through the minimum support price. The new laws will provide better choices with adequate safeguards to the farmers. The Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, provides farmers with a choices that have been denied to them so far. It does not replace the system of Agricultural Produce Market Committee-run mandis, government procurement, or minimum support prices. The 62nd report of the Standing Committee on Agriculture — Agriculture Marketing and Role of Weekly Gramin Haats — highlighted the mess the Agricultural Produce Market Committee-run markets are in.There has clearly been a political usurpation of a democratic institution. In some states, the market fee is levied even for trade transactions taking place outside the market yard, whereas in some states transactions outside the market yard are illegal. A farmer cannot go to a mandi other than that with which he/she is registered. In reply to my unstarred question (No.328 dated February 4), the minister for agriculture said that the government has decided to develop existing 22,000 gramin haats into full-fledged gramin agricultural markets. The fear that market yards will disappear is unfounded. If we continue to do things as before, we will continue to get the same results. We have been hearing of farmer suicides and distress.The prime minister is bringing in positive changes and trying to empower the under-privileged. Let us be part of the solution and not the problem.Rajyavardhan Rathore is Lok Sabha MP from Jaipur Rural constituency and national spokesperson of the BJP The views expressed herein are his personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/the-fears-about-farm-reforms-are-misplaced/story-4vtuLDCDYo1LQ5vkVEGRNM.html
12-10-2020||News||The crippling effect of sedition and UAPA on dissent in India||A journalist from Kerala was accused of sedition and various offences under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967, (UAPA) and arrested on the way to Hathras on October 7. In recent years, sedition and UAPA have been weaponised and used routinely against critics of various ruling governments. Data from the National Crime Records Bureau’s recently-released Crime in India statistics for 2019 confirm these observations. Ninety-three cases of sedition were filed in 2019, a 165% jump from 35 in 2016. In 2019, 1,226 UAPA cases were filed, a 33% increase from 2016.Section 124A of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) defines sedition as any signs, visible representations, or words, spoken or written, that can cause “hatred or contempt, or excite or attempt to excite disaffection” towards the government. Sedition has a chequered colonial legacy of being used by the British against critics of the British administration. In Independent India, it has become a tool to curb freedom of speech and expression.Although the Supreme Court has stated in the Kedarnath case that the offence of sedition is not made out unless the accused person incites people to violence against the government established by law or with the intention of creating public disorder, the police are either not aware of this requirement or willfully ignore it. People have been accused of sedition for staging a school play which criticised the prime minister, for saying that “Pakistan is not hell” and for writing to the prime minister about mob lynchings.UAPA is an anti-terror legislation, crafted for exceptional circumstances, that has become routinised. UAPA permits detention without charge for up to 180 days, making i a convenient tool to silence dissidents. Such long periods of pre-trial detention circumvent safeguards in the criminal justice system such as evidentiary requirements and burden of proof, and permit the state to punish those suspected of committing crimes without proving these allegations.The definition of a terrorist act in UAPA is vague. Amendments to UAPA in 2019 have given the Union government the power to notify an individual as a “terrorist” without a trial. Police custody under UAPA can also be extended to 30 days, increasing the possibility of custodial violence.The progress of sedition and UAPA cases reveals that the police are invoking these offences indiscriminately. In 2019, in 9% of the sedition cases (pending from previous years and filed in 2019), the police closed the case because of insufficient evidence or because the accused was untraceable. Eleven per cent of UAPA cases (pending from previous years and filed in 2019 in the same year) were closed for the same reason. Charge-sheets were filed in only 17% of the sedition cases and 9% of the UAPA cases. The conviction rate in sedition cases in 2019 was 3.3% and for UAPA cases it was 29.2%. India has low conviction rates (average conviction rate in 2019 for crimes committed under IPC was 50.4%) but these are abysmal even by that bar.However, low conviction rates for these offences are no reason to celebrate. Given the prevalence of indiscriminate arrests and pre-trial detention in India, for persons accused of sedition and offences under UAPA, even if they get acquitted, the process itself is punishment. Persons arrested for these offences will invariably spend long periods in prison. Judges are reluctant to give bail to people accused of sedition. UAPA prohibits a judge from granting bail to an accused unless that judge has “reasonable grounds to believe” that the accused is not guilty. These cases usually attract media attention and so the persons accused are also subject to trials in the pugnacious arenas of 24-hour news channels.Despite the criticism of sedition and UAPA, there are no signs that the government is planning to repeal or curtail them. An increase in the number of cases filed under these provisions has a chilling effect on any form of dissent, a trend that does not look like it will abate in the near future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/the-crippling-effect-of-sedition-and-uapa-on-dissent-in-india/story-QBCPtSpVcYgbdnavysc8UL.html
12-10-2020||News||The growing threat of cyberwarfare||A couple of weeks ago, the government set up an expert committee under the National Cyber Security Coordinator to look into revelations that a Chinese technology company with links to China’s government had been monitoring Indian citizens and organisations. India is not the only country concerned about such cyberattacks. The United States (US) department of defence (DoD) last week exposed an information-stealing malware, SlothfulMedia, which they said was being used to launch cyberattacks against targets in India, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Malaysia, Russia and Ukraine. While the DoD did not identify the cyber actor responsible for this particular malware, certain countries — China, Russia, North Korea, Iran — have consistently been accused of cyber warfare. The most notorious example is, of course, that of the misinformation campaign conducted by Russian bots during the 2016 US presidential elections, a campaign that is said to be active again in the upcoming US elections. This brings us to the question of what cyberwarfare is, who conducts it, how it is waged, and the ramifications of what seems to be an opaque shadow war conducted behind screens.Cyberwarfare is a strategic competition conducted between adversaries in cyberspace. It allows countries to conduct covert operations on a large scale, cheaply, and anonymously. These latter three attributes are particularly important to understand. Cyberwarfare is broad because it can occur in at least five different spaces — economic, societal, cultural/intellectual, military, and political. Economically, in the US, 85% of cyberattack targets are in the private sector — small banks, for example, can face over 10,000 attacks per day. US government agencies recently released a joint advisory warning that BeagleBoyz, a North Korean hacking group, has once again started robbing banks worldwide, including in India, through remote internet access to fund Kim Jong-Un’s cash-strapped regime. Societally, sowing disinformation through social media disinformation is also cyberwarfare. Russia has been particularly savvy in this field but recently, China has stepped up its game. Intellectual property (IP) rights are another avenue of strategic competition — in 2014, the US justice department indicted five Chinese military hackers and accused them of stealing secrets from US Steel, JP Morgan, Alcoa, Westinghouse Electrical Co., SolarWorld and United Steelworkers. Military cyberattacks are perhaps the most associated with cyberwarfare — the “Sandworm Team”, a group associated with Russian intelligence, has conducted attacks on government sectors in the US, Ukraine, Poland, and on the European Union and NATO. Cyberwarfare is both cheap and anonymous because the nature of the game has changed radically over the past two decades. The internet is today an essential critical infrastructure. Any country that is heavily reliant on it is at a relative disadvantage — the threats range from IP theft, to small businesses, to elections, to even the electricity grid. And it is exceedingly cheap – training videos are easily available online so all that is needed is a motivated group of people with an inexpensive laptop and an internet connection. It is also difficult to trace. A well-documented and game-changing cyberattack occurred in 2010 when a malware “Stuxnet” was released that was designed to damage Iran’s nuclear capability by making Iranian scientists and government think there were a series of internal engineering mishaps at their enrichment facility. It was a clever and sophisticated attack. Stuxnet was reported to be a result of US-Israeli collaboration and showed that governments can use malware to achieve covert intelligence objectives. But malware is not necessarily in need of government collaboration. Individuals are just as capable of launching such attacks, abetted and encouraged by their governments. Malware is often simple, low-cost and difficult to trace. A lot of malware, for example, is manufactured in China, and there is reported collaboration between the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) and Chinese universities to train hackers. But when a cyberattack is actually launched by either the government or individual, there is often no real consequence because of the anonymity it offers.This brings us to the question of combatting cyberwarfare. On one hand, the attributes of cyberwarfare make it difficult for governments to deter it. On the other, governments no longer have a choice but to confront it. The US recently released a report from its Commission on Cybersecurity with recommendations to shore up defences. One of the most important recommendations is to build relationships of trust between the government and private sector. In addition, governments must maintain priority investments in technology, science, and research and development (R&D) in the cyber sector. Innovation is of paramount importance given the increasing complexity and sophistication of the attacks — the US has been investing heavily in new Artificial Intelligence (AI) technologies to be able to automatically identify cyber threats and also launch cyberattacks against adversaries. India activated a Defence Cyber Agency last year. But much more needs to be done. Cyberwarfare is here and given that it poses a fundamental threat to both institutions and individuals, there has to be a concerted government-driven long-term strategy to counter it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/the-growing-threat-of-cyberwarfare/story-iiGha9WpqIKkQmPDdOLEHO.html
