14-10-2020||News||It’s a pandemic: Go after the virus, not the vulnerable||As the global struggle to contain Covid-19 continues, and pandemic fatigue sets in, some are advocating for a so-called natural “herd immunity” strategy, which they argue can be safely achieved through “focused protection”.This concept entails fully reopening societies, while “shielding” the elderly and people with co-morbidities, in order to achieve herd immunity in the absence of a vaccine within six months. It sounds so simple, but the facts tell us otherwise.First, herd immunity is achieved by protecting people from a virus with the use of a vaccine, not by exposing them to it.For example, herd immunity against measles requires about 95% of people to be vaccinated. Once immunised against measles, they act as a protective buffer preventing the virus from circulating and infecting the remaining 5% of the population who are unvaccinated.We are nowhere close to the levels of immunity required to stop this disease transmitting. We know from sero-epidemiology studies that less than 10% of the global population has shown evidence of infection. That means the vast majority of people are still susceptible to the Sars-CoV-2 virus. To achieve herd immunity for Sars-CoV-2, it is estimated that at least 60-to-70% of the global population – over five billion people – would need to be infected which, in the absence of a vaccine, may take years.Furthermore, as with other coronaviruses, reinfection cannot be ruled out, exposing people to disease again and again. Cases of reinfection have already been reported. Third, letting the virus spread through populations unchecked would have devastating consequences for communities and health systems. Far too many people would develop severe disease and die, hospitals would be overwhelmed with the influx of patients, particularly as flu season takes off in the Northern Hemisphere, and communities would be ravaged by the sheer number of people in need of care. We also have no idea how many people will suffer the debilitating impacts of post-Covid syndrome or “long Covid”, or for how long. Many people describe suffering from months of persistent fatigue, headaches, “brain fog” and trouble breathing. Other serious conditions from being sick with Covid-19 – such as physical and cognitive limitations, psychiatric problems and issues with the lungs, heart and brain – are being reported. Fourth, it is a mistake to believe that the virus only severely impacts older people and those with underlying conditions. Research has shown that mortality increases significantly with age, but many young people with no underlying health conditions have developed severe disease and died. At the peak of Italy’s outbreak, up to 15% of all people in intensive care were under 50. Finally, how would this theoretical “focused protection” play out in the real world? Governments are already encouraged to protect high-risk groups, as part of a raft of public health measures that are only effective when applied together. Choosing a single intervention, with disregard for the realities of local transmission, would be unwise, ineffective and deadly. As the World Health Organization (WHO) director-general has said, it is not a choice between letting the virus run free and shutting down our societies. This virus transmits mainly between close contacts and causes outbreaks that can be controlled by implementing targeted measures. Rather than wasting precious resources discriminating against high-risk groups, we should focus on going after the virus.Through robust testing and contact tracing, we can know precisely where the virus is circulating, and clamp down on it with the tried and tested public health measures we are all now familiar with, including isolation of cases and quarantine of contacts.By tailoring interventions to local contexts and targeting disease clusters, we can avoid punishing national lockdowns that are blind to variations in community transmission.By informing individuals about how they might protect themselves and their loved ones, we can reduce the disease burden.We’ve seen this approach succeed in many countries.It is hard work, but we have new and better tools than we did nine months ago. For example, we have better-trained and equipped health workers in many countries, better diagnostics and treatment options, and digital applications which help with contact tracing and patient information. Public health authorities must dialogue with the communities they serve to understand the barriers and constraints they face and try to resolve them. Governments need to shore up their health systems to enable them to service all health needs, and they must invest in developing the diagnostics, therapeutics and vaccines that can help us bring this pandemic to a close. There are currently more than 200 vaccine candidates, with several in the final stage of clinical trials. We could have limited supplies of an efficacious Sars-CoV-2 vaccine available as early as next year. When that happens, we can realistically and safely strive for herd immunity. Until then, we have to outsmart this virus, by understanding where and how it spreads, and not giving it a chance to do so.Dr Soumya Swaminathan is chief scientist, WHOThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/it-s-a-pandemic-go-after-the-virus-not-the-vulnerable/story-pZ5bQhQXZanb6n3qcG2InM.html
14-10-2020||News||In Pakistan, a new battle takes shape | Analysis||The Pakistan army and the country’s principal opposition parties are on a collision course. Despite the army’s warning not to drag it into politics, these parties have publicly complained about its political role. The Pakistani political class has traditionally accepted the army’s political role as a given and politicians have wanted to secure its support to promote their individual interests. Now, these Opposition parties are asking the generals not to interfere in the country’s politics.The real target of the People’s Democratic Movement (PDM), which is scheduled to hold its first rally on October 16, is not Prime Minister (PM) Imran Khan, though his resignation and fresh elections have been sought, but the men in khaki. This also seems to borne out by former PM and the Pakistan Muslim League(N), PML(N), leader Nawaz Sharif’s blistering attack on the army in his address to a multi-party meeting called by the Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP) on September 20.Sharif said that Pakistan was controlled by a “state above the state” which did not let any elected Pakistani PM function properly or complete his term. He criticised the manipulation of the 2018 national assembly election to foist a “selected” PM — Khan — on the country. The meeting, which decided to launch the PDM, also expressed great concern at the “establishment” (a euphemism for the army) increasing its “role” in the country’s domestic affairs and, by doing so, threatening the country’s stability and institutions. PPP chairman Bilawal Bhutto Zardari also called for a “non-political establishment”.The Pakistan army is a professional fighting force and, at the same time, despite its denials, a political institution. It is the final decision-maker of the country’s security and foreign policies but has always, also, reserved the right to intervene in any other area of governance during civilian rule in the country.Both the army and Khan are taking PDM seriously. This is borne out by Khan alleging that opposition leaders have joined hands to save themselves from corruption charges. He has quickened the pace of investigations against PML(N) and PPP leaders. Nawaz Sharif’s brother, Shahbaz Sharif, the former chief minister of Punjab, has been jailed and former president Asif Ali Zardari has been charged for corruption.More significantly, Khan, while mounting a stout defence of the army and maintaining that the Inter-Services Intelligence is the finest service in the world, has fired the brahmastra against Nawaz Sharif; he has accused the former PM of playing India’s game in maligning the army. There is no more potent charge that can be levelled in Pakistan than colluding with the permanent enemy, India. Nawaz Sharif is in London since last November. He was then in jail but was allowed to go abroad for his medical condition was said to be critical.On its part, the army is letting Khan take the lead in battling PDM but is expectedly refuting charges of interference in governance. While addressing the cadets of the Pakistan Military Academy on October 10, army chief Qamar Javed Bajwa said: “I count it a great honour that we stand before the nation as a trusted and accountable institution”. He also emphasised “Our actions are guided by constitution and the national interest of Pakistan”.This is not the first time in Pakistan’s history that sections of its political class are seeking to take on the army. What is different now is that they are openly calling for it to be an apolitical force, as is traditional in true democracies. This goes against the grain of the army’s entrenched belief that it is the only institution that can uphold the country’s national interest, that all others are ineffective, and the political class is venal and corrupt. This thinking is reinforced by its view that India is a perpetual enemy. The army has ensured that this view of India becomes deeply entrenched among the Pakistani people. Now, even the few Pakistanis who stood for the normalisation of India-Pakistan ties have turned against India because they feel that this country has changed course after the 2019 elections.Will the PDM succeed in consolidating the substantial disillusionment against the Khan government as well as creating a sentiment for the army to confine itself only to its professional duties?The government has failed on different fronts since it assumed office. The economy continues to be in a mess and the macroeconomic targets set by IMF remain unmet. Consequently, the Fund is demanding an end to tax loopholes, increase in electricity rates and greater autonomy for regulators. These are politically almost impossible to accomplish. Pakistan’s foreign policy is under strain too. Its Kashmir policy has not yielded results and the strains with the Arab peninsular states, especially Saudi Arabia, are enormous; Turkey cannot replace the Saudi connection. There is thus material to fan discontent against the Khan government.The same will be difficult to do against the army, despite its support for Khan. Even if there is some discontent because of Bajwa’s extension, the army will close ranks to protect its role in the polity. The India factor will be used to remind the people that it is needed to protect them, especially at this time. The army’s capacity to break Opposition unity should also never be underestimated.The October 16 rally may, therefore, give an indication of both the capability of the opposition and the army’s strategy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/in-pakistan-a-new-battle-takes-shape-analysis/story-vPNU2xAA5QoR6966Km1tAL.html
