15-10-2020||News||Blame the regulatory system, not BARC | Analysis||News cycles have never been as febrile as in 2020. Yet, in the middle of pandemic and elections to presidencies and assemblies, our attention is glued to audience measurement.Audience measurement is not a page-turner. How, then, did it suddenly become a topic of ill-informed fulmination? In a word — scandal. Who doesn’t love a scandal? What’s more, if the story offers a wide cast of characters, from petty scammers to media moguls to India’s biggest advertisers, it is time for drama.Full disclosure: I have been neck-deep in the field for a long time. I welcome the attention it is getting right now, but I also feel compelled to set the record straight. No, the measurement system isn’t fragile, nor is it falling apart. An audience measurement system has three tiers. The lowest, least volatile, is furnished by the Census of India. The 2021 Census will get underway in a few months. Audience measurement, indeed all quantitative market research, is currently using projections from previous Census rounds. The second tier, usually called the establishment study, is a pan-India exercise to map critical characteristics of media consumers. Household structure, languages of media consumption, media devices, consumption patterns, age, gender, and so on, are put under a microscope. Studies of readership, ambient media, even radio, stop at this tier, as it produces detailed estimates of reach, frequency and product linkages, to meet most planning requirements.Television habits are considered more volatile as the medium offers more choice. Thus, the insistence for a third tier to continuously monitor television viewing. This tier uses the third type of research methodology: the continuously monitored panel. Diaries, which were the tracking device until the 1980s were replaced, in the 90s by a TV adjunct device, generically called peoplemeter. Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC)’s nationwide meter panel, gives media professionals a richly-detailed view of “What India Watches”, BARC’s tagline.Managing an audience measurement system is a mammoth enterprise. BARC took the best part of a decade to come together, and its weekly television audience report has an enviable reputation for fidelity and precision. But there will always be those who use unsavoury means to get ahead.What should matter to us is whether systems exist to intercept and checkmate bad actors. There is plenty of good news. Participants in the smaller genres are more likely to attempt malpractices, particularly those dependent entirely on advertising revenues. In many countries, such genres are almost exclusively in “pay TV”, not FTA (Free To Air), tier. A flawed regulatory environment has obliterated the pay opportunity for many small-footprint or niche genres, making them solely advertising revenue dependent. Reach and frequency translates into ad sales, and absent either or both, into decimation. This is unlike consumption of entertainment and sports, genres characterised by near-universal popularity, long and frequent viewing sessions and dual revenue sources — lucrative subscription and bulge-bracket ad sales.Small stations reach a few viewers. Correspondingly, they are seen by only a few people in the peoplemeter panel. If, by fair or foul means, the number of viewers for a particular niche channel were to increase even by modest numbers, the outcomes in reach and frequency would bring a discernible uptick in revenue. This sets up a perverse incentive for malpractice. But while it might be relatively easy to attempt, it is altogether different to get away with it. An example from far outside the communication domain should help elucidate this. A few years ago, LIGO, the Laser Interferometer Gravitational-Wave Observatory at Caltech, announced the first direct detection of gravitational waves. The mathematical methodologies, which enabled this observation, were literally in search for a darning needle in a mega-warehouse of hay, and yet, were able to pinpoint it. The statistical forensics used by BARC are distant cousins to those used by LIGO. Holmes’s trusty magnifying glass now looks like 50 lines of Python code.With BARC pausing channel-level reporting for 12 weeks in the news genre on Thursday, this might be a good time to reassess whether all channels need to be reported at the same, weekly frequency. Systems in other jurisdictions often stipulate a minimum share-of-audience for half-year blocks to stay in the weeklies. Fall below, and their reporting frequency drops to monthly, or even quarterly.But, at the same time, fulminating about ratings is a great example of shooting the messenger. We, the consumers of television in India, have legitimate reasons to be miffed with what is served up to us; whether as entertainment, information or news. However, the answers have more to do with the structure of economic incentives and disincentives, which the legal-regulatory environment has set up, and less with how India measures TV audiences. If your solitary reaction to the brouhaha is to damn the measurement system, you are looking in the wrong place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/blame-the-regulatory-system-not-barc-analysis/story-zdSao1zlRKGR9iCgzgoSrK.html
15-10-2020||News||Leverage Covid-19 to reform justice delivery||The Covid-19 pandemic has brought the justice delivery processes in Indian courts almost to a halt. After being in a limbo, the courts have now responded to the situation by resorting to hearings in urgent cases through video- conferences, and, very rarely, physical proceedings.While litigants are in a quandary over the suspension of court proceedings, lawyers are equally unsettled as their livelihoods are dependent on the regular functioning of the courts. The pandemic has further accentuated the fault lines in our justice system--growing backlogs, extensive delays and lack of consistency in judicial decision-making. While some courts are currently hearing critical matters online, teething troubles in technology and user-interface have emerged as major challenges. There are no clear rules on how online proceedings ought to be conducted. As a result, there is a clamour to resume physical hearings. The pandemic is not going away for a while but justice delivery cannot be put on hold. However, the unprecedented adversity presents us with an opportunity to fundamentally reimagine justice delivery by making it more transparent, time-bound and efficient. Until now, judicial reform has largely been based on incremental improvements to infrastructure and expanding the strength of the judiciary. This approach has not had the desired impact.There is one aspect which might contribute to the overall solution, i.e. how the experience of holding court hearings through video-conferencing could expand into a sustainable mechanism to improve justice delivery and its quality.The only feasible option is to explore the possibility of moving justice delivery to technology platforms. India must invest in building, strengthening and evolving online and technology platforms and re-energise justice delivery. Initially, this would mean moving to complete online filings and holding regular hearings over video-conferencing. In phase one, this could be implemented in all the high courts and the Supreme Court and then in the next phase move this down to the district and lower courts. As things go along, holographic technologies could be adopted.The benefits of such an evolution would be multi-faceted. Some of the noteworthy benefits will include: One, efficient and time-bound hearings; two, a a shift in focus from the personality of lawyers to content; three, clients, judges and lawyers would be spared the travel to the courts/tribunals; four, lawyers, based in different cities, will be able to appear for clients in courts/tribunals across India. This would effect a change in the astronomical legal fees which are often charged; five, the need for physical courts in each district will be reduced. Using the experience of virtual hearings, courts/judicial business process outsourcing (BPO) can be set up across the country, ideally in townships/complexes where judges can live and work. Much like a BPO, such a set-up would be scalable without being expensive. This will lead to efficient use of judicial resources as judicial workload could be shared between judges across states, based on capacity and expertise; five, a time-limit could be enforced for arguments. Six, written submissions that parties file with courts could be replaced with standard online forms. Seven, court proceedings could be live-streamed. There is a great deal that one can learn from listening to eminent counsel arguing cases. There is no reason to deprive a young lawyer or law student of this important avenue of learning. Such transparency will also enhance the value and prestige of our justice system. Eight, in time, courts could shift to using Artificial Intelligence (AI) technology to automate first-level decision-making. The majority of cases that come up before a judge are straightforward and can be resolved using AI-based systems. Such systems, which are being tested with promising outcomes, could dramatically reduce the time taken for arriving at a court decision. This will also help create a level playing field for litigants where the outcome is not necessarily dependent on the quality of the lawyer that one can afford. Anand Prasad and Moksha Bhat are founding partners of AP & Partners, Advocates, a New Delhi-based law firm.The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/leverage-covid-19-to-reform-justice-delivery/story-drQ3isfrST62Bl2oR5SAYO.html
15-10-2020||News||In his 89th year, Abdul Kalam’s legend lives on||Presidents come and go. But the institution persists. However, certain presidents earn an image larger than the institution.If there was a checklist of attributes for what it takes to be a president, APJ Abdul Kalam would not have ticked all the boxes. He was certainly not a traditional president. With his long hair and easy manner, he seemed to feel that he was a one of the masses. He was a man of science, in a country steeped in superstition. In 2012, almost five years after he ceased being President, Reliance along with Outlook, CNN-IBN and The History Channel, conducted a poll to identify the greatest Indian after Gandhi. Kalam ranked first in the market survey result and second in the online polls. Why was he so popular?Was it because he rose to the highest office of the country by sheer dint of hard work? Joining a government department as senior scientific adviser on a monthly salary of Rs 250, he changed the shape of the country’s missile and space programme by the end of a 43-year long career. In his book, Who is Kalam?, R Ramanathan, who worked with him in Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), recounts how Kalam would take late-night meetings and work till the early hours of the morning. He recollects an incident when a major-general sought an appointment and Kalam asked him to come at 10:30 am. When the major general said it would be difficult to reach so early, Kalam said he meant 10:30 pm. Or was it because of his extraordinary vision? From the beginning, Kalam could look over the horizon. He came up with a Vision 2020 development plan in 1998. Even at Rashtrapati Bhavan, he had no time for small talk. When then president of Pakistan, Pervez Musharraf, visited in 2005, instead of raising Kashimir, Kalam engaged him with a presentation on urban facilities in rural areas. Similarly, when George Bush visited Rashtrapati Bhavan in 2006, Kalam asked for an LCD screen and made a presentation on his vision for global energy self-sufficiency. Then again, perhaps the secret of Kalam’s popularity lies in his humaneness. The one label that stuck to him was the “people’s president”. He was a nightmare for his security team, constantly breaking protocol and reaching out to interact with people. It is a tradition for the president to host an Iftar party and Kalam was expected to continue this tradition. However, as his then secretary P M Nair reveals in his book, The Kalam effect, when Kalam came to know that the Iftar would cost Rs 2.5 lakh to host, he cancelled the party and instead contributed the amount saved to 28 different orphanages adding Rs 1 lakh from himself. Or was Kalam popular because of his simplicity? Customarily, when a president visits a state for the first time, he is honoured with a banquet. On such a visit to Kerala, Kalam invited a cobbler who used to mend his shoes and the owner of a hotel where he would eat regularly in his earlier days to a state banquet. His incredible connection with children may also be one reason for his popularity. As he often said, he considered children to be the first scientists since they keep asking the question “why?” with a curious mind. Even as president, he answered their questions with patience hoping to inspire and ignite their young minds. The reason for Kalam’s popularity may also be because of his unique syncretism. A devout Muslim, and follower of Khwaja Moinuddin Chishti, he often quoted verses from the Bhagavad Gita. His favourite character was Vidura from the Mahabharata whom he liked for his simplicity and steadfastness to principles. At the same time, he lived by the ideal of Caliph Omar that all men are equal before the eyes of God. He was comfortable reciting the Koran as well as playing the Rudra veena. In his 89th year, Abdul Kalam’s legend lives on. New stories about him continue to emerge and fresh anecdotes are revealed. At times, the lines between reality and lore; man, and myth begin to blur. The secret to this enduring popularity, I believe lies somewhere else.It is a practise for every president to have an official photograph taken. This is hung in all government offices. Look closely at the official photo of Kalam and you see that he has his coat unbuttoned at his neck and in his pocket, he has a pilot pen. Here was a man who did not care for the appearances and niceties of the world. He was unashamed of his roots and had the courage to live his life uncomplicated by fears of how people would perceive him. He remains popular even now as we see a reflection of who we want to be in him. A man who even after becoming president, still remained the boy who delivered newspapers and dreamed of a better world for everyone.Praveen Siddharth is Private Secretary to the President of India at Rashtrapati BhavanThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/in-his-89th-year-abdul-kalam-s-legend-lives-on/story-BPefMgVNVJizudEnfODHHL.html
15-10-2020||News||Indian-Americans are with Democrats | Analysis||A surprising development in an already unprecedented American election season is the amount of attention being devoted to the Indian-American electorate, which collectively accounts for less than 1% of all registered voters.Yet, thanks to the growing importance of Indian-Americans in closely contested swing states, their emerging status as key campaign contributors, and Democratic candidate Joe Biden’s selection of Kamala Harris as his running mate, both major parties are furiously courting their votes. But significant attention is also being paid to Indian-Americans because a popular narrative is emerging that the supposed camaraderie between United States President Donald Trump and Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi — compounded by concerns over how a Biden administration might manage US-India ties — is pushing Indian-Americans to flee the Democratic Party. The Trump campaign, smelling blood, has issued targeted ads featuring Trump and Modi on the stage at last year’s “Howdy, Modi!” rally in Houston. A cursory scan of recent headlines demonstrates how widely this narrative has taken root. “Democrats Have a Loyal Base in Indian Americans, but Trump Is Fast Pulling Them to His Side,” asserts a piece in The Print. “Kamala, Kashmir and Modi’s Friend All on Ballot in US Election,” reads a BBC headline. An analysis in Quartz boldly proclaims: “The Modi-Trump Friendship Could Change the Way Indian-Americans Vote in November 2020.” While this narrative is seductive, it has one central flaw. There is little empirical evidence to support it. A new study based on a nationally representative survey of nearly 1,000 Indian-American citizens — the Indian American Attitudes Survey (IAAS) — finds that 72% of registered Indian-American voters intend to support Biden in the 2020 presidential election, while just 22% plan to back Trump. This positions Indian-Americans between African-Americans and Hispanics in terms of the intensity of their support for the Democrats. Furthermore, it appears that the speculation about the role US-India ties might play in shaping the Indian-American vote is overblown. Indian-Americans view US-India relations as a low-priority election issue compared to nationally salient “kitchen table” issues such as the economy and health care. While many Indian-Americans report that US-India relations are important to them, foreign policy ultimately gets crowded out by pressing daily concerns — especially in an election year marked by a pandemic, economic crisis, and a national uproar over race and social justice. On issues ranging from immigration to press freedom, the policy preferences of Indian-Americans line up remarkably well with those of the political Left. Indeed, the leading reason Democrats and independents cite for their aversion to the Republican Party is the latter’s intolerance of minorities (followed by their apprehensions regarding the pervasive influence of Christian evangelicalism on the party).The conjecture that the addition of Harris to the Democratic ticket could turn off more Indian-American voters than it attracts — presumably based on her past statements on India’s domestic policies or the perceived prioritising of her Black identity over her Indian heritage — finds little support. Forty-five per cent of respondents indicated that the Harris pick made them more likely to vote in November, compared to 10% who said it made them less likely (40% said her nomination made no difference). This enthusiasm has largely worked in favour of the Democratic ticket: 49% of respondents stated that Harris makes them more excited about Biden’s candidacy, compared to 15% who felt less enthusiastic. Why so? A plurality of respondents enthused by her historic nomination cite the fact of her Indian heritage. Many in India seem convinced that an inexorable migration of Indian-Americans toward the Republican Party is taking place. The reality is starkly different. Not only is this migration not transpiring but, given the growing number of second-generation Indian-Americans who are even more pro-Democratic Party than their parents (see figure), the median Indian-American voter will likely become even more aligned with the Democrats. Ironically, if Trump gets re-elected and issues additional curbs on legal immigration, this trend will only intensify since US-born Indian-Americans tend to be more liberal than their naturalised counterparts.Consequently, it would be perilous for the Indian political establishment to ignore the reality of the Indian diaspora’s political orientation toward the Democratic Party. While Indian-American voters believe that a Biden presidency would be good for US-India relations, the degree to which a Biden administration will revisit US policies on India will depend on the extent to which progressive groups manage to secure a seat in his administration.In the past year, Indian officials and members of the ruling party have routinely rejected the concerns myriad Democratic leaders have expressed over India’s current trajectory, especially with regard to democratic freedoms and civil liberties. Notwithstanding the powerful forces operating in favour of a deepening partnership — driven substantially by the spectre of an aggressive, expansionist China — with India facing intensifying health, economic, and security challenges, New Delhi would be tempting fate if it were to be dismissive of these concerns.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/indian-americans-are-with-democrats/story-l9KWSRPRud2gu7t7znFvOP.html
15-10-2020||News||Decoding the roots of the JD(U)-LJP battle in Bihar’s political theatre | Analysis||Of the last Mohicans of the social justice movement, three are now alive with the passing of Ram Vilas Paswan. In the Bihar elections, only Nitish Kumar will be an active campaigner. Lalu Prasad is incarcerated; and Sharad Yadav is under treatment in a Delhi hospital. Until the state’s competitive caste politics did them apart, they were the undivided Janata Dal’s shining stars. Youthful and raring to go, three of them entered Parliament in the 1970s on the Janata Party ticket. Sharad Yadav won from Jabalpur in 1974, and was re-elected in 1977, when the Lalu-Paswan duo, too, made their maiden entry to the Lok Sabha.This piece of history is essential to understand the late Paswan’s feeble personal chemistry with Kumar. While Paswan first entered the assembly in 1969, Kumar, who lost the 1977 and 1980 elections, became a legislator only in the mid-1980s. Paswan’s claim to prominence over Kumar rested on his early electoral successes. His self-image was reinforced by his hold on the Paswan community, accounting for nearly 6% of the state electorate.In the 2000 polls, Paswan was the NDA’s chief ministerial face. But the then Prime Minister AB Vajpayee had Kumar installed as chief minister (CM) to marshal numbers in the hung assembly. The effort backfired. Kumar’s term lasted seven days, Lalu Prasad’s Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) retained power, and Paswan formed his Lok Janashakti Party (LJP). In fact, Nitish Kumar’s elevation as CM after the repeat 2005 elections rankled Paswan, who had also seen the railways portfolio he coveted going to Kumar under Vajpayee in the Union Cabinet.Paswan was also less deferential to Nitish Kumar because of the latter’s relatively smaller Kurmi social base, than he was to Lalu Prasad, whose Muslim-Yadav constituency was formidable. The social engineering that became Kumar’s USP was as much a cutting-down-to-size of Paswan as of Lalu Prasad. Within Dalits, Paswans are relatively dominant, just as Yadavs are among the Other Backward Classes (OBCs). Nitish Kumar created class divides in the omnibus social justice landscape. The constituencies he carved of Pasmanda Muslims, Mahadalits and Aati-Pichadas earned him political heft at the expense of the LJP and RJD. The objective was identical when he made space for Jitan Ram Manjhi, a Mahadalit, as CM when he briefly demitted office in 2014.Chirag Paswan’s so-called “ideological differences” with Nitish Kumar is facetious reasoning for putting up candidates against the JD(U). There was a time when Chirag’s father would tell anyone who cared to hear that he quit the Vajpayee regime in protest against the 2002 Gujarat riots. That also was the phase when he mocked the BJP’s cow-protection plank in the Lok Sabha: “You call gai your mata but you have us (Dalits) carry her carcass”. Having been a minister in successive coalitions since 1989, bar the Chandrashekhar regime, Paswan abandoned demagogic secularism at the first opportunity to join Narendra Modi. Nitish Kumar was no different when he dumped the RJD to ally with the BJP in 2017. Yet, when it came to choosing between adversaries, Lalu Prasad’s son, Tejashwi Yadav, recently suggested that he preferred Paswan’s plain-speak to the inscrutable Kumar. To that extent, he should trust Chirag’s challenge to the CM who’s facing anti-incumbency. But that’ll be an oversimplification. Making matters tricky is the suspicion of the BJP having encouraged the LJP.It is noteworthy that the LJP’s best ever tally of 29 was in the February 2005 polls. It was a high accompanied by a low, with Paswan deploying an Osama Bin Laden look-alike in the campaign to woo Muslims. His quid pro quo for support to the RJD-Congress in the hung assembly entailed making a Muslim the CM. Neither party rose to the bait. The result: Nitish Kumar romped home in the repeat election. With just two seats now in the outgoing assembly, the basis of the LJP gambit is that it has little to lose and everything to gain. In contrast, Nitish Kumar’s stakes are higher. A dip in his tally will reduce him as CM. Officious to a fault, that’s one role he will find hard to play.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/decoding-the-roots-of-the-jd-u-ljp-battle-in-bihar-s-political-theatre/story-HRsE15xFm6hlXLhuekthgK.html
15-10-2020||News||Analysis| Will the migrant crisis impact the Bihar polls?||While the arithmetic in the Bihar assembly elections seems tilted in favour of the Nitish Kumar-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA), there is unease about the final verdict among key political players. This anxiety is not driven as much by the fragmentation of the political space, but by uncertainty about how voters will react to Covid-related difficulties, and how will this shape their behaviour, both in terms of turnout rates among different communities and their voting choices.There seems to be a consensus that Nitish Kumar’s governance record in this term did not match up to his past record. This was compounded by the failure of his administration to provide adequate relief to the migrants who came back home after the unprecedented lockdown that started in March. Reports from the ground highlighted the hurt and rejection felt by them; and the fact that Bihar has the highest net migration rate in the country makes this salient.While Nitish Kumar is leaving no chance to remind everyone that his government has made several efforts to compensate the migrant workers, the opposition has alleged that it was too little, too late. Ironically, the opposition’s effort in turning these grievances into campaign platforms has also remained feeble at best. Does the political class not fear any electoral fallout over the issue? The possibility of the migrant crisis having electoral consequences hinges on three inter-related factors. First, while India has the world’s largest migrant population, work-related migration is relatively small. The Census figures are not reliable in accurately capturing the size of seasonal and temporary migrants (who form the bulk of work-related migration), though estimates suggest that the share of migrants within the eligible voting population is relatively low. Thus, as a voting bloc, the migrant population does not have much bargaining power. Field studies have shown that long-term migrants are more likely to be from the upper segments of society while short-term migrants are from the bottom rungs. These two sub-classes among the migrants have vastly different engagements in the electoral arena. The lockdown has been hard mostly on the short-term or seasonal migrants and it is this segment which is likely to have more grievances against the political class for abandoning them. However, given their size and scattered nature, even if migrants collectively organise on the issues concerning them, they are unlikely to have a significant electoral impact.This is related to a second factor. It is not easy for temporary migrants to enrol as voters at destination districts (where they work) as they often return home or migrate to a new location, either in the same city or another city. This electoral disenfranchisement of migrants has resulted in local politicians in the cities not taking enough interest in their problems. These politicians face almost zero electoral cost for ignoring the concerns of the migrants.Though there is enough evidence to suggest that electoral participation of these temporary migrants is higher in panchayat elections at home, it is expensive for them to travel home to vote during assembly and parliamentary elections. For example, during our research in the district administration in Banda, Uttar Pradesh, during the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, we found that more than one in every five registered voters in many polling stations was a migrant. Our analysis suggests that turnout in polling stations with high migration (25% and above) was three percentage points lower. They, however, participate more enthusiastically in the panchayat elections as this has a direct impact on their family’s well-being for a number of reasons, including access to welfare benefits.Third, can migrants make themselves count politically despite this electoral exclusion? Existing research has shown that the political socialisation of migrants differs among members of their family, and in many cases, as the sole-earning members, their guidance is sought even in matters related to voting. Therefore, they seem to have some influence in voting decisions, and their motivations may well be different from that of the local population. For example, survey data from Lokniti-CSDS suggests that households with at least one member living outside the state are more likely to consider the performance of the central government over the state government even during assembly elections. They are also more likely to own a mobile handset, a television, and have higher media exposure. Thus, if the families of migrants turn out in this assembly election with the grievances they suffered during the pandemic and in its aftermath, they could change electoral equations in a substantial number of constituencies with high out-migration.Our knowledge about how the migrant population in India engages with electoral democracy is limited. The scale of their electoral exclusion is staggering, yet no systematic effort has been made to enfranchise these invisible citizens. We must reduce the information gap on migration corridors by making district-to-district mobility data publicly available (not released since 2001) to get a better grip on the changing nature of democratic politics in an increasingly urbanising India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/will-the-migrant-crisis-impact-the-bihar-polls/story-xwLFXj5vPdcVUA0QZz4ZaK.html
