16-10-2020||News||To battle pollution, involve the private sector | Opinion||The approaching winter marks the annual return of staggeringly high levels of air pollution in north India and intensifies the unending search for a permanent solution to the problem. Nasa satellite images have begun spotting farm fires in Punjab, and growing plumes of smoke over adjoining cities. As the post-Covid-19 economic recovery gathers momentum and sectors such as transport, construction and energy witness a rapid increase in activity, pollution levels in the region are likely to see a significant spike. According to IQAir’s 2019 world air quality report, India is now host to 21 of the 30 most polluted cities of the world.It is, therefore, urgent for the government to devise a robust multi-pronged strategy that can aggressively target emission reduction from key polluting sectors such as agriculture, industry, thermal power plants and transportation, while significantly reducing India’s dependence on fossil fuels. Such a strategy must harness the role of key stakeholders in addressing air pollution. The private sector, through its technical expertise, sector-specific knowledge and ability to design unique, cutting-edge innovations, can devise effective long-term solutions to two of the major challenges government is faced with — lack of technological solutions and large-scale monitoring. One of the key challenges facing the respective state governments across north India is disposing agricultural waste. In 2019, Punjab and Haryana burnt 9Mt and 1.23Mt of 20Mt and 9Mt of crop stubble produced respectively. As per the Delhi government data, this stubble burning accounted for 44% of the city’s air pollution. In the absence of a permanent alternative, stubble-burning will be difficult to contain, adding to the complexity of combating air pollution in the region even further. Businesses can complement the government’s efforts by developing promising market-based solutions to address this crisis. For instance, Mahindra group partnered with Indraprastha Gas Limited (IGL) in 2018 to convert crop stubble into biofuel which could be used to run generators to light up villages. Scaling up such impact ventures would lead to policy measures assuring farmers minimum support price and long-term buy-back guarantees for crop stubbles. Moreover, by engaging rural communities in the infrastructure value chain such as collection, storage and transportation of crop residue, enterprises will not only generate large-scale employment opportunities, but ensure a “sustainable” revenue model for farmers. Besides the short-term cause, a major issue impacting India’s air quality is its economic dependence on fossil fuels. Despite the government’s ambitious plan to increase renewable energy generation, 72% of India’s electricity is generated from coal, the most polluting fossil fuel. The industry demand for energy — due to growth of coal-consuming industrial sectors like steel and cement — is projected to double by 2030. Private sector innovations such as cleaner gas-based energy solutions can contribute significantly to reduce the industry’s dependence on fossil fuels. Companies such as ExxonMobil have designed energy-efficient industrial lubricants to increase industrial competitiveness, energy efficiency and environmental viability. While improving energy reliability and air quality, private sector can also play a critical role in empowering the government’s Make in India mandate.However, an effective implementation of technology solutions would depend on the monitoring of emission intensity, its source and air quality (AQ) to assess the exact scale of interventions required. With only one monitoring station for every seven million people, India has substantial ground to cover for AQ monitoring. According to a projection by a team of scientists from Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Delhi, IIT Kanpur, Indian pollution research group UrbanEmissions.info, and Canadian academicians, India will need at least 1,600 more monitoring stations to meet its AQ monitoring requirement. The private sector can help meet this gap by facilitating big data analytics, designing accurate granular models as well as low-cost sensor technologies to measure air quality. The air quality sensor called “Zephyr”, developed by the mobility management company Siemens Mobility and the air quality experts at EarthSense can produce real-time measurements for various pollutants, allowing local authorities to make meaningful and timely interventions based on reliable pollution data and prevailing air quality levels. The private sector can also finance academic partnerships and trans-disciplinary research that will gain deeper scientific understanding of the sources of air pollution, provide a strong foundation for evidence-based action and drive technological breakthroughs for achieving deep cuts in pollution.Finally, as businesses themselves are the largest contributor to the air pollution crisis, they must assume a larger share of responsibility. The private sector must align its own practices and supply chains with the clean air agenda. By setting standards that monitor and regulate pollution at every stage of production, businesses can effectively reduce the environmental footprint of their operations as well as those of their suppliers. Investments made through Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) can be effectively utilised to address the interrelated challenges of air pollution and the climate crisis.In India’s battle for clean air, the role of private sector in forging effective and lasting solutions to improve air quality across the country has never been more critical.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/to-battle-pollution-involve-the-private-sector-opinion/story-Lwmaqz5s7hwUfJLiK74vvI.html
16-10-2020||News||Understanding the rationale of Delhi’s tree transplantation policy | Analysis||The Delhi government recently announced a new tree transplantation policy, a first-of-its-kind in the country. The announcement of this policy has led to apprehensions among green activists. I can empathise because activism is often black and white, there is no scope of grey. Cutting down old trees is wrong. Period. In an ideal world, this is how it should be. We should not be cutting down old trees anywhere and especially in smog-laden cities such as Delhi. But another truth that we cannot escape is that Delhi is also one of the fastest growing cities in the world. It is a city where people come to fulfil their dreams, to study, to work. Delhi needs more housing, schools, and hospitals. What is required is an inclusive planning process, which is currently missing; and, therefore, what needs questioning is not the transplantation policy but the urban planning process in National Capital Regional (NCR). Unless we make the planning process more holistic, we will be fighting to save a few trees and keep losing the bigger environmental battle. Without going into the details of how the central government is trying to dilute the Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) process, the current EIA framework has been a sham and highly prone to corruption. The biggest flaw is that the project proponent is responsible for carrying out an EIA. In most cases, they look for “agencies” who can help them “fix” the process and obtain the necessary clearances.We hardly ever see a scientific cost-benefit analysis of any proposed projects, an analysis that considers the various economic, ecological, and social costs of implementing a project. In most cases, the economic advantages are inflated, while ecological costs are not accounted for. Take the recent case of the Char Dham project, which did not consider any of the environmental costs associated with the project, even though it was being implemented in an eco-sensitive zone. The Supreme Court’s recent intervention on the project is clear proof of how the Centre is brazenly ignoring environmental norms. Delhi has many agencies, and hence, a lot of decisions are not under the purview of Delhi government. For example, the upcoming Central Vista Project has been granted clearance by the MOEF. There have been varying reports of how many trees would be felled for this project. Why is there so much secrecy around the project? Don’t we, the citizens of Delhi, have a right to know the details of such a massive project that will forever change access to the public spaces in central Delhi? Whether the project should be approved or not is part of the EIA process. Once a project has been approved, the fate of impacted trees has been sealed. It is now that the transplantation policy kicks in. The transplantation policy clearly states that all possibilities should be explored to avoid the felling of the trees. It also states that transplantation would be done over and above the existing norm of compensatory afforestation. The only difference being mandated by the policy is transplantation instead of felling. While we recognise that transplantation is an emerging science, we hope that a stringent policy which mandates 80% survival would also be a catalyst in development of this expertise in the country.By mandating that at least 80% of the tress be transplanted by a pool of empaneled agency, the policy is actually raising the economic cost of carrying out ecologically ill-conceived projects. This added cost should encourage developers to consider alternatives where minimum trees would be felled. In addition to this, there is provision to involve local community to carry regular social audits of transplanted trees. Let us create platforms where the state, Centre, civil society groups all come together and make Delhi a green and inclusive city, and, at the same time, not miss the wood for the trees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/understanding-the-rationale-of-delhi-s-tree-transplantation-policy/story-XHmgBLfq5MuGsx0HkCuwSM.html
