20-10-2020||News||How to bridge the gap between student enrolment, attendance||Boot Polish is, perhaps, independent India’s first movie centered on the issue of the lives and tragedies of children pushed into children labour as a consequence of their mother’s death. In a poignant scene from the movie, John Chacha says to Belu and Bhola, the two children labourers, “Someday, this night will end. It will definitely end. My heart says that there will be a morning.” Nearly seven decades later, many Belus and Bholas still await that morning. After 20 years, child labour appears to be growing substantially in India again. Apart from the loss caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, India is at the cusp of another catastrophic loss — that of the many successes towards curbing child labour. It is against this backdrop that the Government of Delhi appointed me chairperson of the Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR), an independent statutory institution tasked with protecting child rights in the Capital. Based on the consultations of the past three months with several stakeholders, I believe we have identified the most important yet under-appreciated and under-utilised leverages to eliminate child labour. Students’ attendance data can be the strongest predictor of children’s adversity. I analysed Delhi’s government school students in the 2019-20 academic year and found that nearly 35% students were absent, on an average, daily. This translates into over half a million students missing school on any given day. There could be several reasons why children are absent from schools for even longer periods. Their families may have migrated back to their villages, temporarily or permanently. However, this alone does not explain such large, glaring gaps in attendance. We find that children are often absent from schools because they’re going through some sort of personal adversity. It may be serious health conditions such as a disability, bullying at school, the death of a loved one, being pushed into labour or early marriage among other reasons. The absence of students indicates that they are going through severe adversity, and some of our early analysis bears this out. Identifying at-risk children assumes more importance given the fact that 97% are currently enrolled in schools. Unfortunately, the focus on attendance has not got the attention it should in our governance discourse. The Unified District Information System for Education (U-DISE) data collection framework, the largest annual database of our schools, does not even gather information on students’ attendance.Therefore, DCPCR has started building an early warning system that will trigger a series of actions and interventions based on attendance. If a student is absent for more than seven days at a time, or more than 50% in any month, the warning system will generate Short Messaging Service/Interactive Voice Response (SMS/IVR) calls to the student or her parents as the first step, and then schedule home visits. The dashboard will help the district and state officials reorganise their priorities and work to improve students’ attendance. The Delhi government has brought in a series of pivotal educational reforms which have produced outstanding results. Independent surveys have established that most Delhi parents feel more satisfied than ever in sending their children to government schools. More than 500 government school students cleared the IIT-JEE this year, and the schools also recorded the best-ever class XII board results. These reforms are being internationally appreciated. Schools are better prepared than ever to impart education and shape children to become smart citizens of a modern world. The key here is making sure that all children attend schools regularly. The story of Belu and Bhola in Boot Polish is from a time when the primary and secondary Gross Enrolment Ratio was at 42% and 13% respectively. Today it has reached 99% and 93% respectively. The attendance data can alert us if Belu and Bhola are not in school or are experiencing adversity. This would ensure that Belu and Bhola do not ever have to polish boots again. Anurag Kundu is chairperson, Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights, Government of Delhi The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/how-to-bridge-the-gap-between-student-enrolment-attendance/story-tgKhr4sGcIeiLPVk0mOhWM.html
20-10-2020||News||From 1962 to 2020, India’s China error | Analysis||October 20, 1962, is embedded in collective Indian memory as a day of national humiliation when Beijing “surprised” Delhi and Chinese troops launched what the then defence minister, VK Krishna Menon, described as “an aggressive war” over disputed territory in the Ladakh region and NEFA areas (now Arunachal Pradesh). At one point in the month-long war, it seemed as if Assam was being abandoned by a bewildered, panic-stricken Delhi and many inadequacies in India’s higher defence management and military preparedness were laid bare.Fifty-eight years later, there is a correspondence of events, wherein India and China are currently engaged in a tense military stand-off along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the Ladakh region and a large number of troops have been amassed by both nations. While 2020 is not 1962 and history may not quite repeat itself, some rhythms merit scrutiny for the strategically policy-relevant lessons of that war which Delhi has not learnt.The current ground situation in Ladakh is brittle, but there is guarded optimism that quiet diplomacy is underway and that a modus vivendi may still be arrived at, especially with India having gained a tactical advantage on the southern banks of Pangong Tso. However, in whichever manner this military build-up is resolved, there is an irreversible change in the nature of the India-China bilateral relationship after the Indian Army lost precious lives in a violent attack by the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) troops in the Galwan Valley. In a recent conversation, external affairs minister, S Jaishankar, described the bilateral relationship as one that is now “profoundly disturbed”.Could this exigency have been avoided or better managed? An objective review of the last 58 years would suggest that while Delhi was jolted out of the Jawaharlal Nehru-Krishna Menon make-believe framework that led to October 1962, the immediate response was tactical. The scapegoated army was re-organised at the senior level, and Prime Minister (PM) Nehru personally took over the defence portfolio for a brief period. But alas, the inadequacies in the higher defence management of the country were swept under the political carpet.This inability or reluctance to comprehend the fine print of strategic geography, the lessons of history, the abiding relevance of credible military capability and the correlation of these strands to national security have led to a series of “surprises” that peak with an all too familiar post-crisis Delhi fumble. This was evident in October 1962 (Nehru), Kargil 1999 (AB Vajpayee), Mumbai 2008 (Manmohan Singh) and now Galwan 2020 (Narendra Modi).In relation to China, a fundamental policy flaw over the last six decades-plus has been the make-believe frame of reference that the Indian political apex has chosen to inhabit. In 1962, the Nehru-Menon perception of the China issue was the assiduous creation of a simulacrum — where the imagined reality becomes “the reality” for its adherents. Nehru’s conviction about post-colonial Asian solidarity and Menon’s theological faith in the virtues of communism created a virtual “China issue” for a fledgling India. The received wisdom was that China, with Mao at the helm, could be managed by high politics and eloquent diplomacy at the United Nations.The hard and unpalatable reality of the rubber hitting the road was visible in the ill-equipped, poorly-clad Indian soldier having to defend national sovereignty to the last man — as the Battle of Rezang La demonstrated. A huge political blunder and a grossly inadequate higher defence management were at the heart of the debacle, but it is moot if the right strategic lessons have been learnt by Raisina Hill.After the historic Rajiv Gandhi visit to China in 1988, the post-Cold War period saw India and China engaging more robustly at the bilateral level and the PV Narasimha Rao to Manmohan Singh trajectory (1991-2014) was one of stabilising the relationship and enhancing the trade-economic engagement. The Prime Minister's Office (PMO) and the foreign office were the lead players in shaping and implementing India’s China policy — from agreements about the LAC to the Dalai Lama, Taiwan and more. An element of wishful thinking permeated this China policy, which believed that a visible demonstration of Indian good faith to the one-China policy and respect for China’s core sensitivities would allow the LAC to recede into the background. As part of this “appeasement”, Delhi lived with the anomaly of Beijing supporting Pakistan in relation to terrorism and undermining India in international fora.On the Modi watch, the China issue morphed into a problem over the Chumar intrusion (September 2014) and festered through the Depsang-Doklam-Galwan continuum. In retrospect, it is not evident that Nehru’s policy errors were rigorously internalised by the current dispensation. Hence, comprehensive national security capability in relation to China was a low priority and the political oxygen was focused on Pakistan with its domestic electoral subtext. The mistaken assumption (the new simulacrum?) appears to have been that high-level summit meetings and frequent bilateral meetings between PM Modi and President Xi Jinping would help resolve the very complex territorial dispute summarised as the three-letter LAC.The reality of China’s intent in relation to India has tested the perspicacity of India’s higher defence gene-pool to make an objective and effective assessment of the Xi gameplan and arrive at policy options that are viable and sustainable in the long-run.A post Covid-19 world is struggling to emerge and it may be prudent for the Modi government to do a Vajpayee a la Kargil and go back to the drawing board. The central objective would be to objectively comprehend the nature of the China challenge for India from October 1962 to 2020, beyond just the LAC impasse.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/from-1962-to-2020-india-s-china-error-analysis/story-2x1ACo1KvSJUSEz6zjTC7H.html
