21-10-2020||News||Agri reforms: The disjunct between the right ends, wrong means||The protests by the Opposition over the farm bills, and Punjab’s decision to bring in a new legislative framework, brought to mind an apocryphal story. A politician was ship-wrecked, and found himself on an island. One day, he spotted a passing ship and waved. When he met the captain, he asked, “Are you the government? If so, I am in the Opposition!” That would seem to be the parties in the Opposition today. The farm bills are a fait accompli. It is clear that all those concerned must meet farmers’ representatives and agricultural experts to examine how they can be carried forward. There are many progressive steps in the farm bills that will benefit small farmers, who comprise 85% of the farming community. One bill helps farmers evade the clutches of the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) mandis and from the cartel of brokers and traders who are often in league with government inspectors. The other pertains to essential commodities and does away with many of the restrictions on crops that were there earlier. The third bill is aimed at contract farming directly with farmers and encourages start-ups that will help innovate and create new markets. This will attract massive investments by corporates in procurement and processing, cold storages and supply chain from end-to-end. These bills will result in better prices for farmers by reducing the wastage of perishables and by increasing consumption and competition among buyers. They are not aimed at dismantling APMCs or eroding the Minimum Support Price (MSP). These reforms will impact farming practices, livelihoods of farmers and labourers, supply chain linkages from farm to retail shelves and agri-start ups to giant corporates, and the millions of small-time traditional buyers, wholesalers and agents. Only a limited number of crops that come under APMC. There are other crops, fruits and vegetables, flowers and livestock and dairy products, which are not eligible for MSP. These bills have several benefits, but also a few loopholes. Government monopolies, such as APMCs, are moribund and prone to corruption, and can be inefficient and indifferent to customers. But private sector monopolies, while being efficient, can also be rapacious. Many fears of farmers may be unfounded, but there are also legitimate concerns about corporations, which the government must address. Cooperative federalism was a dictum that the prime minister promoted in his time as the chief minister of Gujarat. It is now clear that he must implement the Swaminathan Report: National Commission on Farmers on agriculture which he had promised to do within a year of coming to power. Writer Aldous Huxley talks of what happens when people act out of hubris. Here is a story: Some scientists alarmed at the poaching of rhinos in Africa for their horns — considered aphrodisiacs that fetch a huge price in the smugglers’ market — advised a solution. They recommended that the horns of all the rhinos be sawed off under anaesthesia to prevent them from being killed by poachers. It was a simple silver bullet. They later discovered, to their surprise, that the rhino population dwindled for many reasons. One of them being the female rhinos did not mate with males without horns.Often, our noble intentions have unintended adverse consequences which we cannot foresee when we do not discuss, debate and deliberate on issues before we enact laws. What Ralph Waldo Emerson said, 150 years ago, still holds true: “The first farmer was the first man. All trade rests at last on his primitive activity... This hard work will always be done by one kind of man — the farmer; not by speculators nor by soldiers, nor professors or readers of Tennyson; but men of endurance.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/agri-reforms-the-disjunct-between-the-right-ends-wrong-means/story-xa83dJB0b0qzaDajeVbs0L.html
21-10-2020||News||In Indian cities, the quest for dignity||Cities in India are characterised by institutionalised inequalities. Planners, administrators and mayors prioritise policies and resources in favour of the influential middle-class, with little thought spared for those less fortunate, despite their making up a substantial portion of any city. Geeta Devi used to live and work as construction worker at Yamuna Pushta in Delhi. In the run-up to the Commonwealth Games, she and another 30,000 other households were moved to Savda Ghebra area on the outskirts. “It was like coming to a wild jungle, with nothing around, no water, no toilets, no electricity and we had no house. We had to build our own kutcha house, every second day a water tank would come and we spent hours carrying buckets of water. We used the jungle for defecation. My children were often ill and I had to stop working, so we had very little money. We were in despair,” she said. She was poor — and expendable.Babuben Patni, a vegetable vendor, after marriage, came to live in Ahmedabad City. She found that her area — Sinheswari Nagar — had only one public tap, no toilets. It had garbage piled up at the entrance of the area and was water-logged every monsoon. Apart from the residents contracting water-borne diseases, women such as Babuben faced the humiliation of having to defecate on the railway tracks nearby. Geeta Devis and Babubens abound in every city, always characterised by the contrast between areas dominated by multistoried buildings, parks, shopping centres, malls and gyms on the one hand and ramshackle, tightly-packed dwellings without infrastructure on the other. In India, between 25% to 40% of city-dwellers are estimated to live in what are euphemistically called informal settlements. However, a slum need not remain a slum forever. And, that is the story we tell in our book, The City-Makers. Today, 20 years later, Babuben is the proud owner of a two-storey pucca house with her own bathroom and toilet. Sinheswari Nagar has drainage, and sewage and garbage is collected every day.How did the change come about? Not overnight.We detail a long-drawn-out process, involving a chain of actors, from individual households to a non-governmental organisation — Mahila Housing Trust — to officials and elected representatives of the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation, among others. My colleagues and I in the Mahila Housing Trust have worked for over 25 years to help convert slums into more liveable colonies. The real spark for change starts with the women in slum households who have to queue up to get water; who suffer humiliation when they have to defecate in the open or in badly-maintained public toilets; who have to look after those who get sick from the open festering drains. They are the most keenest on change. The first step for change is for the households in a slum to agree that they will work together. Women must take the lead and form a Community Action Group (CAG), which then becomes the spearhead for action, beginning with finding allies such as a sympathetic elected official or the local administrator. This often requires a financial commitment from the slum-dwellers and it is the task of CAG to collect the money and maintain accounts. Trust is important because these slum dwellers, most of whom are poor and working in the informal sector, have been cheated so often in the past. Many cities still subscribe to an unhelpful policy which enjoins that the people living in “unauthorised” colonies are not eligible to get water and sanitation from the city, although they are “authorised” citizens, holding ration cards, working in the city and contributing to its economy.Fortunately, the compulsions of electoral democracy assert themselves. Those in “unauthorised” colonies also happen to have votes; fortunately, programmes such as the Swachh Bharat Mission are kicking in. Consequently, the “unauthorised” restrictions are being relaxed — and where that happens, the slum slowly begins to transform.Fourteen years later, Geeta Devi, says her “jungle” in Savda Ghebra has become a busy colony. This happened gradually as she and her neighbours formed a CAG, approached their MLA, the Delhi Jal Board and the municipal corporation. She took a loan and installed her own underground water pump and made her own soak pit. At first, her CAG was ignored by the authorities but as they persisted they began getting responses. Today, not only is she recognised by the authorities but was recently invited to be part of consultations for the Delhi Master Plan 2030. The efforts of thousands of women like Geeta Devi and Babuben are paying massive civic dividends. Many planners no longer think of the poor as interlopers; instead, they are seen as useful citizens who need to be integrated into the physical life of the city if we are to have a sustainable future.Renana Jhabvala is executive trustee, Mahila Housing SEWA Trust and co-author of The City-Makers The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/in-indian-cities-the-quest-for-dignity/story-lkUknCSY3LLTvOl33K7LaK.html
21-10-2020||News||The real anchor of the Indo-Pacific plan||The challenge for the Indo-Pacific is getting more acute by the day. For all the efforts that China has made to ensure that the term Indo-Pacific gets a decent burial, it has failed miserably in ensuring such an outcome. From Australia, Japan, and India to the European Union (EU) and the Association of South East Asian Nations (Asean) member-states, the Indo-Pacific narrative is today widely accepted and reflected in foreign policy outlooks. The idea is a structural imperative now for all regional stakeholders and this has been made possible due to China’s behaviour. The only thing left now for Beijing is to mobilise regional states through fear-mongering, something it is adept at.This was what China’s foreign minister, Wang Yi, tried to do during his trip last week to Cambodia, Malaysia, Laos, Thailand, and Singapore. Calling on Asian countries to remain vigilant over the United States (US)’ plans in the region, Wang described Washington’s Indo-Pacific strategy as a “security risk” for East Asia. Without any hint of irony, he argued that “what it (the US) pursues is to trumpet the old-fashioned Cold War mentality and start up confrontation among different groups and blocks, and stoke geopolitical competition”. For Southeast Asian nations, his message was that Beijing and Asean should work together to remove “external disruption” in the South China Sea.Amid deteriorating Sino-US ties and Washington’s resolve to emerge as a credible partner in the region, Wang Yi was underscoring the choices facing the region. This was happening even as US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo’s visit to Tokyo for a meeting of the Quad had already raised the stakes for geopolitical competition in the region. The very resurrection of this Quad grouping in 2017, involving the US, Japan, Australia and India is a function of China’s growing assertiveness and a deepening suspicion of Beijing’s intentions about its power. As regional stakeholders search for a new, more stable balance of power in the region, they are working with each other in ways that could not have been visualised even a few years ago. The new geometries dotting the regional landscape of the Indo-Pacific underscore this newfound conviction among the regional actors that old structures are just not effective enough anymore. If the Quad meeting saw calls for deeper cooperation among major regional players, the various bilaterals and trilaterals embedded within it have been stronger in articulating the need for greater coordination among the stakeholders. There is a growing regional consensus that despite China’s attempts to discredit the idea, a free and open Indo-Pacific remains the only viable basis for engendering regional peace and stability. For the US, Pompeo’s visit during a high-stakes electoral contest in the US is an important signal to the region that the Indo-Pacific is now the central theatre in its geopolitical contestation with China. It also suggests that Washington will fight hard to retain its credibility. It was for this reason that Pompeo was categorical in underlining that “it is more critical now than ever that we collaborate to protect our people and partners from the CCP’s exploitation, corruption and coercion”. The other regional powers might be more restrained in their remarks but their emphasis was clear — with Japan talking of advancing practical talks on issues such as infrastructure and cyber-security, Australia talking of human rights and India underscoring the need to respect territorial sovereignty. Bilateral ties are gathering pace with India-Japan, Australia-Japan and India-Australia reassessing the need for building cooperation on issues including maritime security, emerging strategic technologies, infrastructure and counterterrorism. The Malabar exercises and Australia’s participation must be seen within this context. While it might be premature to talk of a “Quad plus” at this stage, major powers, at an individual level, and, in coordination with other like-minded countries, are serious about building coalitions. Japan will be signing an agreement with Vietnam to allow it to export defence equipment and technology to the country during Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga’s visit to Vietnam this week. Japan will be seeking to strengthen security ties with Indonesia too. But it is India that is the critical anchor in making the idea of Indo-Pacific a viable strategic geography. While Japan may have given the idea its original push, Australia may have given it intellectual ballast and Washington may have led the way in its operationalisation, it is New Delhi’s proactive foreign policy outlook that made it possible for others to buy into the concept and incorporate it in their security outlooks. No other country has done more than India in making the regional stakeholders believe that there is an alternative to just acquiescing to a China-led Asian order. Whether it was publicly challenging President Xi Jinping’s vanity project, the Belt and Road Initiative, or standing up to China militarily at Doklam despite being the weaker State, whether it was giving a push to the idea of issue-based coalitions in the maritime sphere or rejecting the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership pact, much before other nations were talking about economic decoupling from China — New Delhi made it possible to envision an Indo-Pacific order which is not dominated by China. As China galvanises its diplomacy to manage the negative externalities emerging out of this Indo-Pacific vision, which, despite Beijing’s best efforts, is going from strength to strength, the challenge for India is to sustain the momentum of showcasing the Indo-Pacific vision and its operational realities. Harsh V Pant is professor, King’s College, London, and director of studies, Observer Research Foundation, New Delhi The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/the-real-anchor-of-the-indo-pacific-plan/story-NozmhGHBi6Zo4jIuICQFIL.html
