23-10-2020||News||Beijing aims to humiliate New Delhi. Counter it||China’s aggressions on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh remind me of China’s way of dealing with India in the 1950s and 1960s. Behind the India-China bonhomie of those days, China quietly took possession of a large area in north-eastern Ladakh, and built a road across it to connect its two recently conquered alien territories, Xinjiang and Tibet. The area is an integral part of the territories of the Indian state of Jammu & Kashmir. Never before had China ruled that region; so it published new maps to justify its occupation of Aksai Chin. It was the first stab in its friend Jawaharlal Nehru’s back. In 1960, when the two countries were still talking peace Chairman Mao Zedong ordered his army to prepare for a major invasion of India. Which, in October 1962, again, caught India unprepared. India’s economic progress was interrupted and Nehru’s prestige hurt in India and in the world.Following that unexpected attack, the India-China relationship lay in tatters for several decades. A whiff of warmth entered their contacts in the 1980s, and, in 1993, the two countries signed an agreement on the Maintenance of Peace and Tranquillity on LAC. In 1996, another agreement laid down a number of confidence-building measures to be followed by Chinese and Indian forces to “maintain restraint, avoid opening fire, strengthen exchanges and cooperation to prevent any escalations of tensions”. While there were sporadic intrusions, including at Depsang, a serious incident occurred at LAC when Narendra Modi took over as prime minister (PM), with an attack at Chumar. President Xi Jinping’s first visit to India in September 2014 was accompanied by a major intrusion in Ladakh. Modi personally took up the matter with Xi, and the intrusion was vacated. In June 2017, Chinese troops tried to extend a military road close to the India-Bhutan-Tibet trijunction, which would pose a threat to both Bhutan and India, in Sikkim and in the Siliguri neck corridor. A three-month long face-off between the two armies at Doklam was resolved, followed by an informal Modi–Xi summit at Wuhan. The Chinese withdrew, and Xi’s attempt to embarrass Modi was frustrated. At the second summit in October 2019 in Chennai, the two leaders were reported to have “positively evaluated the direction of bilateral relations”. But, in April 2020, the People’s Liberation Army transgressed LAC at several points in eastern Ladakh, and a bloody encounter took place in the Galwan Valley. There were heavy casualties on both sides, but the Chinese were thrown out of the valley. At Pangong Tso, the Chinese, outflanked by the Indian Army’s occupation of the high ridges overlooking their camps, brought up 50,000 troops supported with tanks and artillery units on their side. The Indian Army, through a massive air lift, rapidly ensured counter-mobilisation to confront them. Meetings between senior military officers and the foreign and defence ministers of the two sides have failed to end this dangerous face-off.Behind China’s periodic aggressions lies a plan to secure India’s acquiescence as China’s junior, second, to humiliate our leaders and government in the eyes of our people, and subvert our civil society. Another part of this sinister design is to damage our economy through predatory trade practices, which have caused destruction of parts of our industry. China’s hostility has energised the hitherto slumberous Quad. The meeting in Tokyo earlier this month of Quad’s foreign ministers revealed the potential and possibility of acting as a balancer against China in the Indo-Pacific region. The meeting also gave indication of its role in developing the region’s infrastructure and connectivity, establishing new, resilient supply chains to support regional industry and trade, and promoting cooperation in technology. Frequent joint exercises of the Quad’s navies look like preparatory work for assumption of responsibility for regional security.India seems to have become aware of its enduring China challenge and of the importance of American support to meet that challenge. On their part, senior United States (US) officials have given expression to strong support for India. Deputy secretary in the state department, Stephen Biegun, during his recent Delhi visit, spoke of a fundamental US-India alignment “along shared security and geopolitical goals”. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo has also voiced strong support for India. In the US, for the first time in history, both Republicans and Democrats are united in supporting India. I trust the US-India 2+2 meeting next week, in addition to signing the Basic Exchange and Cooperation Agreement, will focus on the gravity of the present crisis and India’s role in ensuring peace and security of the Indo-Pacific regime. The Indian Army is strong and fighting fit, but it is in need of modernisation. The Indian Navy is a highly integrated force, but it is small in size and in urgent need of rapid expansion. Our valorous Air Force is short of its requisite strength by eight or 10 squadrons of jets. With the economy stricken by the Wuhan virus, our resources are not sufficient to meet these pressing needs. The 2+2 meeting, next week, will, no doubt, take note of the gap between India’s resources and its enhanced security role in the Indo-Pacific region. A short-term American lend lease programme for India’s armed forces would be the most effective way of filling this gap. The message of such a gesture will reverberate around the world: Indo-Pacific is a reality; freedom is its soul; and democracy its strength. Maharajakrishna Rasgotra is a former foreign secretary of India The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/beijing-aims-to-humiliate-new-delhi-counter-it/story-fnVPlISTDlr3HynjJLBW4K.html
23-10-2020||News||Aligning India’s STIP-2020 vision with NEP||At a time of unprecedented change, advancement in science and technology has become an important determinant in India’s transformation into a self-reliant global leader. The foundation of innovation will be built through the creative efforts of our youth and children, and we must inculcate a scientific and innovative temperament in them. With sweeping changes in policy, a paradigm shift in the processes of learning will be needed as they become more driven by critical thinking and innovation.There are two interconnected aspects. One involves exploring the mechanisms through which to promote Science Technology Innovation (STI) learning in the early stages of school education. The other explores the pathways through which research and innovation can be reformed in Higher Education (HE) and Higher Educational Institutes (HEIs) to facilitate the expansion of research and development (R&D).Former President APJ Abdul Kalam once said, “Millions of people walk in this universe, but you can enter the Marvels of the Universe only if you have curiosity and thinking. The mission of schools should indeed be a generation of curiosity. I suggest thinking should become your capital asset, no matter whatever ups and downs you come across in your life. Thinking is progress. Non-thinking is stagnation to the individual, organisation, and country.” These profound words from this visionary statesman still resonate in my mind.This was what was kept in mind while formulating the recent National Education Policy (NEP) 2020, with which our education system envisages transformational changes. There is a strong focus on analytic thinking, creative problem-solving, and critical examination of existing structures rather than just a transfer of information. As Science, Technology, and Innovation Policy (STIP) 2020 is being given its final touches, it is important to draw from the experiences of NEP-2020 and align the STI ecosystem’s vision with its priorities to ensure a holistic growth trajectory.STIP-2020 aims to build an educational environment that nurtures and encourages innovative thinking and also creates pathways for its pursuit in the long-term. In the current policy-building exercise, we have kept our focus on select areas. We learn to live, we learn to think and we learn to learn.One, a major attempt has been to focus on innovation in education, which can help students and young scholars in HEIs achieve quality research outputs for STI. The proposed changes in curriculum development through a National Curriculum Framework and the complementary National Curriculum Framework for Teacher Education (NCFTE) of the NEP-2020 will give flexibility in pedagogy that encourages critical thinking, scientific temper, problem-solving, innovative approaches, collaborative learning, and active learner engagement.Two, we need to bridge the disconnect between research and education to overcome fragmented learning. Making research mandatory in school education has increasingly become a priority. This should be complemented by strengthening incentive mechanisms such as Science Olympiads and Technology Innovation Awards. Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) education and general education are set to receive a better impetus through effective linkages. STIP-2020 bridges the gap between curricular, co-curricular, or extra-curricular areas; arts and sciences, and vocational and academic streams and provides the possibility of switching subject areas. It is also necessary to interlink academia with industry, encouraging collaborative projects and need-based capacity-building. NEP-2020 has also proposed the establishment of a National Research Foundation (NRF), which will have significant funds for supporting research in technology, science, social science, arts, and the humanities.Three, a dynamic and creative environment must be facilitated. Collaboration between ministries and HEIs is the way forward. Students will get hands-on experience in fields of their choice and once qualified can seamlessly enter industry.This will also boost vocational education, promoting entrepreneurial skills among students and make them both knowledge and job-creators. Four, we must look at science beyond the classroom. To strengthen the education base, we must establish an infrastructure base to support educational activities with a special focus on digitisation platforms, research, innovation, and entrepreneurship. And five, there must be focus on the development of assistive technologies and learning resources.This will create interactive personalised learning environments for students with specific learning disabilities and ensure that the expansion of the STI ecosystem is equitable and inclusive. This must begin right from the school level. For higher education, there is a need to support research in this domain and incentivise the development of haptics, smart devices, advanced bionics, in-built speech, and other sensory interfaces.STIP-2020 in alignment with NEP-2020 must aim to bolster innovation-driven scientific temper in the education system from the foundational stages intensifying its linkages with the economy and society. It should play a major role as a true enabler for last-mile innovation.Harsh Vardhan is minister for science and technology, earth sciences, health and family welfare.This article is a part of a series on STIP-2020 The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/aligning-india-s-stip-2020-vision-with-nep/story-NuV8QV0k8JDFZaeFTR4X2J.html
23-10-2020||News||Pakistan’s opposition is taking on the army. India should just watch||Pakistan is at another of the inflection points that seem to crop up in the nation’s path every few years largely because of the imbalance in relations between the military and the civilian government. This time, the trigger is a movement launched by opposition parties with the stated aim of removing what they describe as the “selected” government of Prime Minister (PM) Imran Khan.Former premier Nawaz Sharif’s Pakistan Muslim League-N (PML-N) and the Pakistan People’s Party (PPP) have created the Pakistan Democratic Movement (PDM) and organised a series of “jalsas” or rallies in major cities. Latent tensions between Sharif and the military establishment exploded into the open when the PML-N leader named army chief Gen Qamar Bajwa and Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) chief Lt Gen Faiz Hameed during PDM’s first massive rally at Gujranwala on October 16, blaming them for ousting his government, pressuring judges to take up fake cases against opposition leaders, and making Khan the PM through a rigged election two years ago.Sharif, who has lived in London for almost the past year and addresses gatherings in Pakistan via video conference, kept away from PDM’s second rally in Karachi on October 18, which too attracted a huge crowd. But the incensed military retaliated by pressuring police in the port city to arrest Sharif’s son-in-law Muhammad Safdar Awan the following day. After more than 50 police officers in Sindh, of which Karachi is the capital, went on leave to protest the way the provincial police chief was harassed by military intelligence agencies to order Awan’s arrest, Bajwa ordered an inquiry and spoke to Bilawal Bhutto Zardari, whose PPP rules Sindh, to calm the situation.There is already speculation in Islamabad that Sharif acted after getting signals from sections of the military upset with Bajwa — a grant of extension in service to Pakistan army chiefs, such as the one given to Bajwa last year, is usually followed by a decline in popularity — as well as Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates, key background players in Pakistan’s politics with considerable sway over political alignments. This is understandable as there is little love lost between the current PM and the Saudis. There is even buzz that Sharif received discreet messages from China, which has warily watched Pakistan’s economic decline on Khan’s watch, especially in view of its immense stake in the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor.Perhaps, a simpler explanation is that the PDM has in its fold two of Pakistan’s most astute and street-smart leaders — Sharif and Jamiat Ulema-e-Islam-Fazal chief Maulana Fazlur Rehman, who has long harboured outsized dreams of being PM. Both have their finger on the pulse of the streets and are capable of gathering large crowds. They know that public sentiment for the Khan government is at a low, with the price of wheat touching a record high, government employees protesting over salaries, galloping inflation and near-complete lack of support from the International Monetary Fund and the Saudis. Sharif and Rehman, more than anyone else, know the time is right to make efforts for a change.For Sharif, there is also the need to remain politically relevant, after having been ignominiously removed as premier by the Supreme Court on flimsy charges of corruption and then jailed. He left the country on bail on medical grounds, and Khan, stung by the PDM’s shows of strength, has vowed to bring him back to Pakistan. Sharif’s current efforts, in a situation where he knows he has little left to lose, are also aimed at preparing the grounds for his anointed successor, daughter Maryam Nawaz Sharif.The Indian establishment, which has done well to keep away from political developments in Pakistan, must also distance itself from misinformation campaigns which don’t capture the complexity of the situation — no good has ever come of such moves in this digital age. One will have to wait for PDM’s moves to see whether the military jettisons those who are no longer useful to it or responds with more crackdowns.The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/pakistan-s-opposition-is-taking-on-the-army-india-should-just-watch/story-DxPqRjxmTOYfJBW9B0HR6K.html
