29-10-2020||News||Where Tejashwi Yadav slips behind the NDA||A fortnight ago, most political analysts were convinced about the return of the Nitish Kumar-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government to power in Bihar. However, the unexpectedly large turnout at the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Yadav’s rallies has lent a new dimension. While there are many factors which influence voters, the role of the campaign is important in swaying undecided voters.Although the Covid-19 pandemic has limited physical campaigning, it has not been replaced. Instead, it has been supplemented by new modes of campaigning. Political parties have designed digital campaigns to reach the maximum number of voters. Our study shows that all major political parties in Bihar — the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the Congress, and the Janata Dal (United) or JD(U) — have advertised heavily on social media. While the RJD has not done so officially, some of its leaders such as Madhu Singh, Parwez Alam, Nand Kumar Rai have been actively campaigning on these platforms. Tejashwi Yadav has been posting videos and messages on his public social media pages, but has not bought any campaign ads to promote these messages.While the RJD’s decision to focus on ground-level campaigns may have been driven by the fact that most of its voters are not online — and in order to utilise limited resources effectively — this strategy could have a negative impact on its overall vote-share. Our pre-poll survey (n=2497) conducted by IPSOS, a market research company, from September 26 to October 10 shows that 26.5% of internet users intend to vote for the RJD, second only to the BJP, which attracts 43.2% of internet users as potential voters. And 15.5% of internet users were undecided at the beginning of the campaign. The survey also shows that over 19% of voters, overall, were undecided at the beginning of the campaign.Anecdotal evidence suggests that Tejashwi Yadav is being able to leverage the anti-incumbency sentiment, though most opinion polls predict a comfortable win for the Nitish Kumar-led NDA. Yadav is focusing on young voters and has promised that, if elected, his government will provide one million government jobs to young people. Yet, there is a paradox in his campaign strategy. Social media is the most popular medium among young citizens. Yet, the RJD has not invested in this medium. Given the fact that campaigns require a dynamic approach to influence voters, and need to evolve continuously, no medium, howsoever small, can be ignored. The unexpected turnout at his rallies should have made Yadav change his campaign strategy and start focusing on social media in addition to canvassing at the grassroots to appeal to the youth. This would have helped create a bandwagon effect as voters are more likely to move towards a party that is seen as being ahead in the race. At the moment, the NDA has an advantage in terms of the sheer volume of face-to-face contact, virtual rallies, posters, social media reach, news coverage and the presence of star campaigners, including Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi. The network effects generated from contacts on multiple platforms could play a significant part in persuading potential voters. Voter turn-out will be a major factor, especially if NDA supporters are not too enthused about their chief ministerial candidate — Nitish Kumar, as many opinion polls suggest. The BJP has created confusion among its voters by not unequivocally opposing the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) Chirag Paswan’s attacks on Nitish Kumar. This could well demobilise its voters. But the new campaign strategy to counter Yadav’s rising popularity by organising many rallies of the PM shows that the central leadership can come together quickly, and work effectively, to steer the campaign in the right direction.The ball is now in the RJD’s court to counter the BJP’s reinforcements in the last tranches of the campaign. If the RJD speaks about issues that concern voters and stays on message, there is much to gain. While the past baggage associated with the RJD — of being an enabler of a jungle raj — could affect the overall chances of the RJD-led alliance securing a majority, it should be noted here that young voters aren’t interested in past issues.While his social base among the Yadavs remains intact, by focusing on young voters, Tejashwi Yadav is trying to diversify his social constituencies. Grassroots engagement is important for political parties but elections are no longer won by ground-level campaigning alone. The sooner Yadav learns the lesson that campaigns have to be dynamic, the more chances he will have of posing a serious challenge to the NDA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/where-tejashwi-yadav-slips-behind-the-nda/story-2Pp22URjqNo83yFQn9F7qL.html
29-10-2020||News||To fight pollution, expand Ujjwala to urban, industrial India||Every October, the Delhi government criticises Punjab’s farmers for poisoning the air. But few dwell on the temperature inversion which traps Delhi’s pollution from October to mid-February, and fewer still consider the data that shows that it is the Capital’s internally-generated sources that create air pollution for most of the year. This includes burning biomass fuels.The poor burn biomass for cooking and heating. In Delhi, one of the world’s most polluted cities, 1.7 million people, or about 330,000 households, live in slums. Studies suggest only half use Liquified Petroleum Gas (LPG). The experience of the urban poor with cooking fuels has not been studied enough, although this can have a significant impact on the city’s air pollution and the health of those who use these fuels.If the poor were to shift to a clean fuel like LPG, would air pollution reduce? In August, the non-governmental organisation (NGO), Chintan, studied the responses of two groups of women from 118 households in two slums — 61 to whom Chintan had provided free LPG cylinders, and 57 who did not own these cylinders. The criterion to receive a cylinder was that the household should have a girl in school.We asked if any recipients had sold their cylinders. Not a single household had done so. In fact, 69% pointed out that this was the only fuel source they were using. Households were also willing to continue using LPG. Almost 80% of respondents were planning to refill their cylinders. Those who were not cited lack of money as the main reason. We found that most respondents knew that LPG was a clean fuel that did not adversely impact environmental and personal health. Interestingly, their understanding of the health and environmental benefits of fuel was conditioned by their experience of using different fuel types: The more people got used to LPG, the more they were able to understand its beneficial health and environmental impact. This could also have been because 85% of respondents used only biomass fuels (wood, coal, charcoal, kerosene, and cow-dung cakes) earlier. Thus, they had been regularly exposed to high-levels of indoor air pollution. The clear preference for LPG was driven primarily by convenience and concern for health.How can this willingness to make a shift be leveraged to safeguard the health of the poor, particularly children, in slums as well as other Delhi residents? One in four children in Delhi has irreversible lung damage.The Delhi government should ensure that every family with a child of 18 and below, attending a government school, is able to get a gas cylinder at ₹400 or less every month. This is the maximum the respondents were able to pay for any fuel. This must be accompanied by awareness. Multiple sources of money exist for this, from fines for environmental non-compliance to Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) funds. By doing this, the Delhi government will help us all breathe cleaner air all year round.India has dozens of comparably polluted cities. To deal with this problem, the Centre must roll-out a new phase of the Ujjwala scheme, with a focus on urban and industrial India. This time, lessons from previous experience, including price-points and the design of subsidies, should be part of the strategy. The 15th Finance Commission has allocated around ₹4,400 crore to cities with 42 million-plus population to combat air pollution this financial year. These cities — Delhi is not on that list — should lose no time in using part of these funds to ensure that clean fuel is available to the poor.Poor urban women and children are among India’s most vulnerable. Enabling clean air inside their homes will not only ensure the right to breathe safely, it will provide Delhi with real solutions grounded in evidence instead of unfounded accusations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/to-fight-pollution-expand-ujjwala-to-urban-industrial-india/story-MmLe1BFNgx4WIfQG4QgWdN.html
29-10-2020||News||‘Nalayak’: Gadkari diagnosed bureaucratic malaise, Modi must inject cure | Analysis||Union roads, transport and highways minister Nitin Gadkari on Wednesday vented government’s frustration at the slow-moving bureaucracy when he openly castigated National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) officials for taking 11 long years to complete its building at Dwarka in the Capital.Calling the NHAI bureaucracy “ nalayak, nikammi aur bhrast” (incompetent, inefficient and corrupt), Gadkari asked how such a “negative” bureaucracy scored outstanding grades in their annual performance evaluation. Gadkari asserted that it was time to weed out self-serving government servants who don’t even listen to their ministers.But the NHAI is not a uniquely inefficient organisation. The ineptitude of Indian bureaucracy is evident within key ministries on Raisina Hill as well, a pain point that has been often articulated at internal meetings by top government leaders including Prime Minister Narendra Modi.It is also a reason why Indian diplomacy in the neighbourhood has failed in comparison to China. A classic example is the hundreds of minutes spent over months by bureaucrats discussing the steps needed to curb radicalisation of Kashmiri students going to Pakistan for medical education or to find a way to meet a request from India’s closest ally Bhutan for medical seats or requirement of foodstuffs by neighbours.Also Watch: Nitin Gadkari initiates blasting work for Zojila tunnel construction Despite green signals from the highest levels, the mandarins on Raisina Hill refuse to take a decision and keep the file moving from one ministry to the other. No wonder, the Indian government is often told by governments in the neighourhood that New Delhi should not blame them if they turn to China with problems as inane as export of onions or grains. This impression is most damaging to a rising power India particularly at a time when the world is looking at New Delhi to take a stand and decisions on sensitive issues.A mere 3.2 kilometres from the NHAI building which Gadkari inaugurated is Salaria Officers Enclave in Dwarka. It was built in 2010 by the Military Engineering Services and now has to be demolished due to poor quality of constructions. From the photos sent by Indian Army officers living in this enclave to Army Headquarters, it is difficult to distinguish these flats from houses bombed out in Syria. Salaria Officers Enclave, like the newly-built Army officers Housing in Meerut, are classic examples of all that Nitin Gadkari had the gumption to say.Yet, in spite of all this, the majority of civilian or military bureaucrats including generals and top administrative service, foreign service and police service are known to score 10/10 in their performance evaluation all through their careers. If these officers were outstanding, the Indian delivery and implementation would have been extraordinary. bordering on brilliant.But India has ended up with a process-driven, not a result-oriented bureaucracy that specialises in writing notings in the file in a way that either it becomes a hurdle, or is an escape route.Unfortunately, time is not of the essence to Indian mandarins to deliver. So you have files with multi-coloured dog tags and “pls speak” notes in the bureaucratic merry go round. And if anyone has the guts to push them to work, the Brahmastra or the ultimate weapon is that he/she does not want to be in Tihar jail in a CBI case.It is possible that Gadkari will have to bear the consequences of being blunt. He should be prepared for the NHAI bureaucracy to retaliate against him through discreet leaks,This deep malaise, however, does not affect merely the ministries but also intelligence agencies as well, where officials are often more bothered about writing reports or sending alerts than undertaking operations.The bureaucratic inefficiency and indecisiveness ends up blocking progress and even compromising the hard security of the country. Even at a time when the Chinese People’s Liberation Army is knocking at India’s doors in the East Ladakh sector, the Indian Army and the Border Roads Organisation has been struggling for approvals from a bureaucracy that is notorious for raising queries on emergency purchases and building tunnels underpasses linking Himachal Pradesh to Ladakh. The way to redemption lies through the path suggested by Minister Gadkari, who has openly called for weeding out the incompetent, ineffective, in-decisive and also corrupt officers within the system. While the Modi government has taken some action to repatriate senior officers back to their cadre and retire them, the time has come for these so-called public servants - including those at banks, financial institutions and investigative agencies - to send them packing home.The way ahead lies in breaking down service silos and appointing the best fit for a leadership job, irrespective of whether the person is from the IAS, IPS, IFS or any other central service. Although this has been repeated ad nauseam, merit not seniority should be the criteria for key appointments as an inept or weak leader will always drag his team down through indecision and intrigue. The marking of ACRs should be reviewed immediately as 10/10 outstanding ACRs are like 100 per cent cut-off in university admissions. By this yardstick, India should be bagging all the Nobel Prizes in the next five years with perfect students and 10/10 bureaucrats should turn India into Shangri La.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/nalayak-gadkari-diagnosed-bureaucratic-malaise-modi-must-inject-the-cure-analysis/story-FqVFVVZQVU4KRSVjYYfN0N.html
29-10-2020||News||In a new world, why old Europe matters||While Covid-19 has disrupted societies, it has also brought greater clarity for individuals and nations. The European Union (EU) and the United Kingdom (UK) are two political geographies that may be experiencing this and are certainly at an inflection point. In this context, foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla’s visit to Paris, Berlin and London gains salience. That he has chosen Europe for his first Covid-19-era visit outside the neighbourhood suggests that New Delhi has sensed the importance of this moment.At a recent event, external affairs minister, S Jaishankar, articulated why his ministry continued to invest time and energy in the relationship with Europe. He explained Europe’s importance for India’s most important imperatives — be it technology and the digital domain or becoming a green economy. The region holds the promise of long-term capital, innovation, markets and best practices.Europe’s economic obsession following the 2008 Global Financial Crisis saw it withdraw from key political theatres. The pandemic has brought it right back to the great churning in Asia and indeed to the Indo-Pacific. The Indo-Pacific Strategies released by Germany and France and the India Strategy announced by EU are indications that the Old Continent is changing course. The UK has hinted that it is realigning its political positions. It is currently engaged in its most comprehensive integrated review of security, defence, development and foreign policies since the Cold War. Much has been written about the divisions within EU. Economic differences, migration policies and the China factor all have a real basis and have impacted EU. These may well remain points of friction among member-states. The UK’s exit has also had consequences. Paradoxically, the events of 2020 have exposed the limits of fissiparous tendencies in EU.There is now a disturbing realisation that China is no friend, and it is not like Europe. It drives the same vehicles and uses the same phones, but is not driven by the same values and principles. There is no convergence in world views. The perverse, even vulgar, conduct of mask diplomacy and thereafter the Wolf Warrior doctrine has been deeply disturbing to European sensibilities. Chinese foreign minister Wang Yi’s troublesome EU sojourn indicated a new European resolve to call out China, even as Beijing dug its heels in.In the UK, too, the boundaries of Brexitism are being tested. On 5G and technology choices, the UK and major EU countries are aligning positions. Global Britain is navigating new seas, but its ethical and strategic compass is keeping it firmly in the Atlantic Order. The earlier assumption at 10 Downing Street that it was possible to do business with China without being affected by its muscular politics has fallen short. The bears and bulls at the London Stock Exchange have danced for the Dragon far too long. In 2021, as it hosts G-7 — with India as a likely guest — and COP-26, the UK will realise exactly how much it remains embedded in Europe.Shringla will find in his French, German and British interlocutors a new realism on trade. Free trade deals are not the issue they once were. The World Trade Organization (WTO) has reduced tariff barriers and the pandemic has enhanced the appreciation for non-tariff barriers. Boutique trade deals, supply chains restructuring where feasible, and enhanced linkages in health and vaccine value chains will be the focus. There will be less pressure on, and more opportunities for, India.Realising the Sustainable Development Goals; battling the climate crisis through green transitions; and building a digital economy must also be on the menu. Post-Covid-19, we must build back green and build back better. In the past four years, the Paris Agreement has rested on European and Indian shoulders. It is time for Europe and India to shape a new global green deal. This EU+1 initiative should be on Shringla’s agenda as he engages with Paris and Berlin.In London, he must create the ground for a bold UK-India announcement at COP-26 with an emphasis on a financing a framework that can catalyse green growth. India co-founded the International Solar Alliance with France and the Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure with the UK. These are critical legacies to be nurtured, more so since the United States (US) will continue to go through an existential crisis, to some degree, irrespective of what happens in early-November.Technology is another shared frontier. Even as Europe invested in Chinese manufacturing zones, data from its banks, insurance and financial firms found safe and efficient homes in India. Trust was the operative word. And this same word will define partnerships in the Fourth Industrial Revolution. Digital partnerships between India and EU and concurrently India and the UK are inevitable and desirable. As they assess the extremes of the American and Chinese models, on technology norms, digital regulations and data privacy, India and various shades of Europeans will find their positions more aligned.With the US expected to be preoccupied till the new administration settles in by early-summer 2021, New Delhi is doing well to engage with other major Western democracies that, like India, are contributors to stability in the international system. Coming shortly after Jaishankar’s visit to Japan for the Quad talks and bilateral meetings, the foreign secretary’s trip to the heart of Old Europe is an important follow-up.Samir Saran is president, Observer Research Foundation The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/in-a-new-world-why-old-europe-matters/story-hFWNvNcFy5I7mBumS4rhqN.html
