01-04-2021||New Delhi||IRB Infra wins Rs 828 cr highway project from NHAI in Himachal Pradesh||IRB Infrastructure Developers Ltd (IRB) on Thursday said it has received a letter of award from the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) for a Rs 828 crore project in Himachal Pradesh.On receipt of the award, the company's order book stands at Rs 14,509 crore."The company has received Letter of Award from NHAI for the project of Rehabilitation and Upgradation to Four Lane configuration & Strengthening of Punjab/HP Border... of NH-20 (New NH-154) of Pathankot-Mandi Section in the state of Himachal Pradesh on Hybrid Annuity Mode (HAM)," the company said in a regulatory filing to the BSE.With this the total project wins in the just-concluded fiscal were worth Rs 5,004 crore, it said.In a statement, Virendra D Mhaiskar, Chairman and Managing Director, said, “We are happy to receive the LoA from NHAI, the second one in a span of two days; and commence the new financial year 2021-22 on a positive note. We now have robust order book of over Rs 14,500 cr providing strong revenue visibility for coming years, which will strengthen further with new wins." Mhaiskar said it is further encouraging to note an increased inclination towards BOT (build, operate and transfer) projects by NHAI.IRB claims to be the largest private toll roads and highways infrastructure developer in India, with an asset base of over Rs 54,000 crore in 10 states across the parent company and two InvITs.It said it has a strong track record of constructing over 12,975 lane Kms pan India in 2 decades and can construct over 500 Kms in a year.It has approx. 20 per cent share in India's prestigious Golden Quadrilateral project, which is the largest by any private infrastructure developer in India.At present, IRB Group's portfolio (including Private and Public InvIT) has 23 projects that include 19 BOT, 1 TOT (toll operate transfer) and 3 HAM (hybrid annuity mode) projects. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/irb-infra-wins-rs-828-cr-highway-project-from-nhai-in-himachal-pradesh-233174
01-04-2021||---||Shimla residents to pay more for water, garbage||Shimla, March 31Shimla residents will have to shell out more for water and disposal of garbage from tomorrow. For electricity and liquor, too, a hike is on the cards as the Municipal Corporation has already passed the proposal and the administration will soon send it to the Electricity Department and the Excise Department. While the garbage collection charge and water bills across all slabs and categories will see an identical 10 per cent increase, the hike proposed in electricity cess is 20 paise per unit from 10 paise per unit, and in liquor Rs 5 per bottle from Rs 2 per bottle.“For garbage fee, a 10-per cent annual increase in water bills has already been approved. Last year, the hike in water bills was deferred because of the pandemic. However, this time, it will be levied from April 1,” said SJPNL independent director Digvijay Chauhan. He, however, assured that the company may provide some respite to consumers in future. “We have managed to bring down our cost of water procurement from Rs 117 for 1,000 litres to around Rs 90-95 through efficient energy management. In times to come, we can pass this benefit to consumers.”While residents may resent the hike, especially those whose livelihood and earnings have been affected because of the pandemic, Mayor Satya Kaundal feels the increased cess is required to fund developmental activities. “There are several developmental works going on in the city, funded through AMRUT and Smart City Project,” said Kaundal. “However, some clauses in the Smart City project prevent it from funding development works in the merged areas of the MC. So, works like constructing parks, parking lots and ambulance roads are being funded from the MC head.”She further claimed that the MC had sought people’s views and most were fine with the increased charges. “We want all 34 wards of the MC to have similar development. So many projects are underway in the city at the moment. So, people will not mind paying the increased charges,” she said.Former Mayor and CPM leader Sanjay Chauhan, however, has slammed the MC. “There has been more than 100-per cent increase in the garbage fee in four years. It was Rs 40 in 2017 and now it will be Rs 97. Also, water charges have increased more than 50 per cent. In the times of pandemic, the MC and the government should have provided relief to people but they are instead putting an additional burden on them,” he said. “The CPM opposes it and will launch an agitation against it.”10% hike in billsWhile the garbage collection charge and water bills across all slabs and categories will see an identical 10-per cent increase, the hike proposed in electricity cess is 20 paise per unit from 10 paise per unit and for liquor, Rs5 per bottle from Rs 2 per bottle||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shimla-residents-to-pay-more-for-water-garbage-232990
01-04-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||As Covid cases mount, govt dithers on fresh restrictions||Tribune News ServiceShimla, March 31Even though surge in Covid cases is continuing unabated, the state government is dithering on imposing strict restrictions.Deputy Commissioner, Una today made Covid testing mandatory for all arrivals from Punjab and Maharashtra and ordered that the health authorities maintain their complete record. With the rise in cases in border districts of Una, Kangra, Solan and Sirmaur, it is being felt that testing should be made mandatory in these districts for arrivals from high-risk states mandatory to prevent spread of the virus.However, with polling for municipal corporation election being due on April 7, this probability is almost ruled out. Delaying a decision on restrictions will only aggravate the problem and Himachal should follow Uttarakhand which has taken timely steps and made RT-PCR mandatory for all arrivals from states hit by the pandemic badly.The number of Covid cases in the state has touched 3000 with an average of 155 new cases daily in the month of March. From a total of mere 218 active cases on February 23, today the number has shot up to almost 3,000, indicating a steep surge. The fatality figure has reached 1,032, including 54 deaths in the month of March alone. Almost 300 to 350 new cases are being added on an average daily for the last 10 days.The uncertainty over the Covid variant spreading in Himachal continues with the report of 56 samples sent to the National Institute of Communicable Diseases (NICD) still awaited. “Till the report from the NICD is not received, we cannot confirm the Covid variant that has been found in the state. However, the trend clearly shows that maximum cases are being reported from border districts of Una, Kangra, Solan and Sirmour,” said Health Secretary Amitabh Awasthy.Sources said in case this trend continues, night curfew could be imposed at least in the worst-affected districts. There is also concern over low testing in some districts like Mandi in the recent past, especially after Shivratri celebrations which happens to be the biggest festival of the district. With campaigning for the municipal corporation elections in Solan, Dharamsala, Palampur and Mandi in full swing, health authorities are apprehending a surge. The polling is scheduled to take place on April 7 and as such any new restrictions will be imposed only after that.The fact that Himachal is a state with several popular tourist destinations, makes the people more vulnerable to the virus as visitors from across the country are arriving here. With the tourism industry being severely hit, the chances of imposing restrictions at the borders are remote.However, the laxity in enforcement of SOPs and the casual approach of the people towards Covid has been the main reason for the situation getting grave in Himachal. The fact that many districts share boundaries with Punjab has resulted in the upswing trend in the hill state.MC Poll a deterrent?285 fresh cases||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/as-covid-cases-mount-govt-dithers-on-fresh-restrictions-232991
01-04-2021||---||Another feat for first HRTC woman driver||Shimla, March 31Seema Thakur, the first woman bus driver in Himachal Road Transport Corporation, has achieved another feat. On Wednesday, she drove a bus on the Shimla-Chandigarh route to become the first HRTC woman driver to drive on an inter-state route. Until now, she had been driving within the state.The 31-year-old from Arki in Solan district had joined the HRTC as the lone woman driver five years back. She was first given the HRTC taxis to drive within the city.For the last few years, she had been driving the electric buses in Shimla and on the Shimla-Solan route.“I have been driving electric buses for many years in the city. So, I am really happy to get an opportunity to operate on an inter-state route. Next, I would like to drive a Volvo,” she said. “Don’t be surprised if you soon see me driving a Volvo bus on the Shimla-Delhi route.”While it was a new experience for Seema to drive on an inter-state route, so was it for the bus conductor. “She drove well, just like any other male driver. Watching a woman driving a bus, passengers were curious and kept asking about her,” the conductor said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/another-feat-for-first-hrtc-woman-driver-232992
01-04-2021||Our Correspondent||NGO seeks vaccination at doorstep for elderly||Chamba, March 31The Chamba Welfare Association, a registered NGO, has accused the government of being apathetic for not providing Covid-19 vaccination to people above 80 years of age at their doorstep.Members of the NGO said most of these people were suffering from serious ailments.They were either unable to go to vaccination centres or had to face a lot of inconvenience while doing so.In a statement issued here today, Chamba Welfare Association president AK Bhardwaj and general secretary SK Kashmiri urged the government to direct the health authorities for providing the facility of administering Covid vaccination to such people at their doorstep.For this, the office-bearers suggested that the government to constitute departmental teams to administer vaccine to the elderly people at their doorstep besides providing other health services, thereby preventing the spread of virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ngo-seeks-vaccination-at-doorstep-for-elderly-232993
01-04-2021||Shimla||Girls from Himachal leading in all fields: Expert||Pro-Chancellor, Chandigarh University, Dr RS Bawa on Wednesday said girls from Himachal were leading in all fields. He said HP girls accounted for 62 per cent of the total 740 students from HP, who got job offers during the campus placement this year.  Addressing mediapersons here, Bawa said Chandigarh University, which was given A+ grade by the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC), had positioned itself among the top 24 higher educational institutions of India. Bawa was here to launch the online portal of the National Level Entrance-cum-Scholarship Test ‘CUCET-2021’, which will offer academic scholarships worth Rs 33 crore. He said that the main objective was to motivate and reward talented students, who would receive a scholarship on the basis of scores in an online examination, which would be conducted from April to June.  — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/girls-from-himachal-leading-in-all-fields-expert-232994
01-04-2021||Chamba||Residents want Pangi to be separate constituency||The Pangi Kalyan Sangh has demanded the grant of a separate Assembly constituency status for Pangi tribal tehsil of Chamba district as a special case for the sake of development and well-being of the people of the valley.   A delegation of Pangi Kalyan Sangh, led by its president Bhagat Barotra and general secretary BR Bhardwaj, met the Deputy Commissioner of Chamba today and submitted a representation addressed to the Election Commission of India, seeking the status of a separate Assembly constituency for Pangi tribal tehsil.   In their representation, the office-bearers stated from 1952 to 1967, Pangi and Barmour were separate Assembly constituencies.    But, these were merged in 1967 without taking the opinion of Pangi residents, they said. They said only the elected representatives from Pangi could understand their problems, which so far remained overlooked. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/residents-want-pangi-to-be-separate-constituency-232995
01-04-2021||Mandi||Mandi villager gets 10-yr jail for murder||Additional District and Sessions Judge Hans Raj has awarded life imprisonment to a Mandi villager for murdering his sister-in-law at Sundernagar in 2014.According to District Attorney Kulbhushan Gautam, the case under Section 302 was registered on February 2014 against Alam Singh, alias Avtar Singh, a resident of Dinak village in Mandi district, for hitting his sister-in-law with a spade in a fit of rage over a land dispute. She later succumbed to her injuries.“The court found Alam Singh guilty of murder and awarded him life imprisonment and also imposed a fine of Rs 20,000 on him. In case of nonpayment of fine, he will have to undergo simple imprisonment for three months more,” the attorney said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mandi-villager-gets-10-yr-jail-for-murder-232996
01-04-2021||Rajiv Mahajan---||19 yrs on, HRTC sub-depot yet to be made functional||Nurpur, March 31 A sub-depot of the Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) — which was inaugurated at Chuwari in the Bhatiyat sub-division of Chamba district over 19 years ago — is yet to be made functional.  Resentment is brewing among the locals over the failure of the successive governments in throwing open this sub-depot.  None of the successive governments raised necessary infrastructure to make it functional. The then Union Rural Development Minister and former Lok Sabha MP from Kangra had inaugurated this sub-depot on December 14, 2002, in the presence of the then Transport Minister and Industry Minister late Kishori Lal with much fanfare.  The inaugural plaque of the sub-depot has been gathering dust since then.  A number of link roads have been constructed to facilitate people of the remote areas of the Bhatiyat sub-division as demand for more HRTC service gained momentum. HRTC buses plying on the existing routes here are dependent on 95-km away Chamba HRTC depot for refueling and rectifying mechanical faults.  Ram Singh Chambial, president, Bhatiyat block Congress, claimed that the sub-depot lying idle indicated that the successive BJP governments had befooled the people of Bhatiyat by laying a fake inaugural plaque.  Rajan Kumar, regional manager, HRTC, Chamba, admitted that the sub-depot was never functional as no infrastructure was available to run it. He said the land had been identified and requisite formalities were being completed for environment and forest clearance.  Vikram Jaryal, local MLA, said he was trying his best to ensure that the sub-depot became functional at the earliest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/19-yrs-on-hrtc-sub-depot-yet-to-be-made-functional-232997
01-04-2021||Our Correspondent||On Sunday, record 5,674 vehicles cross Atal Tunnel||Kullu, March 31The strategically important 9.02-km-long Atal Tunnel, gateway of Lahaul valley, registered a record passage of 5,674 vehicles on Sunday. The earlier record of 5,450 vehicles passing through the tunnel was registered on December 26 last year. Tourists visiting Manali are crossing the tunnel to witness snow in Lahaul valley. The Border Roads Organisation (BRO) has not yet undertaken snow-clearance operation on the Manali-Rohtang road this year and vehicles are so far allowed only till Gulaba, where there is no snow.The district administration had not yet started providing permits as per the guidelines of the National Green Tribunal (NGT). During peak tourist season, everyday only 1,200 vehicles, including 800 petrol and 400 diesel having online permits, are allowed to cross the Gulaba barrier for tourism purpose as per the directions of the NGT. The permit for light motor vehicles and medium utility vehicles is Rs 550 and for heavy motor vehicles it is Rs 600.The district administration has developed a website to provide online permits for vehicles to visit the Rohtang Pass but seeking them is a Herculean task during the tourist season as the permits are booked within a few minutes after being released online. Tourists have to face a lot of hassle to seek online permits and many of them are deprived of visiting the Rohtang Pass. Some of them have to wait for days together. Tourists many times rue that taxi operators having permits charged exorbitant fare for going to the snow point. A local said tourists were fleeced as the permits were not easily available and traffic jams on the narrow road add to commuters’ woes.With the opening of the tunnel, tourists have now easy approach to Lahaul valley. Now they don’t have to pay hefty fare or seek permit to witness snow.Lahaul and Spiti DC Pankaj Rai said toilets and dustbins had been set-up in Sissu. Lahaul and Spiti SP Manav Verma said adequate parking arrangements had been made and police personnel had been deputed at various places for traffic management. He added that there was no problem of congestion and adequate resources had been put in place to cater to the expected rise in the number of vehicles.Seeking online permits a Herculean task||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/on-sunday-record-5-674-vehicles-cross-atal-tunnel-232998
01-04-2021||Solan||Massive fire at Parwanoo garbage dumping site||A massive fire broke out at the Parwanoo garbage dumping yard, Sector 5, around 11.30 am today. As a precautionary measure, power supply had not be snapped in the area for sometime. This is the fourth fire incident at the site in the past couple of days.“A team of eight firemen was pressed into service and it took three hours to control the blaze. Ten fire tenders were used to bring the fire under control, which consumed 45,000 litre of water. The loss is estimated to be worth Rs 1 lakh,” said Commandant, Home Guards, Dr Shiv Kumar Sharma.He said municipal committee officials would be asked to look into reasons behind frequent fire incidents at the site and take necessary steps to prevent future occurrences.The garbage dumped at the site is transported to Baddi for its scientific disposal. “A probe will be conducted to ascertain the reason behind repeated fire incidents,” added Sharma. Executive Officer, Parwanoo Municipal Committee, Lalit Kumar said it seemed some passersby had triggered the fire owing to carelessness. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/massive-fire-at-parwanoo-garbage-dumping-site-232999
01-04-2021||Solan||Kasauli: Chopper help douse forest fire||An Air Force helicopter from Chandimandir was pressed into service to spray water over the force station at the Monkey Point in Kasauli where a forest fire erupted at 4.50 am today. A team comprising three firemen was rushed from the Parwanoo fire station with a fire tender after getting the information, said Commandant Home Guards, Dr Shiv Kumar Sharma.Fire tenders from the Kasauli cantonment were also rushed to the spot. A team comprising Air Force staff, forest staff and an Air Force helicopter worked in coordination to douse the fire by 10.20 am. Losses worth Rs 2 lakh was caused to plants and vegetation in the forest while the Air Force property comprising its territorial area and others buildings were saved due to the timely action, he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kasauli-chopper-help-douse-forest-fire-233000
01-04-2021||Palampur||Palampur: Tea town to be developed as a tourist hub, says Jai Ram Thakur||The Himachal government will come out with a master plan for planned development of Palampur town with a view to maintaining clean and green environment of the hill town. The focus would be laid on developing the tea town as a major tourist hub of the state. This was stated by Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur here today.Addressing a news conference here today, he said he had directed the authorities concerned to prepare a master plan and implement the same in a phased manner so that haphazard and unplanned expansion could be checked.He assured the people that he would review the development projects of the town from time to time and there would be no shortage of funds for the projects to be undertaken here. He said with the creation of three municipal corporations in the state his government had given priority to urban development.He announced the extension of tax holiday for newly merged areas of Palampur Municipal Corporation from three years to five years with a commitment that same could be extended further, if needed. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/palampur-tea-town-to-be-developed-as-a-tourist-hub-says-jai-ram-thakur-233001
01-04-2021||Shimla||Special calendar launched||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/special-calendar-launched-233002
01-04-2021||---||Himachal CM: Poll on party symbol due to Cong challenge||Dharamsala, March 31Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur said yesterday that he decided to hold elections to the four municipal corporations in the state on party symbol after the Congress challenged him on it.He said, "Congress leaders had challenged me to hold the municipal corporation elections on party symbol. I accepted their challenge, amended the law and the elections to the four MCs at Dharamsala, Solan, Palampur and Mandi are being fought on party symbol".Thakur blamed the previous Congress-dominated Dharamsala Municipal Corporation for the lack of development in the city. He said that no development took place in Dharamsala in the past three years due to the nonperformance of the Congress-dominated corporation, which also faced some serious allegations of corruption.Asked why his government did not take action in the alleged corruption cases in the Dharamsala MC in the past three years, he said, "We gave them a chance to improve. Since they did not improve, so now we shall take action". About dissidence in the BJP, Thakur said that action had been taken against those found violating the discipline of the party.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-cm-poll-on-party-symbol-due-to-cong-challenge-233008
01-04-2021||---||Himachal Pradesh University council okays Rs284 cr budget||Shimla, March 31The Executive Council (EC) of Himachal Pradesh University (HPU) on Tuesday approved a budget of Rs 284 crore for 2021-22 with a deficit of Rs 30 crore.The EC, which held its first regular meeting of 2021 under the chairmanship of Vice-Chancellor Sikander Kumar, also approved 26 posts of professor, associate professor and assistant professor.It approved the fee structure of new courses, including BLib, MLib and MA in defence and strategic studies.The EC gave its nod to split the University Institute of Information Technology (UIIT) into six departments for better functioning.A proposal to create the departments of archaeology, population studies, data science and artificial intelligence and forensic science was also approved.It was decided to digitise/computerise the degrees of graduate courses and grant holidays to chairpersons of various Chairs as per rules.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-pradesh-university-council-okays-rs284-cr-budget-233010
01-04-2021||---||Four miscreants arrested for assaulting doctor at Bagsyad||Mandi, March 31The police have arrested four persons for allegedly assaulting a doctor on night duty at Bagsyad in Mandi district on Tuesday.Dr Abhinav Chauhan had alleged that four persons barged into his room around 11:30 pm and assaulted him. The victim’s brother was also allegedly manhandled by the miscreants.SP, Mandi, Shalini Agnihotri said the accused had been booked and were produced in a court, which sent them to three-day police remand. Further investigation were on, the SP added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/four-miscreants-arrested-for-assaulting-doctor-at-bagsyad-233011
01-04-2021||Lalit Mohan||Anurag Thakur to campaign in Dharamsala, Palampur||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, March 31With the date for municipal corporation elections approaching, the BJP was planning to push its senior leaders into campaigning.Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur addressed rallies in Dharamsala yesterday. Sources here said that the party had requested union minister of state for finance Anurag Thakur to campaign in Dharamsala and Palampur.Thakur would join the campaign in Dharamsala on April 3. BJP leaders are planning to organize a road show in Dharamsala with Anurag Thakur leading it. The party leaders are planning to cash in on his popularity among the youth in Kangra district.Meanwhile, both the Congress and BJP are going in for different modes of electioneering. The BJP has put up posters of its candidates at various places in the city. The Congress, on the other hand, has announced that it would not put up any such posters. “The use of posters defaces private and public properties and we want to avoid that,” HPCC president Kuldeep Rathore said.The Congress has asked its supporters and leaders to put up party flags atop their houses to show support for the party.Sources here said that both the Congress and BJP are also focusing on some of independents, who are going strong in their area. Both the BJP in charge for Dharamsala Rakesh Pathania and Congress leader Sudhir Sharma are meeting independent candidates, who are expected to win so that their support could be sought in the case of a hung house.Since hardly any development project has been completed in Dharamsala in the last three years, the BJP was maintaining that in case the ruling party wins a majority in the corporation developmental projects would be taken up. The Chief Minister in a press conference held at Dharamsala yesterday had blamed the Congress-dominated house of Dharamsala MC for hampering development works.The Congress was pinning hopes on anti-establishment factor as well as the price rise to get votes. It was also counting on the development works carried out in Dharamsala during the stint of Sudhir Sharma as minister for town and country planning.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/anurag-thakur-to-campaign-in-dharamsala-palampur-233016
01-04-2021||---||Parties promise better civic amenities||Solan, March 31The promise of augmenting civic amenities in Solan municipal corporation (MC) has emerged as the poll plank of both the Opposition Congress and the ruling BJP as their poll manifestos are centered round these issues.In a bid to woo all sections of society, the BJP has done a macro level planning for upgrading facilities like safe parks, street lights, ward-level parking, local transportation facility, ambulance roads in all wards, upgrade of health facilities in the local hospital, sewage connectivity, sports infrastructure among other facilities. The needs of the elderly and women have also been taken care as they have been promised better emergency services and employment opportunities.The Congress has tried to lure the voters by promising water at a concessional rate of Rs 100 per month and freebies like free door-to-door collection of waste, opening schools for free education till class VIII, free coaching centres for the poor, reduction in house and sanitation tax, community centre in each ward, among other promises. Other measures like toll free emergency numbers have also been mentioned among other promises.Promises like extending sewage, augmenting water and road connectivity, enhancing power infrastructure, maintaining parks, etc., find mention by both the parties.Though the BJP government has already announced non levy of taxes in the merged areas, the Congress has listed it as a poll promise in a bid to make the most of it.While the BJP’s vision document appears to be meticulously prepared, the Congress appears to have paid lip service as promises like emergency toll free numbers were already in place.Residents, however, term these documents as mere poll promises.“The civic amenities have not been developed to match the burgeoning population and encroachments are increasing by each passing day. The scant increase in the facilities was far too less as town has registered a haphazard growth in the last several years. Even the Solan bypass was yet to see the light of the day,” remarked Neeraj Singh, a resident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/parties-promise-better-civic-amenities-233019
01-04-2021||---||MC poll: Congress promises skyway project for Dharamsala||Dharamsala, March 31The Congress, in its vision document for the Dharamsala municipal corporation elections today, announced funicular railway and skyway projects for the city.The vision document, which was released by HPCC president Kuldeep Rathore, carries photos of former Congress minister and AICC secretary Sudhir Sharma. The vision document states that it will connect the Charan Khad area of lower Dharamsala with Bhagsunag with funicular railway. It also says that it would re-initiate the skyway scheme for Dharamsala city.Sharma, when asked how these hefty investment projects would be successful in a small place like Dharamsala which has a population of just about 50,000, said private players would be brought in for the projects. He said during the Congress rule, an MoU was signed with a multinational company for setting up a skyway in Dharamsala. The company was to make the entire investment for the project. However, the present government, after coming to power, shelved the project. The Congress, after coming to power, will once again re-initiate the project and also establish a funicular railway facility to connect lower Dharamsala with Bhagsunag, he said.The vision document has also promised to provide a sewerage system for the entire city and a 24-hour water supply for all. The party has, however, failed to clarify as to how it would achieve it given the fact that Dharamsala has limited natural resources that are under pressure due to climate change.The Congress has also promised to set up a modern abattoir and promised not to impose property tax in the city till all basic facilities were provided to residents.CM misused official helicopter: Rathore||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mc-poll-congress-promises-skyway-project-for-dharamsala-233020
01-04-2021||The Department of Plant Pathology||Nauni University advisory for apple growers||Science congress winners declaredThe DAV Public School, Gohju, was on Wednesday declared the winner of the Children Science Congress. In the junior rural category, Ankita Choudhary (Class VIII) stood first in Maths Olympiad. Pritak Kumar (Class X) in senior rural category stood third in Maths Olympiad at the block level. Anushka Sotia (Class VIII) and Sahil Sharma (Class IX), under the junior rural level, stood second in the Science Olympiad at the block level. Principal Jaidev Sharma congratulated the winners and appreciated their efforts.ABVP flays hotel mgmt instituteThe ABVP has demanded action against Heritage Institute of Hotel Management, Sanjauli, for allegedly charging excessive fee from students for various courses. The ABVP said if the institute was not derecognised, it would launch a massive agitation. The students' body said students had approached the regulatory commission against the institute in the past too but the institute was let off with a fine of Rs 7,00,000. The ABVP said Himachal had become notorious for such practices in private educational institutions.Ankita to interact with PMAnkita Sharma, a student of Class XI, MCM DAV Sr. Sec. Public School, Baghni, Nurpur, has been selected for a live interaction with Prime Minister Narendra Modi in a programme "Pariksha Pe Charcha-2021". She was selected through an online essay competition held between February 22 and March 18, wherein students across the country participated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nauni-university-advisory-for-apple-growers-233050
01-04-2021||Vehicles are parked on both sides of the railway road despite the presence of a parking lot. This callousness by people causes hassles on this narrow lane to commuters. A designated facility for the purpose should be used for parking vehicles by owners.||Callous attitude towards parking||— Rajat, SolanWater supply irregularDue to the irregular water supply for the last few days, residents of the Nagar Panchayat, Karsog, in Mandi district are facing a lot of problems. We are struggling to have enough water even for our daily use. We have informed the Irrigation and Public Health Department about it and requested it to restore the water supply as soon as possible.— Bansi Lal, Karsog, MandiIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/callous-attitude-towards-parking-233052
01-04-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Himachal Pradesh promotes all pupils except of classes X, XII||Tribune News ServiceShimla, March 31All government school students in Himachal Pradesh, barring those in Class X and XII, have been promoted to the next standard irrespective of their result in the annual examination conducted recently.The final exams of non-board classes were held from March 8 onwards. The result was prepared too, but the government decided to promote all of them in view of the Covid situation, which had restricted classes to online mode. The students of Class X and XII would appear in board examination in April and May.Confirming the development, the Director of Higher Education, Amarjeet Sharma, said, “The results were declared today. The admissions to the next class will be held from April 5 to 10. The schools will organise two-month remedial and revision classes for students who fared poorly.”The students who failed to appear in the annual examination would have to take a test within two months. In case they failed to do so, their result would not be declared. The decision to hold examinations for these left-out students would be taken at the level of Deputy Directors of Higher Education and the heads of institutions, said an official.The state government had reopened summer-closing and winter-closing schools in February after a gap of almost 11 months. The resurgence in Covid cases led to dip in attendance as the parents were apprehensive about sending their wards to schools, particularly in urban areas.The state government again decided to shut all educational institutions from March 27 to April 4. It is likely to review the situation before April 5.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-pradesh-promotes-all-pupils-except-of-classes-x-xii-232922
