02-04-2021||Water seepage at Indira Market in Mandi town is damaging shops||Seepage damaging shops||Traffic bottleneckThe Talland junction near Chotta Shimla has become a major traffic bottleneck. Almost everyday, especially in the morning, one takes a lot of time in crossing this junction as vehicles move at a snail's pace. The authorities concerned should find a solution at the earliest. — Raman Vij, ShimlaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/seepage-damaging-shops-233548
02-04-2021||The newly established Dr Keshav Baliram Hedgewar Chair of Himachal Pradesh University organised a seminar on the 132nd birth anniversary of the founder of the Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh. The seminar was attended by all top office-bearers of the university||HPU pays tributes to Hedgewar||Free education for needyUnder the aegis of Sai Engineering Foundation, an entrance test is being organised by the Himalayan Centre for Human Resource Development, Dharampur, Mandi district, for admissions in Classes IX and X in Dr Vijay Memorial Senior Secondary School in all districts on April 4 from 11 am to 2 pm. All students who have appeared/passed Class VIII or Class IX examinations and whose family income is less than Rs 2 lakh per annum are eligible to sit for the test. All selected students will be provided free education which includes hostel facility, food, books and uniform. No fee or funds will be charged from the parents. The entrance test will be held at GBSSS, Chamba, Vallabh Government College, near ISBT Mandi, Saraswati Vidya Mandir, Bilaspur town, Dr YS Parmar Govt Degree College, Nahan, TS Negi Govt College, Reckang Peo, Govt College, Dharamsala, Govt College, Dhalpur, Kullu, GB Pant Govt College, Rampur, Govt College, Sanjauli, Vidyapeeth Academy, Dosarka, Hamirpur, GGSSS, Solan, GBSSS, near bus stand in Una, and Dr Vijay Memorial SSS, Dharampur, Mandi.Roll back GST on education: SFIThe SFI on Thursday staged a protest outside the Education Directorate. SDI state secretary Amit Thakur, while addressing the protesters, said the government first imposed 18 per cent GST on education, then enhanced fee from schools to colleges, and recently the cost of books have been hiked by 25 per cent. The SFI demanded that 18 per cent of the GST and hike in prices of books should be rolled back. Also, the SFI demanded private schools be checked from charging arbitrary fees.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hpu-pays-tributes-to-hedgewar-233547
02-04-2021||Dharamsala||Bhagsunag waterfall in Dharamsala goes dry||Bhagsunag waterfall, main tourist attraction in upper Dharamsala, has virtually dried up much to the disappointment of locals. Alleged over-exploitation of water from the stream feeding the waterfall by Army and Civil Irrigation and Public Health (IPH) authorities is being cited as the reason.Vikas Nehria, a resident of Bhagsunag, said the waterfall used to be the centre of attraction of tourists. A few years earlier even in summer months of May and June waterfall used to have enough water. Tourists used to bathe and swim in the pond near the waterfall. Most of the streams feeding it have been exploited badly for water supply schemes of the Army and the civil authorities. The water schemes should be designed in a way that they do not destroy the heritage of the area, he said.Sanjeev Gandhi, general secretary of the Smart City Dharamsala Hotel Association, while talking to The Tribune, said that the Bhagsu waterfall was very popular with the tourists and the most famous ‘selfie point’ at upper Dharamsala. The government departments should create a check dam on the stream supplying water to the fall so that ample water is available even in the lean summer season.About 12 lakh litre of water is being lifted daily for supply schemes of the Army and the IPH Department from the stream feeding the waterfall. This leaves almost nothing in the stream to create a waterfall, as it falls from a cliff in the Bhagsu area, especially during summer months when there is a scarcity of water.The lifting of water from the stream feeding the waterfall has increased in the last about a decade thus adversely affecting its flow.Executive Engineer, IPH Department, Dharamsala, Sarvan Thakur, said that the Army authorities pick water from the stream feeding Bhagsu waterfall through two six-inch pipes. “We also have laid four pipes to source water from the stream. Recently to cope up with the shortage of water, we added two more two-inch pipes to source water from the stream,” he said.The residents of Bhagsu said that the government should adopt an innovative method to extract water from natural resources such as streams in the region so that the natural ecology of streams is not affected. If streams dries up, they damage the entire ecology. The development of small check dams that can store water at various levels can help solve the problem of water shortage in Dharamsala and also help in maintaining the flow.12 lakh litre water being lifted daily||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bhagsunag-waterfall-in-dharamsala-goes-dry-233335
02-04-2021||---||Tender for Shimla Town Hall cancelled||Shimla, April 1The tender for leasing out the iconic Town Hall for running a high-end café has been cancelled.The Shimla Municipal Corporation opened the technical bids today but decided to cancel the tender after it found bidders “technically not qualified for one reason or the other.” The tender will be refloated, said Municipal Corporation joint commissioner Ajit Bhardwaj.Bidders not qualifiedThe Shimla MC opened the technical bids on Thursday but decided to cancel the tender after it found bidders ‘technically not qualified for one reason or the other.” The tender will be refloated, said MC joint commissioner Ajit Bhardwaj.Incidentally, the MC had been trying to lease out the iconic property on the Mall Road for the past many months. In the past, three attempts to lease out the property did not find many takers because of Covid-19. This time as many as seven persons made the bid but to no avail.“The bids were technically not qualified for one reason or the other. Some submitted offline and some online. Also, in some cases, the documents were not complete,” said Bhardwaj. “Considering all this, the committee decided to cancel the bid.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/tender-for-shimla-town-hall-cancelled-233336
02-04-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Shimla lad files eight patents||Tribune News ServiceShimla, April 1In a rare feat, a local lad from Fagu in the suburbs of Shimla, Piyush Chauhan, who is pursuing masters in computer designing, manufacturing and robotics from the Chandigarh University, has developed innovative devices in 3D printing, biomedical and automobile sectors and filed eight patents.He has filed patents in all three categories — product, process and material — and his innovations include non-rotating card holder apparatus, liquid dispensing device for 3D printers, filament feeding device, vehicle occupant supporting apparatus, cloth drying apparatus, patient immobilisation apparatus, automobile defogging apparatus and fins straightening device.“The patient immobilisation apparatus is useful for immunisation of small children under which vacuum is created in the buckles which restricts the movement of kids and helps in keeping the patient stable for injecting the injection,” he said.The advantage of the modified design of liquid dispensing device for 3D printers is to help the issues of uneven and non-uniform spraying of material on a specimen, as material is sprayed using a pump and controlled by commands. The spraying is uniform while filament feeding device prevents the feedstock filament from stains and imperfect coating.“My guide Dr Raman Kakkar at the Chandigarh University inspired me to file patents and the IPR Cell in the university taught us the method to proceed. The expenses of filing patents, which ranges between Rs 20,000 to Rs 50,000, were borne by the university,” he said.Piyush (25) did his schooling from the SVM, Samoli, in Rohru and B.Tech in mechanical from Rajiv Gandhi Government Engineering College in Kangra.A student of M.Tech final semester, Piyush, whose six articles have been published in international journals, wishes to pursue PhD in research after his post-graduation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shimla-lad-files-eight-patents-233337
02-04-2021||---||Early blooming this season worries Himachal apple orchardists||Shimla, April 1  Apple orchards are blooming by at least a week or two earlier this season, thanks to the higher than normal temperature and scarce rain and snow this winter. The other consequences of these abnormal weather conditions are inconsistent flowering and weak flower.  “The Regional Horticulture Research Station, Mashobra, normally sees flowering from April 15 to 25. But this time it has happened at least two weeks early,” said SP Bhardwaj, a former joint director with the University of Horticulture and Forestry, Nauni. “It’s happening because of the stress plants have been under this winter. The temperature has been inconsistent with sharp fluctuations. Besides, rain and snow have been scanty, resulting in inadequate moisture,” he said. Incidentally, early and erratic flowering is happening across all altitudes, from around 5,000 ft to above 8,000 ft. “There is uneven flowering in orchards because of insufficient moisture. We haven’t had the required chilling hours this time. Besides, the flowers in trees which had good crop last year is weak and small,” said Pratap Chauhan, an orchardists from Kotkhai.  The uneven flowering could lead to poor setting of fruits, with commercial varieties and pollinators flowering at different times.  “The main varieties and pollinators need to flower at the same time for good fruit setting. The orchards with good moisture will tide over the challenge, but those with depleted moisture could face problems,” said Bhardwaj. He feels recent rains have been a blessing for orchards. “The rains have been a huge respite, especially to the areas with depleted moisture. The moisture will help plants a lot in nutrient intake,” he said. While inconsistent flowering and the formation of weak flower is a cause of concern, Lokinder Bisht, president of the Progressive Growers Association, feels the year will see a good harvest despite these two concerns. “Last year was an off year with less than normal crop. So this year we can expect a good crop,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/early-blooming-this-season-worries-himachal-apple-orchardists-233338
02-04-2021||Our Correspondent||Show-cause notice sent to Kullu MC over Beas neglect||KULLU, APRIL 1The Pollution Control Board (PCB) has served a show-cause notice on the Municipal Committee, Kullu, for littering of waste along the Beas and recommended environment compensation of Rs 5 lakh for the violation of solid waste management rules.The PCB has also issued notice and sought an environment compensation of Rs 1 lakh from NKC Projects, a firm of the NHAI, for dumping muck along the Beas.The Tribune had highlighted the issue of untreated municipal solid waste and debris being dumped into the Beas by the NHAI firm.An NGO had alleged that the civic body and NHAI contractors were flouting the norms.The PCB authorities said a regular inspection and monitoring of illegal dumping of solid waste was carried out and action was taken as per the provisions of law.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/show-cause-notice-sent-to-kullu-mc-over-beas-neglect-233339
02-04-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi---||Spectre of drought looms large in Himachal||Tribune News Service Shimla, April 1 With the state recording 62 per cent deficit rainfall in March and 69 per cent deficit rainfall in winters, a spectre of drought looms large over Himachal. The monsoon deficit was 26 per cent while post-monsoon deficit stands at 15 per cent. Jal Shakti Minister Mohinder Singh has warned of water scarcity in the coming days and called for preparing a contingent plan to tackle the situation. As per data, the state recorded 41.7 mm rainfall in March against the normal of 110.9 mm (a deficit of 62 per cent. The deficit was 84 per cent in Kangra district, followed by Hamirpur ( 79 per cent), Sirmaur (77 per cent), Bilaspur (74 per cent), Una (71 per cent) and Solan (67 per cent). All these districts produce food grains and vegetables and scanty and unevenly distributed rainfall is a major cause for concern for growers.  In the past few years, the highest rainfall of 190.8 mm (+82 per cent) was recorded during March 2015 and the lowest of 0.5 mm (-99 per cent)  and  4.7 mm (-96 percent) were recorded in 2004  and 2008. During this month, there were 13 spells of precipitation, out of which only five were widespread.  Shimla had faced the worst water crisis in 2018 when residents got supply on the seventh or eighth day, but the Shimla Jal Prabandhan Board (SJPN) has assured that such a situation would not arise this time. Experts said scanty rainfall could lead to the drying up of natural sources of water and ‘’kuhls’’ (irrigation channels).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/spectre-of-drought-looms-large-in-himachal-233340
02-04-2021||Ambika Sharma||Crores spent, but sewage disposal still an issue in Solan||Tribune News ServiceSolan, April 1With the MC poll round the corner, the issue of scientific sewage disposal has again assumed significance in Solan.The limited success has, however, been achieved in providing sewerage connections owing fund shortage and hesitation among residents to avail connections.Both ruling BJP and Congress have promised to provide the connectivity to all houses in their manifesto. The town was divided into five zones as per a scheme commissioned in 2008.Zone B was the first to receive the connectivity but despite the lapse of 13 years, only 772 connections had been sanctioned and of these, 494 released as the residents were hesitant to avail these.“As many as 1,500 connections were proposed for zone B comprising The Officers’ Colony, Madhuban Colony, Rajgarh Road, Kotla Nullah, Tank Road, Lower Bazar and Hospital Road. The scheme was later supposed to be extended to the remaining zones which comprised about 30-40 per cent of the town populace,” said Sumit Sood, Executive Engineer, Jal Shakti Vibhag.Initially, Rs 26 crore was sanctioned for the scheme but Rs 17 crore was spent on the land acquisition alone. An additional Rs 4.55 crore was sanctioned for the remaining two zones but the delay and the high cost of land acquisition enhanced the cost to more than Rs 77 crore.Given the cost escalation, officials were directed to seek the revised approval of all zones about 4 or 5 years ago by the government, but it failed to be granted. An effort was then made to seek funds from the Centrally-sponsored Namami Gange programme on two occasions but the agencies only agreed to provide Rs 10 crore for the sewerage treatment plant.“Since major expenditure is incurred on laying the network of pipes, efforts were made again to seek funds from a French agency. These too failed to yield any result and we are now trying to seek funds worth Rs 77.89 crore from the state government,” said Sood.Even as the department is trying to extend the facility to other towns such as Parwanoo, Baddi and Nalagarh, the alleged lackadaisical approach of Solan residents has left much to be desired.Various issues like unavailability of adequate land to lay pipes owing to land disputes, fear of receiving higher water bills, and at times even increase in the number of toilets in a house after the initial estimate were acting as deterrents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/crores-spent-but-sewage-disposal-still-an-issue-in-solan-233341
02-04-2021||pender Manta||Jai Ram Thakur plays emotional card on home turf||Tribune News ServiceMandi, April 1Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today played an emotional card to counter the Congress and BJP rebels in the Mandi MC elections.He said, “Mandi has got respect after many years, and I am hopeful that people will protect it. (Mandi ko jo samman mila hai varshon ke antral ke baad, mujhe umeed hai Mandi ki janata is samman ko kayam rakhegi).”He said that the municipal council was upgraded to the municipal corporation on the demand of the people. Now, it was their responsibility to support the BJP in all 15 wards to ensure development.He said leaders of the Opposition were trying to mislead people that the government would impose taxes. “I want to make it clear that no taxes will be imposed on the residents of the MC area for five years and the revenue rights of people living in villages will remain same” he said.He said to attract tourists, the government was constructing Shiv Dham in Mandi. Besides, a parking lot was being built at a cost of Rs 100 crore in the town. The sewerage facility was being provided at a cost of Rs 70 crore.Meanwhile, the Chief Minister and IPH Minister Mahender Singh Thakur targeted BJP MLA from Mandi Sadar Anil Sharma and his family.Thakur said, “Anil Sharma is our MLA from Mandi Sadar and he should campaign for the party. But he is not doing so because he is watching the interest of his family”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/jai-ram-thakur-plays-emotional-card-on-home-turf-233342
02-04-2021||Our Correspondent||Himachal schools to remain closed till April 15||Kullu, April 1Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur said today that keeping in view the recent spike in Covid-19 cases in the state, it had been decided to keep all educational institutions closed till April 15. He was addressing mediapersons after inaugurating residential buildings of the Health Department constructed at a cost of Rs 5.80 crore in Kullu.He said that no restrictions had been imposed on development works and tourists. The Covid situation was being constantly monitored in the state. He urged people to follow the guidelines of the government and the district administration to prevent the spread of coronavirus.While addressing a public gathering, the Chief Minister said that the whole year was lost due to coronavirus, adversely affecting economic activities in the country. He added that even during this period, the state government inaugurated and laid the foundation stones of projects worth Rs 3,500 crore in 42 Assembly constituencies through the virtual mode.Thakur said that the new strains of coronavirus were spreading rapidly in different states and Himachal was also not untouched by them. He added that the second wave of Covid was more dangerous and hence all should take it more seriously. He asked health workers to work more diligently to protect common people while following the standard operating procedures (SOPs).He said that Covid-19 last year caused huge economic losses, especially in the tourism sector. There was no restriction on the movement of tourists in the state, but it was necessary to ensure the compliance of the SOPs announced by the government. He added that Covid was spreading rapidly in Punjab, and as a result cases in the border district of Una had risen.Thakur went to Ghuddaud village and sought the blessings of spiritual leader Sudhanshu Ji Maharaj.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-schools-to-remain-closed-till-april-15-233343
02-04-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Principals of 102 private colleges in Himachal not eligible||Tribune News ServiceShimla, April 1The principals of 102 private colleges in Himachal are ineligible for their post and the delay in constituting a committee for the recruitment of principals by the affiliating universities has resulted in the disqualification of 25 per cent principals.“It has been brought to our notice that 25 colleges have written to their affiliating universities to form a panel for the recruitment of principals and the delay on the part of the universities has resulted in the disqualification of the principals,” said Major Gen Atul Kaushik (retd), Chairman of the HPPIERC.He said that an institution wrote 18 letters requesting its affiliating university to constitute a panel for the recruitment of the principal but the needful was not done. He added that the principals of 102 of total 109 private colleges, whose details had been received, were either not qualified for the post or the selection procedure was not followed in their recruitment.Major Gen Kaushik (retd) said that 30 principals were working in the officiating capacity and the commission was contemplating legal action against the erring institutions, besides imposing a penalty on them. “About 70 per cent of the private institutions in the state are indulging in corrupt practices and malpractices,” he added.He added information from over 100 private colleges was still awaited and their managements would be summoned if the details were not submitted by April 15.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/principals-of-102-private-colleges-in-himachal-not-eligible-233344
02-04-2021||Ambika Sharma ---||BJP rebel from Sirmaur joins Congress||Tribune News Service Solan, April 1 Dyal Pyari, a BJP rebel and a three-term zila prishad member in Sirmaur, today joined the Congress in New Delhi in the presence of the AICC in-charge for Himachal Rajeev Shukla and senior leader Pawan Bansal.  Dyal Pyari, who was denied the ticket for the 2019 Pacchad Assembly byelection in Sirmaur, had contested as an Independent and secured 11,651 votes in a triangular contest. A former zila parishad chairperson, Pyari’s entry into the Congress was on expected lines and she would pose a tough challenge to the BJP. She had differences with state BJP president Suresh Kashyap and had been marginalised in the party. She had proved her might in the recent zila parishad poll where her loyalist Neelam Devi won as an Independent from the Bag Pashog seat defeating the BJP candidate. Being the home turf of the state BJP president Suresh Kashyap, this was a major setback to the BJP. Dyak Pyari’s entry into the Congress is also being seen as a projection for the 2022 Vidhan Sabha elections from the Pacchad Assembly seat.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bjp-rebel-from-sirmaur-joins-congress-233345
02-04-2021||Shimla||2 arrested for minors’ rape in Shimla||The police today arrested a Nepalese youth aged 18 for allegedly raping a minor, who is six-month pregnant. The police registered a case under Section 376 of the IPC and sections of the POCSO Act against the accused at Chhota Shimla police station on the complaint of the 16-year-old victim. She alleged that she came in his contact sometimes back and he sexually assaulted her for about one year on the pretext of marrying her.   In another shocking incident, a 65-year-old man allegedly raped a four-year girl in Chopal. The accused, hailing from Uttarakhand, worked as a labourer. He has  been arrested.   Accused Geeta Ram came to the house of the victim when her mother had gone out and allegedly sexually assaulted the minor, who was alone in the house. The victim told her mother about the incident and she reported the matter to the police. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/2-arrested-for-minors-rape-in-shimla-233346
02-04-2021||Solan||Rajeev Bindal: Oppn ignored Solan||The BJP today accused the Congress of ignoring Solan town. MC poll in-charge Rajeev Bindal said, “While Dharamsala town with 22,000 population was upgraded to a corporation, Solan town having 39,000 population was ignored during the Congress government”.He said, “The Congress should clarify why the Solan municipal council was not upgraded to a municipal corporation and deprived of Central schemes. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rajeev-bindal-oppn-ignored-solan-233347
02-04-2021||---||Districts asked to reactivate dedicated Covid facilities in Himachal||Shimla, April 1Following a spike in the number of corona cases in the last one month, the government has directed all districts to reactivate the dedicated Covid facilities.Chairing a video conference to review the situation, Secretary (Health) Amitabh Avasthi said diet, sanitation and treatment should be provided to all patients.The conference was attended by all DCs, Chief Medical Officers, principals of medical colleges and Medical Superintendents of the district hospitals and officials from Directorate of Health Services and National Health Mission.IGMC girl hostel containment zoneThe Block A of Blessington Hostel, IGMC’s girls’ hostel in Lakkar Bazaar in Shimla, has been declared a containment zone until April 11. “There have been nine Covid cases in the hostel since Tuesday. So, we have declared it a containment zone to control the spread of the virus,” said District Surveillance Officer Rakesh Bhardwaj.Avasthi further directed that all persons in home isolation must be monitored regularly to keep tabs on their health and for timely referral to a health facility. All district authorities were directed that there should not be any delay in the referral of the patients from home to the health facility or from one facility to another to avoid mortality.The secretary reiterated that efficient implementation of “test, track and treat” remains the only proven strategy for control of transmission. Directions were given to all districts for testing of individuals with fever or any flu-like symptoms and isolating all those who test positive.The districts were also asked that all possible close contacts of positive persons (at least 25 to 30) must be traced within 48 hours and quarantined and subsequently tested for Covid 19 as per protocol.He further informed that the GoI had reviewed the vaccination drive in the country. The state has earned its place among the select few to have vaccinated more than 30 per cent of the estimated 60+ population within a short span of time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/districts-asked-to-reactivate-dedicated-covid-facilities-in-himachal-233348
02-04-2021||Shimla||409 cases, four deaths in Himachal||The Covid surge continued in the state as 409 fresh cases were reported today, taking the tally to 64,014. Besides, four persons died of the virus in the past 24 hours — two died in Una and one each in Mandi and Sirmaur. The total death count rose to 1,039. The highest number of 95 cases was reported in Kangra, followed by 67 in Una, 58 in Solan, 46 in Shimla, 39 in Mandi, 36 in Bilaspur, 21 in Kullu and 18 in Sirmaur. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/409-cases-four-deaths-in-himachal-233349
02-04-2021||Our Correspondent||Una villagers return sans jab||Una, April 1Covid immunisation could not take place at the Health Sub Centre at Kotla Khurd in the district today, causing inconvenience to people.Residents of two wards of Kotla Khurd panchayat were informed two days ago by an ASHA worker regarding their turn to take the Covid jab on Thusday, the weekly immunisation day at the Health Sub Centre. However, the health staff did not arrive there and people had to return without receiving the vaccine.Local resident Ram Prasad said that they contacted District Immunisation Officer Dr Nikhil Sharma around 10.30 am today, and he told them that the vaccine and the Health Department staff had been dispatched and they would reach the village centre in 15 minutes. However, when nobody arrived there in the next 30 minutes, they contacted Chief Medical Officer Dr Raman Sharma, who assured them that he would direct the Block Medical Officer to ensure that the vaccine was made available at the centre as soon as possible.Dr Nikhil Sharma said that the paramedic, who was to administer the vaccine, had been deputed elsewhere to take Covid samples. However, he could not tell why the ASHA worker did not inform the residents about the situation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/una-villagers-return-sans-jab-233350
02-04-2021||Our Correspondent ---||Congress seeks CBI probe into BS-IV car registration in Palampur||Palampur, April 1 Mukesh Agnihotri, Congress MLA and leader of the Opposition, today demanded a CBI probe into the registration   of   BS-IV vehicles here. Addressing a news conference, Agnihotri disclosed  that the scam had come to light in the office of the Motor Licensing Authority  last month when 110 cars were registered  with    fake documents.   He said though the   Supreme  Court  had banned the registration of   BS-IV   vehicles  from  April 1, 2020, over 110 vehicles were   registered with the registration authority. The vehicles were purchased outside the state and then registered in Palampur with fake documents, showing these as BS-VI vehicles but the authorities remained a mute spectator,  he said. He asked Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur to hand over the case to the CBI so that the real culprits could be arrested. The police  had failed to arrest the culprits and  only agents and a clerk had been arrested. The police   could recover only two vehicles, therefore, a CBI probe was mandatory.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/congress-seeks-cbi-probe-into-bs-iv-car-registration-in-palampur-233351
02-04-2021||Nurpur||Pathankot resident held with fake notes||The Nurpur police arrested Rajesh Kumar of Pangoli in Pathankot (Punjab) late last evening with fake currency notes having a face value of Rs 3,380. The accused, who has been booked was produced in the court on Thursday and remanded in police custody. The accused, who was in a taxi (PB01A-2340), went to a shop at Raja Ka Talab and purchased something from a shop and gave a note with a face value of Rs 100 to the shopkeeper.  He then left towards Jassur side. But shopkeeper Arun Kaundal got suspicious and found that the note was fake. He  contacted the police in Jassur. The police stopped the vehicle and recovered fake currency notes from him. They also impounded the vehicle.— OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/pathankot-resident-held-with-fake-notes-233352
02-04-2021||UNA||Man murdered over land dispute in Una||A dispute over land led to the murder of a man from Nangran village today in Una. The police, in a press release, stated that complainant Gurdial Singh of Fatehpur village near Nangran was a witness to the incident.     The press release, quoting the complainant, stated that victim Vipan Kumar had come home on leave and was harvesting his wheat crop. Some other people were also working in their fields nearby when Jaswant Singh, alias Bittu, accompanied by three other persons, came in a van.   Jaswant was carrying a 12-bore gun with three of his accomplices — driver Gurpreet Singh, Dilpreet Singh and Amrik Singh. Jaswant allegedly fired a round at Vipan, who died on the spot, said the complainant. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/man-murdered-over-land-dispute-in-una-233353
02-04-2021||---||3 killed in mishap in Rampur||Shimla, April 1 Three persons were killed on the spot when the vehicle (CH 01AB 7879)  they were travelling in fell into a gorge near Badagaon in Rampur subdivision of Shimla district this morning. The ill-fated vehicle carrying three persons was on its way to Badagaon from Shivan when the tragedy struck.  The deceased were identified as Dev Thakur (22), Aditya Verma (20), residents of Nirmand in Kullu, and Himanshu Shandil (17), resident of Kumarsein in Shimla.  A case has been registered and investigations are underway, police sources said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/3-killed-in-mishap-in-rampur-233354
02-04-2021||Shimla||COVID: Educational institutions in Himachal to remain closed till April 15||Educational institutions in Himachal Pradesh will remain closed till April 15 due to the ongoing COVID-19 surge, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur said on Thursday.   The state government had earlier closed schools, colleges and other educational institutions from March 27 to April 4, but the closure has now been extended upto April 15, he told reporters in Kullu. The chief minister said that the three Himachal Pradesh districts bordering Punjab such as Una, Kangra and Solan are registering a large number of new COVID-19 cases these days. The state government has already put some restrictions on social gatherings and started a strict enforcement of mask wearing, he said, adding that the hoteliers have been asked to follow COVID-19 guidelines.Himachal Pradesh currently has 32,21 active COVID-19 cases, up from around 200 cases on February 25.  Una (712), Kangra (684) and Solan (527) are currently the worst-hit districts, data released by the state health department stated. However, the tribal districts of Kinnaur and Lahaul-Spiti have seven and zero active cases, respectively, it added. The hill state recorded 409 new COVID-19 cases, while four patients succumbed to the virus on Thursday, the data added.  The total number of COVID-19 cases in the state has reached to 64,014 and the death toll to 1,039 on Thursday, it added. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-educational-institutions-in-himachal-to-remain-closed-till-april-15-233246
02-04-2021||Ambika Sharma||Parking blues in Solan, challans add to woes||Tribune News ServiceSolan, March 28The inordinate delay in completing various parking projects here is creating inconvenience to the people, who are facing hefty fines for parking vehicles in the available space.Though several projects were conceived years ago, some of these have either failed to be completed or some are yet to begin. The railway road parking project meant for 102 vehicles was conceived in 2008. Though bids were invited for the project on a build, operate and transfer basis in 2008, only a portion was completed in 2018 and the construction of its second phase is yet to begin.2,748 fined2,748 vehicles have been challaned since January by the Solan police and a penalty of Rs 2,97,600 has been collected while 1,453 cases have been sent to the courtAnother multi-level parking project was conceived at the old bus stand involving transfer of Army land. The parking lots for 156 vehicles were supposed to be created in three floors, along with some commercial space. Since the exchange of land failed to take place, the project, too, has been hanging fire since then.Vishal Singh, a resident, who has been facing the scourge of challans, said, “The local authorities have failed to create parking space vis-à-vis the increase in the number of vehicles and challans have become a routine affair. There is inadequate space even to park two-wheelers and one is fearful of being issued a challan.”The parking facility is available at Saproon but its location along a curve on the busy national highway has reduced its utility as motorists find it difficult to gain access to it. Another parking lot near Thodo Ground is occupied by locals, leaving little room for those coming from outside.“As many as 2,748 vehicles have been challaned since January by the Solan police and a penalty of Rs 2,97,600 has been collected while 1,453 cases have been sent to the court,” said Superintendent of Police Abhishek Yadav.Pawan Gupta, MC councillor and former president, said the work to construct the second phase of the railway road parking would begin soon. A sum of Rs 70 lakh had been made available for constructing an approach road for the Army authorities and this would pave the way for exchange of land and construction of the parking at old bus stand soon. In the coming days, the projects would be completed and would ease the parking woes. The issue has become a major poll plank for the municipal corporation poll as residents are soar over lack of parking space in the town in the last several years despite a sharp increase in the number of vehicles.Railway road project incompleteParking near old bus stand uncertain||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/parking-blues-in-solan-challans-add-to-woes-231900
