03-04-2021||New Delhi||13 Delhi St Stephen's students on trip to Himachal test positive for Covid||The St Stephen's College campus' "inner perimeter" has been rendered out of bounds after 13 resident students and two staffers tested COVID-19 positive, according to a notice issued by the institute's principal.The notice, issued on Friday, said necessary and stringent measures have been put in place by the dean's office to ensure isolation and social distancing for "all residents".Himachal educational institutes closed till April 15The dean of residence-cum-college chaplain and mass steward (security officer), both of whom have tested positive for the coronavirus, had taken a group of students, including hostellers, of the Delhi college for an educational trip to Dalhousie in Himachal Pradesh in the last week of March."The inner perimeter of the college is out of bounds for all, unless specific clearance is given by the principal on a case by case basis. The outer perimeter of the college may be accessed by those with relevant and regular work after due process at the security counter," the notice read."Faculty who are scheduled to come to college may defer their coming till a notification informs them of an improvement in the condition," it read.On Friday, St Stephen's College governing body member Nandita Narain wrote to the college's principal, John Varghese, asking several questions related to the reports of students testing COVID-19 positive and the Dalhousie trip.In the letter, Narain also asked whether the college administration took permission from the University of Delhi and the state government for the trip or opening hostels and allowing "over 200" students to return in the last few months."Why was this trip organised by the college officials in the times of COVID pandemic? Was the trip authorised by the principal? Was the consent of parents of the students taken for going on this trip? Was the permission of the University of Delhi and the state government taken for organising such a trip in pandemic times?" the governing body member asked.In his reply, Varghese, besides confirming the positive test reports of the students and the staff members, said the trip in question was authorised by him and that the consent of students' parents was also taken for the same."As for the other questions, I shall answer them when I have a little more time to spare. You will agree that handling the situation is the priority now. Please be informed that the Dean's Office is aware of the situation and necessary steps have already been taken in consultation with medical and civic authorities," he wrote to Narain.The national capital has been seeing a surge in cases.Delhi recorded 3,594 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Friday, the highest daily count this year while 14 more people died due to the coronavirus infection, taking the toll to 11,050, according to the health department.The positivity rate also mounted to 4.11 per cent from 3.57 per cent a day before, amid a massive surge in cases in the span of the last few weeks.In Himachal Pradesh, the cumulative cases stand at 60,026 and active cases at 3,338, while the death toll is 1,056, according to the Union Health Ministry. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/13-delhi-st-stephens-students-on-trip-to-himachal-test-positive-for-covid-234117
03-04-2021||---||Himachal educational institutes closed till April 15||Shimla, April 3The Himachal Pradesh Government on Saturday issued formal orders for the closure of all educational institutions till April 15. However, the teaching and non-teaching staff will continue to be present.  The coaching centres and all medical, dental and nursing institutions will remain open in strict compliance of the SOPs issued by the Health Department.13 Delhi St Stephen's students on trip to Himachal test positive for CovidThe educational institutions having residential facility can remain open too. The students of senior classes and those having board examinations can come to the institutions to clear their doubts, but with the written consent of their parents. Directions have also been  issued to ensure complete sanitisaton of the examination centres on a regular basis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-educational-institutes-closed-till-april-15-234114
03-04-2021||Ravinder Sood||Himachal districts clash over water source||Palampur, April 2Tension prevailed at Ghatta, 25 km from here, as two groups of villagers from Mandi and Kangra districts clashed over the lifting of water from Bhatwali ‘khud’, a local source.A large number of women from Ghankhetar area of Baijnath in Kangra yesterday reached the construction site near Ghatta and allegedly damaged the pipeline being laid by the Irrigation and Public Health (IPH) Department for a drinking water supply scheme for Pandol area in Mandi.A clash ensued as the residents of adjoining Mandi district, who were beneficiaries of the scheme, too reached the spot and countered the Kangra residents.Senior IPH and Kangra administration officials soon arrived at the site and tried to pacify the warring sides, but to no avail. The police help was later sought to avoid any untoward incident and for the laying of pipes.Amit Kapoor, a municipal councillor who reportedly led the agitated women to the site, claimed the proposed scheme would result in overexploitation of their local irrigation channels, thus adversely affecting their agricultural prospects. “The ‘khud’ is our lifeline. The lifting of water will render it dry,” said Kapoor.A senior IPH official said Bhatwali ‘khud’ had enough water and refuted the claims of the Ghankhetar women that villages downstream would face a water crisis.The Mandi administration too sought the assistance of the Kangra Deputy Commissioner for laying of the pipeline amicably.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-districts-clash-over-water-source-233988
03-04-2021||The road between housing board colony to government ITI and NGO bhawan adjoining the boundary of ward number two in Nurpur is without streetlights. Some portion of the stretch is in MC area and rest falls in the panchayat area. Around one kilometre stretch has six poles on the roadside but not even a single has any LED bulb or tube rods. The MC or the state electricity authorities should provide LED bulbs on this stretch||Non-functional streetlights trouble Nurpur commuters||Reduce syllabus or promote studentsDURING Covid classes were taken online. It did not help students much, especially those with network issues. Several students of Government College, Hamirpur, also faced the problem. Besides, only 30 to 40 per cent syllabus was covered online and when the college opened in February, the remaining syllabus and practical were covered within a month in a hurried manner. What are students going to write in exams? My request is, either reduced the syllabus or promote the students. — Students, GC, HamirpurIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/non-functional-streetlights-trouble-nurpur-commuters-233911
03-04-2021||The HPU is offering a special chance to the students of Bachelor of Hotel Management for the academic session 2011-2012 to 2016-17 to complete their degree. By paying a fee of Rs 20||Special chance for hotel management students||Webinar on teaching strategiesA webinar on teaching strategies and methodologies in English (writing) was organised by the CBSE’s Panchkula-based Centre of Excellence where the resource, person Ravi Sharma from Army Public School, Dagshai, elaborated upon why writing is important. “Writing is not only a key element of student’s education but is also crucial in a job. Besides being a key form of communication, it can also be an important outlet,” said Sharma. Various aspects of writing were pondered upon and stress on how to improve writing skills of students were also discussed in the webinar.Dharampur college gets 'B' gradeDr Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan Government Degree College, Dharampur (Mandi), was granted "B" grade by the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) on March 31. A three-member NAAC team had visited the college on March 18 and 19 to gauge the performance of the college on various parameters, and the college was given "B" Grade. Expressing satisfaction over "B" Grade given by the NAAC, college principal RR Kondal said the college had done a commendable job. Now the college is eligible for seeking grant from the UGC and RUSA.Online workshop on cyber probeIn APG, Shimla University, an online workshop on cyber investigation and digital forensic will be organised from April 3 to 5. Cyber crime investigation and digital forensics veteran Shrikant Ardhapurkar, Prof Arun Kumar Choudhary, Dean, Engineering Department, and Dr Ramesh Kumar, the chairperson of Computer Science Engineering (CASE) Department, will be the experts. Prof Ramesh Chauhan, Vice-Chancellor (Acting), and Prof Anil Pal, Registrar (Acting), said cyber crime was increasing all over the world due to information technology illiteracy among masses. "The growing demand for smart mobile phones, Internet and online illiteracy has opened up new avenues for online or digital frauds, so masses, students must learn the tips of cyber crime investigation and digital forensics to avoid being a victim of fraud," Prof Chauhan said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/special-chance-for-hotel-management-students-233910
03-04-2021||Hamirpur||PWD constructed parking courtyard on forestland in Hamirpur||The PWD allegedly spent over Rs 2 lakh to make parking space and courtyard on the forestland in front of a restaurant in the town. The PWD had constructed this parking area on the forestland that was allegedly encroached upon by a restaurant owner earlier. The land was developed by the PWD on the pretext of constructing a footpath but later, the department constructed the courtyard for the restaurant along with the footpath.LC Bandna, divisional forest officer, said she had allowed a passage to the restaurant through the forestland but not the construction of a courtyard on the identified land. Vivek Sharma, Executive Engineer of the PWD division, said the PWD had done cementing in the forest area for people. He said if the Forest Department objects, the PWD would clear the area. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/pwd-constructed-parking-courtyard-on-forestland-in-hamirpur-233909
03-04-2021||---||Booklet on waste management for Lahaul students released||Our CorrespondentKullu, April 2Lahaul and Spiti Deputy Commissioner Pankaj Rai yesterday released an activity-guide booklet to make schoolchildren aware of solid waste management as a co-cognitive subject. He said that Lahaul is the first district to incorporate the topic as a co-cognitive activityfor students.Rai said that through this activity-guide, students would be trained in theoretical and practical aspects of solid waste management. He added that it had been prepared in two sections and made available as a concise-simple medium at the primary level and as a detailed, audio-visual medium at the secondary level. Through this, the school students would be imparted training about solid waste management, side-effects of solid waste and the importanceof dustbins.He said that to make schoolchildren aware of the need for solid waste management, this topic had been added as a co-cognitive activity in some schools on a pilot basis. There would be a problem of solid waste in Lahaul and Spiti district in future due to the increasing number of tourists and business activities. Therefore, it was necessary to make all people aware of the problem.Rai said that people already use wet waste as fertiliser in their fields. A plan had been chalked out for the disposal of solid waste, which would be implemented soon to prevent pollution in the beautiful environment of Lahaul. He added, “We have signed an MoU with the IIT, Delhi, and soon a system of collection, management and disposal of solid waste will be implemented throughout Lahaul”.He said 50 toilets were being built at tourist places such as Sissu, Udaipur, Triloknath, Tandi Sangam, Deepaktaal and Chandertaal at a cost of Rs 43 lakh. He added that the administration had arranged 20 dumpers and a vehicle for solid waste management, courtesy the Municipal Corporation of Shimla.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/booklet-on-waste-management-for-lahaul-students-released-233907
03-04-2021||Kullu||Tourist’s body found in Parbati after 41 days||The body of a tourist from Delhi, who was washed away in the Parbati river near the Galu bridge in the Manikaran valley on February 14, was found near Jari village on March 26.Kullu SP Gaurav Singh said the deceased was today identified as Rohit (20) by his father Mahinder Jainesar.He said his son had gone for sightseeing near the river along with his friends and family members but lost his balance and fell into the river and was washed away.The SP said an unidentified body was found on March 26. After the post-mortem report, the details of missing persons was checked and the victim’s father was called who identified the body. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/tourists-body-found-in-parbati-after-41-days-233905
03-04-2021||---||Ex-minister Mohan Lal dies||Our CorrespondentChamba, April 2Former Minister of State for Ayurveda Mohan Lal died today. He will be cremated tomorrow at his native village Sarol near Chamba town.Mohan Lal had been unwell for some time. Recently, he was admitted to a private hospital in Jalandhar after his health deteriorated, where he died today.Mohan Lal, born on May 30, 1945, represented the Churah Assembly constituency (formerly Rajnagar) several times. He was the Minister of State for Ayurveda in Prem Kumar Dhumal’s government.He is survived by two sons and two daughters. His wife had died a few years earlier.Meanwhile, Governor Bandaru Dattatreya and Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur have expressed grief over the demise of the former minister.The Chief Minister said Mohan Lal was an honest and dedicated leader, who was always committed towards welfare of the poor and downtrodden. He said his contributions towards development of the state in general and Chamba district in particular would be remembered for years to come.Thakur prayed for peace to the departed soul and strength to the bereaved family members.Shimla: Meanwhile, Governor Bandaru Dattatreya and Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur have expressed grief over the demise of Mohan Lal.Dattatreya said Mohan Lal will always be remembered for his valuable service and contribution to the state. He expressed his deepest condolences with the bereaved family members for this irreparable loss.The Chief Minister said Mohan Lal was an honest and dedicated leader, who was always committed towards the welfare of the poor and downtrodden. He said his contributions towards development of the state in general and for Chamba district in particular would be remembered for years to come.Thakur prayed for peace to the departed soul and strength to the bereaved family members.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ex-minister-mohan-lal-dies-233904
03-04-2021||---||Himachal best performer under Jal Jeevan Mission, says CM||Tribune News ServiceMandi, April 1Himachal Pradesh has received the highest amount of Rs 221.28 crore as the incentive fund out of a total of Rs 464.28 crore allocated to seven states of the country for best performance in physical and financial progress and better ability to utilise the funds under the Jal Jeevan Mission, said Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur.He addressed a meeting of Jal Shakti and Public Works Department officials in Mandi district today.Water to all schoolsThree districts, 11 blocks, 825 panchayats and 8,346 villages of the state have been brought under the Har Ghar Jal Yojana.Drinking water has been made available to all schools and anganwarisThe Chief Minister said despite the Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown, Himachal Pradesh was the first state in the country to spend the amount received in four instalments and achieve the target under the Jal Jeevan Mission by November 2020.Thakur said the Jal Jeevan Mission was a universal water supply scheme, under which the government had worked systematically to provide pure drinking water through pipes in all villages of the state. As a result, water connections have been provided to more than 13 lakh households in the state.He said three districts, 11 blocks, 825 panchayats and 8,346 villages of the state were brought under the Har Ghar Jal Yojana. Drinking water has been made available to all schools and Anganwaris in the state under this scheme.He expressed happiness that Himachal Pradesh would achieve the target of 100 per cent piped water connections under the Jal Jeevan Mission by July 2022, against the Union Government’s target of 2024.He directed officers of the Public Works Department to speed up the work of tarring the roads. He said timely supply of bitumen would be ensured with the cooperation of the Union Ministry so that the roads could be mettled at the earliest. He also took stock of the development works done in the past three years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-best-performer-under-jal-jeevan-mission-says-cm-233903
03-04-2021||---||Task forces to combat forest fires in Kangra||Our CorrespondentNurpur, April 2The Forest Department has advanced the forest fire season to April 1 from April 15 (ending June 15) keeping in view the prolonged dry spell. To combat fire incidents in lower Kangra, the season can be extended till the monsoons.According to information, 53,177 hectares of woods are scattered in 82 forest beats in Nurpur division comprising Nurpur, Jawali, Fatehpur and Indora subdivisions. Around 41,000 hectares of forest having chir trees in plenty is considered fire sensitive. Forest fire task forces led by range officers have been deployed in all five ranges. Besides, five mobile micro fire engines have also been deployed in the five forest ranges.Burning of bushes, negligent smokers to blameForest fires mostly occur due to the burning of bushes and weeds by people for better green fodder. The negligence on the part of passersby, who smoke in the forest area, also leads to fire mishaps.The Nurpur forest division authorities have chalked out a strategy to combat forest fires during the summer. The required maintenance of the existing 73-km fire lines has been undertaken.Vikalp Yadav, DFO, Nurpur, says the department has decided not to grant leave to its staff during the fire season. The field staff will remain on call duty round the clock. Five control rooms, one each in the range offices at Nurpur, Jawali, Kotla, Fatehpur and Indora, have been set up to ensure coordination during firefighting.Yadav has said those found lighting or damaging forest wealth would face FIRs and a heavy penalty.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/task-forces-to-combat-forest-fires-in-kangra-233898
03-04-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||State-of-the-art prison to  open at Nalagarh by April 15||Tribune News ServiceShimla, April 2The first state-of-the-art jail in Himachal on about 10 bighas at Nalagarh in Solan district is nearing completion and expected to be inaugurated by April 15.The construction of one barrack each for men and women has been completed, besides a multi-purpose hall, a kitchen, a dispensary and a canteen, while 80 per cent work on the third barrack is done. As many as 120 inmates will be housed in the jail.The spacious green premises will also have an open auditorium, besides an Ahimsa Vatika and open gym. The prison will have better lighting and toilet facilities. Solar panels of 20 KV are being installed. A bakery unit will also come up for which the training of inmates is underway.120 inmates to be housedThe jail will have a multi-purpose hall, a kitchen, a dispensary and a canteen120 inmates will be housed in itThe spacious green premises will also have an open auditorium, an Ahimsa Vatika and an open gymThe prison will have better lighting and toilet facilitiesSolar panels of 20 KV are being installedA bakery unit will also come up for which the training of inmates is underwayIt is another step towards prison reforms. An industrial kitchen with semi-automatic cooking system has been set up in the jail as the Police Department has already received request to provide meals to workers in the Nalagarh, Baddi and Barotiwala industrial belt, said DGP, Prisons and Correctional Services, Somesh Goyal, adding that the vision was to supply meals to 500 workers.Horticulture and floriculture will be developed by the captains of the industry, who have also agreed to provide water coolers, television sets and other equipment for the prison. The carpentry unit has been shifted to the jail so that customised furniture could be manufactured, he told The Tribune.Earlier, the land for the jail was provided 10 km away from the police lines, but he requested the Deputy Commissioner, Solan, to identify land near the lines in view of the security of the prison, Goyal added.The department, which had started the “har hath ko kam” initiative to rehabilitate the prisoners and set up prison industries, was keen to open jail in Nalagarh as it is an industrial hub. Moreover, it is easy to have tie-ups with the industry to provide training to inmates.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/state-of-the-art-prison-to-open-at-nalagarh-by-april-15-233896
03-04-2021||---||Shimla MC plans open air gyms for all 34 wards||Tribune News ServiceShimla, April 2The Shimla Municipal Corporation plans to start open air gyms shortly in all of its 34 wards. Shimla Smart City Limited has approved Rs 2.09 crore for the project.“We have floated tenders for the work, and we hope all wards will have the facility soon,” said MC Commissioner Ashish Kohli. “In fact, we have already inaugurated one such gym near Ganj Market. It has been constructed by the MC at a cost of Rs 10 lakh,” said Kohli.Mayor Satya Kaundal said all the councillors have been asked to find a suitable place in their wards for these gyms. “This will give everyone an opportunity to work out. Also, it will help keep the youth away from drugs and channelize their energy in the right direction,” she said.“Our focus is to develop open spaces in the entire city. We are developing a park worth Rs 34 crore on the covered Sanjauli-IGMC path. This too will have a small gym,” she said.In some wards, however, opening the gyms will not be possible because of the scarcity of land. “There’s no space in my ward to have this facility. The land in my ward belongs to government agencies like PWD, forest, etc. They don’t give us land even for building basic facilities ambulance roads, so there’s no questions of them sparing some land for a gym,” said Kimi Sood, a councillor from Nabha.A couple of open air gyms already installed are getting good response from the people. “I started an open air gym in Dada-Dadi Park two years back, and many people use it,” said Jakhoo councilor Archana Dhawan.“The machines in these gyms will be basic but at least people could give their limbs some work out,” said Kohli.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shimla-mc-plans-open-air-gyms-for-all-34-wards-233893
03-04-2021||Lalit Mohan||Dharamsala dustbin scheme fails to serve purpose, draws flak||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, April 2The underground dustbin project that was implemented in Dharamsala during the stint of the previous Congress government has become a rallying point for both BJP and Congress during the ongoing campaign for the Municipal Corporation (MC) elections here.As per the information collected by The Tribune, the underground dustbin project was implemented in the town in two phases. The first phase was implemented in the year 2015-16 during the stint of previous Congress government. The second phase was implemented in the year 2018-19 during the stint of present BJP government. Underground dustbins were put up at 70 locations in the city. In both the phases, about Rs 12 crores was spent on installing the dustbins.About the schemeThe project was implemented in the town in two phasesThe first phase was implemented during the stint of the previous Congress government, while the second phase was implemented during the stint of the present BJP governmentAbout Rs12 crore was spent on installing the dustbinsThe scheme is under criticism as many underground dustbins have become non-functional, resulting in the wastage of public fundsThe project was aimed at modernising waste management in Dharamsala city. Dharamsala city was first in the country to get underground dustbins.The scheme is under criticism from the local citizens as many of underground dustbins have become non-functional, resulting in the wastage of public funds.The BJP MP from Kangra, Kishan Kapoor has alleged corruption in the project. He has alleged that the scheme has failed to serve its purpose and public money was wasted on it. He has demanded from the state government to order an inquiry into purchase and payments made to company that installed the dustbins.Sudhir Sharma under whose stint as minister for town and country planning during Congress government underground dustbin project was implemented said that if there was corruption present government was free to hold an inquiry. He said that as per agreement signed with the company that installed underground dustbins it was to maintain them for a period five years. The present BJP government has failed to properly honour the scheme, he said.However, since the underground dustbin project was implemented during the stint of both the BJP and the Congress governments it would be hard for the present government to fix responsibility on just the previous government for alleged failure of the project. However, in the election campaign for MC polls the dustbin project has become an issue over which both BJP and congress leaders were sparing and blaming each other.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/dharamsala-dustbin-scheme-fails-to-serve-purpose-draws-flak-233890
03-04-2021||---||Do not impose lockdown: Theog MLA Rakesh Singha||Tribune News ServiceShimla, April 2Even as the government is considering different restrictions in the state to check the fast surging second wave of Covid-19, Rakesh Singha, CPM MLA from Theog, has warned the government against imposing a lockdown in the state.“The financial wheel has started to move again after coming to a grinding halt following the lockdown last year. So, nothing should be done that stops it again and puts the livelihood of people under threat. If political gatherings and elections could be held, so could the establishments providing livelihood to people,” he said.‘If poll can be held, businesses can also operate’The financial wheel has started to move again. So, nothing should be done that stops it again and puts the livelihood of people under threat. If political gatherings and elections can be held, the establishments providing livelihood to people can also function. — Rakesh Singha, CPM MLAHe said all precautions must be taken to prevent the spread of the virus and people should come forward for vaccination.Speaking to mediapersons, he slammed his constituency’s BJP leadership for “trying to malign his image” by saying that he had not been able to do any work for his constituency in the last three years. “The work on the biggest water augmentation scheme in the state worth Rs 150 crore is on and will be completed next year. Also, in Shimla district, the maximum funds were spent on roads in my constituency after Rohru,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/do-not-impose-lockdown-theog-mla-rakesh-singha-233888
03-04-2021||Shimla||408 Covid cases, 4 deaths in Himachal||The number of Covid cases in the state continued to rise with 408 fresh cases coming to the fore today. Besides, four deaths were reported in the past 24 hours.The number of active cases today touched 3,338, with the total positive cases till now being 64,420. The total number of deaths due to Covid till date has risen to 1,043 with two persons succumbing to the virus in Hamirpur and one each in Kangra and Shimla in the last 24 hours. The fatality figure continues to rise with almost four or five deaths being reported daily.The highest number of 77 cases was reported in Una, followed by 73 in Hamirpur, 61 in Shimla, 54 in Solan, 53 in Kangra, 41 in Bilaspur, 24 in Sirmaur, 12 in Chamba, nine in Mandi, three in Kullu and one in Kinnaur. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/408-covid-cases-4-deaths-in-himachal-233880
03-04-2021||---||Excise revenue of Himachal rose by 3% despite Covid: CM||Tribune News ServiceShimla, April 2The total revenue of the state Excise and Taxation Department during 2020-21 has surpassed the previous financial year’s collection by 3 per cent despite the Covid-19 pandemic, said Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur on Friday.He said, “The revenue collection in the first quarter of the financial year was down by 52 per cent, but thereafter it constantly grew by 4 per cent, 23 per cent and 34 per cent in the second, third and fourth quarters, respectively”.Economic revivalThe revival of economic activities, unlock strategy of the government, better compliance by taxpayers and better administration by the Excise Department are the major reasons for the revenue growth. — Jai Ram Thakur, Chief MinisterThakur said that the revenue collection in March this year was Rs 1,006 crore compared to Rs 699 crore during the month last year, a jump of 44 per cent. He added that revenue receipts from VAT and state GST registered a significant growth of 182 per cent and 31 per cent, respectively, in March 2021.He said the major increase in VAT collection was primarily due to the success of the Legacy Cases Resolution Scheme. “Under the scheme, the department has recovered Rs 362 crore by disposing of cases pertaining to subsumed taxes. Around Rs 182 crore of it was collected in March this year,” he added.The Chief Minister said that the major reasons for the revenue growth were the revival of economic activities, government’s unlock strategy, better compliance by taxpayers and better administration by the department. He added that a new initiative of the department to monitor field units through performance cards had created a healthy competitive environment, resulting in greater motivation of officers to beat the assigned targets.Thakur said that the department had identified major focus areas to augment revenue collection from recoveries under the Legacy Cases Resolution Scheme, physical verification of e-way bills, compliance with GSTR3B return filings, recovery of interest for late filing of returns, recovery of ineligible ITC, recovery of tax deficits/ mismatches and the identification of cases pertaining to tax evasion and erroneous refunds.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/excise-revenue-of-himachal-rose-by-3-despite-covid-cm-233877
03-04-2021||---||BJP doesn’t care for its workers: Dyal Pyari||Tribune News ServiceSolan, April 2BJP rebel-turned-Congress leader Dyal Pyari from Pacchad Assembly segment in Sirmaur today said despite being the largest party, the BJP did not care for its grass-roots workers.“Money power was used in the Pacchad byelection by the BJP to win the seat”, she alleged while addressing mediapersons here today after her arrival from Delhi where had joined the Congress yesterday.“My whole family had supported the BJP but today we all support the Congress. We worked hard to strengthen the BJP for the past 40 years in Pacchad when the party had little presence in our area. The Congress, on the other hand, respects all its workers,” she said.‘Faced discrimination’I worked for the BJP dedicatedly for the past 15 years but was discriminated against by local leaders for being a woman and close to people. I urge other BJP leaders, who are feeling suffocated in the party, to join the Congress. — Dyal Pyari, Congress leader“I had worked for the Chief Minister at Seraj but felt hurt when despite being humiliated on the dais in his presence, he did little to restore my honour,” said Dyal Pyari.“I worked for the BJP dedicatedly for the last 15 years but was discriminated against for being a woman and for being close to the masses by local leaders who suited the party organisation. I urge other BJP leaders who are feeling suffocated like me in the BJP to join the Congress,” she alleged.She said the BJP’s information technology cell is so strong that it has mastered the art of spreading gimmicks about false claims of development. She claimed that no funds were granted for the grassroot level institutions like zila parishad by the BJP in the 14th Finance Commission which was appalling.She also attacked the BJP for extending the much-touted Grahini Suvidha Yojana only to the cohorts of the BJP while failing to benefit the needy poor from this scheme. She also raised issue of high fuel price and LPG, food prices and said common man was bereft of water and power in her area which was appalling.Dyak Pyari’s entry into the Congress is also being seen as a projection for the 2022 Vidhan Sabha elections from the Pacchad Assembly seat.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bjp-doesnt-care-for-its-workers-dyal-pyari-233869
03-04-2021||---||Himachal Congress president Kuldeep Singh Rathore predicts win in all four MCs||Our CorrespondentPalampur, April 2HPCC president Kuldeep Singh Rathore said here today that the Congress would win all four Municipal Corporations (MCs) — Palampur, Solan, Mandi and Dharamsala — where elections were due on April 7.Addressing a press conference here today, Rathore alleged that the Jai Ram Thakur government had failed on all fronts in the past three years and people of the state were disillusioned and disappointed in it because of its anti-people polices. He alleged that during the Covid pandemic, the state government had failed to provide financial assistance to the affected people. The tourism industry was hit badly as a majority of the hotels in the state remained shut down for months. Despite that, the government charged commercial bill of water and power supply from hoteliers, he said.He said the Chief Minister was focusing on installing hoardings for publicity all over the state, which is nothing but the “misuse” of funds and an “anti-environment” act. He alleged that some government officers were working as BJP agents and harassing Congress candidates by way of rejecting their nominations on flimsy grounds.He alleged that a cold war was going on between BJP leaders and the bureaucracy, resulting in the total collapse of governance.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-congress-president-kuldeep-singh-rathore-predicts-win-in-all-four-mcs-233865
03-04-2021||---||Will construct roads, parking lots in Mandi: Cong||Tribune News ServiceMandi, April 2The Congress in its ‘Vachanbadhta Patar’ issued here today for the Mandi Municipal Corporation elections promised better facilities to local residents. It also promised parking facilities in every ward and the construction of bypasses and circular roads for better transportation in the corporation area. It assured the residents of relaxation under the Town and Country Planning Act for the maintenance of old buildings.Besides, the party stated that no taxes would be imposed on the residents of the municipal corporation area for the next five years. To promote religious tourism, historical temples of Mandi town would be beautified. For the recreation of children, youths and senior citizens, a children’s park, open-air gym and a citizen walking path would be developed. The party also promised to provide self-employment opportunities to women.Kaul Singh said, “The BJP government in the state has failed on all fronts. The Congress is all set to win the municipal corporation elections in Mandi. Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur and his associate Irrigation and Public Health Minister Mahender Singh Thakur have not been able to ensure equitable development of various areas of the state”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/will-construct-roads-parking-lots-in-mandi-cong-233858
03-04-2021||Palampur||Satpal Singh Satti: Strengthen Jai Ram’s hands for growth of Palampur||Satpal Satti, Chairman of the HP State Finance Commission, said that people would vote for the BJP in the Palampur Municipal Corporation (MC) elections for stability and development. People should strengthen the hands of Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur and elect a BJP Mayor in the MC elections so that Palampur could witness a new era of development.Satti, while addressing mediapersons here, said that the government headed by Jai Ram Thakur believed in the overall development of the state and Palampur, which remained neglected during the Congress regime, would get justice.He said that though a Congress MLA represents Palampur at present, the Chief Minister upgraded the municipal council to a municipal corporation to honour the sentiments of the residents of Palampur, who had been fighting for the cause since 2005.He said though the Congress had represented Palampur for three decades, it could not even get a block development office in the area. Today, the people of Palampur have to go to Bhawarna and Panchrukhi blocks for even petty works, he added.Satti said all major projects such as HP Agriculture University, CSIR, bus stand, VMRT Hospital, zoo, and Saurabh Van Vihar were sanctioned and commissioned when Shanta Kumar was Chief Minister. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/satpal-singh-satti-strengthen-jai-rams-hands-for-growth-of-palampur-233856
03-04-2021||---||Mandi MC elections: BJP promises development, boost to religious tourism||Tribune News ServiceMandi, April 2The BJP has promised to promote religious tourism and ensure development of the Municipal Corporation (MC) area in a planned manner in its ‘Sankalp Patar’ issued for the MC elections in Mandi. Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur released the document in the town Thursday evening.For the promotion of religious tourism, the BJP promised to preserve 81 temples of Lord Shiva in the town and construct Shivdham at Kangnidhar.The ‘Sankalp Patar’ stated that the MC area and its nearby places would be developed to attract tourists. For the convenience of tourists, ropeways would constructed wherever required. Besides, the possibility of new paragliding sites and trekking routes would be explored, it stated.The party promised to construct artificial lakes on the Suketi and Beas rivers and a tourist help centre .The BJP promised to develop parks in every ward, construct café houses in the town and preserve and develop the forest area.Besides, the BJP has promised in its ‘Sankalp Patar’ to provide better amenities like power supply, water supply, road facility, sewerage facilities etc for residents, if it wins the MC elections scheduled on April 7.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mandi-mc-elections-bjp-promises-development-boost-to-religious-tourism-233854
