04-04-2021||Shimla||10 die of COVID-19 in Himachal, toll reaches 1057; 404 fresh cases reported||Himachal Pradesh reported 10 COVID-19 deaths and 404 cases Sunday, pushing the state’s overall coronavirus figures to 1,057 fatalities and 65,242 infections, officials said.The hill state’s Special Health Secretary Nipun Jindal said the maximum four people died in the Una district, followed by two each in Mandi and Shimla, and one each in Bilaspur and Solan districts.Those who succumbed to the virus on Sunday include seven men and three women, he said, adding all of them were in the age group of 49-99.Meanwhile, 404 new COVID-19 cases were reported Sunday when 256 people recovered from the disease, he added.The state’s total caseload has now climbed to 65,242, he added.The active cases in the state stand at 3,577, he added.The state government has already closed all the educational institutions till April 15 in view of the recent spike in the cases. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/10-die-of-covid-19-in-himachal-toll-reaches-1057-404-fresh-cases-reported-234616
04-04-2021||Hamirpur||Two held with over 10 grams of heroin in Himachal Pradesh||Two persons were arrested with 10.71 grams of heroin in Himachal Pradesh's Hamirpur district, police said on Sunday.The arrested persons have been identified as Sumit Kumar and Krishna Kumar, residents of Baroha and Dosarka villages of the district respectively, they said.Sumit and Krishna were arrested during checking at a checkpoint after 10.71 grams of heroin was recovered from their possession, Superintendent of Police Gokulchandran Karthikeyan said.The two have been booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act and investigation is underway, he said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/two-held-with-over-10-grams-of-heroin-in-himachal-pradesh-234528
04-04-2021||Shimla||Murder accused escapes on way to prison||A murder accused lodged in Nahan Jail dodged the police and managed to escape during transit from the IGMC Hospital here to the jail today. He was brought to the IGMC for treatment.The police have sealed all exit routs to arrest the accused, Gurmeet Singh, who is a resident of Fatehgarh in Punjab. After a murder case was registered against the accused in Nalagarh, he was lodged in the Nahan Jail.Shimla SP Mohit Chawla said all SHOs had been alerted and vigil on check-points had been stepped up to nab the culprit. However, the police had no explanation how the accused managed to escape. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/murder-accused-escapes-on-way-to-prison-234227
04-04-2021||Chamba||Chamba man donates blood for 208th time||Abdul Ghani (65) of Chamba on Friday donated blood for the 208th time.Ghani has been donating blood at the local Government Regional Hospital, now a Government Medical College and Hospital, since the age of 18.“I have donated blood to save life of others,” Ghani said while appealing to the youth to come forward for the noble cause. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/chamba-man-donates-blood-for-208th-time-234230
04-04-2021||Dharamsala||Clarify stand on CUHP campus issue: Congress||The Congress on Saturday sought to know why the Central University of Himachal Pradesh (CUHP) was operating from a temporary campus despite being allotted land by the state government. He said the state government should clarify its stand on the matter.“If the BJP government fails to clear the air, people will give it a befitting reply in the Dharamsala municipal polls on April 7,” Congress state spokesperson Rajesh Sharma said in a statement. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/clarify-stand-on-cuhp-campus-issue-congress-234223
04-04-2021||Chamba||Deputy Commissioner for early installation of composter plant in Chamba||Deputy Commissioner DC Rana has issued directions to the officials concerned for early installation of automatic bio composter plant at the garbage waste management centre at Kuranh on the suburbs of Chamba town.The DC gave these directions while presiding over a meeting of district-level committee constituted as per the directions of National Green Tribunal here. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/deputy-commissioner-for-early-installation-of-composter-plant-in-chamba-234225
04-04-2021||Our Correspondent||Senior citizens seek direct long-route buses||Chamba, April 3The District Senior Citizens’ Welfare Society has urged the state government to ply long-route HRTC Volvo, deluxe or ordinary buses directly to their destinations as most of these buses are being plied via Dalhousie.Society president PC Oberoi revealed that the distance between Chamba and NCR Delhi was about 620 km, besides other cities, adding that the HRTC Chamba-Delhi bus route was probably the longest in north India. Moreover, there were other long-route destinations, he said.“The plying of these buses via Dalhousie is tiresome. Rather, it is a punishment that passengers undergo, particularly older people, all through their trip from Chamba to Delhi, Chandigarh and other cities via Dalhousie,” Oberoi said.He requested the HRTC management to direct its Chamba depot to ensure plying of these buses directly to their destinations. The long-route buses from Dalhousie to Delhi and other cities were already being plied regularly so there was no need of covering Dalhousie, Oberoi said.“The evening bus service of HRTC from Pathankot to Chamba has no stopover midway due to which the journey becomes difficult,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/senior-citizens-seek-direct-long-route-buses-234229
04-04-2021||Our Correspondent||Water coolers pose health threat in Nurpur||Nurpur, April 3The Nurpur Municipal Council (MC) had installed a number of drinking water coolers at various locations in the town over a decade ago to provide cold and clean drinking water to people. However, due to the poor upkeep, some of these water coolers are in a bad condition. Neither the Jal Shakti Department nor the local MC shows any interest in maintaining or repairing these coolers.With the onset of summer, the need to maintain and clean these water coolers has increased so as to check contamination and risk to people’s health.A tap of a water cooler installed on the approach road of the Housing Board Colony in ward number 2 is broken, leading to wastage of the stored water.The successive MCs have never bothered to give due priority to the issue.Promod Gupta, president of the Nurpur Sudhar Sabha, a local NGO, has demanded regular cleaning of these water coolers. He said the new MC should take prompt steps in this regard. Ashok Sharma, newly elected president of the Nurpur MC, said he would personally look into the matter.Poor upkeepDue to the poor upkeep, some of these water coolers are in a bad condition. Neither the Jal Shakti Department nor the local MC shows any interest in maintaining or repairing these coolers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/water-coolers-pose-health-threat-in-nurpur-234231
04-04-2021||---||Gurcharan Kaur displays her works at Sobha Singh gallery||Dharamsala, April 3To celebrate her 80th birthday, Gurcharan Kaur, daughter of artist Sobha Singh, started a painting workshop on Friday at Artist Residency (KalaKar Tapovani) in Sobha Singh Art Gallery, Andretta, near Palampur.A spokesperson for the gallery said Covid-19 guidelines were being followed strictly and the inauguration was kept a low-key affair. Only family members and some other visitors joined the ceremony. It is for the first time that around 40 paintings on flowers, fruits, landscapes and portraits by Gurcharan Kaur have been displayed in the exhibition, which will remain open to the public throughout April.Gurcharan learned drawing and oil painting from Sobha Singh and has painted around 2,500 paintings. Most of her works are part of private collections in India and abroad. She has also gifted a large number of her paintings to family, friends and VIPs visiting the gallery. Her specialization is still life, the spokesperson said. Many art critics believe that it is Gurcharan whose devotion and care of the saint-philosopher-artist Sobha Singh could enable him to give a large number of masterpieces to the nation. In his autobiography, Sobha Singh had written that Bibi Gurcharan Kaur not only served him as a devoted, loving daughter but also rendered selfless service as a sister and a mother. “That is why I address her as Bibi Ji,” he used to say.Gurcharan is the proprietor-director of Sobha Singh Art Gallery. She has meticulously maintained the gallery since the demise of Sobha Singh in 1986.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/gurcharan-kaur-displays-her-works-at-sobha-singh-gallery-234213
04-04-2021||Dinesh Kanwar||Trucks without number plates carry illegal mining material||Hamirpur, April 3As the law-enforcing agencies have turned a blind eye to illegal mining, the mafia is violating all norms in the district.It is alleged that the mafia is not only using earth excavators on riverbeds, but also ferrying mining material in trucks that don’t bear any registration number.There are over 20 stone crushers. But those who are illegally mining have adopted new methods to escape the penalties and mint money by evading taxes.This has not only destroyed many water resources, but also added to river pollution. Surprisingly, a number of trucks without registration numbers can be seen plying in Hamirpur, Nadaun, Badsar, Tauni Devi and Sujanpur.Rakesh Parmar from Nadaun said people had made complaints to the district administration, the police and mining authorities but none of the department had listened to them.Harvinder Singh, district mining officer, said as he had two districts, he could not look after illegal mining activities in two places. He would see when he would come to Hamirpur as he was in Una.Karthikeyan Gokulachandran, Superintendent of Police, said the police could only act on the vehicle plying without numbers. Action would be taken on such vehicles.No action on complaints||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/trucks-without-number-plates-carry-illegal-mining-material-234214
04-04-2021||Our Correspondent||Function marks birth anniversary of Lal Chand Prarthi||Kullu, April 3A state-level function was held to mark the birth anniversary of former minister and eminent litterateur late Lal Chand Prarthi at Dev Sadan here today.Floral tributes were paid by dignitaries and the family members of the leader. Prarthi’s contributions in preserving the folk culture and promoting art and literature of the hill state were lauded by one and all. The event was organised by the Himachal Kala Sanskriti Bhasha Academy.A function was also held at the auditorium of Bhuttico Complex. Bhuttico chairman and former minister Satya Prakash Thakur and members of the Bhuttico board paid floral tributes to the former leader. Thakur said Prarthi became the first folk culture and co-operative minister in 1966. He said Prarthi was a remarkable leader with multifarious skills and had a dynamic personality. He said Prarthi promoted and popularised the rich folk culture and traditions of Himachal Pradesh.Thakur said Chand Kullvi Lal Chand Prarthi Pahari Kala Sanskriti national award is presented in his memory by Bhuttico every year and a cultural evening is also held in his remembrance.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/function-marks-birth-anniversary-of-lal-chand-prarthi-234217
04-04-2021||---||Shoolini University research article in top 100 downloaded papers||Solan, April 3Shoolini University scientist’s research article “Photocatalytic dye degradation and antimicrobial activities of Pure and Ag-doped ZnO using cannabis sativa leaf extract” has been placed as one of the top 100 downloaded chemistry papers for Scientific Reports in 2020.The article received 2,697 downloads in 2020, placing it as one of the top 100 downloaded chemistry papers, according to Scientific Reports 2020 by Nature Portfolio Journal.Prof Rajesh Kumar and Prof Sourabh Kulshrestha, authors of the research paper, said since over three years, two PhD research scholars are working on eco-friendly synthesis of nanoparticles from the Himalayan natural herbs and plants. They have developed their own method for the same and their team has successfully synthesized pure Zinc Oxide and Ag-doped ZnO by an eco-friendly method using cannabis sativa leaves.The cannabis sativa leaves have been used as a reducing and capping agent and can be used safely as an eco-friendly synthesis. They have collaborated with Prof Khalid Mujasam Batoo’s research team from King Saud University, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.Other contributors of the research articles are Ankush Chauhan and Ritesh Verma, who wrote the main manuscript. Swati, Anand Sharma, and Pooja Shandilya worked on the figure and data arrangement. Xiangjkai Li, Rajesh Sharma, Saurabh Kulreshha provided the experimental guidance and arrangements for carrying out research work.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shoolini-university-research-article-in-top-100-downloaded-papers-234220
04-04-2021||---||Soon, a course on processing of medicinal plants||Solan, April 3The Dr YS Parmar University of Horticulture and Forestry, Nauni, will soon introduce a vocational certificate course on entrepreneurship development in production and processing of medicinal and aromatic plants. The course will be among five vocational courses initiated under the World Bank-funded National Agricultural Higher Education Project (NAHEP) of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research.Dr Parvinder Kaushal, VC Five new vocational coursesOver Rs 1 crore will be spent on introducing five new vocational courses in the coming year under the NAHEP to aid skill development of students, rural youth and industry executives. We are also in the process of establishing an incubation centre for medicinal and aromatic plants.A review meeting was held on the campus recently to chalk out its nitty-gritty by the Department of Forests Products. Dr Meenu Sood, head, Forest Products Department; Dr Anju K Dhiman, Dean, College of Horticulture, and the coordinator of Vocational Programmes participated and gave an overview of the activities to be covered under the course.Dr Rajeev Raina, former professor from UHF, Nauni, and Dr Shyam Kumar from the IIT, Mandi, were the subject experts on the occasion.Vice-Chancellor Dr Parvinder Kaushal said they were keen to impart entrepreneurship skills in the students. “Over Rs 1 crore will be spent on introducing five new vocational courses in the coming year under the NAHEP which will aid skill development of students, rural youth and industry executives. We are also in the process of establishing an incubation centre for medicinal and aromatic plants for which several products and technologies have been developed by the scientists.”The course will focus on value addition of medicinal and aromatic plants and information on production, processing, marketing and value addition of Himalayan medicinal herbs would be provided. It is designed to provide foundational information in the development of herb enterprises and will also assist trainees to develop and enhance their knowledge at both backyard and commercial levels by enhancing their knowledge and skills.Dr Bhupender Gupta, Dean, College of Forestry; Librarian Dr DD Sharma; coordinator Dr KK Raina and other faculty members of the department participated in the meeting. Deliberations were held among experts on the course contents and how to sync it with the needs of the industry.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/soon-a-course-on-processing-of-medicinal-plants-234222
04-04-2021||Shimla||Covid-19: 418 new cases, four deaths in Himachal||The number of Covid cases in the state continues to rise with 418 fresh cases and four deaths being reported in the past 24 hours. The number of active cases on Saturday touched 3,441, with the total positive cases till now being 64,838. With two persons succumbing to the virus in Kangra and one each in Una and Shimla, the total deaths till date has risen to 1,047. The highest number of 104 cases was reported in Kangra, 84 in Solan, 58 in Una, 40 each in Kangra and Hamirpur, 29 in Bilaspur, 25 in Mandi, 21 in Chamba, 13 in Kullu and four in Sirmaur.Meanwhile, in view of the surge in Covid cases, the state government on Saturday issued a formal order for closure of all educational institutions till April 15. As per the order issued by the Disaster Management Cell of the Revenue Department, the teaching and non-teaching staff will continue to attend duty during this period. Earlier, the government had ordered closure of all educational institutions till April 4, which has now been extended in view of the rise in Covid cases. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-19-418-new-cases-four-deaths-in-himachal-234226
04-04-2021||Our Correspondent||Kullu hoteliers oppose curbs on tourists||Kullu, April 3Stakeholders of the tourism industry in the district said there had been no recent surge in the Covid-19 cases in the district due to the arrival of tourists. They said imposing undue restrictions on tourists would have an adverse impact on the economy of the region.They added that there was hardly any business last year due to which many stakeholders had become hand to mouth. They added that the economic survival of many would become difficult in case restrictions are imposed.A hotelier in Manali Few active Covid cases in KulluThe government should impose restrictions in specific areas where there has been a surge in cases, rather than taking uniform stringent steps across the state. Active Covid cases are very less in Kullu and negligible in Lahaul so there is no need for strict restrictions in this region.The hoteliers said due to the recent spike in cases in some states, a large number of bookings had been cancelled. They said lakhs of tourists had visited the valley since December and no such spike in cases was recorded in the hospitality units or on the premises of other tourism service providers. They added that they were adhering to the SOPs and protocols and were carrying out the operations carefully.Manali Hoteliers Association (MHA) president Anup Ram Thakur said tourism was a major source of livelihood of a large numbers of people there. He said as a precautionary measure, the government can set up medical posts at the state borders and conduct rapid tests of the visitors coming from states which had witnessed a recent surge in Covid-19 cases.Members of the Manali Hoteliers Association demanded that no commercial activity had been carried out last year and imposing commercial charges for electricity during this period was not reasonable and logical. They added that the government should waive electricity charges for at least a year. They said pollution charges should also be waived for the last year.They said the interest on bank loans should be waived for the Covid period. They said the government should consider the contribution of hospitality units in the GDP and employment generation and make plans for the survival of the tourism industry.A hotelier of Manali said the government should impose restrictions in specific areas where there had been a surge in cases, rather than taking uniform stringent steps across the state.He said active Covid cases were very less in Kullu and negligible in Lahaul so there was no need for strict restrictions in this region.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kullu-hoteliers-oppose-curbs-on-tourists-234224
04-04-2021||---||BJP MLA targets Himachal CM over development||Mandi, April 3The rift between Mandi Sadar BJP MLA Anil Sharma and Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur has widened as the MLA today claimed that no development had taken place in the district, especially in the Mandi Sadar Assembly segment, and people were disappointed with the party despite giving it a huge mandate.Anil Sharma, Mandi Sadar BJP MLAArea neglectedIf development was done in the Mandi Sadar Assembly segment in the last three years, the Chief Minister and the IPH Minister would not have to visit Mandi for votes in the MC elections.Targeting the Chief Minister and IPH Minister Mahender Singh Thakur, Sharma said if development was done in the Mandi Sadar Assembly segment in the last three years, the Chief Minister and the IPH Minister would not have to visit Mandi for votes in the MC elections.Addressing a press conference here today, the BJP MLA said the IPH Minister had stated during a public meeting at Saigloo in Mandi that he and MP Ram Swaroop Sharma would ensure the development of the Sadar Assembly segment. But after that nothing was done and now there was resentment among people against the state government.He alleged that a budget of only Rs 3 lakh had been made available for a school building of Rs 1.5 crore at Kotli. “Almost 45 per cent of the budget of the Jal Jeevan Mission was approved for only two Assembly constituencies at Seraj and Dharampur in Mandi. A budget of Rs 270 crore is being spent in one area and Rs 170 crore in the other in Seraj and Dharampur, respectively. While the remaining eight Assembly constituencies of the district are being discriminated against in terms of development,” he added.“Almost 55 years ago, my father and former Telecom Minister Pandit Sukh Ram had started his political career from Mandi Sadar. At that time, there was the practice of manual scavenging here. He gave Himachal’s first sewerage scheme to Mandi and Indira Market was also his vision,” he said.Sharma alleged that the Chief and the IPH Minister always targeted him during public meetings.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bjp-mla-targets-himachal-cm-over-development-234228
04-04-2021||Dharamsala||Anurag Thakur fails to turn up for campaigning in Dharamsala||Union Minister of State for Finance and Corporate Affairs Anurag Thakur on Saturday failed to turn up for campaigning of the Dharamsala Minicipal Corporation polls.The minister was scheduled to campaign for the elections here at the request of the BJP state leadership.However, a local BJP leader, Sanjay Sharma, claimed Anurag Thakur could not come as he had been directed by the party high command to campaign in Assam. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/anurag-thakur-fails-to-turn-up-for-campaigning-in-dharamsala-234232
04-04-2021||Lalit Mohan||Rebels, infighting make it tough for parties in Dharamsala||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, April 3Rebels are giving a tough time to the BJP and the Congress in the Dharamsala municipal corporation polls.The BJP has been facing a tougher challenge in Dharamsala as 14 of its rebels are in fray. In some wards, two to three BJP rebels are in the fray, making victory of official candidate of party a tough task. The party had expelled 14 of its rebels officially.In poll frayChief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, during his visit to Dharamsala this week, had expressed concern over the number of rebels in the fray. Sources here said that the CM, sensing that things were going to be difficult for the party in Dharamsala, had pressed in more resources. Efforts are being put in to ensure that rebels toned down their campaign in favour of official candidates.The MC elections are a matter of prestige for the ruling party as they are being held on election symbol and are being viewed as a referendum on the working of the Jai Ram Thakur government. BJP incharge for Dharamsala MC elections Rakesh Pathania has been working overtime on micro level in wards to ensure the win of party. However, as not much development has been carried out in Dharamsala in the last three years, convincing people is hard for BJP leaders.Meanwhile, the Congress is facing its own challenges in elections in the form of infighting. The Congress has just five rebels in fray. However, infighting is a bigger challenge for the Congress in Dharamsala. There are two groups of party candidates who are contesting elections. One group owes loyalty to outgoing Mayor Davinder Jaggi while the other group is loyal to former Congress minister and AICC secretary, Sudhir Sharma. Some candidates of the Congress are not using photos of Sudhir Sharma during their election campaign.The Congress is harping on the development carried out in Dharamsala during the stint of Sudhir Sharma as Town and Country Planning Minister to garner votes. Sharma has initiated various projects that included the construction of new roads and streets. However, many Congress workers fear that infighting can cost the party dear even if it gets a majority in the MC House.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rebels-infighting-make-it-tough-for-parties-in-dharamsala-234208
04-04-2021||Our Correspondent||Asha Kumari seeks additional security forces in Palampur for fair polls||Palampur, April 3Senior Congress leader and MLA Asha Kumari today appealed to the Election Commission to immediately deploy additional security forces for free and fair elections to the Palampur Municipal Corporation scheduled on April 7.Addressing a news conference here, Asha Kumar said in the present administrative set-up, free and fair elections could not be expected as the administration was openly supporting the BJP candidates, therefore the EC should immediately intervene.Claiming that Congress workers were receiving threats from BJP activists, she alleged a few party workers were beaten up at Banuri last night. The matter was reported to the police, but no case was registered. She also released video clips pertaining to alleged threats to government employees if they failed to work for the BJP.She alleged many Congress supporters were not being allowed to come out of their houses and work for the party. “The Congress has brought all these facts to the notice of the administration but in vain,” she said.Alleging misuse of official machinery by the BJP, she claimed an senior official told the local MLA that he was being forced to work for the saffron party.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/asha-kumari-seeks-additional-security-forces-in-palampur-for-fair-polls-234211
04-04-2021||Palampur||Agriculture Minister accuses Congress of using money, liquor to get votes||Agriculture Minister Virender Kanwar today claimed the Congress was using money power and liquor to purchase votes in the municipal elections. He said since the Congress had foreseen its defeat, therefore it was adopting such tactics to influence the voters.Addressing a news conference here, Kanwar said the police with the help of BJP workers seized liquor from a car of Congress workers in the Banuri area. The liquor had been brought for distribution to the voters. However, with the timely intervention of BJP workers, the plan was foiled. He said the police had registered a case under the Excise Act and investigation was in progress. The BJP had already reported the matter to the Election Commission, seeking action against the Congress.Kanwar said the Congress was misleading the people regarding imposition of taxes in new areas. He clarified that Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur had already announced five-year tax holiday in the newly merged areas of the MC and it could be further extended.He claimed that the BJP would elect its mayor and deputy mayor in the Palampur MC. He appealed to the voters to strengthen the hands of the CM by electing BJP candidates.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/agriculture-minister-accuses-congress-of-using-money-liquor-to-get-votes-234212
04-04-2021||---||Rural areas can be re-merged with panchayats, says Himachal CM||Solan, April 3Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur said today that rural areas could be re-merged into panchayats if their residents desire so in the future as the population of the Solan Municipal Corporation would cross the stipulated 50,000 mark after the 2021 Census.While addressing a slew of poll rallies in various wards, he urged people not to be “misled by the canards spread by the Congress” and said no tax would be levied for the next five years. He thanked the residents of all peripheral villages adjoining Solan for constituting the Municipal Corporation.He said three fastest developing towns-Solan, Palampur and Mandi- had been upgraded into corporations in a planned manner. He said Solan had the strongest claim in view of its rapid development.The Chief Minister while urging the people to vote for BJP candidates said the state government had ensured balanced and equitable development of all areas, especially those which had remained neglected during the Congress tenure. He also accused the Congress leaders for “misguiding” people by raking up non-issues in a bid to divert attention from core issues of development.Being the maiden municipal corporation polls in Solan after its upgrade, the BJP was sparing no effort to woo the electorate as theChief Minister rushed from one ward to another to address voters. Though the Congress raised questions at this macro level of campaigning, Thakur said they should not tell him what to do.State BJP president Suresh Kashyap, who also accompanied the CM, said the former Congress government failed to accord Municipal Corporation status to Solan due to “vested interests” while the BJP government had fulfilled this long-awaited demand.No social distancing at election rallies||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rural-areas-can-be-re-merged-with-panchayats-says-himachal-cm-234209
04-04-2021||---||Congress holds roadshow in Mandi||Mandi, April 3Himachal Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) state president Kuldeep Singh Rathore today held a roadshow here in favour of Congress candidates in eight wards of the Mandi Municipal Corporation.Kuldeep Singh Rathore, HPCC ChiefInflation upDuring the BJP regime in the state and at the Centre, the inflation and unemployment has been increasing.Rathore along with senior party leader GS Bali, Kaul Singh Thakur, Congress district president Prakash Chaudhary, MLAs Vikramaditya Singh, Sundar Singh Thakur, other leaders and hundreds of workers participated in the roadshow.Addressing party workers at Gandhi Bhavan, Rathore urged them to unitedly work for the win of Congress candidates. He said during the BJP regime in the state and Centre, the inflation and unemployment was increasing. He said the state government had failed on every front.Rathore said BJP’s policies were responsible for the deterioration of Indian economy. Farmers of the country had been protesting on the roads for the past three months against the three new agricultural laws passed by the central government.He said during the BJP regime, the government properties in the country were being sold.Rathore asked the party workers to spread awareness about the BJP’s anti-people policies and decisions among the people.“The people of the state are upset with the BJP government due to its poor performance. Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur had neglected the development of Mandi Sadar and had remained only the CM of the Saraj region, his home Assembly segment,” he remarked.Rathore claimed the Congress would win the elections to four Municipal Corporations at Solan, Mandi, Palampur and Dharamshala in the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/congress-holds-roadshow-in-mandi-234210
04-04-2021||Mandi||Linking printouts to source possible, says study||Printed documents can now be linked to specific types of printers like inkjet, laser or photocopier. This was revealed in a study conducted jointly by researchers of Regional Forensic Science Laboratory (RFSL), Mandi, and University of Technology and Management, Malaysia. Dr Rajesh Verma, Deputy Director, RFSL, told The Tribune that documents served important evidence in forensic cases.“Their scrutiny holds the key in finding clues to reconstruction of the crimes such as production of counterfeit documents. The nature of a document can be determined by the examination of ink and their source can also be ascertained,” he claimed.He said: “During the study, printouts were collected from laser and inkjet printers and photocopier machines from various offices, universities and markets in Malaysia. A total 387 samples were analysed.”“Raman spectral analysis was performed and the spectra were statistically analysed using partial least square discriminant analysis (PLS-DA). The researchers obtained perfect classification and an accuracy of 100 per cent in assigning the class of printers to which 15 unknown samples belonged,” he added.He claimed further investigations revealed that the printouts could be linked to the specific machine from which it was printed using the database.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/linking-printouts-to-source-possible-says-study-234262
