05-04-2021||---||Panic in Solan after Covid’s UK strain found||Solan, April 5Panic struck the district health authorities with UK strain of Covid being detected in a female doctor who had tested positive after having taken two Covid jabs in January and February. This is the first such case in the state.Her sample had been sent to National Centre for Disease Control lab at Delhi about three weeks ago. The lab reports received today have confirmed the presence of the UK strain, said Deputy Commissioner, Solan, KC Chaman.The district has reported 169 cases today, highest in the state, and it appears that the UK strain could have triggered the spoke, medical officials said.The said the doctor was the first health employee to have taken the jab in Solan on January 16 while the second jab was administered on February 13.She had tested positive on March 9 along with her parents. The whole family had been isolated immediately but they have been cured now, said the DC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/panic-in-solan-after-covids-uk-strain-found-235022
05-04-2021||Shimla||6 more COVID deaths in Himachal||The first case of the UK variant of coronavirus has been detected in Himachal Pradesh, which reported six more deaths and 567 infections on Monday, officials said.Special Health Secretary Nipun Jindal said a doctor in Solan had been found suffering from the UK strain of the virus.The doctor’s samples were sent a few days ago to the National Centre for Disease Control, which confirmed the UK variant on Monday.There are 3,828 active cases and 268 patients recovered from the disease. The toll rose to 1,063 with six more deaths, while the infection tally climbed to 65,809 as 567 more people tested positive, the official said.Three persons died in the Una district, followed by one each in Mandi, Sirmaur and Kangra districts. Those who succumbed to the virus were in the age group of 51-95. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/6-more-covid-deaths-in-himachal-235018
05-04-2021||Chandigarh||Gangster Lawrence Bishnoi's close associate arrested by Punjab Police from Himachal’s Kasol||The Punjab Police in a joint operation with Himachal Pradesh Police on Monday arrested a close aide of jailed gangster Lawrence Bishnoi, who played the prime role in the planning, execution as well as providing shelter to killers of Youth Congress leader Gurlal Singh Bhalwan.The arrested accused has been identified as Gagandeep Singh alias Padda alias Gagan Brar of village Panjgarai Kalan, Kotkapura, Faridkot.Director General of Police (DGP) Punjab Dinkar Gupta, in his press communique, stated that the killing was organised by Canada-based Goldy Brar, with the help of gangster Bishnoi, to avenge the murder of his cousin Gurlal Brar.A few hours after the murder, a post purported on a Facebook page of gangster Lawrence Bishnoi, who is currently in Rajasthan’s Ajmer Jail, linked the crime with the death of Bishnoi’s aide Gurlal Brar.On February 21, Delhi Police arrested three men Gurvinder Pal alias Gora, Sukhwinder Dhillon, and Saurabh Verma, involved in the murder and the next day Punjab Police arrested Gurpinder Singh, a resident of Ghania Wala village, in the murder case for providing weapons to the assailants.Investigations revealed that Gurvinder Pal was sharing a flat with Gagan Brar in Kharar and the conspiracy was hatched in this rented accommodation.Gagan being a close associate of Goldy Brar was wanted by Delhi Special Cell and Faridkot Police for his involvement in the murder.Delhi Police even raided his rented accommodation at Kharar but Gagan had inactivated all his communication channels and gave a slip before the raid as he got information about their arrest by the Delhi Police.DGP Gupta said based on specific inputs, teams of Organised Crime Control Unit (OCCU) and Counter Intelligence Units of Punjab Police were tasked for arresting the accused under the supervision of Additional DGP (ADGP) Internal Security RN Dhoke.These teams tracked locations of the accused in Kasol, Himachal Pradesh and apprehended gangster Gagan Brar in a joint operation with the Himachal Police.During his preliminary interrogation, Gagan Brar revealed that he was working as a bouncer in night clubs in Chandigarh and was friends with Gora and Gurlal Brar for the last over 4-5 years. He had got the job of a bouncer with the reference of Gurlal Brar.The DGP further disclosed that Gora introduced him to Goldy Brar. Rajan Pandey alias Vishal and Chhotu, named two persons, who seemed to hail from Haryana, stayed in their room for about 20 days and left the room with Gora two days before the murder.On the instructions of Goldy Brar, Gagan handed over a bagful of arms and ammunition to an unknown person in Kharar, a day before the murder. This bag was brought by Gora and kept in the wardrobe of his room.After Delhi Police raided his rented accommodation, he took shelter in a friend’s flat in Kharar for the next two days and then went to the Golden Temple Amritsar, from there he went to McLeodganj and then reached Kasol in Himachal Pradesh.During his escape, Gagan Brar remained in contact with Goldy Brar via various OTT apps and Goldy Brar also sent him money via Google Pay for his living expenses.The accused has been arrested in the case and booked under the Indian Penal Code and Section 25 of the Arms Act registered at police station City Faridkot.The police team produced him before the magistrate and took him on police remand for further investigations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/gangster-lawrence-bishnois-close-associate-arrested-by-punjab-police-from-himachals-kasol-235002
05-04-2021||New Delhi||HC asks MEA to look for alternate remedy to exhume, bring back Hindu man’s remains from Saudi Arabia||The Delhi High Court on Monday said the family of a Hindu Indian man, who was buried in Saudi Arabia as per Muslim rites, cannot wait endlessly to bring back his mortal remains and asked the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) to look for alternate legal remedies available with them in the foreign land.Justice Prathiba M Singh said that while continuing to follow up with the Saudi Arabia officials, the Indian Consulate shall also find other ways by which the man’s family can approach any other authority or legal remedy which can be helpful to bring back the mortal remains.“The family cannot wait for this endlessly. You (MEA) have to find out some other remedy available to them. There has to be some higher pressure on them. It is not helping. It cannot go on like this,” the high court said.It was hearing a case in which the mortal remains of the Hindu man were wrongly buried in Saudi Arabia as per Muslim rites due to incorrect translation of his religion on the death certificate purportedly by Indian Consulate officials in Jeddah.The deceased’s wife, who had been running from pillar to post to get the mortal remains, approached the high court in March seeking direction to the MEA to take steps to urgently exhume the remains and repatriate them to India in a time-bound manner.The high court had earlier asked the MEA to coordinate with the Deputy Chief of Missions of Saudi Embassy here to facilitate the exhumation and repatriation of the remains.It had also requested the Deputy Chief of Mission to obtain some timeline within which the process of exhumation and repatriation of the body would be completed.On Monday, the Director of Consulate Passport Visa, MEA, Vishnu Kumar Sharma, told the court that the ministry was continuously making vigorous efforts for exhumation and repatriation of the mortal remains of Sanjeev Kumar but they have still not received any formal response from the Saudi Arabia authorities.He said he was not in a position to give any date by which the process could be completed and added that the MEA has reminded the Saudi embassy in Delhi to expedite the process of exhumation and repatriation of the mortal remains.When the court asked the MEA official if there was any way by which they can approach any other authority in Saudi Arabia or court, Sharma said they cannot go to foreign court because of diplomatic treaty and they can forward it through diplomatic channels only.He, however, said the family was free to approach the foreign court.The court asked the official to find out if there is any other legal remedy to be invoked by the family and listed the matter for further hearing on April 8.Advocate Subhash Chandran K R, representing petitioner Anju Sharma, said the MEA can contact the Indian Consulate at Saudi Arabia and ask them to expedite the process and they can make it a diplomatic issue.The MEA official had earlier said that as per the existing protocol in Saudi Arabia, an Indian citizen’s body cannot be disposed of without obtaining an NOC from the Indian Consulate. However, in this case, the procedure was not followed, he had said.Sanjeev Kumar, 51, died on January 24 in Saudi Arabia, where he was working, due to cardiac arrest and his mortal remains were kept at a hospital there.Petitioner Anju Sharma has said in her plea that on getting the news of her husband’s death, the family requested the authorities to repatriate the mortal remains.“Shockingly, on February 18, the petitioner was informed that the body of her husband has been buried in Saudi Arabia while the family members of the deceased were waiting for the mortal remains in India.“The officials in Indian Consulate explained that it was due to a mistake committed by the official translator of the Indian Consulate, Jeddah, who wrongly mentioned his religion as ‘Muslim’ in the death certificate. They also shared a letter of an apology tendered by the official translating agency of Indian Consulate in Jeddah with the petitioner herein,” said the petition, filed through advocate Yogamaya M G.It also said that neither the woman, nor any of the family members gave consent to bury Kumar’s body in Saudi Arabia.Thereafter, the woman requested the officials of Indian Consulate in Jeddah to ask the local authorities there to exhume the mortal remains of her husband so that they can be transported to India for performing last rites as per the faith of the family.“Unfortunately, even after seven weeks of the death of the husband of petitioner, the authorities have failed to do necessary formalities to repatriate the mortal remains of Sanjeev Kumar to India for performing last rites,” the plea has said.It also sought direction to the Centre to take appropriate departmental actions against officials concerned of the Indian Consulate at Jeddah for their wilful negligence and also direct the authorities to obtain a corrected death certificate of the deceased and supply the document to his wife. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hc-asks-mea-to-look-for-alternate-remedy-to-exhume-bring-back-hindu-mans-remains-from-saudi-arabia-234984
05-04-2021||---||Sukhwinder Sukhu tries to broker peace between warring Congress factions in Dharamsala||Dharamsala, April 4Former HPCC president Sukhwinder Sukhu today tried to break ice between factions of Congress ahead of the Dharamsala MC elections. Sukhu, who is also in charge of Congress for the local body poll in Dharamsala, campaigned in the ward of former Mayor Davinder Jaggi.Jaggi is not having cordial relations with the former Congress minister and AICC secretary Sudhir Sharma. Sharma, who is calling shots in Dharamsala MC polls on behalf of the Congress, has not campaigned for Jaggi and some of his associates who are contesting elections. Jaggi and his associates were also not using the photos of Sudhir Sharma in their campaigning material. Sukhu was the first senior Congress leader to visit and campaign for Jaggi.Sources here said that Sukhu has tried to broker peace between Sudhir Sharma and the outgoing Mayor of Dharamsala.When asked, Sukhu said there was no factionalism in Congress party. The party would not repeat but improve its 2015 performance in Dharamsala MC when it won 14 out of 17 wards.He alleged that the BJP has not done anything worthwhile for Dharamsala in the last three years. Even the projects that were completed during the stint of the Congress government such as war museum have not been inaugurated. The ropeway project to connect Dharamsala with McLeodganj, which was started during the stint of the Congress government, is yet to be completed.“The people of Dharamsala are suffering on account of rampant corruption in Dharamsala MC. People have made vigilance complaints and some officials were caught red-handed while accepting bribe. They are yet to be shifted from Dharamsala”, Sukhu alleged.Sukhu said during the stint of the previous Congress government when Sudhir Sharma was minister for town and country planning rapid progress was made in the city. The Smart City project was brought to the town during the Congress rule. The present government has not been able to even spend the money lying under the project.Sukhu also alleged that the people were reeling under unprecedented price rise and unemployment. The economy of the state has been damaged by the BJP governments, he said||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sukhwinder-sukhu-tries-to-broker-peace-between-warring-congress-factions-in-dharamsala-234675
05-04-2021||---||Will ensure Mandi’s growth: Himachal CM||Mandi, April 4Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur urged the voters of the Mandi Municipal Corporation area to support the BJP candidates in all 15 wards. He addressed a series of public meetings in support of BJP candidates in various wards here today.Addressing public at Mangvain ward, the Chief Minister said, “On your demand, the state government has upgraded the Mandi Municipal Council as the Municipal Corporation. Now, it is your responsibility to ensure the win of BJP candidates in all 15 wards of the MC. After BJP’s win, it will be my responsibility to ensure the development of Mandi MC area in a well-planned manner.”Targeting BJP MLA from Mandi Sadar Anil Sharma, the Chief Minister said, “Anil Sharma has failed to deliver his duty of ensuring development for the people of Mandi Sadar Assembly segment who elected him the MLA in the last Vidhan Saha elections. I had asked him to give priority to development but Anil Sharma always preferred the interests of his own family and ignored the interests of the people of Mandi Sadar.”Ensure BJP’s victoryOn your demand, the state government has upgraded the Mandi Municipal Council as the Municipal Corporation. Now, it is your responsibility to ensure the win of BJP candidates in all 15 wards of the civic body. —Jai Ram Thakur, Chief MinisterThe Chief Minister said, “The people of Mandi Sadar will always be close to my heart and I will leave no stone unturned to ensure the development of the MC area.”He assured the people of Mandi that all basic facilities — construction of parking lots and nature parks, channelisation of rivulets to protect the agricultural land of farmers coming under the MC area and sewerage connectivity to each household — would be provided on priority.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/will-ensure-mandis-growth-himachal-cm-234676
05-04-2021||Our Correspondent---||Cong assures 10-year tax holiday for Palampur merged areas||Palampur, April 4 The Congress today released its vision document for Palampur Municipal Council elections in the presence of its senior leaders like election in charge Kaul Singh Thakur, Leader of Opposition Mukesh Agnihotri, MLA Asha Kumari and local Congress leader Ashish Butail.  Addressing media persons, senior leader Kaul Singh said the Congress has promised 10-year tax holiday for the residents of newly merged areas of Palampur MC and said that instead of imposing taxes on the people it would stress on the generation of indirect revenue resources to reduce the tax burden.  Thakur said the Congress would give top priority for laying sewerage system in the in all wards which was a major demand of the residents. Clean drinking water supply, house-to-house lifting of garbage on daily basis free of cost are other promises of party, Kaul Singh added. Besides, the Congress would also set up schools in public private partnership in different parts of the town with reasonable fee structure to save public from exploitation by private schools. The Congress announced that the building plans would be cleared in a time-bound manner so that harassment of public is checked.  Kaul Singh said the Congress would lay special stress on the beautification of Palampur town and to make it one of best tourist centres of the state. Jogging tacks and children parks would be developed in the municipal parks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cong-assures-10-year-tax-holiday-for-palampur-merged-areas-234679
05-04-2021||Lalit Mohan||Cong, BJP at loggerheads over incomplete projects in Dharamsala city||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, April 4Incomplete development projects that have been lingering for the past three years in Dharamsala city have become election issues in the ongoing campaign for the corporation elections.The Congress has blamed the present BJP government for failing to initiate development of new bus stand in Dharamsala. The MoU for constructing a new bus stand in Dharamsala was signed between a private company and Himachal Pradesh Bus Stand Authority during the stint of the previous Congress government. The bus stand authority had signed MoUs for construction of three bus stands on build operate and transfer (BOT) basis at Una, Chintpurni and Dharamsala with the same company.While the bus stands at Una and Chintpurni have already been completed and are functioning the work for construction of Dharamsala bus stand was yet to start. Sources here said that the work in Dharamsala could not be started as forest clearance for the project could not be obtained.The Congress leaders, while campaigning during corporation elections, are blaming the present BJP government for failure to start the construction of the bus stand project pushing the BJP leaders on the back foot.The war museum in Dharamsala was constructed during the stint of the previous Congress government. The project was meant to showcase the army and air force memorabilia. It was said to be the first war museum of the state. While the building of war museum was completed during the stint of the previous Congress government, it was yet to be thrown open for public.Sudhir Sharma, former Congress minister and AICC secretary, has been blaming the present BJP government for its failure to throw open the war museum for common public. He alleged that the BJP government was not serious about the development of Dharamsala.Work for development of a tulip garden in Dharamsala was allotted during the stint of the Congress government. The garden was supposed to be a tourist attraction. The work has not been completed as yet. While the Congress was again blaming the state government for stalling the garden project, the BJP has been alleging corruption in the project.BJP MP from Kangra Kishan Kapoor had alleged large-scale corruption in the construction of the garden.The construction of multi-level parking near the Dalai Lama temple, construction of integrated command centre for Smart City and Dharamsala MC, bicycle tracks and treks in forest areas were the other projects conceived in Dharamsala during the stint of previous Congress government but are yet to take off.While the Congress has blamed delay in execution of the said projects on the state government, the BJP has blamed it on the Congress-dominated corporation house. Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, while talking to the media, had said that Dharamsala would see development if the BJP gets majority in the House.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cong-bjp-at-loggerheads-over-incomplete-projects-in-dharamsala-city-234681
05-04-2021||---||122 pupils, staff of Dalhousie Public School test Covid +ve||Shimla, April 4At least 122 students and teachers of Dalhousie Public School (DPS), Chamba district, tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday. Chamba Deputy Commissioner DC Rana said all patients were asymptomatic.“An isolation facility has been created for them and a medical team is monitoring their health on a regular basis,” he added.Earlier, the students had been allowed to join the hostel only on the submission of a negative RT-PCR report. However, one of the students later got himself tested again and turned out to be positive. As a precautionary measure, the tests of all students and teachers were done, added Rana.So far, the reports of 122 samples out of 800 had come as positive while the results of 130 samples were awaited, he added.Two succumb to infection in UnaNo relief, 408 fresh cases reportedThe state reported 408 fresh Covid cases and 10 deaths in the last 24 hours. The number of active cases has reached 3,577 while the death toll has mounted to 1,057. Four deaths were reported in Una, two each in Mandi and Shimla, one in Solan and one each in Bilaspur and Kangra. The highest number of 128 cases was reported in Chamba, followed by Hamirpur (57), Shimla (56), Kangra (48), Mandi (32), Una (31), Solan (29), Bilaspur (13), Sirmaur (6) and Kullu (4).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/122-pupils-staff-of-dalhousie-public-school-test-covid-ve-234683
05-04-2021||---||Met predicts wet weather till April 8 in Himachal||Shimla, April 4The local Meteorology (Met) Department has issued a yellow warning of thunderstorm, lightning, hailstorm and gusty winds at isolated places in low and middle hills of Chamba, Kangra, Kullu, Mandi and Shimla districts on April 5 and predicted wet weather in the region till April 8.The department has also warned of thunderstorm, lightning, hailstorm and gusty winds at isolated places in Una, Bilaspur, Kangra, Chamba, Kullu, Mandi and Solan on April 6 and Kullu, Shimla and Sirmaur on April 7.The weather remained dry in the state and the minimum and maximum temperatures increased by 1 to 2 degrees.Keylong was the coldest at night with a minimum temperature at minus 1.8°C and Bilaspur was the hottest in the day with the maximum temperature at 34°C.Farmers and residents are pinning hopes on the forecast of the meteorological department which has predicted rains and thunderstorm in low and middle hills and rains and snow in high hills for the next three days.Himachal received 62 per cent deficit rains during the month of March 2021, preceded by 69 per cent deficit rains in winter. The monsoon deficit was 26 per cent while the post-monsoon deficit stood at 15 per cent.Jal Shakti Minister Mohinder Singh has already cautioned about water scarcity in coming days and called for preparing a contingent plan to meet the situation.The state capital Shimla had faced the worst water crisis in 2018 when water was supplied on the seventh or eighth day but the Shimla Jal Prabandhan Board (SJPN) has assured that such a situation would not arise this time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/met-predicts-wet-weather-till-april-8-in-himachal-234686
05-04-2021||Our Correspondent||Kangra earthquake victims remembered||Palampur, April 4Residents of Palampur today remembered the victims of Kangra earthquake and paid tributes to those killed on this day on April 4, 1905, when the Kangra valley was jolted by a massive earthquake. It was one of the deadliest quake in the Indian history which killed over 20,000 persons.Social bodies and NGOs organised meetings and remembered victims of the devastating quake.In 1905 Kangra was part of Punjab. The then Punjab government had estimated that more than 20,000 persons were killed in Kangra district. Nearly 1,00,000 buildings were destroyed and 53,000 domestic animals were killed. The historical Kangra fort and the famous Brajeshwari Temple were also destroyed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kangra-earthquake-victims-remembered-234688
05-04-2021||Chamba||3 women die in road accident in Sihunta tehsil of Bhattiyat subdivision||Three women were killed while as many were injured when their car overturned in Sihunta tehsil of Bhattiyat subdivision on Sunday.Bhattiyat SDM Bachan Singh said the deceased were identified as Ratto Devi (70), Saryu Sharma (19) and Trimala Devi (80). The victims belonged to the Shahpur area.The injured — Anju Sharma (33), Arya (4) and Gagan (45) — are under treatment at the Tanda medical college.Deputy Commissioner, Chamba, DC Rana said an immediate relief of Rs 15,000 each had been released to the next of kin of the deceased while a sum of Rs 5,000 each had been disbursed to the injured.The Chamba Deputy Commissioner has ordered an inquiry to ascertain the exact cause of the accident. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/3-women-die-in-road-accident-in-sihunta-tehsil-of-bhattiyat-subdivision-234691
05-04-2021||---||Medical posts vacant, fight against Covid hit: Association||Shimla, April 4Urban Development Minister Suresh Bhardwaj said today that a 100-vehicle parking lot will be constructed soon in the Annadale ward of the city. “We will soon construct a parking lot for 100 vehicles in the ward. It will provide relief to people from vehicles parked along the narrow roads in the ward,” the minister announced while addressing the people during the ‘Apka Vidhayak Apke Dwar’ programme. Following the site inspection, the minister said they had ample funds for the project and it will be funded through either AMRUT or Smart City.The unavailability of parking spaces has emerged as one of the most nagging problem of the city, especially with the huge rise in the number of vehicles in the city. According to the police, there are around 1.20 lakh vehicles registered in the city, which has a parking capacity of just around 2,500 vehicles. Around 25,000 vehicles are parked along the road. The situation becomes worse during the tourist season.No wonder, widening of roads and creation of parking lots are the priority projects of the Shimla Smart City Mission. The mission is looking to double the parking capacity by next year by building around 2,000 to 2,500 parking lots. “We are working on number of big parkings. Many of these will be completed this year and the remaining by early next year,” said Smart City GM (Technical) Nitin Garg.Apart from parking, the minister also announced that the road to Gwahi village would be completed till May and a survey for ambulance road from Annadale till Sehar village had been done and the construction would start immediately after getting the NOC from the Forest Department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/medical-posts-vacant-fight-against-covid-hit-association-234693
05-04-2021|| Mandi||Girls' hostel inaugurated at Sundernagar govt college||Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today inaugurated a girls’ hostel at Government Polytechnic College, Sundernagar, in Mandi district constructed at a cost of Rs 3.25 crore.  He said the hostel had been constructed in a record time of 16 months. He appreciated the efforts of the BSNL, executing agency of the project. He said the hostel would provide better boarding facilities to about 69 girls. It had been equipped with all modern facilities. He said with the construction of the hostel, the long-pending demand of the students of the Polytechnic College had been fulfilled. “The government is committed to strengthen the existing educational institutions in the state so that students can get better educational facilities,” he added. Later, the Chief Minister also inspected under-construction makeshift prefabricated hospital at Bhangrotu in the district and directed the officials concerned to ensure time-bound completion of the project. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/girls-hostel-inaugurated-at-sundernagar-govt-college-234695
05-04-2021||---||Over 1.5 lakh treated under Himcare||Shimla, April 4The state government has provided free of cost treatment to 1,51,157 patients, worth Rs 144 crore under Himachal Health Care Scheme (HIMCARE). As many as 5,21, 698 people of the state have registered themselves under this scheme.The government started Himcare scheme in January 2019. Under the scheme, cashless treatment covering up to Rs 5 lakh per year per family is being provided to the family. In case a family has more than five members, the remaining members are enrolled as a separate unit, subject to the capping of five members for each additional unit.According to a press release issued by the government, the beneficiary can apply online at www.hpsbys.in or through Lok Mitra Kendra/Common Service Centers for enrollment and uploading of relevant documents under the scheme. The LMK/CSC collects Rs 50 per family up to unit of five for enrollment/preparation of E-Card under this scheme.The hospitals empanelled under Ayushman Bharat within the state are also empanelled for Himcare and are providing cashless treatment to the beneficiaries. A robust IT system has been developed for implementation of Himcare in the state. Himcare card holders can avail free treatment facility in 201 registered hospitals, out of which 64 are in the private sector.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/over-1-5-lakh-treated-under-himcare-234698
05-04-2021||Dinesh Kanwar---||Hamirpur youth tastes sweet success with strawberry farming||Hamirpur, April 4 While people were cursing Covid for loss of jobs, a youth from the town successfully grew strawberries and made money. Prakrit Lakhanpal, a young entrepreneur, wanted to do something fruitful at a time when people were struggling to save their jobs. He started growing strawberries in his small field   at Vikas Nagar as a pilot project and it turned out to be a big success. Prakrit said since he had nothing to do during the pandemic, he tried to experiment in farming. He said first, he tried his hand at floriculture and then, on growing strawberries. He said he ordered 1,000 plants of strawberries from Banglore that were flown to Chandigarh and then by road to Hamirpur. He said the survival rate of the plants was 90 per cent and now after about a month, harvesting had been started. He said he was getting around 4-5 kg of strawberries every day. He said since it was a pilot project and was successful, he would increase the cultivation area next time.  He said strawberries were sold at Rs 100 per kg to retailer who in sold them at Rs 230-250 per kg. He said the produce was purely organic and the quality was also exceptionally good. He said he had sold over 100 kg of strawberries so far. Horticulture expert Mona said some areas of the district had good climatic conditions for the cultivation of strawberry. If cultivated scientifically, it can boost the farmers’ income, she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hamirpur-youth-tastes-sweet-success-with-strawberry-farming-234702
05-04-2021||Our Correspondent---||Nurpur waste mgmt project hangs fire||Nurpur, April 4 The proposed solid waste management project for Nurpur town has been hanging fire for the past five years. Although the Municipal Council (MC) has identified five kanal of government land on the Housing Board Colony-Chinva link road on the outskirts of the town, the slow pace of completing formalities has delayed the project. The project is the long-standing demand of the residents of Nurpur MC, but it has yet to take shape. As per information, this project had initially been estimated to be built at a cost of Rs 57 lakh and proposed by the MC to dispose of solid waste and garbage being collected by it on a daily basis. The project had been envisaged to replace the existing practice of dumping solid waste and garbage in the open at a dumping site developed by the MC near Chinva village in the adjoining Ganhi Lagor gram panchayat.  Sources reveal the then MC had initially proposed this project in 2013 but it took three years just to identify land for the purpose. Earlier, the MC had been throwing garbage and house waste from different parts of the town in the open garbage dumping site near Chinva village, but following protest by the locals, the then SDM Rakesh Prajapati took an initiative in 2016 and got constructed a retaining wall of the dumping site with an iron gate from the civic body. In the absence of the project, the dumped garbage is burnt.  Rakhi Kaushal, Executive Officer, Nurpur MC, said the identified land had recently been transferred in the name of the Urban Development Department and preparation of detailed project report of the proposed project was under process.  Local MLA and Forest Minister Rakesh Pathania said the project that had been hanging in balance for the past five years was his top priority for the development of the town and after finalising its detailed project report, it would be cleared by the state Urban Development Department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nurpur-waste-mgmt-project-hangs-fire-234703
05-04-2021||Mandi||Campaigning concludes in Mandi district  today||Rugved Thakur, District election officer, Mandi, said all preparations had been done for the execution of free and fair Municipal Corporation (MC) elections in Mandi on April 7. He said the election campaign for the Mandi MC would come to an end at 5 pm on April 5. After this, till the completion of the election process on April 7, there would be prohibitions on organising public meeting or procession to influence the voters under the MC area. “Apart from this, during that period there will be a ban on any kind of musical concerts or drama productions and entertainment programmes aimed at influencing public opinion in view of the elections,” he added. “The voting will be held on April 7 from 8 am to 4 pm. Votes will be counted soon after the voting process is complete. Vyas Sadan, Bhueli, has been made a counting centre for counting of votes of all 15 wards,” he said. There would be a ban on the sale and distribution of liquor under the MC area in hotels, dhabas, shops or other private and public places. This ban would remain in force until 48 hours before the polling and counting of votes was completed. No election-related activity could be done on the polling day within 100 m of the polling station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/campaigning-concludes-in-mandi-district-today-234705
05-04-2021||---||Shimla: Police issue advisory to prevent hacking bank accounts||Shimla, April 4The cyber crime branch of the police has issued an advisory alerting customers against nefarious designs of hackers and asked them not to fall prey to their fraudulent activities.Hackers are inventing new methods to fool and fleece bank customers. The latest technique being used by them is to open a fixed deposit (FD) account to access a one-time password (OTP) for transferring money.ASP, cyber crime, Narvir Singh Rathore said after getting the bank details of customers such as account number, Internet logging details and debit and credit card details, criminals open FD account in their name and transfer funds in that account as no OTP was required for transferring money in self account.Later, posing as bank officials, they call customers and tell them that some of their money had been transferred to FD and ask for OTP for refunding the same. In distress, customers share the OTP number, following which fraudsters transfer funds to their accounts. Recently, two such cases had been reported from Kullu and Solan, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shimla-police-issue-advisory-to-prevent-hacking-bank-accounts-234706
05-04-2021||Palampur||Agriculture University Vice-Chancellor, issues guidelines||Dr HK Chaudhry, Vice-Chancellor, CSK Himachal Pradesh Agriculture University, has ordered that all under-graduate and post graduate classes of the constituent colleges will remain suspended till 15 April in compliance with the orders of the state government.  However, any examination or other academic activity fixed earlier will take place as per schedule. All staff members will attend the duties. Students staying in hostels can leave with permission but will have to submit an RT-PCR negative report when joining back. The VC has ordered that the continuing students other than first year students and those pursuing B.V.Sc. & AH will register for the second semester from April 5 to 7 with a late fee by filling the online registration form available at the university website. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/agriculture-university-vice-chancellor-issues-guidelines-234707
05-04-2021||Rajiv Mahajan||Two cops shifted for ‘assaulting’ constable;  probe underway||Nurpur, April 4The video of a woman accusing Kotla chowki police staff at Jawali of thrashing his son, who is also a police constable, in her presence has gone viral on the social media.Irked over the incident, residents of Batees Meel, the native village of the victim, staged a protest at the local police chowki yesterday. Local traders also kept their shops closed in protest against police action.SP, Kangra, Vimukt Ranjan and DSP, Jawali, Sidharth Sharma rushed to the spot and pacified the protesters.Following the directions of the SP, a head constable and a constable of the police chowki had been attached to the Dharamsala Police Lines. A probe has also been ordered into the incident.Giving details, DSP, Jawali, Sidharth Sharma said Ravinder Rana, a constable with the Solan police battalion, had been on leave and was reportedly mentally unstable.“On Friday evening, Rana allegedly assaulted his wife and mother. The family called up the police following which a team from the Kotla chowki police rushed to his native village. However, when the team members reached his house, Rana started pelting stones on them,” he said.“However, they saved themselves and took him to the police chowki. On Saturday morning, Rana fell unconscious and was taken to the Tanda medical college,” the DSP said.“Later, he was shifted to a private hospital in Pathankot (Punjab), where he is recovering,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/two-cops-shifted-for-assaulting-constable-probe-underway-234708
05-04-2021||---||Parking lot at Annadale to ease traffic congestion||Shimla, April 4Urban Development Minister Suresh Bhardwaj said today that a 100-vehicle parking lot will be constructed soon in the Annadale ward of the city. “We will soon construct a parking lot for 100 vehicles in the ward. It will provide relief to people from vehicles parked along the narrow roads in the ward,” the minister announced while addressing the people during the ‘Apka Vidhayak Apke Dwar’ programme. Following the site inspection, the minister said they had ample funds for the project and it will be funded through either AMRUT or Smart City.The unavailability of parking spaces has emerged as one of the most nagging problem of the city, especially with the huge rise in the number of vehicles in the city. According to the police, there are around 1.20 lakh vehicles registered in the city, which has a parking capacity of just around 2,500 vehicles. Around 25,000 vehicles are parked along the road. The situation becomes worse during the tourist season. No wonder, widening of roads and creation of parking lots are the priority projects of the Shimla Smart City Mission. The mission is looking to double the parking capacity by next year by building around 2,000 to 2,500 parking lots. “We are working on number of big parkings. Many of these will be completed this year and the remaining by early next year,” said Smart City GM (Technical) Nitin Garg.Apart from parking, the minister also announced that the road to Gwahi village would be completed till May and a survey for ambulance road from Annadale till Sehar village had been done and the construction would start immediately after getting the NOC from the Forest Department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/parking-lot-at-annadale-to-ease-traffic-congestion-234709
05-04-2021||ASMALL stretch of 100 m||Accident-prone stretch without crash barriers||Refund full amount on bus ticket cancellationIN case of cancellation of a bus ticket, the Himachal Road Transport Corporation deducts 25 per cent of the amount paid for the ticket. It's not justified because the seat is offered to some other passenger once an individual has cancelled it. So, the HRTC management should refund the entire amount without deducting 25 per cent from passengers. — Arun Sharma, chambaWHAT OUR READERS SAYIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, nd not just you?THE TRIBUNEinvites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/accident-prone-stretch-without-crash-barriers-234710
05-04-2021||The campaign for the Municipal Corporation elections in the state||Himachal Diary: Silent workers and MC poll||Development works in SolanCivic body polls in Solan has many firsts. Apart from being the maiden Municipal Corporation polls, it is also the first time that a chief minister has been seen campaigning from ward to ward. While the BJP has been harping on development works worth Rs 33 crore having been executed, no details were made available when asked by the Congress. It seems CM’s ward-to-ward campaigning was an attempt to discover these development works which neither the common man nor the Opposition could figure out, commented a resident.Factionalism to the foreFactionalism in Congress was obvious during the campaign for Municipal Corporation elections. Some senior Congress leaders did not visit Dharamsala for campaigning due to sharp difference with another senior party leader from the area. In private, they admitted that they were never invited to campaign. In Dharamsala, some party leaders contesting the elections did not use the photo of a former minister from Dharamsala Sudhir Sharma in their publicity material. On his part, the former minister also did not visit the ward of those leaders for campaigning.Covid as an excuseThe first year B.Sc students of a government college in Hamirpur have started a campaign to do away with examination by shooting mails to Chief Minister, education secretary and journalists urging them to promote them without examinations or reduce the syllabus. A large number of students of the same class and college in their mails stated that only 30-40 per cent syllabus has been covered and study was badly affected as classes were taken online. However, the question arises that when all the students are preparing for examinations how come that only one class of one particular college was feeling the pinch. Seems like Covid has become a good excuse for students to avoid studies.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-diary-silent-workers-and-mc-poll-234711
05-04-2021||Dharamsala||BJP: Will ensure more parking space in Dharamsala||The BJP, in its vision document released today, promised to create parking places in all wards of the Dharamsala Municipal Corporation to increase parking place in the city by five times. The vision document was released in a press conference held here today in the presence of party incharge Avinash Rai Khanna, state president Suresh Kayshap, Forest Minister Rakesh Pathania and BJP MP from Kangra Kishan Kapoor.The party also promised to install 7,500 streetlights in Dharamsala MC area.It promised to make the process to get a No Objection Certificate (NOC) from the Dharamsala MC more transparent, easy and time-bound. The party seems to have made this promise as large number of hoteliers and other people in Dharamsala had been complaining that they were not getting NOC or completion certificates of buildings for the past three years since the present government was in power in the state.The BJP has also promised to improve sanitation and cleanliness, set up rainwater harvesting units, and installing CCTV cameras in each ward to curb crime. It said it would launch an Dharamsala MC mobile application which would provide various services such as hall booking, NOC progress tracking, grievance control, pest control and fire brigade.The BJP has also promised that all its councillors would make their wealth public, make a master plan for providing 24-hour power and water supply in the city, ensure necessary arrangements to get rid of stray animals, open zone-wise offices of Dharamsala MC for convenience of public, create cycle tracks and footpaths in some areas, clean up waste dumping site at the earliest and set up a waste disposal and recycling plant, ensure public health centres in each ward, telecast live proceedings of the MC House, start tourism-related projects and set up an eco-tourism green village (tented colony) in Triund summit. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bjp-will-ensure-more-parking-space-in-dharamsala-234713
05-04-2021||The ABVP has expressed anger against the government for being unable to rein in private schools. ABVP's Shilpa Kumari said many school had enhanced the tuition fee up to 65 per cent||ABVP slams Himachal govt over school fee||Student-parent forum opposes fee hikeThe Student-Parent Forum has opposed 15 to 65 per cent fee hike and around 10 per cent computer fee hike by private schools for this session. The forum will stage a protest at Education Directorate against the fee hike and the retrenchment of teaching and non-teaching staff during the pandemic. Forum's convener Vijender Mehra alleged that private schools had gone back to their arbitrary ways.Seminar on RamayanaA one-day seminar on the Ramayana was held at the HPU. The relevance of the epic in modern world was discussed during the seminar. HPU VC Skiandar Kumar said the Ramayana was popular in the entire world and had been translated in various languages. The VC said the epic was a classic example of brotherhood and how to work for the betterment of every individual in society. Main speaker Surender Kumar said we should inculcate the virtues the epic highlights in our lives.Govt decision over schools questionedThe NSUI has questioned the rationale behind government's decision to shut educational institutions till April 15 and keep the coaching institutes open. Alleging that the decision will facilitate privatisation and commercialisation of education, the NSUI said the decision to shut down schools would force parents to send their children to private coaching centres.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/abvp-slams-himachal-govt-over-school-fee-234714
