06-04-2021||---||Pendency of police cases declines by 5 pc in Himachal||Shimla, April 5  The weekly review of cases and monitoring at the district level has yielded results and the pendency of police cases has goes down by 5 per cent in Himachal from 22.8 per cent on December 31, 2020, to 17.4 per cent as on April 1, 2021. As many as 19,819 and 20,577 FIRs were registered in 2019 and 2020. The police headquarters had instructed SPs to keep the pendency lower than 20 per cent and the target was achieved within three months. “The visit to all districts to review the crime situation, regular monitoring of crime cases, predictive policing, weekly review of law and order situation and crime and allowing graduate constables to investigate cases in which the imprisonment was less than three years helped in reducing the pendency of cases,” said DGP Sanjay Kundu. The police have a sanctioned strength of 18,099 personnel with 1,729 vacancies out of which 9,909 personnel are posted with districts for maintenance of law and order and investigation of crime while the rest are posted in battalions.  Meanwhile, eight companies of the HP Armed Police India Reserve Battalions, including two women companies, have been deployed in Puducherry for election duty. The contingent is led by the Commandant, 5th IRBn Gurdev Chand Sharma as Force Commander.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/pendency-of-police-cases-declines-by-5-pc-in-himachal-235238
06-04-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Cyber crime in Himachal: 640 pc spike in cases in 5 yrs||Tribune News ServiceShimla, April 5Himachal witnesses a surge in cyber crime cases which has increased by 640 per cent in five years. Over 700 complaints have been received in three months and the maximum complaints pertained to social media and financial frauds.Modus operandiCrime in the virtual world is increasing as professionals are indulging in malpractices and the number of complaints received in the cyber police station, Shimla, has increased from 519 in 2016, 570 in 2017, 980 in 2018, 1,638 in 2019 and 3,843 in 2020.The delay at the end of telephone service providers and banks is acting as hindrance for the police and resulting in financial losses to people. On an average, about 25 to 30 complaints of cyber crime are received in the state daily of which over 65 per cent are from Shimla.Banks and telecom service providers respond to the complaints on the second or third day and, in the meantime, cyber criminals spend the money, says ASP, Cyber Crime, Narvir Singh Rathore, adding that in cases where the response is on time, the transactions are blocked. The delay on the part of these institutions is attributed to huge volume of complaints.On the social media, the common practice is chatting and befriending people, winning their confidence, getting intimate and blackmailing. People are approached through social networking sites, as chatting levels scale up, WhatsApp numbers are exchanged and the chats continue for weeks. Gradually, nudity creeps in the chats which is recorded on screen by the criminals and misused for blackmailing.In most cases, the victims were harassed on social networking sites. The offence relate to creation of fake profile and IDs, virtual stalking, transmitting sexually explicit material, blackmailing by morphing photographs, fake chatting and calling on WhatsApp, besides financial frauds.The categorisation of cyber crime cases reveals that criminals from Mewat of Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and parts of Rajasthan are involved in OLX fraud, payments fraud using QR code, blackmailing after recording nude videos and frauds related to SIM upgrade, e-Sim, token payment and UPI frauds are originated from Jharkhand, Bihar and some districts of West BengalGangs making and using fake websites, e-commerce and frauds related to government schemes are active in north Rajasthan and south Bihar while miscreants in Noida, Gurgaon and Ghaziabad are involved in cyber crimes pertaining to cheating in the name of jobs and insurance and these gangs are operating call centres.“The crime scenario is changing and cyber crime is on the increase. We have requested the state government for opening of cyber police stations in all districts,” said DGP Sanjay Kundu, adding that hi-tech professional training required for solving the cases would also be imparted to investigators.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cyber-crime-in-himachal-640-pc-spike-in-cases-in-5-yrs-235239
06-04-2021||Our Correspondent---||Woman alleges rape in Kullu||Kullu, April 5  A 46-year old woman registered a complaint in the Kullu women police station yesterday that she was raped by her colleague on April 1.  Kullu SP Gaurav Singh said a medical examination of the victim had been carried out and the evidence was being analysed.  He said a case under Section 376 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) had been registered and further investigations were underway.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/woman-alleges-rape-in-kullu-235240
06-04-2021||Our Correspondent---||Kullu soldier dies of lightning in Bengal||KULLU, APRIL 5 Naresh Thakur (41), a soldier from Ghungar village in the Peej area of the Lug valley of this district, died in a lightning strike yesterday. He was posted in the BSF and lost his life in Singur, West Bengal.  He was on duty when he was struck by lightning in the evening, injuring him seriously. BSF officers and jawans admitted him to the hospital but he was declared dead by doctors.  The BSF officials informed his family about the tragedy. His father Devi Singh said that his son got admitted to the BSF in 2004. He is survived by his wife and two children aged 16 and 11 years.  The mortal remains of the soldier were being brought to Kullu. They were expected to reach tomorrow after which cremation will be held. A pall of gloom descended on the family. The martyr’s wife is in a state of shock and inconsolable.  There is an atmosphere of grief in the whole area after receiving information about the sudden death of Naresh Thakur. A large number of condolence messages went viral on social media.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kullu-soldier-dies-of-lightning-in-bengal-235241
06-04-2021||---||Forest dept gears up to control fires||Shimla, April 5 The forest department was well-prepared to fight forest fires and rapid forest fire fighting force and rapid response teams had been set up at forest division and range levels, said Principal Chief Conservator of Forests during review meeting with Forest Circles on preparedness for forest fires in the state held virtually today. Approximately 40,000 man-days of fire watchers would be engaged by the department in addition to existing frontline staff for preventing and combating forest fires, she said and added that the state disaster control room with toll free number 1077 at state level and 1070 at district level were operational for reporting of the forest fire by the local community. The messages regarding forest fire had been shared with the members of rapid forest fire fighting force, in which approximately 50,000 volunteers had already been registered. Awareness to the community was also conducted through ‘nukkar nataks’, songs and speeches. She said the department had created forest fire lines and constructed water storage structures in the forest areas. Additional multi-utility vehicles and water loaded tankers in 80 fire sensitive ranges had been engaged for three months. The matter regarding SOPs for requisition of helicopter services for dousing the forest fires had been sent to the government for approval.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/forest-dept-gears-up-to-control-fires-235242
06-04-2021||Our Correspondent---||Una elderly man shoots at trespassers||UNA, APRIL 5  An octogenarian resident of Palkwah village of Haroli sub-division today reportedly fired shots from his gun, injuring two persons. They were trespassing on his land on a tractor-trailer, transporting sand from the Swan river late Monday evening.  According to a press release by the Una district police, accused Mehar Chand (81) has been taken into custody. The press release stated that Lakhjinder Singh (27) and Gurpreet Singh (31), both residents of Hilna Belna village of Haroli, were transporting sand on their tractor-trailer from the Swan river to their home. When the tractor was crossing Mehar Chand’s fields, the later objected.  An altercation followed. Mehar Chand opened fire, injuring the two persons. They have been admitted to the Una district hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/una-elderly-man-shoots-at-trespassers-235243
06-04-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||BJP well placed in Mandi, has better chance in Solan||Tribune News ServiceShimla, April 5The campaign for the elections to the four municipal corporations ended today. The BJP seems to be comfortably placed in Mandi, has an edge in Solan while in Dharamsala and Palampur, the scales seem to be evenly balanced.The elections are being held on party symbols. The stakes are high especially for Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, as these elections are being considered a precursor to the Assembly elections due in November 2022. In case the Congress is able to win even one MC or retain Dharamsala, it will be a big victory considering the fund and resource crunch the party is facing.Rebels have queered the pitch for both Congress and BJP, especially in Palampur and Dharamsala. Efforts to placate them have failed, making the going tough for both parties. In Dharamsala, the BJP is facing 14 rebels while the Congress has five rebels.While the Chief Minister has campaigned in all four places, Union Minister of State for Finance Anurag Thakur sought votes for the party candidates in Dharamsala on the last day of the campaign today. Besides, all ministers have been assigned poll duties and Rajya Sabha MP Indu Goswami has been active in Palampur. BJP state in-charge Avinash Rai Khanna and co-incharge Sanjay Tandon, too, have been taking keen interest in the elections.On the other hand, state Congress president Kuldeep Rathore and CLP leader Mukesh Agnihotri have been leading the Congress campaign. Asha Kumari, Kaul Singh Thakur, GS Bali and Ram Lal Thakur, too, have been campaigning. Despite the best efforts of the Congress, former Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh could not campaign owing to his falling health. Senior party leader Anand Sharma also did not involve himself with the elections.Former minister Sudhir Sharma, who lost the 2017 Assembly elections, has taken the charge of the Dharamsala elections for the Congress and the BJP faces a tough fight there. Even in Palampur, the goodwill of BBL Butail and his MLA son Ashish Butail have proved to be the biggest strength of the Congress.The BJP is quite comfortably placed in Mandi, the home district of the Chief Minister, where he had campaigned vigorously. The Chief Minister has handed over the charge of the party campaign to a trusted and experienced aide, Mahender Singh, Irrigation and Public Health Minister.In Solan, too, the BJP seems to be ahead of the Congress in organising a very systematic campaign being headed by former Speaker and Rajeev Bindal, an astute politician and Nahan MLA. He has represented Solan thrice in the Vidhan Sabha, and is still well-entrenched.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bjp-well-placed-in-mandi-has-better-chance-in-solan-235244
06-04-2021||---||Mandi Sadar neglected, CM should apologise, says Congress||Mandi, April 5 Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur was his main target as Leader of Opposition Mukesh Agnihotri campaigned here today in favour of Congress candidates for Municipal Corporation election along with other Congress leaders. Addressing a press conference, Agnihotri said that the neglect of the Mandi Sadar segment by the state government in the last three years would cost the BJP dear in this election.  He said the Chief Minister should apologise to the people of Mandi Sadar by accepting that he had failed to ensure the development of Mandi town.  “The people of Mandi Sadar assembly segment gave mandate to the BJP in the last Assembly election held to ensure the development of Mandi town and its nearby places. But the Chief Minister ignored the demands of Anil Sharma, BJP MLA from Mandi Sadar regarding development issues. Due to that there is strong resentment among people of Mandi Sadar against the Chief Minister,” he added.  “The people of Mandi Sadar are aware that Rs 440 core, a part of the Jal Jeevan Mission, was allocated to only two Assembly segments of Seraj and Dharampur, the home segments of Chief Minister and IPH Minister, respectively. Similarly, Rs 450 crore of the Central Road Fund Scheme was allocated for Seraj and Dharampur. Around 2,000 jobs were provided to the youths of Seraj and Dharampur in different departments while. the youths of Mandi Sadar did not get jobs,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mandi-sadar-neglected-cm-should-apologise-says-congress-235245
06-04-2021||Palampur||Congress misguiding people on taxes, says Avinash Rai Khanna||Avinash Rai Khanna, state BJP in-charge, today assailed the Congress for misguiding people on the imposition of municipal taxes in the merged areas of Palampur.Addressing mediapersons here, Khanna said that there was no proposal to levy taxes in the newly merged areas of the Palampur MC. The statement of Palampur MLA Ashish Butail and Congress leader Asha Kumari were far from truth that taxes would be levied on houses, cowsheds, animals, pets, scooters and cars. The government had no such proposal and the Congress was adopting cheap tactics to get political mileage in the MC elections.Khanna said the BJP would respect the sentiments of people and if any village wanted to go out of the MC limits, the government would go for delimitation. Trilok Kapoor, state general secretary, said one family had ruled Palampur for long but failed to upgrade the municipal council. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/congress-misguiding-people-on-taxes-says-avinash-rai-khanna-235246
06-04-2021||---||Last-ditch effort by BJP, Congress, Independents||Mandi, April 5 The BJP and the Congress put in their all best efforts today on the last day of election campaign to win the election of Municipal Corporation election. The stakes are high for Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur because Mandi is his home district. In the past few days, the Chief Minister campaigned relentlessly in all 15 wards of the Mandi MC. On Sunday, the Chief Minister addressed public meetings in seven wards. Today he heard public grievances at circuit house here in the morning hours and later went to Sundernagar. Since morning, BJP candidates held road shows. Education Minister Govind Singh Thakur and Technical Education Minister Ram Lal Markanda remained present. Seri Manch, in the middle of Mandi town, was the centre of political activities today. Similarly, the Congress party also held a bike rally in favour of the Congress candidates to demonstrate political strength. Leader of Opposition Mukesh Agnihotri, former Excise and Taxation Minister Prakash Chaudhari, former Chief Parliamentary Secretary Sohan Lal Thakur, former vice chairperson of the National Commission f0or Scheduled Tribes (NCST) Ravi Thakur and other local Congress leaders were present. Besides, Independent candidates held road shows to lure voters.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/last-ditch-effort-by-bjp-congress-independents-235247
06-04-2021||Solan||Virbhadra Singh fails to turn up at Solan rally||Efforts to woo voters by roping in Congress’ six-term Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh failed in Solan as the senior most leader could not turn up to address a rally today following ill-health.In his absence the rally failed to have the desired effect though senior leaders like PCC president Kuldeep Rathore, local MLA DR Shandil, Rajinder Rana and state’s co-in charge Gurkirat Singh Kotli addressed the gathering.An unsavoury situation arose when Congress and BJP activists came face to face at the old bus stand. A large number of BJP activists, who were holding a march, started sloganeering in front of the venue of the Congress’ rally while Shandil was speaking.Activists of the Youth Congress also started sloganeering. Rathore urged the activists not to get provoked. However, timely intervention by the police averted the situation from getting worse. A march was also taken out by the Congress leaders later from the old bus stand till the old DC office in a bid to woo the voters. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/virbhadra-singh-fails-to-turn-up-at-solan-rally-235248
06-04-2021||Palampur||Rebels may play spoilsport in Palampur||The high-pitch campaign  for the Palampur municipal  corporation elections came  ended this evening. Ministers, MLAs and other leaders of the BJP campaigned to woo the voters in rural as well as urban areas of Palampur.  Likewise, Senior Congress leaders thronged Palampur and addressed a series of meetings in favour of their candidates.  However, a large number of rebels contesting the election remains a matter of concern for both parties.   Meanwhile, contestants took to social media to not only updating their supporters on the campaign schedule  with speeches  but also  to ‘expose’ the opponents.  Dharmesh Ramotra, Assistant Returning Officer, said voting would be held on April 7 from 8 am to 4 pm in 34 polling stations of 15 wards. Votes will be counted soon after the voting process is complete. “There would be a ban on the sale and distribution of liquor in the MC area in hotels, dhabas, shops or other private and public places. The ban will remain in force till 48 hours before the polling and counting of votes. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rebels-may-play-spoilsport-in-palampur-235249
06-04-2021||---||Govt didn’t allow Dharamsala MC to function: Sukhwinder Sukhu||Dharamsala, April 5The Congress-dominated Dharamsala corporation was not allowed to function by the BJP government in the state. Former HPCC president Sukhwinder Sukhu and former minister and AICC secretary Sudhir Sharma said that the BJP government had been blaming the Congress-dominated corporation for lack of development in Dharamsala in the last three years.While addressing mediapersons here today, Sukhu alleged that Congress was willing to put on record the resolutions moved by Dharamsala MC house for development of the city. However, it was the state government that dumped all these resolutions.The Dharamsala Corporation has also been demanding additional staff for the past three years. However, the state government has failed to provide it. So it was not the corporation house but the state government that was responsible for stalled development in Dharamsala city.Sukhu said that most of the development in Dharamsala took place when Sudhir Sharma was Minister for Town and Country Planning. It was the previous Congress government that gave Rs 223 crores for Dharamsala Smart City project but the present government failed to spend it despite the fact that board of directors of Smart City project was directly under the government, he alleged.Sudhir Sharma said that the previous Congress government was so generous towards Dharamsala that it had even issued a notification to declare Dharamsala as second capital of the state. The present BJP government has dumped the notification.He said the government was trying to divert the attention of the electorate by alleging corruption.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/govt-didnt-allow-dharamsala-mc-to-function-sukhwinder-sukhu-235250
06-04-2021||---||Central grants hiked mainfold: Anurag||Dharamsala, April 5Union Minister of State for Finance Anurag Thakur campaigned for the BJP in Dharamsala today.While addressing mediapersons here, Anurag claimed the credit for bringing up a cricket stadium in Dharamsala. He claimed that international matches held at the stadium had given boost to business and tourism in the city.He said that the Union government had given ample amount for Dharamsala Smart City. However, the Congress-ruled corporation did not spend the money lying with it as it did not want to give credit to the BJP government for the development works.He urged people to vote for the BJP in the elections for development of Dharamsala.Anurag claimed that the grants that the state got under the Finance Commission and its share in the Central taxes had increased multiple times in the last six years. The Central Government had given Rs 40,000 crore under the 14th Finance Commission to Himachal Pradesh. He also campaigned in various wards of Dharamsala.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/central-grants-hiked-mainfold-anurag-235251
06-04-2021||---||Congestion stays as Shimla veggie, timber mkts not shifted||Shimla, April 5The two-decade-old dream of shifting the vegetable, timber and grain markets from the heart of the town to decongest the state capital still remains a distant dream as forest clearances are yet to be obtained on the land transferred by the Municipal Corporation to the user agencies.Sites identified, clearances yet to be obtainedEven though there have been plans of shifting these services from the main town to the suburbs or on the Shimla-Dhalli bypass for over 20 years now, it could take some time before the actual shifting takes place. The movement of heavy vehicles ferrying vegetables, grain and timber slows the traffic flow of the town, which has been witnessing massive traffic jams, especially during the peak tourist season.Though a site had been identified at Darni Ka Bagicha on the bypass to shift the Sabzi Mandi, it was only a month ago that the land had been transferred to the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC). “We have given the NOC to APMC for using 25 bighas for setting up the Sabzi Mandi but as some forest land is involved, permission will have to be sought from the Union Ministry of Environment and Forest,” said Ashish Kohli, Commissioner, Shimla MC.A vast expanse of 250 bighas had been identified near Shanan village near the Satluj Jal Vidyut Nigam Office on the bypass to shift the timber market and the grain market. Here too, the NOC for the use of land has been issued to the APMC. However, with some portion of the land being owned by the local panchayat, efforts will have to be made to remove the hurdles.There has been talk of shifting of the vegetable and grains markets from the congested Lower Bazaar and Ganj areas, respectively, for so many years. However, not much effort has been made to make it a reality. These initiatives were prominently highlighted in the Draft Development Plan of the town as well as in the City Mobility Plan as the presence of large number of vehicles near Sabzi Mandi and on the way to the grain market at Ganj results in a huge traffic jam on the Circular Road.The presence of the timber market, located next to the Lakkar Bazaar Bus Stand, is one of the biggest traffic bottleneck. Traffic jams are the worst on this road, which is also a route for the Indira Gandhi Medical College. As such, there is an urgent need to shift the timber market from this point.The only ray of hope is that Urban Development Minister Suresh Bhardwaj, who also happens to be the local MLA, is very keen to expedite these projects and give them priority.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/congestion-stays-as-shimla-veggie-timber-mkts-not-shifted-235252
06-04-2021||Shimla||Thunderstorm, rain flatten wheat crop in Himachal, farmers worried||Shimla and its surrounding areas and several other places in mid and lower hills of Himachal were lashed by thunderstorm accompanied by light rains, causing marginal drop in mercury.The local MeT office has warned of heavy rain, thunderstorm, lightning, hailstorm and gusty winds with speed of 30 to 40 kmph at isolated places in lower and mid hills on April 6 and 7, predicted rains and thundershowers in lower and mid hills from April 6 to 8 and rains and snow at many places in higher hills from April 6 to April 9.The storm flattened standing wheat crop in lower hills and damaged stone fruit crops in mid and higher hills. Farmers are worried in view of warning of fresh thunderstorm and hailstorm over the next two days.Light rains occurred at isolated places. Kalpa received 12 mm rains, followed by Bhawa Nagar 9 mm, Reckong Peo and Udaipur 7 mm, Sarahan 6 mm and Keylong 3 mm.The day temperature dropped marginally. The minimum temperatures stayed close to normal. Keylong was the coldest in the region with a low of 0.8 degree while Una was hottest with a high of 34.2 degree.The state received 42.5 mm average rains from March 1 to April 5 against normal rainfall of 120.7 mm, a deficit of 65 per cent. All 12 districts have deficit rains ranging from 45 per cent in Shimla and Mandi districts to 85 per cent and 80 per cent in Chamba and Hamirpur districts. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/thunderstorm-rain-flatten-wheat-crop-in-himachal-farmers-worried-235254
06-04-2021||Subhash Rajta---||Covid cases spiral at IGMC wards again||Shimla, April 5  The vacant Covid wards at Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital (IGMC) have started filling again. The number of patients has gone past 50 from the single digit in a little over a week. Despite the IGMC’s claim that it’s prepared to handle the worsening situation, sources in the hospital point out that inadequate strength of Class IV and sanitation workers can hamper the fight against the second wave of the pandemic.  “Class IV employees and sanitation workers play a lead role in providing care to patients. If the cases continue to rise, it will be difficult to manage,” said the sources. “There has to be at least three-fold increase in their strength to keep Covid and non-Covid facilities running simultaneously and effectively,” they said.  Besides, an official pointed out, the motivation among the Class IV employees wasn’t too high.  “They are outsourced staff and get a salary of around 8,000 per month. Also, if something happens to them, their families won’t get much financial assistance,” said the official. “Higher salaries could be considered to make them more motivated for the difficult job,” he said. Doctor Janak Raj, MS, IGMC, however, said the hospital was geared up to handle the situation. “The number is indeed rising fast, but we are well-equipped to handle it, be it the number of beds, staff or other resources,” said Dr Janak Raj.  “We are in constant touch with the government. If the situation worsens, more resources will be provided to handle it,” he said. They were in a better position compared to last year to handle it. “This time we know what needs to be done in different situations. This experience will be quite handy,” he said. Besides, 90 per cent of our staff was vaccinated. So, this time the fear while treating the patients would be less. The hospital is absolutely packed with people and social distancing seems to be the last thing on their mind. “People have become careless, many are accompanying patients unnecessarily to the hospital.  People will have to understand the danger and avoid coming to the hospital,” said Dr Janak Raj.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-cases-spiral-at-igmc-wards-again-235255
06-04-2021||Our Correspondent||784 electricity consumers sent notices in Chamba||Chamba, April 5Himachal Pradesh State Electricity Board Limited (HPSEBL) has issued notices to 784 power consumers of Chamba town, who had been found defaulters in paying their electricity bills for a long time.In an official communiqué issued here today, a spokesman for the local Electrical Sub-Division-I of the HPSEBL said these consumers had been directed to deposit their power bills within 15 days, failing which their electricity connections would be disconnected.The spokesman said the board had to recover an amount of Rs 48.83 lakh from these defaulters.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/784-electricity-consumers-sent-notices-in-chamba-235256
06-04-2021||NURPUR||Nurpur SDM office closed for 2 days||After a number of Covid-positive cases came to the fore at the Nurpur SDM’s office, it was closed today for the next two days. initially, SDM Surinder Thakur had tested positive two days ago. Tests of a number of his staff members were done on Saturday. Three employees working in the office were reported to be positive on Sunday. As per information, the SDM had already undertaken two shots of Covid vaccine. The SDM said as per guidelines and SOPs, the office had been closed for the next 48 hours. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nurpur-sdm-office-closed-for-2-days-235257
06-04-2021||---||Solan doctor tests +ve for UK variant||Shimla, April 5The first case of the UK variant of the virus has been confirmed in the state. The sample of a woman doctor posted in Solan, who had tested positive after taking both doses of the vaccine on March 12, has tested positive for the UK variant of the virus. The samples were sent to the National Centre for Disease Control, New Delhi, and the report was received on Monday.“She has tested positive for the UK variant. There’s, however, no need for alarm as she has recovered,” said National Health Mission Director Nipun Jindal.Subsequently, following the sudden surge in the number of cases in the border districts, the government has sent around 550 samples for genome sequencing to Delhi.The report of all these samples is awaited.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/solan-doctor-tests-ve-for-uk-variant-235258
06-04-2021||Shimla||Centre limiting role of FCI, PDS: Himachal Kisan Sabha||The Himachal Kisan Sabha today accused the Central Government of trying to limit the role of the Food Corporation of India (FCI) and sent a memorandum to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur through the FCI General Manager in this regard.The protesting sabha members said that the Central Government was trying to limit the role of the FCI and the Public Distribution System (PDS). They alleged that the government had asked the FCI to change the quality standards while purchasing produce from farmers. “Neither farmers nor other stakeholders have been consulted before issuing these orders. The government is repeating the mistake of not consulting the farmers before bringing in three farms laws,” said the Kisan Sabha in a press note issued here.It said that the change in the quality standards for produce procurement be rolled back. Its other demands include the withdrawal of the condition of land documents to sell the produce at the MSP, increase in the FCI’s storage capacity, Central help to set up processing units in the state, the MSP for fruits, vegetables and milk, inclusion of maize in the PDS and the setting up of a maize-based industry. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/centre-limiting-role-of-fci-pds-himachal-kisan-sabha-235259
06-04-2021||---||567 infected, six fatalities reported in Himachal||Shimla, April 5 As many as 567 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 65,809. Besides, six persons died of the virus in the past 24 hours. Three deaths occurred in Una and one each in Mandi, Sirmaur and Kangra.  The highest number of 111 cases was reported in Kangra, followed by 109 in Solan, 78 in Una, 58 in Shimla, 57 in Hamirpur, 49 in Sirmaur, 39 in Bilaspur, 32 in Chamba, 27 in Kullu, six in Mandi and one in Kinnaur. The number of active cases rose to 3,828.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/567-infected-six-fatalities-reported-in-himachal-235260
06-04-2021||Centre for Human Rights||Workshop held on human rights in Himachal Pradesh National Law University||Declare results: SFI to HPUThe SFI, HPU, submitted a memorandum to the Controller of Examination on Monday, demanding that the results of all exams conducted for postgraduate classes be declared at the earliest. It may be mentioned that the HPU has been unable to declare the results of BEd fourth semester, disrupting admission process for MEd. The SFI also raised questions about the IRP system, saying that despite spending Rs 800 crore, students continued to face exam-related problems.Tribal students hold protestStudents from Kinnaur, Lahaul and Spiti and Bharmaur staged a protest outside the Janjatiya Bhavan, Dhalli, against three-fold increase in room rent of the Bhavan. The protesters demanded that the hike be rolled back and the manager at the bhavan should be from the tribal area. Besides, they demanded that the booking for the bhavan be made online. The protesters said if the hike was not rolled back, people from tribal areas would launch an agitation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/workshop-held-on-human-rights-in-himachal-pradesh-national-law-university-235274
06-04-2021||Work on the Sabji Mandi road leading to the Mall Road has been going on for a while now. With the work on the drains is in progress||Speed up road work||— Rohan Chauhan, ShimlaNH full of potholesThe national highway leading from Kangra to Ranital is full of potholes. Some potholes are so huge that they can damage vehicles in case the driver fails to negotiate them in the dark. The Mataur-Shimla road was to be four-laned; even a foundation stone was laid by Union Minister for Surface Transport Nitin Gadkari. However, it is an irony that instead of four-laning the road, the government has not been able to even maintain it properly. The government should at least fill the potholes on the road to check accidents— Pardeep Kumar, KangraWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/speed-up-road-work-235281
06-04-2021||---||Gangster Lawrence Bishnoi’s key aide held in Himachal||Chandigarh, April 5The Punjab Police, in a joint operation with the Himachal Pradesh Police, arrested a close aide of jailed gangster Lawrence Bishnoi, who played a key role in the planning, execution as well as providing shelter to killers of Youth Congress leader Gurlal Singh Bhalwan on the directions of Bishnoi and Canada-based Goldy Brar.The suspect has been identified as Gagandeep Singh, alias Padda, alias Gagan Brar, alias Labh Singh Labhu, alias Gogi, of Panjgarai Kalan village in Kotkapura. He used to work as a bouncer in clubs and hotels of Chandigarh.Was bouncer in Chandigarh clubsDGP Dinkar Gupta, in a press communiqué, said the killing was organised by Goldy Brar, with help of Bishnoi, to avenge the murder of his cousin Gurlal Brar.A few hours after the murder, a Facebook post purportedly by Bishnoi, currently lodged in Rajasthan’s Ajmer jail, linked the crime to the death of Gurlal Brar.On February 21, the Delhi Police arrested three men — Gurvinder Pal, alias Gora, Sukhwinder Dhillon, and Saurabh Verma — involved in the murder. The next day, Punjab Police nabbed Gurpinder Singh, a resident of Ghania Wala village, in the murder case for providing weapons to the assailants. Investigations revealed Gora shared a flat with Gagan Brar in Kharar and the conspiracy was hatched in the rented accommodation. Gagan, being a close associate of Goldy Brar, was wanted by the Delhi Special Cell and Faridkot Police for his involvement in the murder. The Delhi Police had raided the Kharar accommodation, but Gagan gave them the slip. The DGP said based on inputs, teams of the Organised Crime Control Unit (OCCU) and Counter Intelligence Units of the Punjab Police were tasked with arresting the accused under the supervision of Additional DGP (ADGP) Internal Security RN Dhoke. The teams tracked Gagan’s location to Kasol and apprehended him in a joint operation with the Himachal Police. Gagan revealed he was working as a bouncer in night clubs in Chandigarh and was friends with Gora and Gurlal Brar for over five years. He had got the job through Gurlal Brar’s reference. The DGP said Gora introduced Gagan to Goldy Brar. On the instructions of Goldy, Gagan handed over a bagful of arms and ammunition to an unidentified person in Kharar, a day before the murder. This bag was brought by Gora and kept in his room’s wardrobe.After the Delhi Police raided the accommodation, he took shelter in a friend’s flat in Kharar for two days and then went to Golden Temple in Amritsar, from where he went to McLeodganj before reaching Kasol. During his escape, Gagan remained in contact with Goldy through OTT apps and Goldy also sent him money via Google pay for expenses, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/gangster-lawrence-bishnois-key-aide-held-in-himachal-235043
06-04-2021||Shimla||Campaign for high-stake Himachal civic poll ends||The campaign for elections to the four Himachal municipal corporations ended on Monday. Stakes are high for both the BJP and Congress.The BJP seems comfortably placed in Mandi, has an edge in Solan, while in Dharamsala and Palampur, the scales seem to be evenly balanced. Polling will be held on April 7. Counting will be held on the same day.The elections are being held on party symbols. The stakes are high for Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur as these elections are being viewed a precursor to the Assembly elections due in November 2022. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/campaign-for-high-stake-himachal-civic-poll-ends-235150
06-04-2021||bika Sharma||Faulty hydrants, lack of water tankers hit fire-fighting operations in Solan||Tribune News ServiceSolan, April 4Absence of dedicated water pipe lines and non-functional hydrants have reduced the efficiency of fire-fighting operations in Solan town.Some laxities had come to light recently when non-availability of water delayed fire-fighting operations at a chemist shop near Children’s Park. The refilling of water from Chambaghat and city police station delayed fire-fighting operations and the department drew flak from the residents.“In a bid to identify the shortcoming the Home Guards Department, which oversees fire-fighting operations, conducted an audit of the available resources where shortage of dedicated water tankers and absence of fire hydrants at places emerged as the key areas of concern,” informed Commandant, Home Guards, Dr Shiv Kumar Sharma.Out of the 26 fire hydrants, four were found non-functional at Old DC office and Sunny Side. In a bid to ramp up the facilities, the municipal corporation (MC) officials have been asked to ensure round-the-clock water availability from a dedicated pipeline in the town.“Despite writing to the MC authorities several times to provide water tankers at key places for efficient fire-fighting there has been no response,” added Sharma.The proposal has been taken up afresh. Besides, several measures have been mooted to improve the fire-fighting mechanism. All traders and mall owners should install key equipment like fire ball, fire extinguisher which should be duly examined by the station fire officer.“Though water harvesting facility is available in all government buildings, in the absence of proper maintenance, this water finds little use. This can be used for fire exigencies. It should also be ensured that pipe lines connected to hydrants are not used to give individual water connections,” he said.“It was surprising to note that there was no hydrant at the outlet of 40,000 litre water tank located near the MC office. A fire hydrant should be provided here for apt use of the water for fire-fighting,” pointed out Sharma.Other suggestions like constructing water tanks of one lakh litre at key places in the town like Children’s Park, Jawahar Park, old jail premises, near old bus stand, Mohan Park and at Chambaghat were also recommended to ensure adequate water availability.Since several rural areas have been merged in the Solan MC, a survey of the new areas should also be undertaken by the civic body officials to install hydrants and water tanks for effective fire-fighting operations in the future.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/faulty-hydrants-lack-of-water-tankers-hit-fire-fighting-operations-in-solan-234700
