07-04-2021||Solan||BJP-supported candidates win 6 of 7 seats in Kandaghat nagar panchayat polls||The BJP-supported candidates bagged six of the seven seats in the Kandaghat nagar panchayat polls held on Wednesday.The BJP-supported candidates who won were Jitender Kumar from ward number one, Sushma from ward number three, Kiran Bala from ward number four, Manish Sood from ward number five, Sneh from ward number six and Gita Devi from ward number 7.Lone Congress-supported candidate Puneet Sharma won from ward number two.The newly-upgraded Kandaghat nagar panchayat registered 78.14 per cent voting in its seven wards today.Though the nagar panchayat polls were not held on party symbols, these results have come as a shot in the arm for the ruling BJP while the Congress’ factionalism has cost the party dear.Despite having a Congress MLA, DR Shandil, in the constituency, these results reflect his declining influence in Kandaghat area as well as bitter factionalism among the local leaders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bjp-supported-candidates-win-6-of-7-seats-in-kandaghat-nagar-panchayat-polls-235948
07-04-2021||Solan||Police raids Kasauli hotel where gambling, flesh trade was underway||The Kasauli police on Wednesday arrested more than 40 people, including nine women, involved in gambling and flesh trade during a surprise raid in hotel Wood Creek near Kasauli.A team led by DSP Ramesh Sharma, DSP Parwanoo Yogesh Rolta and about 35 policemen raided Wood Creek hotel located on the Dharampur-Kasauli road following a tip-off and detected nefarious activities late last evening.“As many as 30 men and four women were found involved in gambling at the hotel’s basement in a hall. As many as 22 packs of playing cards, 3500 gambling coins and cash worth Rs 13.92 lakh were recovered from them in the basement which was nothing less than a professional casino. They have been booked under the Gambling Act,” informed DSP Parwanoo Yogesh Rolta.Nine women, aged 23 to 30 years, hailing from various towns of Punjab, including Ludhiana, Moga, Zirakpur and Chandigarh, had arrived at the hotel yesterday and were supposed to stay for two days.Some men were also caught in an objectionable position with some girls in rooms.A Kaithal-based agent had brought these women here for nefarious activities and it was being enquired whether such groups had been visiting the hotel earlier too, informed Rolta.“A sum of Rs 4,500 per person was being charged from each person by the hotel as per preliminary enquiry. There are 40 rooms in the hotel,” added Rolta.The revelation has left the residents shocked who said such hotels besmirch the image of this area.  It has also put a question mark on the hotel management who permitted such nefarious activities.A case under the Gambling Act as well as the Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act has been registered by the Kasauli police and further enquiry was underway.Another such case was reported from a hotel at Kumarhatti some years ago.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/police-raids-kasauli-hotel-where-gambling-flesh-trade-was-underway-235923
07-04-2021||Shimla||Body of missing woman exhumed in Himachal’s Una; accused held||The body of a 22-year-old woman missing for the last four days was exhumed in a village in Himachal Pradesh’s Una district on Wednesday, police said.A man has been arrested for allegedly burying the woman after killing her, they said.The situation became tense in the Jadla Kohri village under the Gagret sub-division after recovery of the body as the villagers demanded handing over the accused to them.Una Superintendent of Police Arjit Sen Thakur, who also visited the spot, told PTI that the woman had been missing since April 3 and the matter was reported at Gagret police station the next day.He said the victim and the accused were known to each other for some time and the woman recently got engaged to someone else. Subsequently, the accused killed the woman with an iron rod and buried the body at a deserted place, police said.The SP said the accused originally hails from Gyanpur in Uttar Pradesh and was staying at an ashram close to the woman’s house.During probe, police scanned through the call details of the missing woman and zeroed on the accused. On being questioned, he confessed to the murder and identified the location where he had buried the body, Thakur said.The SP said the body was exhumed and sent for post-mortem to Tanda Hospital.  PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/body-of-missing-woman-exhumed-in-himachals-una-accused-held-235894
07-04-2021||hinav  Vashisht---||Bird flu scare in Kullu as dead crows test positive||KULLU, APRIL 6 The bird flu scare looms in the district after dead crows have been found positive of avian influenza virus H5N8 at Babeli village here.  Dr Sanjeev Nadda, Deputy Director, animal health and breeding, Kullu, said seven crows were found dead on March 27 and 11 the next day. The samples were sent for examination and had tested positive for the H5N8 strain by the National Institute of High Security Animal Disease, Bhopal.   The deputy director said 29 crows were found dead in Jatehar Bihal and 40 crows in the Atal Bihari Vajpayee Institute of Mountaineering and Allied Sports, Manali. Their samples had also been sent for examination and their reports were awaited. It was suspected that the birds got infected as a flock of migratory birds crossed Kullu on March 16 and 17 towards Ladakh to return to their location. Nadda said the surveillance had been increased and teams of officers from Animal Husbandry, Health and Forest Departments were monitoring the health of birds. As a precaution, samples of domestic poultry and commercial chicken shops had also been sent to the lab for examination. Forest officials had been advised to deep bury or burn the carcasses of the birds properly and disinfectant the place where the dead birds were found.    Kullu DC Richa Verma said there was no case of avian influenza-like illness in the district. She appealed to the people to refrain from approaching or touching a dead bird and report this immediately to the Forest Department or the Animal Husbandry Department or call emergency number 1077.  The DC said the administration was closely monitoring the situation.  She added that so far, there had been not a single case of bird flu in domestic and commercial poultry in the district. It was advisable to consume chicken and eggs by cooking and boiling them at a temperature of 70 degree Centigrade.  She directed officials of Municipal Council, Kullu and Manali, and Nagar Panchayat, Bhuntar, to properly dispose of the chicken waste in the chicken shops. She appealed to the masses not to panic and immediately inform the authorities if they spot any dead birds.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bird-flu-scare-in-kullu-as-dead-crows-test-positive-235711
07-04-2021||Legal Correspondent||HC dismisses bail plea in Shimla girl kidnapping case||Shimla, April 6The High Court today dismissed the anticipatory bail plea of the accused, who is allegedly involved in a kidnapping and abducting a minor girl.Passing this order, Justice Viviek Singh Thakur observed, “A balance has to be maintained between the right of personal liberty and the right of investigating agency to investigate and arrest an offender for the purpose of investigation.”As per the prosecution, on March 5, 2021 the victim, aged about 15 years and studying in Class IX, left her home to attend school at Shimla. When she did not return home in the evening, her father was worried. On inquiry, he received the information that on that day students were not called to the school. The father of the victim approached the police with suspicion that someone had abducted her daughter.An FIR was registered in Shimla. During investigation, location of mobile number of the victim was found in Haryana leading to the clue that the victim was travelling towards Delhi and the bail petitioner Mohammad Nazim is allegedly involved in the crime.It was contended on behalf of the prosecution agency that bail petitioner is a part of racket involved in trapping adolescent girls and throwing them in flesh trade on the promise of marriage and blackmailing under the garb of friendship. Therefore, for revelation and disclosure of magnitude of such conspiracy, custodial interrogation of the petitioner is necessary.The court further said that “considering the nature, gravity and seriousness of offence and the manner in which the girl has been managed to be transported/travelled from Shimla to other state in an organized manner, I find that prayer for custodial interrogation of the petitioner is justified and thus acceptable.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hc-dismisses-bail-plea-in-shimla-girl-kidnapping-case-235712
07-04-2021||Nurpur||78-yr-old robbed of Rs 2.85 lakh||Harbans Lal (78), a resident of Bhatolli-Billian village, today lost Rs 2.85 lakh at Jassur near here today when a boy stole his money from his carry bag. As per information, the victim, who drew this money from a local bank, came to a shop to buy an article. He kept his carry bag on a bench there.    In the meantime, the boy, who had been following him, entered that shop and stole his money from his bag by using a cutter. He decamped with the money but the act was recorded in the shop’s CCTV camera. On getting information, the police reached the spot and collected the CCTV footage to identify the culprit. So far, the accused could not be identified. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/78-yr-old-robbed-of-rs-2-85-lakh-235713
07-04-2021||Our Correspondent---||Liquor contractor surrenders in Una court||Una, April 6 Liquor contractor Amil Manhas, son of former  DGP DS Manhas, surrendered at the Una district courts today in a case of cheating. The case pertains to the submission of forged payment receipts of the state cyber treasury at the Una Excise and Taxation Department.  Sagar Chand, Additional SP, Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau office,  said the court sent the accused to five-day police remand. A SIT team had reached Una to interrogate him.  He and his wife owned liquor contractor firms and were running three shops in the district. In 2019, the accounts audit team of the state AGE Office reported that some e-challans, claimed to have been filed by the firm owned and submitted at the Una Excise and Taxation office as proof of payments for the procurement of liquor, could not be traced in the treasury deposits. The e-challans for the payments amounting to Rs 2.63 crore were later found to be forged. The challans also carried fake stamps of the Treasury Department. The three liquor shops were immediately cancelled in 2019 and investigation was initiated. Meanwhile, the High Court rejected an anticipatory bail of Amil on January 3, 2020, and he had reportedly been underground since then.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/liquor-contractor-surrenders-in-una-court-235714
07-04-2021||Shimla||428 Covid cases, 5 deaths in Himachal||The Covid surge continued as 428 fresh cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 66,237. Besides, five persons died  in the past 24 hours. Two deaths were reported in Kangra and one each in Bilaspur, Chamba and Sirmaur.  The highest number of 112 cases was reported in Kangra, followed by 75 in Mandi, 62 in Solan, 58 in Shimla, 40 in Una, 19 in Sirmaur, 18 in Hamirpur. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/428-covid-cases-5-deaths-in-himachal-235715
07-04-2021||Shimla||Snowfall in higher reaches of Himachal||Higher reaches and remote areas received a mild snowfall and stormy conditions continued in most parts of Himachal with light scattered rain at many places in the past 24 hours, causing a sharp fall in day temperatures which stayed four to nine degree below normal.The local Met office has issued yellow warning of thunderstorm, lightning and gusty winds at isolated places in lower and mid hills tomorrow. The MeT office also predicted rain or snow in higher hills from April 7 to 12 barring April 10 and rain and thunderstorm in lower and mid hills tomorrow and dry weather in lower hill from April 8.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/snowfall-in-higher-reaches-of-himachal-235716
07-04-2021||Lalit Mohan||Dharamsala MC elections: Congress, BJP go overboard in vision documents||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, April 6The campaigning for the Dharamsala MC elections that are scheduled to go for polling tomorrow ended yesterday evening. In their zeal to win the elections, both the Congress and the BJP have promised the moon to people of Dharamsala in their vision documents released during the campaign.The Congress vision document that was guided by former minister and AICC secretary Sudhir Sharma promised to bring up Funicular railway to connect Charan Khad area of lower Dharamsala with Bhagsu area of Upper Dharamsala. He also promised Skyways project for the city.The vision document left many wondering about what was Funicular railway. It is a transportation system that uses cable-driven cars to connect points along a steep incline. A funicular uses two counterbalanced passenger cars attached to the opposite ends of the same cable, which is looped over a pulley at the upper end of a track. In this system two cars move in concert: as one ascends, the other descends simultaneously, Presently, it was functional in developed countries and the USA, the UK and Turkey.The Skyways is a state-of-the-art technology developed by Russian scientist in which people are transported through wire-hanged cable cars. The transport system is being implemented in Dubai.However, the promises have left many wondering how these ambitious projects could be implemented in Dharamsala where many roads have been pending construction due to petty disputes with local landowners and forest clearances. It was also alleged that how Skyways project that involved an investment of about Rs 500 crore would be viable in a city such as Dharamsala, which has a population of just about 50,000 and receives floating population of tourists only during summer months.Sudhir Sharma, however, says that during his stint as Minister for Town and Country Planning an MoU was signed with a company that was willing to bring up Skyways at its own cost to Dharamsala.The BJP, on the other hand, in its vision document has promised to create parking in all wards of Dharamsala and increasing parking places in the city by five times. Though the party has made the promise it has left many wondering from where will the party find places for constructing parking in each ward. Many areas of Dharamsala, especially tourist spots such as McLeodganj, Bhagsunag and Dharamkot, face parking blues during the tourist season.Interestingly, the last parking lot was created in the McLeodganj area on the temple road during the stint of the Congress rule in the state. In the last three year-rule of the present BJP government no new parking has been created in the city. The promise to create parking places in all wards of Dharamsala has left many wondering how BJP would achieve that target in about one-and-a-half year stint in power before the state again goes to polls.The BJP has made a promise to make process of issuing no objection certificates (NOC) for various works time bound and transparent. Hundreds of hoteliers in Dharamsala have been waiting for getting their completion certificates from the local Municipal Corporation for many months and in some cases even years. The corporation authorities are blaming the delay on the shortage of staff.The BJP government has not provided additional staff to the Dharamsala Municipal Corporation or the Smart City project despite various requests made by the corporation. Now, it remains to be seen if the government keeps up its promise of providing additional staff for corporation and the Smart City project so that processes of issuing no objection certificates can be fast paced.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/dharamsala-mc-elections-congress-bjp-go-overboard-in-vision-documents-235717
07-04-2021||Lalit Mohan---||In Dharamsala, candidates go door-to-door to meet voters||Tribune News Service Dharamsala, April 6 With polling for the Dharamsala MC poll scheduled for tomorrow, political parties were busy in booth-level management today. Candidates contesting the elections, along with their supporters, visited voters to hand over the voting slips that carry information regarding their polling booths.  The political parties were also setting up tents near the booths. The BJP claims to have mastered the booth-level management in Himachal. The ‘Panna Pramukh’ model was being implemented by the party all over the country.  Panna means one page carrying the names of voters. The Himachal BJP has created the post of Panna Pramukh, which means a party worker who manages the voters listed on a Panna.  The party has credited its win in the last assembly and parliamentary polls to the effective management by Panna Pramukhs. The Congress was not working as a unit in the MC poll in Dharamsala. Instead of the party, workers owe loyalty to leaders. While a section of the candidates owe loyalty of Sudhir Sharma, others are with former Mayor Davinder Jaggi. In most of the cases, Congress candidates were managing their polling booths with senior leaders just being visitors. Besides the BJP and the Congress, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has fielded nine candidates. The campaigning by AAP candidates was low key. None of the senior AAP leaders visited Dharamsala to campaign for the party candidates. There are 43 Independents in the fray, giving tough time to candidates of mainstream parties. The Independents include 14 rebels of the BJP and five of the Congress. In Dharamsala, polling will be held for 17 wards. The Congress had 14 seats while the BJP had just three councillors.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/in-dharamsala-candidates-go-door-to-door-to-meet-voters-235718
07-04-2021||Mandi||32,938 voters to decide fate of 75 candidates in Mandi||A total of 32,938 voters, including 16,745 women, will decide the fate of 75 candidates in 15 wards in the Municipal Corporation elections in Mandi tomorrow.The highest number of 3,075 voters is in Ward number-1 at Khaliyar while the lowest number of 1,518 voters is in Ward number-8 at Palace Colony-1. The authorities have set up 38 polling stations in all 15 wards.Deputy Commissioner Rugved Thakur said that all arrangements had been made to conduct free and fair elections in the district. He added that voting would be held from 8 am to 4 pm and the results would be declared in time. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/32-938-voters-to-decide-fate-of-75-candidates-in-mandi-235719
07-04-2021||---||BJP celebrates Foundation Day||Shimla, April 6 The Himachal BJP today celebrated the 41st Foundation Day of the party by listening to address of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and BJP national president JP Nadda through virtual mode at the party headquarters here. Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, state BJP chief Suresh Kashyap and other party leaders and workers were present on the occasion. Kashyap and other leaders greeted each other on the occasion. Kashyap said that the party had been making steady progress since its inception on April 6, 1980. Today, it is the largest political party in the world and ruling the country at the Centre and in most of the states.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bjp-celebrates-foundation-day-235720
07-04-2021||Ambika Sharma||Solan: Ensuring voting by Covid patients a Herculean task||Tribune News ServiceSolan, April 6Ensuring voting of Covid patients for the municipal corporation (MC) elections tomorrow has become a tough task for the administration due to their rising numbers and the detection of the UK mutant considered more infectious.“As many as 90 Covid cases have been detected in the MC area till last evening and more could be added till this evening. We are calling every Covid patient to make arrangements for their safe polling. Out of the 90 patients, only 30 have expressed willingness to vote. A large number of students from other districts, who reside in Solan, are among the Covid patients and they do not have votes here,” informed Ajay Yadav, Sub Divisional Magistrate (SDM), Solan.In view of the daily surge in Covid cases, the officials face a tough task in ensuring voting. “Ambulances will be made available to the Covid-afflicted persons which will carry them from their homes to the polling booths. They will be allowed to vote after the completion of polling by other voters in their respective booths while adhering to all safety protocols,” informed Yadav.“Though voting is supposed to be completed by 4 pm tomorrow those standing in the queue are permitted to vote. The polling could go on till 6 pm. Covid patients would be taken to the polling booths after that,”added the SDM.Given rapid surge in Solan in the last fortnight, more cases of UK variant were likely to be detected. Being the more infectious variant, officials have an arduous task at hand in ensuring safety of the Covid-hit voters.Six polling booths have been declared sensitive while four have been declared hyper sensitive out of the 36 total booths in Solan MC. As many as 36,435 voters will exercise their right to vote tomorrow in the maiden municipal corporation polls.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/solan-ensuring-voting-by-covid-patients-a-herculean-task-235721
07-04-2021||Ambika Sharma---||Solan MC poll: BJP, Congress locked in close contest||Tribune News Service Solan, April 6 A close contest between  the BJP and the Congress is expected in the Solan MC elections on April 7. The BJP and the Congress seem to have an edge in six to eight wards of the total 17 while an Independent candidate is giving these parties a tough competition in a ward. A close fight is expected in other wards. Two former municipal council presidents are locked in a direct contest in Ward number 8; both are probable candidates for the two top posts of Mayor and Deputy Mayor.    The Congress local leadership has little connect with the voters in Solan. Besides holding media briefings, the grassroots-level campaigning by poll conveners announced by Congress state in-charge Rajiv Shukla has largely been missing.  The BJP, on the other hand, has appointed five-time MLA Rajeev Bindal  as the poll in-charge for Solan. Since Bindal  himself had been a former chairman of the Solan civic body, he was well versed with local issues and also well known to the voters. The issue of discontent among voters in the areas merged with the corporation can, however, create problems for the BJP in a few wards though the Chief Minister has tried to allay their fears. Factionalism in both parties, as was visible in ticket allocation, will also be a factor to watch in the elections.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/solan-mc-poll-bjp-congress-locked-in-close-contest-235722
07-04-2021||anu P Lohumi---||60 CCTV cameras to check traffic violations in Shimla||Tribune News Service  Shimla, April 6  Sites have been identified in Shimla for installation of closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras for real-time surveillance of traffic and a command and control centre of the police is being set up.  An amount of Rs 50 lakh has been sanctioned under the smart city project and 60 critical, vantage and significant places have been selected for the high-definition cameras with automatic number reading, said SP, Shimla, Mohit Chawala. The work would be awarded soon with the completion deadline of 45 days. The company, installing the cameras, would also look after the maintenance for three years, he said, adding that the infrastructure of the command and control centre was ready in the SP office and the equipment would be modified as per requirement. The need for 600 CCTV cameras was stressed in the Shimla city traffic regulation and management plan prepared by the police. At present, there are 60 cameras while 60 will be installed, besides 400 CCTV cameras installed by individuals have already been geo-tagged. The police are also motivating people to install 100 more CCTV cameras at specific locations for safety purposes.  The initiative will help in traffic management, crime control and decision- making regarding mobilisation of the police. In the first phase, CCTV cameras will be installed at critical and vantage locations. These will be integrated with the control room and real-time surveillance will be ensured. In phase two, all cameras, installed by the police, the municipal corporation and other agencies, will be integrated and in the third phase, intelligent traffic management and e-platform will be established. The idea is to assist the traffic management system in the city smartly with the network of CCTV cameras, sensors, synchronised signals at intersections and the provision of decentralised monitoring stations for the police at important junctions, including a master control room. Moreover, the provision of number-plate reading cameras for automatic challaning for idle parking and traffic violation will help regulate traffic, besides crime control and maintaining law and order effectively.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/60-cctv-cameras-to-check-traffic-violations-in-shimla-235723
07-04-2021||---||Curbs on attendance in social gatherings in Himachal||Shimla, April 6Keeping in view the surge in Covid-19 cases in Himachal Pradesh, the state government today decided to restrict the gatherings in the marriages to 50 in indoor and maximum 200 in outdoor, besides a maximum attendance of 50 persons during funerals.The decision was taken during a meeting held here today under the chairmanship of Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur to review the Covid-19 situation in the state. It was also decided to postpone the Swarnim Himachal Rath Yatra which was to commence on April 15, 2021 on the occasion of launch of Golden Jubilee of Statehood of Himachal Pradesh.The Chief Minister said that the decision to organize Himachal Swarnim Rath Yatra in the state would be taken after the situation normalizes. The Chief Minister directed the Health Department to take effective steps for enhancing the bed capacity in the government hospitals so that if coronavirus cases rise, infected persons could be provided better treatment facility. He also stressed on contacting private hospitals of the state for making arrangements of beds for coronavirus patients.He said that the government was fully geared up to check the spread of this virus and there was no shortage of oxygen cylinders, vaccine, PPE kits, face masks and hand sanitizers.“Very soon, extra beds would be made available in Ner Chowk Medical College for Covid patients and newly passed batch of 28 nurses would be deployed in Nahan Medical College,” he stated. He said that bed capacity would also be enhanced in Hamirpur and Nahan medical colleges to meet the rising demand.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/curbs-on-attendance-in-social-gatherings-in-himachal-235724
07-04-2021||---||Shimla: Relief for people, hike in water charges deferred||Shimla, April 6The Board of Directors of the Shimla Jal Prabandhan Nigam Limited (SJPNL) decided to defer the annual 10 per cent hike in water charges in its meeting here today. The hike would have been applicable from April 1 but the Board of Directors, headed by Chief Secretary Anil Kumar Khachi, decided to defer it until its next meeting.“We had put in a request to not increase water charges and the Board of Directors accepted our request. It’s a big relief to the residents, especially in the times of the pandemic,” said Mayor Satya Kaundal.In another decision that will provide relief to the people, the BoD decided to adopt the Himachal Pradesh State Electricity Board Limited’s template for levying surcharge on late payment of the bills. “At the moment, the SJPNL levies 10 per cent surcharge straight on late payment of the bills. It was decided to levy the surcharge in a staggered manner like HBSEBL does, with 1.5 per cent in the first month and a capping of maximum 10 per cent,” said Chauhan.The BoD also decided to make the fee for domestic water connection uniform in both MC and outside MC limits. “We used to charge Rs 5,550 for connection outside MC limits as against Rs 2,550 within MC limits. Now, the fee outside MC limits would also be Rs 2,550,” said Chauhan.However, the SJPNL will not provide new connections outside the municipal limits until the city gets ample water supply. “Until our water supply improves, the new connection will not be given. At the moment we have just enough water to meet city’s requirements,” Chauhan said.The BoD also discussed the appointment of full-fledged MD/CEO. “We have submitted a proposal recommending IAS officer with seven year experience, HAS officer with nine years experience or a Chief Engineer for the post. The proposal was discussed in the meeting but the final decision is awaited,” said Chauhan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shimla-relief-for-people-hike-in-water-charges-deferred-235725
07-04-2021||---||Wall heaters installed at Keylong hospital||Mandi, April 6 Wall heaters have been installed at the District Hospital, Keylong, to facilitate the patients during winters, when temperature falls below zero degree. Patients admitted to the hospital suffered because of bone-chilling cold due to lack of heating facility in the hospital during winter seasons. Technical Education Minister Ram Lal Markanda said Wally Heating Solution LLP had installed the heating system free of cost in the hospital to ensure comfort of ailing people.  Mandi Deputy Commissioner Pankaj Rai said it was the first project in the state. The heating system would be set up in all government offices, said the DC.   He said hoteliers and homestay owners would be encouraged to take advantage of it.  It maintained 22 degree C inside a room when outside temperature was -15 degree C. The Deputy Commissioner stated that according to experts, the heating system was cost-effective and safe. “There is no risk of oxygen depletion like gas or kerosene heaters,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/wall-heaters-installed-at-keylong-hospital-235726
07-04-2021||Ambika Sharma---||Verification of structures to be razed for Baddi NH four-laning begins||Tribune News Service Solan, April 6 Physical verification of the 415 structures, which would be dismantled for four-laning the Baddi-Nalagarh highway, began today with officials of the Competent Authority for Land Acquisition (CALA) initiating the process today. A stretch of 36 km is to be four-laned from Pinjore to Nalagarh, out of which 17.37 km lies in Himachal and the remaining is in Haryana. Sub Divisional Magistrate (SDM), Nalagarh, Mahinder Pal, who heads the authority said, “We will complete the physical verification of the 415 structures in the next 15 days and this will pave the way for inviting tenders for four laning this 17.37-km of the road falling in Himachal.” The four-lane will have 39-m width and 2,190 trees will be axed for widening this road. Initially, a 45-m width highway was supposed to be constructed but its width was reduced to 39-m last year after much deliberations in a bid to bring down the cost of land acquisition. The project, which has been hanging fire for years, will be finally initiated now as major impediments have been cleared. Four-laning of this highway was a dire necessity in view of the heavy vehicular traffic. Being the state’s industrial hub thousands of vehicles, including multi-axle trucks carrying industrial goods, use this highway on a daily basis. Frequent accidents have been witnessed on this highway which cause loss of money and human lives and its four-laning has been demanded by the industry since long. Notably, the high cost of land acquisition had acted as a major stumbling block in this project. The National Highways Authority of India had refused to fund the project as the cost of the land was much higher than the cost of the structure which was supposed to be raised to four-lane the road.  As against the construction cost, estimated to be Rs 420 crore for the entire 36-kms, the land acquisition cost had been estimated to be much higher. While the land acquisition was as much as Rs 9 crore per hectare in the Himachal area, its value for the remaining stretch in Haryana was as high as Rs 12 crore per hectare. The width of the highway was, therefore, reduced to 39 m in Himachal and the state government had borne the balance expenditure of about Rs 15 crore.  A sum of Rs 124 crore were disbursed among the land losers for land acquisition by the authorities in Himachal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/verification-of-structures-to-be-razed-for-baddi-nh-four-laning-begins-235727
07-04-2021||---||Bids for ropeway system in Shimla deferred||Shimla, April 6The opening of technical bids for the passenger ropeway system in Shimla, being implemented by the Ropeway and Rapid Transport System Development Corporation (RRTSDC), has been postponed till April 12. The bids for the project were to be opened today but the process was deferred following a request by an interested company.“A company sent in a request to postpone the bidding. So, we decided to defer it by a week. Hopefully, we will have some bids next Monday to move ahead,” said a RRTSDC official. The company will need at least two bids to move on with the project that has the potential to change the way people travel in the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bids-for-ropeway-system-in-shimla-deferred-235728
07-04-2021||Solan||Shoolini University third in Scimago rankings||The Solan-based Shoolini University has been  placed at number three in the northern region, comprising Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir and  Chandigarh, in the internationally recognised  Scimago rankings of universities.  It has also  attained 37th rank nationally.  Among the Indian private universities, the university has topped  the region with 16th rank in the category of research across the country. The Scimago institution’s rankings are regarded as one of the most objective rankings because experts evaluate universities and scientific organisations based on information from international databases. In subject-wise category, the university  has secured first place among Indian universities in chemistry while it  has  secured the fourth position in environmental science as well as in physics and astronomy and 12th in energy. The Scimago ranking list includes 4,126 premier higher educational institutions worldwide. As many as 549 Chinese and 511 universities from the United States have made it to institutions rankings. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shoolini-university-third-in-scimago-rankings-235729
07-04-2021||Shimla||Himachal MC poll today; sensitive booths in Solan, Palampur||The voting for the high-stakes elections to the four municipal corporations of Dharamsala, Mandi, Solan and Palampur will take place tomorrow.A total of 1,38,666 voters will cast their ballot at 534 polling stations from 7 am to 4 pm. All arrangements have been made to ensure free, fair and peaceful polling.In Solan, there are six sensitive and four hyper-sensitive polling stations while Palampur has five sensitive and seven hyper-sensitive polling stations.While the Dharamsala MC is going to the polls for the second time as it was created during the previous Congress regime in 2015, the other three MCs are holding elections for the first time. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-mc-poll-today-sensitive-booths-in-solan-palampur-235652
07-04-2021||---||Himachal restricts attendance in marriages, funerals in view of rise in Covid cases||Shimla, April 6Keeping in view the rise in Covid-19 cases in Himachal Pradesh, the state government on decided to restrict the gatherings in marriages to 50 in indoor and maximum 200 in outdoor settings, besides a maximum attendance of 50 persons during funerals.The decision was taken during a meeting held here today under the chairmanship of Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur to review the Covid-19 situation in the State. It was also decided to postpone the Swarnim Himachal Rath Yatra which was to commence on April 15, 2021 on the occasion of launch of Golden Jubilee of Statehood of Himachal Pradesh.The Chief Minister said the decision to organise Himachal Swarnim Rath Yatra in the State would be taken after the situation normalises. The CM directed the Health Department to take effective steps for enhancing the bed capacity in the government hospitals so that if the coronaviurs cases rise, the infected people could be provided better treatment facility. He also asked to contact private hospitals of the State for making alternative arrangements of beds for Corona patients.He said the government was fully geared up to check the spread of this virus and there was no shortage of oxygen cylinders, vaccine, PPE kits, face masks and hand sanitizers. “Very soon, extra beds would be make available in Ner Chowk Medical College for Covid patients and newly passed batch of 28 nurses would be deployed in Nahan Medical College,” he stated. He said that alternative bed capacity would also be enhanced in Hamirpur and Nahan medical colleges to meet the rising demand.He revealed that the districts have been directed to take up vaccination and testing for Covid-19 in a campaign mode besides contacting the positive cases in home isolation so that if required, they could be advised for medical treatment in the hospitals. The emphasis had been laid on screening the people on border areas, the CM added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-restricts-attendance-in-marriages-funerals-in-view-of-rise-in-covid-cases-235455
