09-04-2021||Shimla||Himachal government extends closure of all educational institutions till April 21||Amid a sharp rise in COVID cases, the state government on Friday has extended the closure of all educational institutions till April 21.This is for teaching and non-teaching staff as well.The decision was made during a meeting chaired by Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, here.Earlier, the government had ordered the closure of all educational institutions till April 16, but now, the situation has escalated.All schools, colleges, and other institutions will remain closed till April 21, however, all institutions and staff involved with examinations would remain open, and on duty.After a detailed deliberation on the COVID situation, the cabinet decided to not impose any other restrictions, other than the existing ones for the time being.Despite this, the government has set a limit on social gatherings, this includes marriages, funerals, and religious functions. The temples would remain open, but no religious function—including Bhandara, hawans, or community functions, would be held during the Navrataras.Already, the Chief Minister had made it clear, that he was not in favour of the very strict restrictions, especially on the entry of tourists, as this would further hit the economy, and the beleaguered hotel industry.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-government-extends-closure-of-all-educational-institutions-till-april-21-236853
09-04-2021||On the Chakkar-Boileauganj stretch||Debris dumped in middle of road||— Ramit Thakur, New ShimlaLand dug up to lay sewage pipeThe laying of sewage pipe in lower Totu, Shimla, has become a cause for concern for businessmen and commuters. When it gets windy, the dust from the dug-up area flies into shops, spoiling their goods and eatables. Also, commutes passing through the area face problem. Efforts should be made to complete the work as quickly as possible. — Baldev Kanwar, TotuIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/debris-dumped-in-middle-of-road-236632
09-04-2021||Shimla||392 BP monitors for Himachal police||HPTU secures top rankHamirpur: The Himachal Pradesh Technical University (HPTU) secured the first rank in Technical Education Quality Improvement Programme (TEQIP) implementation in the country. The TEQIP is a World Bank-sponsored programme that funds technical institutions. The HPTU received over Rs 16 crore under the project. The second rank was bagged by Dr Abdul Kalam Azad Technical University, Lucknow. oc||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/392-bp-monitors-for-himachal-police-236618
09-04-2021||The counselling for MEd course in the department of education||MEd counselling at HPU on April 16-19||Library open from 8am to 8pmDirector, Higher Education, Amarjeet Sharma has ordered to keep the State Library open for readers from 8 am to 8 pm with 50 per cent seating capacity. The order said that observance of SOPs/protocols issued by the government from time to time will have to be followed.Declare dates for exams: SFIThe SFI submitted a memorandum to chairmen of eight HPU departments, demanding that dates for practical and internal exams be announced soon in environment studies, mathematics, physics, chemistry, geography, bio-science, micro-biology and MCA departments. The SFI said the students were facing a lot of uncertainty because these dates had not been announced. The SFI further demanded that the irregularities in MCA results be corrected at the earliest.Teachers’ body meets GuvA delegation of All India Federation of Teachers Organisation (AIFTO) met Governor Bandaru Dattatreya, recently. The delegation comprised AIFTO president Ashwani Kumar and national adviser Rajinder Singh Khashia.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/med-counselling-at-hpu-on-april-16-19-236588
09-04-2021||Shimla||Water shortage in Shimla MC ward||Residents of Majaith ward of the Shimla MC are facing water shortage. “Around 600 connections of the ward get water from the Jal Shakti Vibhag scheme. For a while now, the Jal Shakti Vibhag is providing water after fifth or sixth day of the week, causing inconvenience to the people,” said Councillor Divakar Sharma.As per the Jal Shakti Vibhag, the level of water at the source had gone down, and hence they had to resort to rationing of water, Sharma said.While the water is provided to the city by the Shimla Jal Prabandhan Nigam Limited (SJPNL), the Jal Shkati Vibhag provides water in some of the merged areas. “When we were merged with the MC, the civic body and the Jal Shakti Vibhag had reached an agreement, as per which the MC would provide 2 lakh litres of water to the ward. It has not been settled till date,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/water-shortage-in-shimla-mc-ward-236587
09-04-2021||Shimla||CM to preside over Himachal Day event in Mandi||Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur will preside over the Himachal Day function at Padhar in Mandi on April 15.Speaker Vipin Singh Parmar will preside over the function at Dharamsala, Urban Development Minister Suresh Bhardwaj at Nahan, Social Justice Minister Sarveen Chaudhary at Una, Technical Education Minister Ram Lal Markanda at Keylong, Rural Development Minister Virender Kanwar at Hamirpur and Industries Minister Bikram Singh at Solan. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cm-to-preside-over-himachal-day-event-in-mandi-236586
09-04-2021||---||Bedridden, poor man gets relief from Himachal CM||Ravinder SoodPalampur, April 8Dharmesh Ramotra, SDM, today visited the house of ailing mason Rajesh Kumar, who is bedridden because of permanent disability, and handed over him a cheque for Rs 2 lakh released by Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur.Rajesh had fallen from a roof while casting a concrete slab last year, since then he has been bedridden.He is living in a small hut raised on the forest land on the outskirts of Palampur.The Tribune had highlighted his plight in these columns, thereafter the state government came to his rescue. The SDM and other officials today visited the house of Rajesh Kumar on the directions of Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur and assured him financial assistance. He said the revenue authorities had been directed to identify a piece of land to be allotted to Rajesh for the construction of a house since he is landless.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bedridden-poor-man-gets-relief-from-himachal-cm-236585
09-04-2021||---||‘Chalo Chamba’ event to promote tourism||Our CorrespondentChamba, April 8Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur will inaugurate ‘Chalo Chamba’ event through a video-conference from Shimla tomorrow.The district administration has started an initiative to promote tourism in Chamba district by launching the campaign.In an official communiqué issued here on Thursday, Deputy Commissioner DC Rana informed that Union Minister of Youth Affairs and Sports Kiren Rijiju would be the chief guest at the concluding programme of ‘motor bike and motor car rally’ at the local police ground.The Deputy Commissioner also informed that in view of the Covid-19 guidelines, it had been decided that the programme would be telecast live on the television and the local cable network, so that people could enjoy the significant event at home.“Only a specified number of visitors will have to be present at the venue,” the Deputy Commissioner said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/chalo-chamba-event-to-promote-tourism-236584
09-04-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Kufri to be stink-free, land identified for stable||Tribune News ServiceShimla, April 8The famous tourist resort of Kufri, 14 km from Shimla, is all set to become a happening place again. Kufri has been losing its appeal after major winter sport skiing was discontinued there due to a lack of snowfall.An ambitious project is in the pipeline to bring activity back to Kufri and revive ski slopes that are stinking due to piling horse dung. A piece of 10 bighas (two acres) has been identified to establish a horse stable, parking, biomethanation plant and a rural ‘haat’.“Ten bighas have been identified near Chini Bangla to set up a stable to accommodate 1,500 horses. A token system will be introduced for hiring horses. Besides, a biomethanation plant will also be established adjacent to the stable to produce methane gas from horse dung,” said Aditya Negi, Deputy Commissioner, Shimla.The plant, funded by the state Pollution Control Board, would be set up in collaboration with the Science and Technology Department. It would go a long way in providing a clean and serene environment, as horse dung that creates unhygienic conditions would be treated there.“The estimate of the project that also envisages the construction of parking spaces to decongest the area, beautification, pedestrian paths, and a rural ‘haat’ is being prepared,” he said. The possibility of reviving skiing and associated activities was also being explored and officers had been asked to identify skiing slopes in Kufri, he added.Skiing was a major winter attraction in Shimla and Kufri where hill slopes covered with a thick blanket of snow provided thrill and excitement to skiers and tourists. The last ski carnival at Kufri was held in February 1968 but over the years, the snowline had shifted upwards and barring a few sessions in 1982 and 1991, skiing in Kufri had been a fond memory of the past.A large number of resorts have come up in the area and ‘Chini Bangla’ is located on the Kufri-Chail road. Hundreds of vehicles heading to Chail pass through this stretch and the beautification and creation of more facilities would improve tourist experience.Another mega private project coming up at Kufri is India’s first indoor ski park; a memorandum of understanding for the project was signed with the government last year. As per a study conducted for the development of Kufri, the average occupancy rate in Shimla district is 49.9 per cent. Tourists on an average spend 1.5 nights and their average expenses are Rs 10,000 to Rs 15,000.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kufri-to-be-stink-free-land-identified-for-stable-236583
09-04-2021||KULLU||Minister reviews Covid readiness||Education Minister Govind Singh Thakur today appealed to people to come forward for the coronavirus test so that they could feel safe and provide an environment of safety to their family as well.He said the timely detection of coronavirus could prevent its spread. He added a dedicated Covid health centre, having 100 beds, had been set up at the Regional Hospital. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/minister-reviews-covid-readiness-236581
09-04-2021||Shimla||620 fresh cases of Covid, 6 deaths in Himachal||As many as 620 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 66,890. Besides, six persons died of the virus in the past 24 hours. Three deaths were reported in Una, two in Kangra and one in Chamba.The highest number of 109 cases was reported in Kangra, followed by 87 in Shimla, 83 in Una, 81 in Solan, 68 in Hamirpur, 56 each in Sirmaur and Mandi, 40 in Kullu, 23 in Bilaspur, 17 in Chamba and one in Kinnaur. The number of active cases rose to 4,158. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/620-fresh-cases-of-covid-6-deaths-in-himachal-236577
09-04-2021||shimla||Vaccination drive at High Court in Shimla, 200 get jab||The Covid vaccination drive was held at the Primary Health Centre, High Court, Shimla, today for persons above 45 years of age. As many as 200 persons were vaccinated at the old High Court auditorium, adjacent to the Primary Health Centre.Officials of the High Court, office of the Advocate General and other offices on the court premises, and advocates got themselves vaccinated. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/vaccination-drive-at-high-court-in-shimla-200-get-jab-236573
09-04-2021||---||Lockdown in Himachal to be last option, says Thakur||Shimla, April 8Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today said if the surge in Covid cases continues, the government would be forced to impose restrictions but a lockdown would be the last option as would hit the already suffering economy even more.Thakur attended a video-conference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi from Shimla on the Covid situation and the progress of vaccination in the country.He said though the situation was worrisome, as the state touched the 4,000 mark of active cases within days, imposing a lockdown was not an option right now.“We might consider making the RT-PCR test mandatory for people arriving from high-load states but we do not wish to impose a lockdown, as the economy, especially the tourism sector, is hit very hard,” he said. He added that the Cabinet would take a decision in this regard.Modi urged the states to increase testing facilities, besides focusing on tracing and treatment. He also urged them to increase vaccination and ensure minimum wastage of doses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/lockdown-in-himachal-to-be-last-option-says-thakur-236568
09-04-2021||Palampur||Cong plans campaign on Himachal government ‘failures’||Mukesh Agnihotri, Leader of the Opposition, today hailed the victory of the Congress in two MCs.Addressing a press conference here, Agnihotri said the Congress had registered a landslide victory in Palampur and Solan. Despite the hectic campaigning by the Chief Minister, the party could win only two seats while in Solan, it got only seven seats out of 17.He described the BJP’s rule in Himachal as a total failure and said the government had failed to fulfil its election promises like transparent administration, better roads, clean drinking water and employment to the youth.Agnihotri said the Congress would launch a campaign against the “failures of the BJP”. It would organise rallies and dharnas in all Assembly constituencies to apprise people about the misdeeds of the government. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cong-plans-campaign-on-himachal-government-failures-236547
09-04-2021||Solan||Overconfidence cost BJP dear in Solan: Rana||Overconfidence, poor governance and anti-people policies, including the price rise, led to the debacle of the BJP in the maiden Solan Municipal Corporation (MC) elections, said Congress poll convener Rajinder Rana while addressing mediapersons here today.He claimed that foreseeing the dwindling support of people to the BJP, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur had campaigned for three days in various wards of Solan but his efforts failed to improve the party's prospects.The BJP faced a humiliating defeat because of factionalism. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/overconfidence-cost-bjp-dear-in-solan-rana-236531
09-04-2021||Ambika Sharma||Solan MC upgrade boomerangs on BJP||Tribune News ServiceSolan, April 8The upgrade of the Solan Municipal Council to a corporation proved to be counter-productive for the BJP as it lost all three wards falling in the merged areas following stern opposition from villagers.BJP lost Basal Kather, Patrad and Chambaghat Salogra seats to the Congress as residents were opposed to the merger of the panchayats into the Solan MC. Though the BJP had claimed it as their biggest achievement and had criticised the Congress for failing to do so, it acted as a spoilsport for the party.Opposition to mergerBJP lost Basal Kather, Patrad and Chambaghat Salogra seats to the Congress as residents were opposed to the merger of the panchayats into the Solan MCEven three visits of Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur could not enthuse the voters. The last-ditch efforts to announce crores for pending works and remerging the rural areas with panchayats could not influence the voters. They termed the measures too little and too late.Though the BJP claimed to have the expertise in the poll management, the arrival of various leaders, who had been assigned various wards, did little to improve the party’s prospects. They could not muster support of the electorate. It appears that they merely paid lip service to appease the organisational bosses and strengthen their claims for ticket in the next Vidhan Sabha poll.A vertical split in the party was visible on the list of candidates as few had potential to win. They had been given ticket merely because of their allegiance to certain leaders. Factionalism has also been exposed in the BJP where key leaders like the district and mandal presidents too lack leadership skills to ensure the party’s victory. Since organisational posts have also been doled out on the basis of favouritism, the absence of mass leaders was visible.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/solan-mc-upgrade-boomerangs-on-bjp-236524
09-04-2021||---||Congress won despite misuse of power by BJP, says Rathore||Tribune News ServiceShimla, April 8HPCC president Kuldeep Rathore today said the Congress had registered an impressive win in the elections for the four MCs despite blatant misuse of power by the ruling BJP.Addressing a press conference here today, Rathore said the writing on the wall was clear as people were totally disenchanted with the BJP. “The BJP had termed the polls to the four MCs as semi-final before the 2022 Assembly elections. It is clear now that the people have made up their mind to defeat the BJP next year.He said despite undertaking door-to-door campaign by making the elections a prestige issue and pressurizing and influencing voters by misusing administration and government machinery, the BJP has been dealt a severe blow by the people. “The BJP had even roped in its national and all state leaders so the defeat is all the more humiliating,” he asserted.“Despite the entire government, including CM, ministers, MLAs and all senior party leaders campaigning day and night, the BJP has managed to win just Mandi, which shows the mood among the people,” he said. He added that people were fed up with the price rise, unemployment and failure of the government to ensure balanced development.In Dharamsala, the BJP did not get a clear majority despite blatant misuse of power. Rathore said that “After panchayati raj elections I had openly challenged the Chief Minister to conduct these elections on party symbol which the CM has also acknowledged in his recent speeches and with the dedicated efforts of our party workers we won more number of seats than BJP in these elections and are standing comfortable with clear majority in two out of four MCs and anything can happen in Dharamshala MC,” Rathore said.Rathore said the victory in the MC polls had come as major morale booster for the party and cadres would now work with renewed zeal for the forthcoming by-elections for Mandi Lok Sabha and Fatehpur Vidhan Sabha in Kangra district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/congress-won-despite-misuse-of-power-by-bjp-says-rathore-236517
09-04-2021||---||Results no reflection on government work: CM||Tribune News ServiceShimla, April 8Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today dared Congress to commit that it would revert the three upgraded MCs to councils as it had misled the voters on this issue to get their support in the urban local body polls.Addressing a press conference here today, Thakur maintained that the urban local body polls are fought on local issues and personal relations and not on state or Central issues so it should not be seen as reflection on his government’s performance.“I still maintain that our victory is bigger than that of the Congress as we have won Mandi and Dharamsala MCs and six Nagar Panchayats. So it is certainly not a one-sided victory as being claimed by the Congress,” he stated. He, however, added that the party would resort to introspection to assess if there had been any shortcomings.No comment on action against Mandi MLAIn reply to a query on the action that the BJP will take against its Mandi MLA for anti-party activities, the CM said only future will tell where he is heading for. “The BJP has lost in his ward and I do not wish to comment on him as I pity him for the situation he is in,” he saidThakur admitted that rebel factor played a spoilsport for the BJP but then the same applied to the Congress as well. “I feel that the entire party organization and party workers worked very hard to ensure victory of party candidates but the Congress indulged in vicious campaign to mislead the public,” he said.“The Congress misled the people and created fear in their minds that taxes would be imposed on everything to get people’s support, which was totally false,” he alleged. In an oblique reference to the Congress leaders, he said their happiness would prove to be shortlived as the BJP will continue with its wining spree by winning the two by-polls of Mandi Lok Sabha seat and Fatehpur assembly segment in Kangra.The Chief Minister said unlike the Congress, the BJP had dared to hold the MC polls on party symbols. “Like Congress we too could have got the elections done without symbols and managed to make the MC by winning over councillors but we chose not to do that,” he said.He added that the BJP’s priority was not to win elections but to provide better civic facilities like water, roads, parking slots, street lights, sewage management and reliable power which would be possible with their upgradation as MC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/results-no-reflection-on-government-work-cm-236515
09-04-2021||---||Pathania claims majority in Dharamsala MC||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, April 8Minister for Forests Rakesh Pathania today paraded nine councillors claiming that the BJP has attained majority in the House of Dharamsala MC that has 17 elected members. Those who were paraded before media today by Pathania were eight elected councillors of the BJP and one independent Sarab Chand Galotia, a BJP rebel. Pathania claimed that two more independent councillors would support the BJP and the party would easily grab the post of Mayor and Deputy Mayor.Victory of the BJP in Dharamsala MC where party won eight councilors, one short of simple majority, was being attributed to minor management carried out by Rakesh Pathania, who was in charge of party for the elections. Pathania managed to curtail the number of rebels and galvanize support of employees and certain sections of business community to ensure victory for his party.Erred in ticket allocationMinister for Forests Rakesh Pathania said the party failed to attain majority due to follies in distribution of ticketsThe BJP has still wrested Dharamsala MC from the CongressThe Congress had 14 out of 17 councillors. The BJP had just three councillorsThe BJP lost Sidhbari, home ward of BJP MLA Vishal Nehria, and Khaniara, home ward of Kangra MP Kishan KapoorInterestingly, the BJP lost in Sidhbari, home ward of local BJP MLA, Vishal Nehria and Khaniara the home ward of former BJP minister and Kangra MP, Kishan Kapoor. Wheat surprised many the victory of BJP candidates in Upper Dharamsala where it was facing major dissidence due to allotment of party tickets.Pathania, while talking to The Tribune, said that the party failed to attain majority in house due to some follies in distribution of tickets. He said that BJP has still wrested Dharamsala MC from the Congress. The Congress in the outgoing house had 14 out of 17 councilors. The BJP, in the last house, had just three councilors, he said.Pathania said that there were some issues of development among the people of Dharamsala. “Now that BJP was power in Dharamsala MC, I hope that the development projects would be fast paced. Party needs to concentrate on Kangra in view of the forthcoming Assembly elections and mission repeat in 2022 and I will work in that direction”, he said.Sources here said that the BJP was now pondering over the selection of candidate for the post of Mayor of Dharamsala MC. The decision to select the candidate for mayor is likely to be taken by the party high command. The sources said that name of an independent from Sidhpur, Dimple Thakur was in fray for the post of mayor despite the fact that she was not present among the candidates who were paraded before the media.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/pathania-claims-majority-in-dharamsala-mc-236514
09-04-2021||Dipender Manta||Mandi MC poll result a jolt to charismatic Sukh Ram||Tribune News ServiceMandi, April 8The municipal corporation election result declared yesterday has again showed that the popularity of Congress leader and former Telecom Minister Sukh Ram has dipped as the party lost to the BJP in his home MC ward of Samkhetar in Mandi.Sukh Ram had appealed to the people of Mandi to ensure the victory of Congress candidates in Mandi. Ashray Sharma, grandson of Sukh Ram, had also campaigned extensively for the Congress candidates.Sukh Ram’s appeal failed to have any impact as the Congress lost badly. Congress candidate Meenakshi Mahant lost the election to BJP’s Nirmal Verma by a margin of 60 votes.Sukh Ram is considered a charismatic leader in Mandi but it is the second time that he has failed miserably to benefit the Congress. In the last Lok Sabha election in Mandi, he had campaigned extensively for Ashray’s victory but he lost the election badly to BJP candidate Ramswaroop Sharma by a record margin of 4.5 lakh votes.According to political analysts, a sharp decline in the popularity of Sukh Ram and his family among masses in Mandi is due to their political opportunism.In the last Assembly election, Anil Sharma, son of Sukh Ram, had ditched the Congress and joined the BJP to contest the election. He is Mandi Sadar MLA at present.In the Lok Sabha election, Ashray was demanding the BJP ticket from Mandi. When he was denied the ticket, he joined the Congress and contested the Lok Sabha election from Mandi. However, he lost the election badly. The BJP candidate got a lead of around 27,000 votes in the Mandi Sadar Assembly segment alone, which was the stronghold of Sukh Ram’s family.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mandi-mc-poll-result-a-jolt-to-charismatic-sukh-ram-236512
09-04-2021||Shimla||Poll results no referendum, says Himachal CM after Congress win in 2 MCs||Clear majority in only one of the four MCs and convincing defeat at the hands of Congress in two has left the ruling BJP perplexed.While the Congress registered convincing victories in Palampur and Solan, the BJP could win majority only in Mandi. Having failed to win majority on its own in Dharamsala has set the alarm bells ringing for the saffron party.Not a semifinalMC polls are fought more on local issues than state and national issues. So, it will be wrong to say this was a semifinal before the Assembly poll. —Jai Ram Thakur, Himachal CMThe poll results are being seen as indicative of the shrinking of the BJP’s support base ahead of the Assembly elections and a shot in the arm for the Congress. Trying to underplay the setback, CM Jai Ram Thakur termed the party’s victory in his hometown Mandi as far bigger than that of the Congress in Palampur and Solan. He dismissed the speculation that the poll outcome was a referendum on his government’s performance.Issues like price rise, unemployment and hike in LPG rates emerged as the core issues. Undercutting by some dissidents also damaged the BJP’s poll prospects. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/poll-results-no-referendum-says-himachal-cm-after-congress-win-in-2-mcs-236441
