10-04-2021||Subhash Rajta||Apple plants imported from Italy hit by disease in Himachal||Tribune News ServiceShimla, April 9A large amount of apple planting material imported from Italy in 2019 has either developed disease or has not sprouted at all. As per sources, more than 1.5 lakh plant material of the total consignment was kept at the Horticulture Department’s post entry quarantine (PEQ) site at Palampur.“More than 50 per cent of the plants did not sprout at all. Maybe the plants were overage,” said the sources.Apart from Palampur, the planting material was kept at other sites in Sirmaur, Mandi and Chamba.The department was not forthcoming on the mortality rate of the plant, but it admitted that a three-member committee was formed to inspect these plants following complaints from growers that the department was distributing diseased plants. The committee did random sampling of the plants at various sites and has submitted its report.“We don’t have information regarding the mortality rate or the number of plants catching disease at the moment,” said Horticulture Director JP Sharma.As per sources, one of the main reasons for these plants catching disease was that they were planted in peak summers in 2019. “The plants arrived late from Italy and were planted in May and June. The temperature was touching 40 degrees at that time, and there were drought-like conditions. Even the weather department had sounded a pink alert for drought-like conditions. So you can well imagine the impact it would have had on the plants, which are normally planted in February and March,” said the sources.Besides, normal practices such as watering were disrupted due to the Covid-induced lockdown , affecting the plants.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/apple-plants-imported-from-italy-hit-by-disease-in-himachal-237174
10-04-2021||---||Himachal schools, colleges to be shut till April 21||Shimla, April 9The state Cabinet on Friday decided to keep all educational institutions shut till April 21 to prevent the spread of Covid-19.The state Cabinet meeting, presided over by Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, decided that teaching and non-teaching staff, except those required for exam duties, would stay at home till April 21. Earlier, the educational institutions were closed till April 16.However, it decided to hold the Jan Manch, a district-level public programme to redress grievances, on April 25.After detailed deliberations on the Covid situation in the state, the Cabinet decided not to impose fresh restrictions other than the existing ones for the time being.The government has restricted gatherings at all social events, including marriages, funerals and religious functions. The temples will remain open, but no religious function, including ‘bhandaras’, will be organised during Navratri celebrations.The Chief Minister had already made it clear that he was not in favour of strict restrictions, especially on the entry of tourists, as this would further hit the economy and the hotel industry.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-schools-colleges-to-be-shut-till-april-21-237175
10-04-2021||Nurpur||Nurpur: Residents want cut in water tarrif||Domestic consumers have sought the rollback of annual 10 per cent increase in water charges by the Jal Shakti Department. The notification was issued by the then Virbhadra Singh government in 2005 and since then water charges are being increased by 10 per cent from April 1 every year. Consumers, who had been paying Rs 40 for one water connection per month in 2005, will have to pay Rs 190 from this month. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nurpur-residents-want-cut-in-water-tarrif-237176
10-04-2021||---||Himachal CM will hold meeting on drought situation soon||Shimla, April 9Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur will hold a review meeting of all the stakeholder departments in view of the prevailing drought situation in the state.Health infra to be ramped upThe decision was taken by the Cabinet at its meeting held here today under the chairmanship of Chief Minister. An action plan is being prepared by the Jal Shakti Department to tackle the situation.The Cabinet decided to implement the Central sector scheme SVAMITVA in the state for surveying the land parcels in rural inhabited areas using Drone technology. For this, the Revenue Department would be designated as the nodal department for implementation of the scheme with the support of Panchayati Raj Department. An MoU would be signed with the Survey of India for starting the scheme in the state. A state steering committee, state project management unit and district project monitoring unit would also be constituted for effective implementation of the scheme.The Cabinet also gave its nod to extend employment on compassionate ground to the eligible indigent of the deceased employees against available vacant posts of Class-III and Class-IV in relaxation of 5 per cent quota as against the available vacant posts of class-III and Class-IV in DC offices of Shimla, Kinnaur, Solan and Kangra and office of Settlement Officer Kangra Division.It also gave its consent to award the project for development of multi-storey parking-cum-shopping complex at U-Block Mandi to highest bidder.Approval was also given for creation of posts for the newly created nagar panchayats of Shahpur, Chirgaon, Nerwa, Nirmand, Anni, Kandaghat and Amb. It also gave its approval for upgrading Community Health Centres at Khundian in Jawalamukhi and Gangath in Kangra district to 50-bed civil hospitals. The Cabinet also gave its nod to upgrade primary health centre, Tiyara, in Kangra to a community health centre.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-cm-will-hold-meeting-on-drought-situation-soon-237177
10-04-2021||Our Correspondent||Una: Jaipur special train to run daily from today||Una, April 9The Daulatpur Chowk to Jaipur special train will run daily from tomorrow. Till now, it was running only on Mondays, Wednesdays and Saturdays.BS Chauhan, Station Superintendent, Una railway station, said that the train number 09717 would start from Jaipur every day at 8.35 pm and reach the Daulatpur Chowk in Una district at 12.05 pm the next day. On its return journey, the train number 09718 would start from the Daulatpur Chowk at 2.35 pm and reach Jaipur at 6.50 am the next day.The train, which has sleeper, AC I, 2 and 3 tier seats, and second class facilities, passes through Una, Chandigarh, Ambala, Kurukshetra, Kaithal, Rewari and Alwar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/una-jaipur-special-train-to-run-daily-from-today-237178
10-04-2021||---||3 killed, 5 hurt in Nalagarh factory mishap||Solan, April 9Three labourers were killed and five others sustained grievous injuries when molten scrap burst out of a furnace and fell on them while they were working at a steel company at Dhana village in Nalagarh subdivision around 11:30 pm yesterday.According to the police, the injured were rushed to a private hospital at Dattowal from where three of them, whose condition was serious, were referred to the PGI, Chandigarh.Mukhtiyar Singh, Ranjan and Chandreshwar, however, succumbed to their injuries after reaching the PGI. Five others were admitted to a local hospital. Three of them were not in a condition to give statement while two others were identified as Laddo Kumar from Bihar and Indresh Kumar from Uttar Pradesh, informed DSP Navdeep Singh.The incident has exposed lack of safety measures adopted by the factory management. The police was probing absence of safety measures which the factory management had failed to take. Superintendent of Police, Rohit Malpani said three labourers had died and five others were injured. A probe was underway and an FIR is being registered under sections 331,287 and 304-A of the IPC against those responsible.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/3-killed-5-hurt-in-nalagarh-factory-mishap-237179
10-04-2021||chamba||Chalo Chamba event begins||Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today launched the Chalo Chamba Campaign-2021 from Shimla by inaugurating an exhibition on Swarnim Himachal. He also launched the Chalo Chamba Logo and the Chalo Chamba Mobile App and unveiled road signages to promote the campaign. These activities are a part of 50 years of Statehood celebrations. The CM also virtually flagged off Brown Bear Motor Sports Rally of Chamba. He said that Brown Bear Motor Sports Rally would attract tourists from all over the country and abroad for protecting brown bear in Kugti Wildlife area of Bharmour tribal area.  He added that Bhuri Singh Power Project would be developed as a Hydro Power Museum, besides developing Akhand Chandi Palace as Heritage Centre. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/chalo-chamba-event-begins-237180
10-04-2021||Legal Correspondent---||Review accreditation norms for journalists, HC directs Himachal govt||Shimla, April 9 The HP High Court has directed the state government to review and revise the accreditation granted to different categories of journalists strictly in accordance with the Rules of 2016 and thereafter grant fresh accreditation. The court directed the government to amend the Rules 2016 to make a time-bound provision for granting/ refusing accreditation. And in the case of rejection, a provision be made to make it mandatory to record reasons for it. It must be ensured that only one journalist from one publication/newspaper be granted accreditation (state or district level), in accordance with the rules. While passing the orders, Justice Tarlok Singh Chauhan said, “The rules of accreditation have though been framed, these are not being scrupulously followed. There have been instances where the state-level accreditation has been granted to correspondents of newspapers having negligible circulation in Himachal and in some cases the newspaper is not even sold in the state. It has to be ensured that accreditation is granted at the state level based on the publication’s circulation in Himachal and not merely on the basis of the appointment letter of the Editor of the paper concerned. The court said, “Even though there is a clear bar on retaining official accommodation by journalists like in the case of government servants having their own houses/flats in Shimla, it has been noticed that many journalists, who have own houses/flats and some who have even constructed flats on subsidised land in the Journalists Housing Society near ‘Asia The Dawn’ near the Sankat Mochan temple, are still retaining government houses. Such a tendency needs to be curbed and the house in possession is required to be handed over to the government forthwith”. Justice Chauhan observed that “even though the instant Rules 2002 stood substituted, the rules as applicable today do not contain a time frame to consider a journalist’s request for accreditation or renewal. This cannot be left to the whims and fancies of the government. Therefore, the rules need to be suitably amended by clearly setting out a time frame for the grant and refusal of accreditation to journalists”.  The court passed the orders on a petition filed by a journalist pleading that the state had rejected his application for accreditation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/review-accreditation-norms-for-journalists-hc-directs-himachal-govt-237181
10-04-2021||Lalit Mohan||Congress councillor meets CM, eyebrows raised in Dharamsala||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, April 9Rajni Vyas, newly elected Congress councillor from Ward No. 15 of Dharamsala, met Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur in Shimla today. Information given along with a photograph released on social media states that the Chief Minister assured Rajni, a former Mayor, that development would be undertaken in her ward.Sources said a BJP leader from Kangra, who is considered close to the Chief Minister, took Rajni to Shimla. Congress leaders are accusing a senior leader of Dharamsala of facilitating Rajni’s meeting with the Chief Minister.The sources said that Rajiv Shukla, in-charge of party affairs in Himachal, has taken a serious view of the development. Former HPCC president Sukhwinder Sukhu, who was the in-charge of the Dharamsala Municipal Corporation elections, said that the party was keeping a close watch on the activities of some senior party leaders in Dharamsala. The party would not tolerate attempts at sabotage from within and the strictest possible action would be taken against the guilty, he added.Asked about the allegations levelled by some Congress leaders of Dharamsala that the MC elections were sabotaged from within the party, Sukhu said that the matter was being looked into. Rajni was not available for her comments despite repeated attempts to contact her on the phone.Meanwhile, the development has also taken the BJP leaders of Dharamsala by surprise. The sources said that some BJP leaders attributed Rajni’s meeting with the Chief Minister to a tussle in the party over the selection of candidates for the posts of Mayor and Deputy Mayor.A senior BJP leader said, “The Congress councillor’s meeting with the Chief Minister has a Kangra connection. It was not required, as the party already has a majority in the House. The present action will just create a controversy and give ammunition to the Congress”.Asked about the development, Forest Minister Rakesh Pathania said that the BJP would muster more than the simple majority in the Dharamsala MC. He, however, declined to comment on whether Rajni would join the BJP or not. According to the sources, the BJP would decide the candidates for the posts of Mayor and Deputy Mayor in the next few days. As the party did not get a majority, it would rely on Independent members. An Independent councillor is likely to get the post of Deputy Mayor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/congress-councillor-meets-cm-eyebrows-raised-in-dharamsala-237182
10-04-2021||---||Poll results setback for AICC secy Sudhir Sharma||Dharamsala, April 9The municipal corporation election results in Dharamsala and Palampur have caused ripples in Congress politics in Kangra.In Dharamsala, the MC election results were a setback for former minister and AICC secretary Sudhir Sharma. Sudhir was elected from Dharamsala in the 2012 Assembly elections and remained Town and Country Planning Minister. In 2017, he lost the Assembly elections to BJP candidate Kishan Kapoor. After Kapoor was elected an MP in 2019, the Congress wanted Sudhir to contest the byelections but he declined, leading to the defeat of the party in Dharamsala.Sharma, who had been out of Dharamsala since the 2019 byelection, was trying to re-establish himself in the area by the MC elections.He led the Congress campaign in the Dharamsala MC elections. Sources said that nine candidates of his choice were given ticket, leading to differences with former Mayor Davinder Jaggi. Jaggi and his team could get just six seats largely due to Sharma’s resistance.However, the poll results have proved to be a shot in the arm for Jaggi, as all victorious five Congress candidates and two Congress rebels belong to his group.The landslide victory of the Congress in Palampur, where it won 11 out of 15 wards, has led to the rise of local MLA Ashish Butail in Congress politics in Kangra. Ashish is the son of former Speaker Brij Behari Butail.Soft spoken, Ashish has proved his mettle by ensuring the party’s win in Palampur almost single-handedly. Now, he is set for a bigger role in the Congress in Kangra district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/poll-results-setback-for-aicc-secy-sudhir-sharma-237183
10-04-2021||Shimla||662 Covid cases, 7 deaths in Himachal||As many as 662 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 68,173. Besides, seven persons died of the virus in the past 24 hours. Four deaths were reported in Kangra and one each in Shimla, Sirmaur and Mandi.The highest number of 165 cases was reported in Kangra, followed by 132 in Solan, and 63 in Sirmaur. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/662-covid-cases-7-deaths-in-himachal-237185
10-04-2021||Vijay Arora---||Tree felling: Pl Secy summoned on April 20||Legal Correspondent Shimla, April 9 Taking a tough stand on non-compliance of its order in the matter pertaining to illegal felling of 416 trees in the forest range, Koti (Shimla), the HP High Court today directed the Principal Secretary (Forests) and the Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (PCCF) to remain present in the court on April 20. During the course of hearing, the court observed that on May 17, 2018, it had directed the state to register an FIR against all forest officers/ officials who were responsible for illegal felling of 416 trees in the forest range, Koti, and the forest area, Shalot (Shimla), and also to initiate disciplinary action against them. Besides, the court also directed the Chief Secretary to comply with the directions and file a compliance affidavit within a period of two weeks. The court had also directed Bhoop Ram, who had chopped the trees, to deposit Rs 34,68,233 (the value ascertained by forest officials of the felled trees), in the registry of the court. It observed, “It is apparent from the affidavits of the Chief Secretary and the DSP (City), Shimla, informing therein that charges were framed only against three officers/ officials, i.e. one Beat Guard and two Block Officers out of whom one has retired and FIR(s) have also been registered against the three officers/ officials only and against Bhoop Ram”. A division bench comprising Chief Justice L Narayana Swamy and Justice Anoop Chitkara observed, “The respondents have not complied with the directions passed by this court, from time to time, in letter and in spirit and what action has been taken by the respondents- state is just an eyewash as no liability has been fixed on the officers/ officials who are higher in rank.” The court also directed the Principal Chief Conservator of Forest, Shimla to file an affidavit indicating therein as on what basis, the officers/officials, who are in lower rank, were held responsible for allowing felling of trees. It also directed the state to file an affidavit, indicating therein status of the FIR(s), investigating report and status of the trees/saplings, which were planted where illicit felling took place. The court passed the order on a petition taken up suo moto as a PIL on a letter written to the Chief Justice for a fair investigation in the matter of illegal felling of trees in the Koti range and for taking action against the culprits, including the higher forest authorities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/tree-felling-pl-secy-summoned-on-april-20-237186
10-04-2021||Governor Bandaru Dattatreya released an edition of the 12-year old journal||Himachal Governor releases journal of St Bede's College, Shimla||NSUI celebrates foundation dayThe NSUI celebrated its 51st foundation day, and held blood donation camps across the state. On the occasion, state in charge Gaurav Tushir was also present. HPCC president Kuldeep Rathour praised the NSUI for doing a fine job during the pandemic and the MC elections. NSUI state president Chhatar Singh unfurled the flag at the state headquarters and then organised a blood donation camp, in which 51 units were collected.ABVP activists end dharna at CUHPABVP activists ended their dharna at the Central University of Himachal Pradesh (CUHP) after the Kangra Deputy Commissioner assured them of addressing their grievances. The activists had been protesting for more than a month against the alleged lack of facilities on the temporary campuses of the university. The activists ended their protest after Prajapati met them at the dharna site at the head office of the university. They said that they had been on a chain fast for the past 37 days against the lack of basic facilities on the Dharamsala, Shahpur and Dehra campus of the CUHP. “We have decided to end the dharna after an assurance from the district administration that our grievances will be addressed,” they added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-governor-releases-journal-of-st-bedes-college-shimla-237218
10-04-2021||The situation at the IGMC looks quite scary these days. There’s always a massive rush at the fee counter and the medicine shop. People seem least bothered about the rising Covid cases. There is nobody to manage the crowd there. The hospital administration and people themselves need to understand the danger and take the necessary precautions for their safety.||Control crowd at IGMC, Shimla||— Sanjay Verma, SanjauliNo check on monkey menaceThe monkey menace is on the rise in Shimla. Monkeys can be seen snatching eatables from tourists. While walking on The Ridge and The Mall Road, one often hears people screaming to keep the monkeys away. While no damage is done in most cases, a serious injury, especially to children and the elderly, can’t be ruled out. The Forest Department needs to do something about it. — Gulwant Bisht, ShimlaWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/control-crowd-at-igmc-shimla-237219
