12-04-2021||Shimla||Mandi couple killed as car falls into gorge in Himachal’s Kullu||A couple died while three members of their family were injured as their car fell into a gorge in Himachal Pradesh's Kullu district, police said on Monday.     The accident took place near Ghiyagi in Banjar subdivision on Sunday night, Kullu SP Gaurav Singh said.  The injured are the couple's 24-year-old daughter, 30-year-old daughter-in-law and eight-year-old grandson. They have been admitted tothe regional hospital at Kullu.The deceased hailed from Mandi district.PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mandi-couple-killed-as-car-falls-into-gorge-in-himachals-kullu-238080
12-04-2021||Solan||Man booked for killing wife’s ‘paramour’ in Nahan village||A man allegedly killed his wife’s “paramour” at Rukhri village in Nahan on Saturday. The Nahan police found the blood-soaked body of Man Singh on the Rukhri-Bankala highway. As per a preliminary probe, Man Singh’s illicit relationship with Rajni had become a bone of contention for her husband Dashrath. Man Singh had earlier allegedly eloped with Rajni about two months ago. When he again met Rajni on Saturday, it angered Dashrath and he hatched a plan to eliminate him, said Additional SP Babita Rana Pal.The duo had liquor and food at a dhabha in Dhaulan Kuan and then Dashrath took Man on his bike and slit his throat at an isolated place at Rukhri. Dashrath shifted his family before the arrival of the police this morning. He is yet to be arrested. The husband-wife duo are migrants from UP. A case of murder has been registered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/man-booked-for-killing-wifes-paramour-in-nahan-village-237866
12-04-2021||Dharamsala||Road contractors in Kangra threaten stir over X forms||The road contractors in Kangra district have threatened to go on a strike from tomorrow alleging that X forms being demanded by PWD to clear their bills was creating hurdles in their work. Navneet Thakur, president of road contractor union in Kangra, while talking to The Tribune, said that many contractors were facing problems as the department was demanding X forms to clear their bills. “The road contractors buy crushing material from stone crusher owners and those having mining leases. They just give us bills but do not give X forms. So the contractors are facing problems. We had brought the problem to the notice of PWD authorities but no solution has been provided. So we have decided to stop work of laying bitumen on roads from tomorrow,” he said.  — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/road-contractors-in-kangra-threaten-stir-over-x-forms-237867
12-04-2021||ibune News Service---||Tibetans-in-exile vote in final phase of election for Sikyong||Dharamsala, April 11 Tibetan exiles today voted for the final phase of election for the post of Sikyong (Tibetan President-in-exile) and 45 members of Tibetan parliament-in-exile. The Tibetan exiles voted in 26 countries at polling booths set by Tibetan election commission. At McLeodganj, the headquarters of the Tibetan government-in-exile hundreds of Tibetans lined up in the morning to cast their votes. The two final contestants for the post of Sikyong are Penpa Tsering, former speaker for Tibetan parliament-in-exile, and Kelsang Dorjee Aukatsang, a former bureaucrat in the Tibetan government-in-exile. One of these leaders will take over the reins of the Central Tibetan Administration from the two-term Sikyong Dr Lobsang Sangay in late May. The incumbent Sikyong, Lobsang Sangay termed today’s election as “A proud day for Tibetans around the world.” In a statement issued here today, Sangay said that at a time when democracy remained a distant dream in the China-occupied Tibet, the spectacle of tens of thousands of diaspora Tibetans casting ballot to elect next Sikyong and members of the Tibetan Parliament in the Sunday final elections was very gratifying. “The Tibetan democracy-in-exile reflects the true aspirations of our brothers and sisters inside Tibet,” said Lobsang Sangay. On April 11, around 83,000 Tibetan refugees scattered across 26 countries began casting their votes to elect the Sikyong, president of the Central Tibetan Administration and members of the 17th Tibetan Parliament. As many as 93 candidates are in the run for the 45-seat Tibetan parliament-in-exile who represent the three traditional provinces of Tibet, four schools of Tibetan Buddhism and Bon religion and the Tibetan communities of North America, Europe and Australasia.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/tibetans-in-exile-vote-in-final-phase-of-election-for-sikyong-237868
12-04-2021||---||Himachal makes RT-PCR test mandatory for visitors from 7 states||Shimla, April 11The government has made the RT-PCR test mandatory for tourists from seven high-load states of Punjab, Delhi, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Karnataka, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh from April 16.The decision was taken at a meeting chaired by Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur here today. The visitors from these states will be permitted to Himachal only if they have a 72-hour prior RT-PCR negative test report. In view of the sharp rise in Covid cases, the government had extended the closure of all educational institutions till April 21 for students as well as teaching and non-teaching staff two days back.The CM said all SOPs and guidelines issued by the Centre and state government to check the spread of coronavirus must be enforced strictly. Himachal recorded the highest-ever figure of 941 cases in a single day, during the second wave, besides 12 deaths, yesterday, forcing the government to take the steps.As of now, the government had decided to allow tourists to visit the state, but, at the same time, hotel owners and tourists should strictly adhere to the SOPs. While laying stress on the strategy for testing, tracing and treatment with effective surveillance of micro-containment zones, he said greater emphasis must also be laid on doing RT-PCR tests. “The Health Department must take steps to increase the bed capacity to meet any eventuality,” he said.570 fresh cases reportedShimla: The Covid situation continued to remain grim with 570 cases being reported on Sunday, though there was no death in the last 24 hours. The number of active cases shot up to 5,369, with positive cases being 69,686. The highest number of 128 cases were reported in Kangra, 105 in Solan, 92 in Shimla, 59 in Mandi, 53 in Una, 46 in Sirmaur, 26 in Hamirpur, 21 each in Bilaspur and Chamba, 10 in Kullu, seven in Lahaul-Spiti and two in KinnaurNGO donates Rs 51K for Covid fundHamirpur: Youth Empowerment and Social Service (YESS), an NGO, has donated Rs 51,000 for the PM Covid Care Fund to mark the birthday of Prem Kumar Dhumal. Narender Attri, president, YESS, handed over the cheque to the former Chief Minister at his home at Sameerpur. Attri said over 400 people contributed the money for the PM Care Fund and the cheque was given to the former CM for forwarding it to the Prime Minister||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-makes-rt-pcr-test-mandatory-for-visitors-from-7-states-237869
12-04-2021||---||Tika Utsav: Tourists can get jab while roaming on Shimla's Mall Road||Shimla, April 11Besides enjoying the scenic beauty, tourists can get their vaccine shot, too, in Shimla till April 14. As part of the ‘Tika Utsav’, the district health authorities have created a vaccine session site in the historic Town Hall Building on the Mall Road. “It’s for everyone. We won’t refuse a vaccine shot to even tourists if they fall in the given age criteria,” said CMO, Shimla, Surekha Chopra. “The idea to create a session site at a place like Mall Road is to take the vaccination drive to the people. They could walk in and get their vaccine while having a stroll on the Mall Road. It will popularise the drive and encourage people to take the shot,” the CMO said.During the April 11-14 ‘Tika Ustav’ period, the department is trying to create as many session sites as possible to reach maximum possible people. To achieve this target, the session sites will be created outside medical facilities, too. “We have approached the district administration and councillors to provide us space were we can create session sites. We have already zeroed in on place like Sanajuali, Bhrarai, Boileaugang, Vikas Nagar, Nabha, etc, to create a session site,” the CMO said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/tika-utsav-tourists-can-get-jab-while-roaming-on-shimlas-mall-road-237870
12-04-2021||Chamba||Himachal Pradesh to have winter sports centre: Kiran Rijiju||Union Minister of State for Youth Services, Sports, Ayush and Minority Affairs Kiran Rijiju has said a winter sports centre will be opened in Himachal Pradesh. A Sports Authority of India team will come soon and the venue be selected.Rijiju said this during his address at the closing ceremony of a rally organised under the Chalo Chamba campaign at police grounds here today. A sports academy would also be opened somewhere in Dharamsala, Dalhousie and Chamba. It would be finalised by talking to the government.He said the high-attitude training centre at Shilaru would be upgraded. He announced Rs 50 lakh for gym and equipment for the youth in Chamba and Rs 25 lakh for setting up a gym in Dalhousie, Bhattiyat and Bharmaur. Deputy Commissioner DC Rana honoured Kiran Rijiju with a shawl, a cap and offering Chamba ‘thaal’ and a handkerchief. Later, Union Minister awarded the winners of the rally. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-pradesh-to-have-winter-sports-centre-kiran-rijiju-237873
12-04-2021||Solan||700 boxes of liquor seized at Parwanoo||The police seized 700 boxes of country liquor, transported illegally  in a truck (HP-64-A-3007), at Parwanoo, which was heading for Solan and Shimla from KM Distillery. DSP Yogesh Rolta said driver  Tikka Ram of  Barog and co-driver Devinder  Kumar of Jubbar village could not produce any permit issued by the Excise officials. According to the driver, distillery manager  Manohar Lal  had got these loaded in the truck.  A case under the Excise Act has been registered and further probe is under way.  A team of excise officials led by Deputy Commissioner Himanshu Pawar rushed to the distillery to examine the stock. Pawar said a report would be prepared after a thorough examination of the record. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/700-boxes-of-liquor-seized-at-parwanoo-237874
12-04-2021||Solan||119 cartons of liquor seized by Renuka Police||The Renuka Police arrested three persons and seized 119 cartons of liquor for sale in Haryana from a vehicle (HP-79-1915) on the Sangrah road last night. The seized liquor comprises 49 cartons of beer, 30 of whiskey and 40 cartons of local liquor. The cartons were hidden beneath empty cartons and covered with tarpaulin. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/119-cartons-of-liquor-seized-by-renuka-police-237875
12-04-2021||Subhash Rajta ---||IIT team to decide fate of Shimla fruit mandi||Tribune News Service Shimla, April 11 The fate of the Bhattakufer fruit mandi on the outskirts of Shimla on the Shogi-Dhalli bypass hangs in balance. An IIT Roorkee team has been invited to check whether it’s safe to run the marketing yard that’s located in front of a hillock prone to landslides.  “The team will be here in a couple of days for the survey. Whether or not the mandi reopens will depend on the report of the team,” said State Agricultural Marketing Board Managing Director Naresh Thakur.     The mandi had to be shut down July last following a landslide of the hill overlooking the yard. While growers and traders escaped, several boxes were crushed under the debris. The administration had declared the yard unsafe and it was shut down.    If the team declares the site unsafe, traders feel it will have a massive ramification. “One, it’s the biggest stone fruit market in the state. Around 70 per cent stone fruit is marketed here. Growers from Mandi and Kullu also market their produce here,” said NS Chaudhary, president of the State Arhtiyas Association and the founder member of the Bhattakufer market.  “Also, it’s one of the biggest apple markets. During the peak season, around 40,000 to 50,000 boxes are marketed here. So, many people will be affected, if this fruit market is not re-opened,” said Chaudhary.   Also, he said, around 50 traders had been running their business for many years now. “It will hurt their business too. Considering that the market caters to the interests of so many people involved in the business, the government should make every possible effort to restart it,” said Chaudhary.   The marketing board, on the other hand, is banking on mandis it has opened in the hinterland if the IIT team gives an adverse report for the Bhattakufer market. “While we have opened quite a few mandis in recent years, work is in progress at a few others like Shilaroo market. We will ensure growers face no problem in marketing their produce,” said Thakur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/iit-team-to-decide-fate-of-shimla-fruit-mandi-237876
12-04-2021||Legal Correspondent||Pay retiral benefits with interest: HP High Court||Shimla, April 11Pension and gratuity are not mere bounties or given out of generosity of the employer, but these are benefits earned by the employee by virtue of his long and continuous service. This was held by the HP High Court while dealing with a petition filed by a retired employee alleging therein that the government authorities had wrongly withheld his retiral benefits.Taking a strong note on this a division bench comprising Justice Tarlok Singh Chauhan and Justice C B Barowalia directed the state authorities to pay the entire retiral benefits to the petitioner along with 9 per cent interest with in a period of 30 days.The court further directed the state to conduct an inquiry and fix responsibility on the officer/official, whether serving or retired, for delay in finalising and thereafter not releasing the pensionary benefits in favour of the petitioner.While passing this order last week, the court observed that “the instant case is a glaring example where the state authorities have flagrantly and in most brazen manner denied the petitioner part of his retiral benefits, constraining him to file the petition.”It was further alleged in the petition that the petitioner namely Satnam, retired from the forest department on October, 31, 2017 and the department has not released his entire retiral benefits till date.It further observed that “it would be evident from the reply filed by the state that as on the date of retirement, there was neither a departmental inquiry nor any criminal case pending against the petitioner. In view of this, the action of the respondents in not paying the entire retiral dues to the petitioner is not only unjustified, but is clearly illegal.”It further said, “The pension is succor for post-retirement period. It is not bounty payable at will, but is a social measure as also a post-retirement entitlement to maintain the dignity of any employee.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/pay-retiral-benefits-with-interest-hp-high-court-237877
12-04-2021||Palampur||Lahaul-Spiti farmers given plants, seeds||The Regional Research Station of CSK HP Agriculture University organised a farmer-scientist interface at Udaipur in Lahaul & Spiti. Ram Lal Markanda, Minister of Technical Education, the chief guest, addressed around 300 farmers and distributed around 7,000 plants of apple and other stone fruits, 20 quintal seeds of peas  and vegetable crops and 120 farm implements. He asked scientists to supervise farm operations and providing valuable advice to farmers. He asked farmers to explore the possibility of linking tourism with their farms. Prof HK Chaudhary, Vice-Chancellor, in his video address, appreciated the farmers. He said due to climate change, the area had a bright future in apple, European vegetables, rajmash, etc, and the university would provide technical advice to the farming community.  Recalling his over five-year stay in the valley, the VC said he gave saptdhara, a winter wheat variety, triloki, rajmash variety, and some crop varieties to farmers of Himachal Pradesh. Vinod Sharma, Associate Director of the station and Pankaj Chopra elaborated on major activities and asked the farmers to remain in touch with the station. Farmers also participated in a question-answer session. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/lahaul-spiti-farmers-given-plants-seeds-237878
12-04-2021||Our Correspondent---||After stir, multi-axle trucks banned on village road||NURPUR, APRIL 11 Following a protest against the plying of multi-axle vehicles of stone crushers of the Mand area on the Thakurdwara-Basantpur link road at Indora in Kangra district, SDM Somil Gautam restricted vehicles’ movement on the road last evening.  Tension gripped the area when residents of Basantpur allegedly deflated tyres and smashed windowpanes of vehicles on Friday night. Villagers alleged that goons of stone crushers had thrashed them and also fired shots at them. The Indora police had lodged cross-FIRs against the crusher owners and villagers. Kanta Devi, Ganesh Kumar and Jaswinder Kaur, pradhans of Paral, Thakurdwara and Malkana, alleged that the multi-axle vehicles of the stone crushers set up in the Mand area had made their lives miserable. “The noise, dust and smoke pollution by these vehicles is a daily routine and the vehicles cannot be allowed to cross their area,” they said. Sources reveal that as preventive measures in view of prevailing tension, the local administration will impose Section 144 of the CrPC and order locals to deposit their firearms with the police. Inquiries reveal that although the entrepreneurs had set up stone crusher units legally in the area, yet the villagers had been protesting against the movement of vehicles from the village link road.  Last year, the district administration had also imposed a ban on the plying of loaded vehicles in the affected gram panchayats after public protests and provided an alternative passage to the stone crushers.  Somil Gautam told The Tribune that a middle path was being explored so that law and order situation could be maintained in the area.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/after-stir-multi-axle-trucks-banned-on-village-road-237879
12-04-2021||Mandi||Tributes paid to martyr at Mandi village||People of Tikkar Kalan Malvana village today paid tributes to martyr Pushap Raj of the 18 Dogra Regiment. He was a native of Tikkar Kalan Malvana village that falls under the Balh Assembly segment of the district. People paid floral tributes to him at the Martyr Pushap Raj Chowk. He was martyred on April 11, 2005, in Jammu and Kashmir during an encounter with militants. He had served 15 years in the Army.  The father of the martyr, Devkinandan, a retired Army officer, and mother Sheela Devi were also present there. JJ Singh, state president, All-India Froward Bloc party, was the chief guest on the occasion.  — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/tributes-paid-to-martyr-at-mandi-village-237880
12-04-2021||The Student-Parent Forum has threatened to launch an agitation if the government does not take any action against the alleged arbitrariness of private schools regarding the hike in tuition fee from 15 to 65 per cent and almost a 100-per cent increase in the computer fee. The forum alleged that following its protest outside the Education Directorate office on April 6||Student-Parent Forum threatens stir||SFI raises finger at VC appointmentThe SFI's HPU campus unit on Sunday raised serious questions on the qualification of the Vice-Chancellor Sikander Kumar. Its members said as per information received from the RTI, the Kumar had not completed 10 years as Professor when he was appointed VC, which was against the UGC norms. SFI campus secretary Rocky said the VC had eight years eight months and 13 days of experience on the date of appointment. The SFI demanded immediate removal of the VC.Declare results without delay: NSUIThe NSUI has urged the Himachal Pradesh University to declare the results of promoted students as early as possible. The students' body said though students had been promoted, their result was still not available on the portal. Besides, NSUI state in-charge Gaurav Tushir urged the Governor to remove HPU VC with immediate effect. He called for an inquiry into the petition that the VC had been appointed in violation of the norms.Sanskrit academy calendar releasedChief Minister Jai Ram Thakur on Sunday released Vikrami Samvat Calendar brought out by the Himachal Sanskrit Academy. He appreciated the efforts put in by the academy and said the calendar was as per Indian cultural traditions and Indian mythology. Education Minister Govind Singh Thakur, Director Higher Education Amarjeet Sharma, Secretary, Academy, Keshva Nand Kaushal were present on the occasion.Irregularities alleged in appointmentsThe SFI state committee has raised questions on the appointment of teaching and non-teaching faculty at the HPU, Central University, Kangra, and Himachal Pradesh Technical University, Hamirpur. SFI state president Raman Tharta alleged that the appointment of teaching faculty being made in the HPU and Central University was done in violation of reservation rules. The SFI alleged that in some departments, all seats were kept reserved, while in others, all seats were kept open. The SFI further alleged that the scrutiny committees made for the appointment were also under the scanner because these did not have the department heads or senior professors.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/student-parent-forum-threatens-stir-237894
12-04-2021||Uncovered and blocked sewage manholes have become a major problem for residents living in the upper area of Hamirpur's ward number six. Since gutters are in the streets||Manholes without cover||— Vijay Kumar, HamirpurInform people about scheduled worksThere has been a disruption in the water supply for the last few days. People have learnt from newspapers that the company has been cleaning up its tanks. If there's something scheduled that's going to affect the water supply, the company should inform people in advance so that people could make adjustments accordingly.— Puneet Sood, DhalliIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/manholes-without-cover-237895
12-04-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||Himachal makes RT-PCR test mandatory for visitors from Punjab, Delhi, 5 other high Covid load states||Tribune News ServiceShimla, April 11With a major spike in Covid-19 cases, the Himachal Pradesh government on Sunday made RT-PCR test mandatory for visitors from seven high-load states of Punjab, Delhi, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Karnataka, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh.The decision was taken at a meeting chaired by the Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, here. The people from these high load states will be permitted into Himachal only if they have a 72 hour prior RT-PCR negative report while April 16 onwards.The CM said all the SOPs and guidelines issued by the Centre and state governments regarding to check the spread of coronavirus must be enforced strictly in the state, so as to contain the spread of the virus.Read also | Covid surge: Centre says ICU bed capacity fast exhausting in Punjab’s red districtsHimachal had yesterday recorded the highest ever figure of 941 cases in a single day, during the second wave besides 12 deaths, forcing the government to impose curbs.He said as of now the state government has decided to allow tourists to visit the state, but at the same time hotel owners and tourists should strictly adhere to the SOPs issued by the state government.While laying the stress on twin strategy for testing, tracing and treatment with effective surveillance of micro containment zones, the Chief Minister said greater emphasis must also be laid on doing RT-PCR tests to achieve the target of 70 per cent RT-PCR tests.He said the State Health Department must also take steps to increase bed capacity in order to meet out any eventuality. He said the State Health Department must also ensure minimum wastage in vaccine.“The virus is spreading at a fast pace which is the biggest concern. During the last 45 days the state has reported 10,690 new Covid cases and 120 deaths, which are rapidly increasing,” he stated.The State Government has allowed the devotees to visit various temples in the State during the Navratri festival, but at the same time, organising of ‘langars’, ‘bhandaras’ and ‘jagran’ has been completely banned.Devotees have been allowed to visit the temple to perform ‘puja’ and ‘darshans’ by maintaining social distancing and using face masks. The temple managements have been directed to ensure strict implementation of the SoPs laid down by the State Government.The CM said wearing of face masks even in the vehicles must be enforced strictly. He said that SoPs regarding organizing social functions such as marriages must also be adhered strictly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-makes-rt-pcr-test-mandatory-for-visitors-from-punjab-delhi-5-other-high-covid-load-states-237722
