13-04-2021||Mandi||Five feared dead after car falls into river in Mandi||Five people are feared to be killed as the car they were travelling in fell into a river at Saraur under Sundernagar area in Mandi district of Himachal Pradesh on Tuesday.Rescue operation is underway in the area to locate the victims.Two bodies were fished out while three victims are missing. All are from the same family. The victims belong to village Harra, Nihri tehsil in Mandi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/five-feared-dead-after-car-falls-into-river-in-mandi-238629
13-04-2021||---||BJP's Onkar Nehria is Dharamsala Mayor||Dharamsala, April 13 Onkar Nehria of the BJP has been unanimously elected as Mayor of Dharamsala municipal corporation. Despite the fact that the Congress in-charge of Dharamsala MC elections Sukhwinder Sukhu claimed that the Congress would contest for the post of both Mayor and Deputy Mayor inside the house. Congress councilors didn't file nomination for the post of the Mayor.This paved way for unanimous election of Onkar Nehria as the Mayor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bjps-onkar-nehria-is-dharamsala-mayor-238557
13-04-2021||Mandi||Manali-Leh highway blocked due to heavy snowfall, stranded run out of food, money||The Manali-Leh highway between Darcha in Lahaul and Sarchu in Leh has remained blocked for the past one week, causing much hardship to those stranded. Heavy snowfall at Baralacha La and nearby areas has brought highway traffic to a halt.Sources say a large number of vehicles, including trucks carrying vegetables, are stuck at Darcha. The drivers fear the vegetables may be damaged in case the traffic is not resumed by the Border Roads Organisation in a couple of days. A worried Chamel Singh, a truck driver, said, “We are running out of food and money. The vegetables have begun to rot. The losses incurred will be substantial.”Achey, a student from Leh, who is stuck in Manali, said he too had run out of money. Kaka, a native of Leh, camping at Manali with his wife and child for the past four days, said: “It is the responsibility of the local administration to ensure that the traffic is funtional round the clock. Many labourers travelling to Leh are forced to shell out Rs 400 per day for their stay in Manali. The administration must come forward to help them.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/manali-leh-highway-blocked-due-to-heavy-snowfall-stranded-run-out-of-food-money-238318
13-04-2021||Ambika Sharma||Shell out more soon as toll plaza at Sanwara set to be functional||Tribune News ServiceSolan, April 12Commuters travelling on the Parwanoo-Solan section of the National Highway No. 5 will have to pay more as a toll plaza on the newly widened highway at Sanwara will soon start functioning. This will be the second toll that a person entering the state from Parwanoo will have to pay. Already, the State Excise and Taxation Department collects toll at an inter-state plaza at Parwanoo.Suresh Sharma, Project Director, National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), says that the Udaipur-based Coral Associates has been given the tender to collect the toll for the first three months, after which it will be re-allocated.A toll of Rs 55 has been fixed for cars, jeeps, vans or light motor vehicles for a one-way journey and Rs 85 for both sides. For light commercial vehicles and mini-buses, Rs 90 will be the one-way charge while it will be Rs 190 for a bus or a truck. Three axles commercial vehicles will have to pay Rs 210 for a one-way journey while a heavy construction machinery will have to shell out Rs 300. A monthly pass for locals residing within 20 km of the toll plaza will be available for Rs 285 for non-commercial mechanical vehicles.Vehicles without fastags will have to pay double the toll to pass through the eight-lane plaza — four each for the uphill and downhill traffic.Private company GR Infraprojects has completed nearly 95 per cent of the work to widen the 39-km stretch from Parwanoo to Solan to four lanes. “We have received the completion certification from the NHAI, as 95 per cent work has been completed. This will pave the way for the toll plaza at Sanwara to start functioning,” says Balwinder Singh, Project Manager, GRI.An ambulance, a patrolling vehicle and a recovery van will remain stationed near the toll plaza where a control room has also been set up. Seventeen emergency call boxes with solar panels, batteries and solar chargers have also been set up on the entire 39-km stretch and a person in emergency can make a call and expect help within minutes.Assigned for 30 months, the road widening work on the 39-km stretch had begun in September 2015. However, several problems such as the delay in land availability, the NGT halting the work for a few months and design-related issues cropped up, delaying the completion of the project. Around 95 per cent work has been completed, and the remaining work at Saproon, Kumarhatti and near Timber Trail Resorts, Parwanoo, is likely to be completed in the next few months.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shell-out-more-soon-as-toll-plaza-at-sanwara-set-to-be-functional-238203
13-04-2021||Ravinder Sood||Palampur temple village turns into garbage dump||Palampur, April 12Dadh village, 10 km from Palampur, where the famous Chamunda Devi temple or Chamunda Nandikeshwar Dham is situated, cries for the attention of the authorities. The temple is a famous pilgrimage site of North India, where Goddess Durga is worshipped. Over the years, the temple town has turned into a dump yard, with garbage/waste/debris scattered everywhere.This has turned the beautiful temple village into an eyesore. With stench emanating from the garbage, it is difficult for motorists, pedestrians, pilgrims and tourists to move through this area. Things have turnedfrom bad to worse in the past few months, with hotels, vegetables vendors and residents dumping their waste by the roadside with impunity.The Swachh Bharat initiative seems to be a distant dream for Dadh and the adjoining areas which were fondly called “Temple Clusters”.The situation is so pathetic that old clothes, plastic waste, rotten fruit, vegetables, used electronics, coconut shells etc can be seen near the temple or in the adjoining river. The smell emanating from the waste at Dadh Chowk is causing a lot of inconvenience to pedestrians and commuters who board buses here.During rainfall, garbage gets mixed with rain water, posing a danger to health of people living nearby. The environment is especially conducive for mosquito breeding, which results in malaria, dengue and other communicable diseases.Though residents have raised their voiceagainst the issue, no action has been taken in this regard by the administration or the Pollution Control Board.The authorities should put in place a proper waste disposal system.Chamunda Nandikeshwar Temple is managed by a temple trust headed by the Deputy Commissioner of Kangra.The temple administration, which has income in crores, has failed to handle the problem. It is time for the temple trust to wake up from its deep slumber and rectify the problem without depending on panchayats, which do not have much income.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/palampur-temple-village-turns-into-garbage-dump-238204
13-04-2021||Our Correspondent||CT scan machine at Tanda hospital out of order for 4 months||Palampur April 12The Computerised Tomography Machine (CT scan machine) at the Tanda medical college and hospital (TMC) has been out of order for the past four months, resulting in inconvenience to patients.Since the TMC is also one of the biggest super specialty health institutions in the state, the teaching and research work has also suffered in the absence of a CT scan machine.On an average, 40-50 patients are being referred daily to private radiology centres for CT scan reports from different departments of the TMC. The hospital administration has not taken any interest so far in resolving the genuine issues despite several complaints lodged by doctors, patients and their attendants. No alternative arrangements have been made to deal with the patients coming to the TMC in dire need of a CT scan. They have to go to private centres, which charge high amounts for the facility.Rakesh Kumar, a patient’’s attendant, told The Tribune at the hospital that his relative had suffered head injuries and a brain stroke, after which he was brought to the TMC, where doctors referred them to a private radiology centre for a CT scan.“We have been told by the CT scan department that the machine is not functioning and we have to take our patient to a private radiology centre. The government should take action against the management of the hospital for not repairing the CT scan machine or installing a new one,” he said.A senior doctor working in the TMC, when contacted by The Tribune, said the top brass of the hospital was well-versed with the situation, a letter had also been sent to Medical Superintendent, informing him about the malfunctioning of the machine.Health Minister Rajiv Sejal said he wasn’t aware that the machine had been non-functional for months. However, he added, the government had already sanctioned a new CT scan machine for the TMC and it would be installed soon.Patients being sent to pvt centresOn an average, 40 to 50 patients are being referred daily to private radiology centres for CT scan reports from different departments of the TMC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ct-scan-machine-at-tanda-hospital-out-of-order-for-4-months-238205
13-04-2021||Our Correspondent||Two of family die in Kullu accident||Kullu, April 12A couple was killed while their daughter, daughter-in-law and eight-month-old grandson were injured when their car fell into a gorge near Ghiyagi in Banjar of this district on Monday.Superintendent of Police Gaurav Singh said the family belonged to Thanera village in Mandi district and they were going towards Banjar. He said after preliminary investigation, it appeared that the accident occurred due to brake failure.Yogeshwar Sharma (55) and his wife Lata Sharma (55) died on the spot. Kanvi Sharma (24), daughter of Yogeshwar, his daughter-in-law Namrata Gautam (29) and her son Priyank Saxena (8 months) were injured.A police team rescued the injured persons with the help of local people and they were shifted to hospital.The bodies of the victims were handed over to the relatives after the post-mortem examination.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/two-of-family-die-in-kullu-accident-238206
13-04-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||No mask, no entry to Himachal govt offices; can’t board buses||Tribune News ServiceShimla, April 12Himachal will follow the “No mask, no service” policy to ensure that people without a face cover are denied entry to government or private establishments and not allowed to board public or private transport.The Disaster Management Cell of the Revenue Department issued the order in this regard today. Strict guidelines have been issued following the decision of the Cabinet to prevent the entry of people from seven high load states without a negative RT-PCR report into Himachal. The visitors will have to carry a negative report not older than 72 hours from an ICMR-recognised centre.Another interesting aspect of the new guidelines is to keep the elected representatives of the panchayati raj institutions (PRI) in the loop about any event to ensure that the SOPs are being adhered to. All office- bearers of the PRIs and urban local bodies have been asked to ensure wearing of masks, social distancing, home isolation and public gatherings are being held as per norms.A complete ban has been imposed on melas, langars, bhandaras at temples and shrines though pilgrims will be allowed to enter the sanctum sanctorum for offering prayers. There is a limit of a maximum of 200 persons in open spaces and 50 per cent of the capacity indoors with a maximum up to 50 persons permitted at social, academic, sports, entertainment, cultural, religious and political gatherings. No such activity would be allowed in containment zones.The organisers of any function or events will be liable to be prosecuted or fined in case of violations of the norms.Prior permission will have to be sought from the district administration for holding a dham or langar as part of community kitchen. However, the RT-PCR test of the caterers and mangers providing the service will be mandatory and the cooking will be done wearing masks, gloves and a head cover. However, no langars will be allowed indoors.The thrust of the fight against Covid would be test-track-treat. This will include aggressive testing and tracking Covid-positive persons so that timely isolation and medical treatment is provided. The respective district administration and concerned department have been directed to ensure strict complain ace of these orders.Negative RT-PCR test report mandatoryStrict guidelines have been issued following the decision of the Cabinet to prevent the entry of people from seven high load states without a negative RT-PCR test report into Himachal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/no-mask-no-entry-to-himachal-govt-offices-cant-board-buses-238207
13-04-2021||---||Former Himachal CM Virbhadra Singh, son test +ve; 1,089 cases||Shimla, April 12The Covid situation in the state became more grim today as 1,089 fresh cases were reported, taking the tally to 70,775. Besides, nine persons died of the virus. Three deaths were reported in Una, two in Mandi and one each in Kangra, Sirmaur, Kullu and Shimla.Former Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh (86) and his son Vikramaditya Singh, MLA from Shimla (Rural), have tested positive for Covid.Virbahdra’s samples were taken following Vikramaditya testing Covid positive late last night. The health authorities confirmed that the octogenarian leader was infected with the virus. Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur wished Virbhadra and his family members a speedy recovery.Lahaul and Spiti today reported 114 cases, including a large number of workers engaged by the BRO. “We got the RT-PCR tests done on about 500 people stranded between Darcha and Keylong due to the closure of the Baralacha Pass. As many as 56 of them tested Covid positive at Spiti and 109 in Lahaul,” said Pankaj Rai, DC, Lahaul and Spiti. The highest number of 249 cases was reported in Kangra.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/former-himachal-cm-virbhadra-singh-son-test-ve-1-089-cases-238208
13-04-2021||Solan||4 schools in Solan made containment zones||Four schools in the district were made containment zones today after their staff and students tested Covid positive.Deputy Commissioner KC Chaman said Pinegrove School, Dharampur; MRA DAV School, Solan; Chail Military School and Gurukul International School, Solan, had been declared containment zones. “Fifteen teachers and four cooks of Pinegrove School have tested Covid positive,” he said. Two infected students at Pinegrove School are the relatives of the Chief Minister and they have been isolated at his residence in Shimla.Fifteen staffers of Gurukul International School, three of Shoolini University and one of JP University also tested positive today. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/4-schools-in-solan-made-containment-zones-238209
13-04-2021||Lalit Mohan||Secret ballot to elect Dharamsala Mayor, his deputy today||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, April 12The newly elected councillors of the Dharamsala MC will take oath tomorrow. Sources say that the new Mayor and Deputy Mayor will also be elected tomorrow through a secret ballot.The BJP has eight councillors, only one short of the majority to get its own Mayor and Deputy Mayor elected. The party claims the support of an Independent councillor, but leaders are still keeping their fingers crossed.For the election, at least 13 councillors are required to be present in the House to complete the quorum. There are five Congress councillors and two Independents, who are party rebels. The two Independents owe allegiance to former Congress Mayor Davinder Jaggi. For the election to the posts, all Congress and Independent councillors are required to be present in the House.The sources say that parleys are going on to ensure that all councillors remain present in the House tomorrow for the mayoral election. There is speculation that some Congress councillors may cross vote in the election to the post of Mayor to embarrass the ruling party. Since the ballot will be secret, it will be difficult to know who cross-voted and thus invoke the anti-defection law against him or her.However, the secret ballot is also giving jitters to the BJP that has not declared its candidate for Mayor’s post so far. The sources say that the BJP may have to concede the post of Deputy Mayor to an Independent. There are many aspirants to the post of Mayor in the BJP, including former Deputy Mayor Onkar Nehria. Some old councillors have influence across the party lines and may align with others to secure the posts.Meanwhile, CLP leader Mukesh Agnihotri and former HPCC president Sukhwinder Sukhu were in Dharamsala today to device a strategy for the elections. They held meeting with the Congress councillors. The sources say that Jaggi’s group has informed the Congress leaders that they fancy their chances in the election.They add that Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur is not taking any chances with the election. He has deputed leaders to ensure that the BJP wins the election.BJP leaders’ keep fingers crossedThe BJP has eight councillors, only one short of the majority to get its own Mayor and Deputy Mayor elected. The party claims the support of an Independent councillor, but leaders are still keeping their fingers crossed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/secret-ballot-to-elect-dharamsala-mayor-his-deputy-today-238210
13-04-2021||Ambika Sharma||To check poaching, Cong councillors taken to Shimla||Tribune News ServiceSolan, April 12A Congress panel for the Solan Municipal Corporation elections today considered the probable names for the posts of Mayor and Deputy Mayor ahead of oath-taking ceremony tomorrow.In a bid to rule out poaching by the ruling BJP, it has shifted its nine councillors to a safe location in Shimla. The Congress has majority, the BJP won seven wards and an Independent also emerged victorious in the MC polls.As the post of Mayor is reserved for an SC woman for the first two-and-a-half-year term, Punam Grover is the unanimous choice in the Congress. There are three contenders for the post of Deputy Mayor. All three councillors, Rajiv Kaura, Abhay and Sardar Singh Thakur, are hoping to get the post for the first term, though party leaders said consensus had been arrived upon who would head it first. Since the post is not reserved, all three contenders can be adjusted on the post for sometime. The tactic is used by the party to quell dissidence when the aspirants are more.Poll conveners - Rajinder Rana, Harshwardhan Chauhan, Kewal Pathania, DR Shandil - had a meeting with all councillors in Shimla to finalise the names for the two posts before oath-taking ceremony. Taking no chances, the Congress leaders will bring all candidates tomorrow just before the ceremony slated for 11 am.Commissioner, Solan MC, LR Verma, said the election for the posts could be held tomorrow. If the quoram was not completed, it would be held within three days.The BJP has not lost hopes of securing the posts. Efforts are afoot to contact the disgruntled Congress councillors and make way for their candidates through cross-voting. Since an Independent Manish Kumar is a suspended BJP member, the party is confident of his support and required only one more councillor.BJP still hopefulThe BJP has not lost hopes of securing the top posts. Efforts are afoot to contact the disgruntled Congress councillors and make way for their candidates through cross-voting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/to-check-poaching-cong-councillors-taken-to-shimla-238211
13-04-2021||---||Row over BJP rebel’s entry into Cong||Solan, April 12The entry of BJP rebel Dyal Pyari into the Congress on April 1 has sparked a row within the Pacchad Congress as it termed it an affront to senior leader and seven-term MLA GR Musafir.Since Pyari’s entry into the Congress obliquely projects her as the party’s choice for the 2022 Assembly election, Musafir’s loyalists like former mandal president Devinder Shastri today said anyone’s entry or exit from the party should be made after taking the mandal and the district level office bearers into confidence.“The manner in which Pyari’s entry has been facilitated by the top level leaders has not gone down well with the local party leaders. There was no resentment against Dyal Pyari but against the manner in which the party had inducted her was highly objectionable”, added party leaders.“A seven-term MLA, former Cabinet minister and former Speaker GR Musafir has been belittled by this act”, they added.Musafir has lost three consecutive elections and the party was looking for a new face.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/row-over-bjp-rebels-entry-into-cong-238212
13-04-2021||Chamba||3 die in Pangi mishap||Three women were killed on the spot and the driver seriously injured when a pickup vehicle veered off the road and fell into a gorge in the tribal Pangi valley of Chamba district today.Residential Commissioner of Pangi Sukhdev Singh confirmed that the vehicle crashed near Kumar nullah bridge in the morning.He said Mahatam Dei, Shanti and Man Dei, residents of Sach village, died in this accident while vehicle driver Nek Chand was injured who was rushed to a nearby civil hospital for medical treatment.After carrying out postmortem, the dead bodies were handed over to the next of kin of the deceased; he said, adding that the police had registered a case to ascertain the cause of the accident.An immediate relief amount of Rs 20,000 each to the families of the deceased had been provided.— OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/3-die-in-pangi-mishap-238213
13-04-2021||Dipender Manta||Uniting faction-hit Mandi Cong a tough task||Tribune News ServiceMandi, April 12Ending factionalism in the Congress in Mandi district is a daunting task for the party high command. After the miserable performance of the party in the MC election in Mandi, Congress leaders are blaming each other.Senior Congress leader Kaul Singh Thakur and Ashray Sharma have come face to face to target each other for the election rout. Kaul Singh attributed the defeat of Congress to wrong allocation of party tickets. Ashray Sharma, grandson of former Telecom Minister Sukh Ram, was also in selection committee panel along with other Congress leaders like G S Bali, Vinod Sultanpuri, Rajiv Kimta, Champa Thakur and others.Ashray Sharma said, “The final ticket allocation to the candidates was done by the party high command after consent of Kaul Sigh and district Congress Committee president Prakash Chaudhari at Shimla.”In Mandi, Congress workers are divided into four groups. One section of workers in Mandi is strong supporter of Kaul Singh, while other section is follower of Congress leader Pandit Sukh Ram.The third section of workers stands firmly behind Virbhadra Singh and fourth section is backing Sukhwinder Singh Sukhu.As a result, Congress is lagging far behind the BJP in Mandi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/uniting-faction-hit-mandi-cong-a-tough-task-238214
13-04-2021||A member of the Himachal Pradesh Private Educational Institutions Regulatory Commission||Regulatory body member is VC||World Health Day celebratedWorld Health Day-2021 was celebrated at Sai Sanjivni Institute of Medical Sciences in Solan. The theme was "Building a fairer, healthier world" for the year. The students of the nursing school presented a play titled "Vaccine-the only solution" in a bid to highlight its dire necessity in the pandemic. Creating awareness about the pandemic, students stressed the need for vaccine. Institute director Dr Sanjay Aggarwal and principal Anant Gautam addressed the gathering and explained the significance of vaccination. Awareness was also created on the need for social distancing and wearing masks.Declare results, demands SFIMembers of the HPU campus unit of SFI have alleged that incomplete results of the students of the first and second years of undergraduate courses have been uploaded on websites. The results were uploaded on March 17 on a trial basis and the university said that results would be uploaded in a few days but even after 20 days, the needful has not been done. Demanding that the results be declared at the earliest, the SFI members said the date of admission should also be extended from April 10 because a segment of students was unable to fill admission forms as the site was crashing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/regulatory-body-member-is-vc-238215
13-04-2021||The Municipal Council (MC)||Dustbins in poor shape||Unreasonable speed limitsThe police in Una are using speed guns these days to challan people for over-speeding. However, the speed limits fixed by police at certain places are unreasonable. A speed limit of 60 km/hour has been fixed on the express highway, which is unreasonable. Inside the cities at certain places, a speed limit of 20 km/hour has been fixed, which is not practically possible to maintain for any four-wheeler. Since Una is in plains, the police should be more practical while fixing speed limits. — Amarjeet Sharma, UnaWHAT OUR READERS SAYIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?THE TRIBUNEinvites its readers to have their say. Please email at: preadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/dustbins-in-poor-shape-238216
13-04-2021||---||Former Himachal CM Virbhadra tests positive for Covid-19||Shimla, April 12Former Chief Minister of Himachal Pradesh, Virbhadra Singh (86) has tested positive for Covid-19.His son Vikramaditya Singh, MLA from Shimla (Rural), had tested positive for the virus on Sunday following which the former CM’s samples were taken. The report that came today indicated that Virbhadra too has been infected with the virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/former-himachal-cm-virbhadra-tests-positive-for-covid-19-238192
