14-04-2021||ibune News Service||Dharamsala, Mandi top posts in BJP kitty||Dharamsala, April 13The BJP today grabbed the posts of both Mayor and Deputy Mayor of the Dharamsala Municipal Corporation (MC). Interestingly, BJP councillor Onkar Nehria was unanimously elected as Mayor as the Congress did not contest the election against him. Onkar is the former Deputy Mayor of Dharamsala and won from McLeodganj.Sarav Chand Galotia, a BJP rebel, who had won as an Independent from the Sidhpur ward, was elected as Deputy Mayor. Former Mayor Davinder Jaggi filed his nomination for the post of Deputy Mayor but got just six votes whereas Galotia got 11 votes.The BJP had won eight out of 17 wards in the Dharamsala MC elections whereas the Congress had won five wards. Four Independents, two Congress rebels and two BJP rebels, had also won.CM Jai Ram Thakur, who was here, congratulated the newly elected Mayor and Deputy Mayor. He expressed hope that various development projects that had been lingering in the city would pick pace soon under the newly elected House. The newly elected members of the MC were administered oath by the Deputy Commissioner Rakesh Prajapati.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/dharamsala-mandi-top-posts-in-bjp-kitty-238874
14-04-2021||Lalit Mohan||ST candidate’s win stirs controversy||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, April 13The election of Onkar Nehria, who belongs to the Gaddi or ST community, as the Mayor of the Dharamsala Municipal Corporation, has created another controversy.Sudhir Sharma, former minister and AICC secretary, said the government had reserved the posts of Mayor for the Scheduled Castes/Scheduled Tribes candidates in Palampur, Mandi and Solan. But the post in Dharamsala was open for the general category. However, the government decided to appoint ST candidates on the posts of Mayor and Deputy Mayor.The BJP has a lot of women councillors of the general category, who could have been elected for the mayoral post.However, by giving all mayoral posts in four MCs, the present BJP government had done injustice to the general category candidates in the state, Sharma said.Meanwhile, BJP leader and HPCA director Sanjay Sharma, who had recently demanded that the post of Dharamsala Mayor be given to a candidate of the Brahmin community, also expressed his displeasure over the election of both the ST candidates.He said there was disenchantment among the general category population that form a majority in Dharamsala as well as Kangra districts. Meanwhile, there was rumbling in the Congress after the party candidates did not contest the election for the Mayor’s post. A senior Congress leader from Dharamsala alleged that some party councillors were hand in glove with the BJP.In the last House of the Dharamsala MC, the BJP had just three councillors but still contested the election for the Mayor’s post. Later despite the Congress majority, Onkar Nehria, a BJP councillor, was allowed to be the Deputy Mayor. Now they had not contested the election for the Mayor, the leader added. When asked about the probability of a few Congress leaders being hand in glove with the BJP, former Himachal Pradesh Congress Committee president Sukhwinder Sukhu refuted the allegations. He said the Congress councillors did not contest the election for the Mayor’s post due to a strategy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/st-candidates-win-stirs-controversy-238875
14-04-2021||Our Correspondent||Cakewalk for Cong in Palampur MC||Palampur, April 13Congress councillors Punam Bali and Anish Nag were elected Mayor and Deputy Mayor of the Palampur Municipal Corporation (MC) today.The Congress had won 11 of the 17 wards. This time, the post of Mayor was reserved for woman Scheduled Caste candidate. The Congress has support of one Independent councillor too.The election was overseen by senior Congress leaders Kaul Singh, Asha Kumari and DCC president Ajay Mahajan, who had a closed-door meeting with the elected councillors to ensure their consensus. In the formal meeting at the corporation office, all members raised hands in favour of Bali and Nag. Earlier, in a simple function held in the office of Municipal Commissioner, all 15 councillors took oath. The ADC, Kangra, presided over the function.Briefing mediapersons, Ashish Butail, local Congress MLA, said the newly elected councillors had a big challenge at hand as the people had reposed faith in the Congress. “They now have to shoulder the responsibility of developing the infrastructure and provide better civic amenities to the people,” said Butail.He hoped that the state government would extend full cooperation to the Palampur MC and allocate the required funds.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cakewalk-for-cong-in-palampur-mc-238878
14-04-2021||---||Deepali, Virender in the saddle on Jai Ram Thakur’s turf||Mandi, April 13 BJP councillors Deepali Jaswal and Virender Bhatt were unanimously elected Mayor and Deputy Mayor of the Mandi Municipal Corporation today. Earlier, councillors took oath at a simple ceremony held in the MC auditorium here. Additional Deputy Commissioner Jatin Lal administered the oath to them. Deepali had won from ward number -13 Thanehra while Virender from Ward No- 2 Purani Mandi. Irrigation and Public Health (IPH) Minister Mahender Singh Thakur called on them to work with dedication to ensure the development of the MC area. He thanked the people of Mandi for the huge mandate given to the BJP.  He said under the leadership of Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, the government had ensured overall and balanced development of the town. “Mandi will be developed as per a master plan and I assure that there will be no fund constraint,” he said. He hoped that the Mayor and Deputy Mayor along with the councillors would come up to the expectations of the people and ensure that all development works were expedited and new facilities were created.  Sundernagar MLA Rakesh Jamwal also extended his wishes to the councillors, the Mayor and Deputy Mayor.  Deepali and Virender Bhatt said they would work collectively for the development of the MC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/deepali-virender-in-the-saddle-on-jai-ram-thakurs-turf-238880
14-04-2021||---||In Solan, elections deferred to April 16||Solan, April 13The oath-taking ceremony of Solan MC councillors was far from smooth as nine Congress councillors failed to turn up at 11 am today. Additional Deputy Commissioner (ADC) Anurag Chander Sharma, who waited till 12 noon to administer the oath to the councillors at the MC hall, announced April 16 the next date and left the venue. None of the seven BJP councillors and an Independent turned up for oath.A piquant situation, however, arose when Congress councillors, accompanied by senior MLAs like DR Shandil, Harshwardhan Chauhan, Rajinder Rana and Pradesh Congress Committee president Kuldeep Chauhan, arrived at 12:15 pm from Shimla. They called up the DC alleging that there was no one to administer the oath and officers were working under government pressure.Deputy Commissioner, Solan, KC Chaman, however, directed the ADC to go and administer the oath to the nine councillors.He said, “The ADC had waited for over an hour and announced the next date since no one had turned up. When I was informed by the Congress leaders that the councillors had arrived around 12:15 pm, I directed the ADC to go back. It was only a matter of delay in the arrival by the Congress councillors as all arrangements were in place.”While the seven BJP councillors and an Independent abstained from the ceremony, their absence instilled a sense of insecurity in the Congress camp. Since a consensus could not be arrived for the two top posts, the leaders were facing a challenge in keeping their flock together. There were two contenders - Punam Grover and Puja - for the Mayor’s post now and two others - Rajiv Kaura and Sardar Singh - for the Deputy Mayor’s post.Since the secret ballot will decide who bag the top posts, the probability of cross-voting among the Congress councillors continued to weigh on the minds of the leaders.The Congress has a majority of nine councillors while BJP has seven and it is banking on the support of an Independent and some covert support from the Congress.The BJP is keeping its cards close to its chest though its leaders are confident of springing a surprise on April 16. Securing the top posts has become a prestige issue for both parties.In minority, saffron party confidentThe BJP is keeping its cards close to its chest though its leaders are confident of springing a surprise on April 16. Securing the top posts has become a prestige issue for both parties.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/in-solan-elections-deferred-to-april-16-238882
14-04-2021||---||Dhalli police station ‘best’ in Himachal||Shimla, April 13 The Dhalli police station has been adjudged the best in Himachal Pradesh in the annual ranking of police stations for 2020.  The Union Home Minister read this ranking in a ceremony during annual Director General of Police/Inspector General of Police (DGP/IGP) conference of the year.  The parameters like crime against women, property offences, crime against weaker sections, missing persons, unidentified persons and dead bodies found were taking into consideration for the annual ranking.  The Ministry of Home Affairs had conducted a survey of 16,671 police stations in the country to finalise the overall rankings for 2020 in which 75 police stations, including police station, Dhalli, and of East of Shimla district were shortlisted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/dhalli-police-station-best-in-himachal-238883
14-04-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi---||Half of faculty in 2 pvt universities ineligible||Tribune News Service Shimla, April 13 The screening of documents of faculty members in two private universities of the state has pointed out that 51 per cent of them are not eligible for teaching posts.  "As per the first observation, 51 per cent of the faculty of two universities have been found ineligible for the posts while the scrutiny of documents submitted by four other universities is underway," said Himachal Pradesh Private Educational Institutions Regulatory Commission (HPPIERC) chairman Maj Gen Atul Kaushik (Retd). The universities have been asked to fill in the gaps in documentation as most of the ineligible faculty members did not fulfill the norms of the University Grants Commission (UGC) in 2009 and 2016. They have either not provided information regarding the National Eligibility Test (NET) qualification or not provided PhD exemption certificate. Meanwhile, the principals of 102 private colleges out of 109, who were found ineligible for the post, have been asked to submit additional document, if any, failing which the affiliating universities would be asked to take appropriate action against the erring institutes. The UGC and other bodies will also be informed about the same. About 25 per cent of the colleges had written to the affiliating universities to form a panel for the recruitment of principals. The delay on the part of universities has resulted in the disqualification of principals and as many as 30 principals are working in the officiating capacity. The commission has received information from 30-35 colleges, out of which 12-13 have been closed and information from about 70 institutions is still awaited. “There has been omission on the part of affiliating universities, which has impacted the process of selection. We will write to the state government once information from all institutions is received,” Kaushik added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/half-of-faculty-in-2-pvt-universities-ineligible-238885
14-04-2021||Solan||Nalagarh SDM introduces lucky draw to promote jab||In a bid to encourage people aged 45 and above to get the Covid jab, Nalagarh SDM has introduced a scheme whereby children of parents who turn up for vaccination would click their selfie and send it to a mobile number.“All such entries will get a chance to participate in a lucky draw and its winner would earn cash reward ofRs 11,000. All participating children will also be given a certificate declaring them as Covid warriors,” said Nalagarh SDM Mahinder Pal.He urged all eligible people to get themselves vaccinated in the special drive, which would finish on Wednesday. “Since this industrial belt is facing a Covid surge, all eligible people should be vaccinated in this drive. About 150 entries have been received till Monday,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nalagarh-sdm-introduces-lucky-draw-to-promote-jab-238890
14-04-2021||---||Areas with over five cases to be mini-containment zones: Himachal CM||Dharamsala, April 13Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur on Tuesday directed the local health and administrative authorities to declare a place or locality having over five positive cases as a mini-containment zone.The Chief Minister chaired a review meeting on the Covid situation in Kangra and Chamba districts. He said the frequency of testing should be increased and people must be encouraged to get themselves inoculated.EX-CM Virbhadra in Mohali hospital Thakur said the number of active cases had been on the rise in both districts and persons under home isolation should be monitored regularly. They should be guided properly to keep their morale high and must be provided thermometer, oximeter and medicines by the health authorities. “Keeping in view the increasing number of new patients, the bed capacity at Tanda Medical College should also be increased. The death rate is quite alarming, even for youngsters,” he added.The Chief Minister said keeping in view the Navratris, all devotees visiting temples and other religious places should avoid overcrowding. The state government has allowed the temples to remain open, but at the same time organising langars, bhandaras and kirtans have been banned.Thakur said the newly elected members of the Panchayati Raj Institutions must work pro-actively and constantly to help their localities in dealing with the dreadful virus. They should take a lead to educate the public to strictly adhere to the SOPs issued by the government from time to time.There is no dearth of essential equipment, items, medicines and facilities in the state in fight Covid, the Chief Minister added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/areas-with-over-five-cases-to-be-mini-containment-zones-himachal-cm-238893
14-04-2021||---||Late arrival in hospitals behind Covid deaths: IGMC Shimla||Shimla, April 13 Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital registered six Covid deaths in the past 24 hours. “We saw so many deaths last year when the disease had peaked towards November. This time, we have witnessed the similar number of deaths within less than a month of the Covid surge,” said IGMC Principal Rajnish Pathania. The casualties include young and those without co-morbidities. “The main reason of the death among the youth is late arrival in the hospital. Many are still in the denial mode about the disease and reach late in hospitals,” said the principal. Also, the doctors are observing more severe infection among the youth this time. Compared to last year, the percentage of the youth requiring hospitalisation appears greater. “A 25-year-old from Bhutan, who was here on training with an audit institute, came in with a severe disease and was shifted to Chandigarh by the Embassy,” said Pathania. Besides, the number of admissions is rising fast in the hospital. On Tuesday evening, the count was around 85. “The majority is on the oxygen support.  The infection rate this time is very high compared to last year even those taking due precautions are at risk,” said Pathania. Meanwhile, the state still has a long way to go to hit the target of 15,000 tests in a day. The state is logging in numbers that are around half or one/third of the target.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/late-arrival-in-hospitals-behind-covid-deaths-igmc-shimla-238894
14-04-2021||lit Mohan||Covid surge adds to Dharamsala tourism pain yet again||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, April 13The rise in Covid cases has again cast its shadow on the tourism industry in Dharamsala. Hoteliers lament that most of their bookings for April have been cancelled.Ravi Sharma, general manager of a hotel in lower Dharamsala, talking to The Tribune, said he had bookings from Maharashtra for April. However, most of these have been cancelled due to the surge in cases. “We are hoping that the Covid wave will subside and the months of May and June will bring in tourists from adjoining states to the region,” he said.Kanwar Singh, in-charge of Moti Mehal, a restaurant in Dharamsala, said the business had gone down. “We are not making enough sales to cover the expenses. Earlier, local customers were coming, but now, they have stopped coming.”Many eating joints in Dharamsala have closed down due to the Covid fear. Navdeep, who used to run a fastfood joint, said, “We continued the business last year with the hope that this year, things would be better. However, with the increase in cases, it seems that the summer season will be no different. It was becoming difficult for me to pay the rent for the shop, so I decided to close it down,” he said.Though small and medium hotels in the region are suffering, sources told The Tribune that high-end hotels were still doing brisk business. The owner of one such hotel said the increasing cases in Delhi and Mumbai had created more business for them. Many corporate families and officials were moving to the hills. Generally, these high-end clients used to go to foreign countries for holidays. Since foreign travel was restricted, they were now coming to hill destinations in India. Since Dharamsala had the best air connectivity in Himachal, it was receiving many such tourists, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-surge-adds-to-dharamsala-tourism-pain-yet-again-238895
14-04-2021||Mandi||PRI must help govt in fight against virus: Himachal CMChief Minister Jai Ram Thakur||Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur on Monday virtually interacted with over 3,000 elected representatives of the Panchayati Raj Institutions (PRIs) of the state from here. He said all PRI representatives should play a proactive role in helping the Health Department fight Covid-19 in their areas.He said the whole world was passing through a difficult phase due to the pandemic, so it becomes the duty of all of them to help the government in fighting the virus. He added that the PRI representatives played a crucial role during the first wave of the pandemic last year. They distributed face masks and hand sanitisers, and also food packets and ration to the needy.Thakur said the second surge was more fatal.“Thus the elected members of the PRIs must work pro-actively to help their panchayats in tackling the virus. They must take a lead in motivating people to strictly adhere to the SOPs.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/pri-must-help-govt-in-fight-against-virus-himachal-cmchief-minister-jai-ram-thakur-238896
14-04-2021||---||Lahaul admn helps stranded truckers||Mandi, April 13 The Lahaul Spiti administration on Tuesday came to the rescue of the truck drivers  stranded at Darcha  and provided them free ration.  Trucks loaded with vegetables, heading to Leh, have been stuck at Darcha for the past one week as the Manali-Leh highway was blocked due to the heavy snowfall at Baralacha la and its nearby places.  More than 400 people are stranded in Lahaul and Manali. On Monday, the truck drivers said they were facing a shortage of ration supply. Acting swiflty,  Lahaul Deputy Commissioner Pankaj Rai visited Darcha to meet the stranded truck drivers and provided them free ration.  The Deputy Commissioner said: “We are providing free ration to the stranded people and arrangements are being made for their stay in the district. The Border Roads Organisation was struggling to restore the highway. As soon as the road is cleared, the stranded people will be sent to their native places.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/lahaul-admn-helps-stranded-truckers-238897
14-04-2021||---||HPBSE offline exams for Classes X, XII start||Dharamsala, April 13Amid rising Covid cases across the country, the Himachal Pradesh Board of School Education (HPBSE) has become the first state education board in the north region to hold offline examinations of classes X and XII.The examinations started today in which about 2.25 lakh students appeared.The Chairman of the HPBSE Suresh Soni, while talking to The Tribune, said the examinations were conducted successfully across the state while taking precautions.All students, who came for examination, were thermal screened and it was ensured that every one of them wore mask. Seven students of Class X and one student of Class XII turned out to be Covid positive. These students would be given a chance to reappear in examinations after a month.The Chairman said due to the pandemic, the board had deployed an invigilator over 20 students. Earlier, invigilators were appointed over 40 students. Now 20 students are sitting in one classroom following social distancing norms. Besides, different timings have been fixed for holding the examinations. While Class X examination was being held in the morning session, Class XII examination was in the evening session, he said.The board would make efforts to conduct all exams and declare the results on time so that students do not face difficulties in taking admissions to higher classes, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hpbse-offline-exams-for-classes-x-xii-start-238898
14-04-2021||Nurpur||Ensure night patrolling, gram panchayats told||In wake of forest fires in Kangra, the DC has ordered gram panchayats to organise night patrolling and assist the Forest Department in detecting and curbing forest fires in their respective areas.  In a notification issued by the Kangra district administration, gram panchayats were told to save the forest wealth and assist the department to check forest fires. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ensure-night-patrolling-gram-panchayats-told-238899
14-04-2021||Our Correspondent ---||Kids learning centre in Salooni||Salooni (Chamba), April 13  The first dedicated children’s library and activity centres of the state government are all set to be opened for the public in the Salooni subdivision of Chamba district.  The first such children learning centre was inaugurated by Salooni Sub-Divisional Magistrate (SDM) Kiran Bhadana at Talori on Tuesday, while the second such centre in Salooni is scheduled to open on Friday.  “These centres have been built with the purpose of nurturing the natural curiosity of children through play and instilling a habit of reading among them from young age,” Bhadana said.  About 200 books in English and Hindi have been made available in each of the centres for children from 3 to 15 years. Besides, a wide range of materials for fun-and-learning activity, including puzzles, globes, modeling clay, trampolines, games and toys, have been procured.  Even the floors at the centres have been designed as an educational tool, following the Building as Learning Aid  system that incorporates the building itself as a learning aid. The SDM has preferred to augment existing unused and underutilised infrastructure of the area rather than building new infrastructure from the scratch — a model she had successfully applied previously while setting up five libraries in Salooni for the youth and aspirants preparing for state service exams.  These centres were set-up with the help of CSR funding provided by Satluj Jal Vidyut Nigam Limited (SJVNL) which was facilitated by DC Rana, Chamba DC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kids-learning-centre-in-salooni-238900
14-04-2021||---||Excise inspector held||Solan, April 13 The Parwanoo police today arrested an excise and taxation inspector (ETI), Jai Pal, who was deputed at Parwanoo-based KM Distillery in Sector 5 from where 700 boxes of country liquor were being illegally transported to Solan and Shimla on April 11. Yogesh Rolta, DSP, Parwanoo, said the liquor could not have been transported outside the unit without the knowledge of the ETI and his role has come under the scanner. He has been remanded to four-day police custody by a local court today. The police had seized 700 boxes of country liquor, transported illegally in a truck at Parwanoo.  The driver, Tikka Ram of Barog, and co-driver Devinder Kumar of Jubbar village could not produce any permit issued by Excise officials. According to the driver, distillery manager Manohar Lal had got these loaded in the truck.  A case under Sections 420, 465, 467, 468, 471 and 120-B of the IPC has been registered against the ETI and further probe was underway. The Excise and Taxation Department is also conducting a separate probe into the incident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/excise-inspector-held-238901
14-04-2021||---||Nehria Mayor, rebel his Deputy||Dharamsala, April 13The BJP today grabbed the posts of both Mayor and Deputy Mayor of the Dharamsala Municipal Corporation (MC). Interestingly, BJP councillor Onkar Nehria was unanimously elected as Mayor as the Congress did not contest the election against him. Onkar is the former Deputy Mayor of Dharamsala and won from McLeodganj.Sarav Chand Galotia, a BJP rebel, who had won as an Independent from the Sidhpur ward, was elected as Deputy Mayor. Former Mayor Davinder Jaggi filed his nomination for the post of Deputy Mayor but got just six votes whereas Galotia got 11 votes.The BJP had won eight out of 17 wards in the Dharamsala MC elections whereas the Congress had won five wards. Four Independents, two Congress rebels and two BJP rebels, had also won.CM Jai Ram Thakur, who was here, congratulated the newly elected Mayor and Deputy Mayor. He expressed hope that various development projects that had been lingering in the city would pick pace soon under the newly elected House. The newly elected members of the MC were administered oath by the Deputy Commissioner Rakesh Prajapati.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nehria-mayor-rebel-his-deputy-238903
14-04-2021||A trademark logo for the Yogananda Centre for Theology (YTC) at the Shoolini University was released by Chancellor Prof PK Khosla||Yogananda centre logo released||NSUI seeks probe into JE exam fiascoNSUI state president Chhatar Singh said the government was responsible for the questions being raised at Himachal Pradesh Staff Selection Commission. He said all appointments made by the BJP government had come under the scanner. NSUI state in-charge Gaurav Tushir said at a time when unemployment was rising rapidly, the allegations that unsealed envelope of question paper was found in Nahan for JE exams was unfortunate and some independent agency needed to probe the matter.Act against ineligible teachers: ABVPThe ABVP has demanded strict action against private universities indulging in wrong practices. Recently, 51 per cent teaching faculty in 14 private universities were found ineligible. The ABVP said strict action should be taken against these teachers and the universities employing them. The ABVP said it will approach people and launch an agitation against private universities indulging in wrong practices.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/yogananda-centre-logo-released-238933
14-04-2021||The road leading to the doctors' hostel from the Sanjauli-IGMC road has been turned into a dumping place for worn-out home articles and waste material. Often||Goods dumped on Sanjauli-IGMC road||— Ravi Sharma, SanjauliResume bus serviceResidents of Leda, Kothi and Sindhyani area in Mandi district are urging Himachal Pradesh Road Transport Corporation authority to resume the bus service on the Sundernagar-Leda-Kothi-Sindhyani route for the convenience of people in the region for better transportation facility. Last year, after the Covid-19 outbreak, the HRTC bus service was suspended on this route, due to which people of the area were facing difficulty in moving to and fro on this route.— Sunita, Sindhyani, MandiIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/goods-dumped-on-sanjauli-igmc-road-238934
14-04-2021||Dharamsala||Himachal Pradesh now says no curbs on entry from other states; SOPs for hotels||Two days after the Himachal Pradesh Government announced that a negative RT-PCR report would be mandatory for visitors from seven high risk states, CM Jai Ram Thakur today said no one would be stopped at interstate borders.Responding to queries on curbs to be implemented from April 16, the CM said stopping people at the state borders would cause a lot of inconvenience to them. “The state’s tourism industry has already suffered a huge loss. Rather than stopping tourists at the borders, we are proposing stricter standard operating procedures in hotels,” he said.Earlier it was announced that no visitor from Punjab, Delhi, Karnataka, Gujarat, Rajasthan, UP and Maharashtra would be allowed to enter the state without producing a negative RT-PCR report.Some hoteliers said confusion over the matter was costing them dear. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-pradesh-now-says-no-curbs-on-entry-from-other-states-sops-for-hotels-238781
14-04-2021||Dharamshala||Tourists visiting Himachal will not be 'harassed' for Covid report on borders: CM||Tourists visiting Himachal Pradesh will not be "harassed" for a coronavirus negative test report on the state's borders, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur said on Tuesday.Days after the state government announced making it mandatory for people coming from seven worst-affected states to show a COVID-19 negative test report on entering the state, Thakur said they have put in place a mechanism for monitoring tourists on their arrival at the place of their stay.Himachal makes RT-PCR test mandatory for visitors from Punjab, Delhi, 5 other high Covid load states "We have taken care of our tourism industry to ensure it does not suffer this session as the coronavirus pandemic affected it last year. So, in the SOP released for the industry, we have put in place a mechanism to monitor it accordingly. Tourists and other visitors will not be harassed by stopping for corona reports on the state's borders because it causes a lot of inconvenience and difficulty to them," he told reporters here.As majority of the visitors will stay in hotels, the administration has put in place a mechanism to check the visitors from the seven states on their arrival at the place of their stay, he added.The Himachal Pradesh government on Sunday made it mandatory for people coming from seven states which have witnessed a spike in coronavirus cases to show a COVID-19 negative test report on entering the state.Thakur had said then that people coming from Punjab, Delhi, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Karnataka, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh need to carry a negative RT-PCR report not earlier than 72 hours while visiting Himachal Pradesh from April 16.The chief minister arrived here this morning from Shimla on a day's visit. He will preside over a high-level meeting to review the coronavirus situation in Kangra district and its surrounding areas. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/tourists-visiting-himachal-will-not-be-harassed-for-covid-report-on-borders-cm-238524
