15-04-2021||Mandi||Himachal Day celebrated with fervour in Mandi||Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur presided over the State level Himachal Day function held at Padhar in the Drang Vidhan Sabha area of the Mandi district on Thursday.The Chief Minister unfurled the Tricolour, and took a salute from the contingents of Police and Home Guards.The parade was led by DSP Pranav Chauhan.The Chief Minister also flagged off 136 dedicated two-wheelers for women help desks at each police station of the State on the occasion of the Swarnim Himachal Day function at Padhar.While felicitating the people of the State on this auspicious occasion, he paid his respect to the freedom fighters and great sons of the soil, who strived hard to accord special identity and status to Himachal Pradesh.He also paid his respect to the first Chief Minister of Himachal Pradesh Dr. Yashwant Singh Pamar, who spearheaded the struggle to accord special identity to the State.He said that the State started its development journey from a scratch as at the time of formation, the literacy rate of the State was only 4.8 per cent, there were only 88 health institutions, 288 kilometres of roads and clean drinking water facility was available in few villages only.He said that the electricity facility was also limited to only six villages and the per capita income was only Rs. 240. Himachal today was reckoned among the prosperous and progressive States in the country having a road length of 38,470 kilometres and 14,010 villages have been connected with road facility while 99 per cent of the Panchayats have been connected by roads and the remaining Panchayats would soon have road facility.He said that the whole world has been suffering from Covid-19 and our State was also no exception. He said that despite the challenges of Covid-19, with the support of the people, the government tried to revive the economy of the State by regulating the basic facilities smoothly.He urged the people of the State to come forward to help the State Government in checking the spread of this virus.He also urged the people to strictly follow the guidelines and SOPs of the State Government from time to time. He also urged the people to join the vaccination campaign along with the mantra of 'Dawai Bhi-Kadai Bhi' and should not take any risk.Chief Minister announced Rs 1500 ex-gratia/honorarium to all the Class III and IV employees such as staff nurses, ward boys, Class IV employees, Asha workers etc. involved directly in the service of COVID-19 patients for April and May.Providing relief to the tourism industry in wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, he announced a subvention scheme for three months till June, 2021, for the tourism industry.He said that all hotels, tourist lodges, tourism units would be exempted from paying demand charges for two months, and they would not have to pay late charges and could pay the same in easy instalments.He said that demand charges would be not be levied from private schools, as they have also adversely affected due to pandemic. He also announced an interest subversion scheme for the transport sector so that they could also avail financial facilities.He announced a 50 per cent concession on SRT on stage carriage for three months from April and also a 50 per cent concession on passenger tax for three months on taxis and contract carriage.The Chief Minister also honoured the parade leaders who presented the march past on this occasion and later administered the oath to the people to fight against the Covid-19 and working for the progress of the State.Later, the Chief Minister also inaugurated Fire Sub-Station at Padhar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-day-celebrated-with-fervour-in-mandi-239441
15-04-2021||---||Rural Kangra sees sudden spike in Covid cases||Dharamsala, April 14A sudden rise in Covid cases in rural areas of Kangra has become a matter of concern for the district health authorities.A senior health official said a large number of cases were recently reported from Fatehpur tehsil. It was found that some residents of the area had gone on a pilgrimage, which led to a rapid increase in new infections.GD Gupta, Chief Medical Officer, Kangra, said, “We are trying to maximise testing and isolate patients. Those who need medical care are being treated at the Tanda medical college and the Dharamsala Zonal Hospital.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rural-kangra-sees-sudden-spike-in-covid-cases-239256
15-04-2021||Dharamsala||Himachal board, UG exams postponed||The government has decided to postpone the Himachal Pradesh Board of School Education (HPBSE) examinations due to the increasing corona cases. The examinations of classes X and XII started yesterday.A spokesperson of the government said here today that keeping in view a sharp surge in the number of Covid cases and health concerns of students and parents, the government had decided to postpone the ongoing exams for Class X and XII and undergraduate university examinations starting from April 17. New dates would be released after reviewing the situation. This decision was taken by HPU Vice-Chancellor Sikander Kumar in consultation with senior functionaries of the university.The spokesman said the situation would be reviewed on May 1 and further directions would be issued accordingly.As many as 2.25 lakh students appeared in board exams across Himachal yesterday. Eight students had tested positive for the infection.Sources said the government took the decision to postpone exams after the CBSE decided to cancel Class X and postpone Class XII exams. Chairman of the HPBSE Suresh Soni said the situation would be reviewed on May 1. The decision regarding the next dates would be taken at a review meeting on May 1, he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-board-ug-exams-postponed-239162
15-04-2021||Our Correspondent---||Row between Indora villagers, crusher owners resolved||NURPUR, APRIL 14 The tussle between owners of stone crushers of the Mand area and residents of Basantpur gram panchayat in Indora resolved last evening following intervention of the local administration.  The villagers had been protesting for the past over one year against the passage of multi-axle vehicles of stone crushers from their village, making their lives miserable due to dust, noise and smoke pollution. SDM Somil Gautam, who convened a joint meeting with the crusher owners and agitating villagers, told The Tribune that the trucks of stone crusher owners would now ply on the Thakurdwara-Milwan road passing through Basantpur gram panchayat only during night hours from April 18.  He said the maximum 10 vehicles of each stone crusher had been allowed to cross the village.  Four stone crusher units have been set up after procuring legal formalities but the tussle between the villagers and the crusher owners had made the situation tense in the area on Friday night after a clash between both groups, forcing the local administration to restrict the movement of trucks on the village road.  Section 144 of the CrPC, imposed by the SDM at Basantpur two days ago in view of the prevailing tension, will remain enforced till April 17. The administration has also adopted preventive measures to check the escalation of tension and ordered the villagers to deposit their firearms with the police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/row-between-indora-villagers-crusher-owners-resolved-239163
15-04-2021||Our Correspondent---||Mini shopping complex opens at Sujanpur||Hamirpur, April 14 Dhaula Sidh hydro power project would boost economy of area and also generate jobs and business opportunities in the district.  This was stated by Anurag Thakur, Minister of State for Finance and Corporate Affairs after inaugurating kiosks shopping complex at Sujanpur today. Notably, over 40 kiosks were constructed by Satluj Jal Vidhuyat Nigam under the community social responsibility programme. Thakur said the Modi government was expanding education base in the country and new Central schools were opened. He said if sufficient land was available, a Central school would be established here soon. Thakur also handed over keys of the kiosks to the beneficiaries.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mini-shopping-complex-opens-at-sujanpur-239164
15-04-2021||---||Shimla Mayor, ex-mayor in a war of words over garbage dumpers||Shimla, April 14 A war of words has erupted between Shimla Municipal Mayor Satya Kaundal and former mayor Sanjay Chauhan over the MC gifting garbage dumpers to the Lahaul-Spiti district administration.  Chauhan has slammed the MC for this “unwarranted generosity”, saying on the one hand the civic body was burdening people with increased taxes and fee on the pretext of scarce resources, on the other it was gifting away dumpers worth lakhs of rupees.  Satya Kaundal, said, “Shimla has been made dumper free as per the orders of the High Court. So, these dumpers were rotting in our stores. What’s wrong if these have been sent to a place where they could be utilised? After all, Lahaul and Spiti is also a part of the state,” she said. “Also, the MC itself receives donations from individuals and corporates. People donate us benches, tables for schoolchildren, uniform for our garbage collectors. In fact, we have recently received two sweeping machines from Power Grid worth Rs 2 crore under their CSR programme. So what’s wrong if we give away something that’s of no use to us?” she said. Chauhan replied, “As per the Municipal Act, these dumpers should have been auctioned if they had to be disposed. The MC is under financial stress, it could have earned some money through auction.” “These dumpers could have been used for garbage collection by placing them on mobile dumper placers,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shimla-mayor-ex-mayor-in-a-war-of-words-over-garbage-dumpers-239165
15-04-2021||Nurpur||Gang of robbers busted, 3 held||A Special Investigation Team (SIT) led by SDPO Ashok Ratan has busted a gang of six robbers that had looted at gunpoint costly pump house machinery from the main Chakki water supply scheme here on the night on April 8. The accused had also taken the pump house operator hostage. The three arrested accused were today produced in a court that remanded them in judicial custody.SDPO Ratan said they arrested Ravi Kumar of Dharok village in Hamirpur district, Tej Singh of Bhogrwan in Indora subdivision and Suresh Kumar of Hatwas village in Nagrota Bagwan in Kangra last evening.He said that a juvenile was also detained but was later handed over to his family after questioning. He added that two more accused wanted in the robbery case were still at large. A case under the IPC and the Arms Act was registered on April 9. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/gang-of-robbers-busted-3-held-239167
15-04-2021||Ambika Sharma||Himachal hoteliers resent Covid report norm for tourists||Tribune News ServiceSolan, April 14The tourism industry in Solan district has resented the state government’s move to seek RT PCR negative test reports from the guests which it says is leading to cancellation of bookings.The hoteliers said the peak tourist season was disrupted last year by the Covid pandemic and now that business was picking up this new guideline has once again created uncertainty in the trade.The Kasauli Hoteliers and Residents Association, convened a meeting to ponder over the situation yesterday. “It belied logic that guests staying at hotels will have to bring RT PCR negative test report while tourists roaming in the markets without even wearing masks and adhering to social distancing can do so freely”, said Rocky Chimni, association’s vice-president.“All hotels are well-equipped to adhere to Covid appropriate behavior and requisite measures were put in place last year when the hotels had reopened in September. Apart from duly sanitising the premises, use of masks, fogging machines, sanitisers, etc., was strictly adhered to in all hotels and no case has been reported from any hotel in the new Covid wave”, informed Rajinder Chopra, association’s president.The hoteliers in the hill station of Chail also echoed similar sentiments. Devinder Verma, president, Chail Hoteliers Association, said, “Due care is taken to ensure that all guests adhere to safety norms by the hoteliers and it was not wise to make impose this restriction on the hoteliers as it deters tourists from visiting the state.”“Last year was lost due to Covid and now when some business had started picking up this new norm of taking RT PCR negative test reports from visitors has created a sense of uncertainty”, added Verma. There are around 25 hotels and 18 homestays in Chail who will be affected by this decision.The hotels were facing cancellation of bookings and hoteliers rued that this would once again disrupt their peak tourist season like last year. Since a majority of more than 100 hotels in Kasauli were yet to repay their loans, the loss of tourism through such restrictions would not augur well for their business, observed hoteliers.Since hotels were fully functional now and even surplus staff had been deputed for the current season, such norms will also cause loss of employment once again. The tourist season, which begins in April and lasts till June, accounts for 50 to 60 per cent of the annual business, they argued.They also asserted that strictness should be enforced in public places in the hill stations where people congregate in a bid to check the spread of the Covid pandemic.925 fresh cases, 13 deaths||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-hoteliers-resent-covid-report-norm-for-tourists-239168
15-04-2021||Solan||Govt flip-flop over Covid norms, industrial workers confused||Confusion prevailed among industrial workers in the state’s industrial hub of Baddi-Barotiwala-Nalagarh with the state government doing a flip-flop over directions on Covid test report.Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur had announced that a negative RT PCR test report would be mandatory for visitors from seven high-risk states of Punjab, Delhi, Karnataka, Rajasthan Gujarat, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh three days ago. But since the decision was widely resented, including by hoteliers, it was rolled back yesterday. As per the new standard operating protocol, the condition of a negative RT PCR test report for visitors, except for tourists staying in hotels, has been done away with.As a large number of industrial workers commute to the BBN from Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh, the industry executives were worried whether they would have to produce negative RT PCR test reports to enter the area.“In the absence of any clarity on the test reports, I have instructed my staff to carry passes issued some months ago to enter the BBN”, said the production manager of a pharmaceutical company.“Institutional vaccination has begun and eligible industries having a workforce of more than 100 were coming forward to get the staff vaccinated,” said Sanjay Khurana, president, BBN Industries Association. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/govt-flip-flop-over-covid-norms-industrial-workers-confused-239169
15-04-2021||---||Himachal Governor, CM pay tribute to Ambedkar||Shimla, April 14 Governor Bandaru Dattatreya and Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur paid floral tribute to Dr Bhim Rao Ambedkar on his 130th birth anniversary at Ambedkar Chowk, Chaura Maidan, here today.  The Governor said besides being the architect of the Constitution, Dr Ambedkar worked seamlessly for ensuring social justice to people and dedicated his life for the betterment of the poor. He emphasised on spreading the message of brotherhood.  The Governor also released a calendar of the Baba Saheb Ambedkar Society in the presence of the Chief Minister. Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur said Dr Ambedkar not only drafted the Constitution, but also took up various issues of the poor and SCs. Dr Ambedkar felt that education was the right weapon to fight social slavery and it could enlighten the downtrodden to come up and gain social status, economic betterment and political freedom. Later, he visited the BJP state office at Chakkar and paid floral tributes to Ambedkar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-governor-cm-pay-tribute-to-ambedkar-239170
15-04-2021||---||‘Virangana on wheels’ soon, says Himachal DGP||Mandi, April 14 To check the crime against women in the state, the police department has planned ‘Virangana on wheels’ initiative in each police station. Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur will inaugurate it on Himachal Day from Mandi in the presence of DGP Sanjay Kundu. Addressing mediapersons here today, Kundu said under ‘Virangana on wheels’ initiative, a two-wheeler would be provided in each police station for the use of women police. They could swing into action and help a victim in case of distress call.  The DGP said, “Cyber crime has become a cause for concern for the police and we are urging the state and Central governments to provide financial assistance to set up cyber police station in each district.” He was here to review the law and order situation in Mandi district. He appreciated the efforts of the district police under the leadership of SP Shalini Agnihotri to maintain law and order in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/virangana-on-wheels-soon-says-himachal-dgp-239171
15-04-2021||Lalit Mohan||Row over new condition for flood control works||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, April 14Tenders floated by the Irrigation and Public Health (IPH) Department in the recent past have created a controversy. The department has floated tenders of about Rs 600 crore for wire created embankments along the rivers in the state for flood control measures. A condition in the tenders is intriguing.The department has put an eligibility condition in the tenders that only those contractors who have earlier worked on 5 mm wire created embankments will be eligible to bid. This has caused resentment among companies working on wire created embankments in various parts of the state and Punjab, as it will make them ineligible to bid for tenders.They allege that generally departments float tenders for creating embankments with 4 mm wire or even a more thick wire. The thickness of the wire as eligibility for contractors for tenders to create embankments is quite unusual, they say.Surinder Sharma, a contractor, alleges that why can’t a contractor, who has created embankments with 4 mm wire, be eligible for creating embankments with 5 mm wire. Nobody can differentiate between a 4 mm and 5 mm embankment wire. The department has put this condition to eliminate competition and favour a few contractors, he adds.Sources say that most of the contractors, who have worked on 5 mm wire created embankments, are those who have handled flood control works in the Swan river of Una district. The IPH Department started the work of 5 mm wire created embankments along the Swan, as per the guidelines of the Central Water Commission. However, later it was made a condition that only those contractors who had worked on 5 mm wire created embankments shall be eligible for bidding for flood control works. This left the field open for just a few contractors, who had worked on the Swan flood control works.Senior Congress leader GS Bali says that he has demanded a high-level inquiry into the allotment of flood control works in the state to just a few contractors. “Nowhere else in the country the thickness of the wire is the eligibility criterion for bidding. The condition has been added to favour a few contractors and eliminate competition. The state has lost money by allotting works at escalated costs by adding this condition. The Congress seeks an inquiry into the scam,” he adds.IPH Secretary Vikas Labroo says that he has sought a report in the matter from field-level officers. He assures that the issue will be looked into.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/row-over-new-condition-for-flood-control-works-239172
15-04-2021||Kullu||Punjab tourist found dead in Kullu hotel||A tourist from Punjab, Vicky Dogra (35), was found dead at his room in a hotel at Manikaran yesterday.Kullu SP Gaurav Singh said Vicky was staying in the hotel for the past two days and the police got information that he was not opening the door since morning. The police broke open the door and found him lying dead on the bed. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/punjab-tourist-found-dead-in-kullu-hotel-239173
15-04-2021||Palampur||Bus dashes against wall, 15 injured near Lambagaon||At least 15 persons were injured, three of them seriously, when a private bus met with an accident near Lambagaon, 40 km from here, this afternoon.Reports said that there was a function in the village and local residents hired a school bus for immersing the idols of Shiva and Parbati in the Beas after the function. The bus was carrying 30 persons.A police officer from Lambagaon police station told Tribune that when villagers were returning after immersing idols when the driver of the bus lost control and the bus dashed against a wall, injuring 15 persons. The condition of three persons is stated to be serious. A police case has been registered. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bus-dashes-against-wall-15-injured-near-lambagaon-239174
15-04-2021||The ABVP organised a seminar on the birth anniversary of Dr BR Ambedkar at Government College||Seminar on Ambedkar's birth anniversary at Government College, Sanjauli||Online poetry, speech contestThe Literature Committee of Government College, Sanjauli, organised an online competition for self-written poems and speech. In the completion, 15 students took part. While Harsh Thakur stood first in speech, followed by Sahil Verma and Vaishali Thakur at second and third spots, respectively, Sarabjeet Kaur won the first position in poetry. The second and third spot was clinched by Harsh Thakur and Priyanka Sharma.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/seminar-on-ambedkars-birth-anniversary-at-government-college-sanjauli-239175
15-04-2021||MINING activities in the Rakkar area of Kangra district is going on unabated. In the present scenario||Mining goes on unabated in Rakkar area of Kangra district||— Vijay Kumar, Rakkar village, KangraCasual approach at hospitalAT IGMC, where Covid tests are being conducted, the approach of the doctors and staff seem casual. Many a time doctors and staff are not wearing even gloves though they are dealing with multiple patients. Also, there's no clarity if ASHA workers or doctors will check on patients in home isolation.— Ankur Sharma, ShimlaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mining-goes-on-unabated-in-rakkar-area-of-kangra-district-239176
15-04-2021||Dharamsala||Himachal puts off boards, undergraduate exams amid growing COVID cases||The Himachal Pradesh Government under its Chief Minister Jairam Thakur decided on Wednesday to put off board exams for Class 10 and 12 as well as all undergraduate examinations in the face of rising COVID-19 cases in the state.Thakur said in a tweet on Wednesday:  “Safety of every citizen of the state is our first priority”. “In view of the increasing cases of coronavirus in Himachal Pradesh, we’ve decided to postpone the examinations of Himachal Pradesh School Education Board and the colleges of Himachal Pradesh till further orders.”“We’re fighting a battle against COVID-19 with the help on citizens of the state and we sincerely hope that we’ll continue to get people’s support in this fight.”The state has been reporting an upward trend in infections. A report from the union health ministry on Wednesday reported 11 fatalities the previous day.A government spokesperson said the decision to put off Class 10 and 12 board examinations, as well as undergraduate exams that were supposed to start on April 17, was taken after taking into account concerns from students as well as parents. It would be reviewed on May 1, and new schedules will be announced appropriately, he said.Some 2.25 lakh students appeared in board examinations across Himachal Pradesh on Tuesday. Eight students tested positive for the infection. प्रदेश के हर नागरिक की सुरक्षा हमारी पहली प्राथमिकता है।हिमाचल में बढ़ रहे कोरोना के मामलों को देखते हुए हमने हिमाचल प्रदेश स्कूल शिक्षा बोर्ड तथा हिमाचल प्रदेश के महाविद्यालयों की परीक्षाएं आगामी आदेशों तक स्थगित करने का निर्णय लिया है।||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-puts-off-boards-undergraduate-exams-amid-growing-covid-cases-239074
