16-04-2021||Solan||Congress captures Solan MC; Punam Grover elected as Mayor||Congress candidates Punam Grover and Rajiv Kaura were respectively elected Mayor and Deputy Mayor for the maiden Solan municipal corporation polls held on Friday.Grover had defeated BJP's former municipal council president Pawan Gupta.The Congress candidates polled nine votes as against eight polled by BJP nominees Manish Kumar and Shailender Gupta, respectively, for the mayor and deputy mayor's posts.In a bid to attain the magical figure of nine, the BJP projected an independent candidate Manish Kumar—who is a suspended party leader—as its candidate for the mayor's post.The ruling party, however, received a major drubbing in the polls as they failed to win nine wards and could not muster anyone's support despite trying hard.The Congress has emerged stronger with this victory as its poll convenors including Harshwardhan Chauhan, Rajinder Rana, local MLA DR Shandil and others kept all nine elected councillors at a secluded place near Shimla.They arrived just before the polls and successfully won both the posts.BJP's poll in-charge and Nahan MLA Dr Rajiv Bindal and a conglomerate of poll panel failed to address infighting within the party which cost it dear.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/congress-captures-solan-mc-punam-grover-elected-as-mayor-239904
16-04-2021||On Thursday||Kangana Ranaut wishes fans on Himachal Day||Born in Manali, Kangana has often shared glimpses of her life in Himachal Pradesh. The actress also owns a plush home in the hills. Situated at approximately 2,000 metres abovesea level, her home in Manali is spread over 7,600 square feet.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kangana-ranaut-wishes-fans-on-himachal-day-239830
16-04-2021||Mandi||More hiccups, 200 vehicles stranded at Himachal Pradesh Darcha||The Border Roads Organisation restored the Manali-Leh highway via Baralacha pass on Wednesday. Subsequently, the administration of Lahaul Spiti tried to restore traffic from Darcha to Leh but with a tanker breaking down near Baralacha pass, the highway was blocked once again.Sources said over 200 vehicles carrying students, tourists and labourers were now stranded at Darcha.Deputy Commissioner Pankaj Rai told The Tribune that the tanker was removed from the road by the BRO but it was snowing at the Baralacha pass. Hence, the movement of vehicles had been restricted beyond Darcha. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/more-hiccups-200-vehicles-stranded-at-himachal-pradesh-darcha-239722
16-04-2021||Lalit Mohan||Dry conditions in valley hit Kangra tea, yield down 75%||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, April 15Dry weather in the region for the past three months has hit hard tea growers of Kangra. Tea production in the Kangra valley is down by 75 per cent, say farmers. Dry weather conditions have hit both yield and quality. Bud formation is not occurring, farmers maintain. Guddu Pathania of Mann Tea Estate, the biggest tea farm in Dharamsala area, said they produced about 28,000 kg tea in April last year. “It seems we will not be able to produce even 5,000 kg in April this year. Owing to poor rainfall, tea plants have started drying up,” he said.Drastic fallKG Butail, a leading tea grower from Palampur, said small farmers were the worst affected. Cooperative tea units were not getting enough material for processing and the production had been severely hit.Tea growers allege the government has no policy to protect them. Most policies of the Tea Board of India are aimed at protecting the self-help groups or SC farmers, alleges KG Butial. Most policies of the state government are aimed at supporting and promoting apple growers.Tea gardens in Kangra are protected under the law, so growers are not allowed to switch to any other crop. Growers want they should at least be given subsidy for installing tubewells and drip-irrigation systems to protect their plantation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/dry-conditions-in-valley-hit-kangra-tea-yield-down-75-239724
16-04-2021||---||Covid situation worsens in Himachal, fresh curbs likely soon||Shimla, April 15With the Covid situation getting worse every passing day, the possibility of the state government imposing stricter restrictions remains high.Though Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur has been reluctant to impose curbs, now with the situation getting grim, the enforcement of restrictions has become mandatory. On an average 1,000 positive cases are being repoted in the state daily, besides more than 10 deaths.However, at present, there is complete laxity in compiling the data of Covid patients and their primary contacts, which obviously enhances possibility of high transmission rates. “The name of none of my three family members, who have tested Covid positive at a government hospital, figures in the list of infected persons. Nobody has contacted us about treatment at home and I am giving them medicine by consulting doctors on my own,” said a Shimla resident.1,034 Covid cases, 11 deaths in stateAll educational institutions have been closed till April 21 and the entry of visitors from seven high load states of Punjab, Delhi, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Karnataka, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh are permitted only on the submission of a RT-PCR report not older than 72 hours April 16 onwards.Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur is likely to take a call on imposing restrictions in a day or two. This could include night curfew and quarantine for those returning to the state from the seven high load states.The decision of the state government to not check the RT-PCR report at the entry points on the interstate borders has defeated the very purpose of imposing the RT-PCR test condition. “Hotels in the state have witnessed mass cancellation of bookings ever since the RT-PCR test condition for people from seven states was imposed. So, now it is immaterial whether they check the report at the border or in hotels,” rued a hotelier of Manali.The people, on the other hand, are keen that the government imposes timely stricter restrictions rather than having a lackadaisical approach that will make things go out of hand. Most states where the number of cases has risen sharply have imposed a partial lockdown. As many as 1,034 Covid cases were reported in the state Thursday, taking the tally to 73,353.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-situation-worsens-in-himachal-fresh-curbs-likely-soon-239516
16-04-2021||Mandi||CM Jai Ram Thakur warns Kaul Singh against targeting him||Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur has warned senior Congress leader Kaul Singh Thakur against targeting him politically. The Chief Minister was at the Darang Assembly segment in Mandi district today to preside over a Himachal Day celebration function.Darang is the home Assembly segment of Kaul Singh, where the veteran leader lost the last election to BJP candidate Jawahar Thakur.‘Unbiased growth’Kaul Singh has been targeting me saying that I am the Chief Minister of Seraj and I am focusing only on the development of Seraj. In the past three years, development projects worth of crores have been implemented in the Darang Assembly segment. —Jai Ram Thakur, Chief MinisterAddressing a public meeting at Hardgalu in Darang, he said, “Kaul Singh says that I am the Chief Minister of Seraj and I am focusing only on the development of Seraj. He should be aware that during the BJP regime in the state in the past three years, development projects worth of crores of rupees were under progress in the Darang Assembly segment. Today, development projects worth of Rs 50 crore were inaugurated and foundation stones were laid in the Darang Assembly segment for the benefit of the people of the area”.“Kaul Singh had represented the Darang constituency and had been a minister for a long period but he did nothing for the benefit of local people. The people of Mandi got this respect after a long time and he should also respect it,” said Thakur. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cm-jai-ram-thakur-warns-kaul-singh-against-targeting-him-239518
16-04-2021||Subhash Rajta||Case for repatriation of Una man’s body filed||Tribune News ServiceShimla, April 15The Indian consulate, Jeddah, has filed a case in a Saudi Arabia court for the repatriation of the mortal remains of Una resident Sanjeev Kumar. The Indian migrant had died in Jeddah on January 24 and was buried there without the family’s consent on February 17 by the concerned Saudi authorities. Ever since, the family has been running from pillar to post to get his body exhumed and sent back for last rites as per the Hindu traditions.“The Union Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) on Thursday informed the Delhi High Court that legal proceedings have been initiated in Saudi Arabia and the burial site has been located,” said advocate Subhash Chandran, lawyer of the family.“The MEA official informed the court that the Indian officials have met with Saudi Arabia officials, including the Governor of Jizan province, to expedite the matter,” he said. The family had gone to the Delhi High Court after assurances from the government and politicians yielded no results.Chandran said that the court has appointed advocate Farukh Khan as amicus curie in the matter for a quick resolution, and listed the matter for April 29.Surprisingly, the family has not even received the end of services benefit, an amount of around Rs 4.70 lakh till date. “The company the deceased worked for had deposited the amount with the Indian consulate one-and-a-half months back, but the family has still not received it. Its utter negligence on the part of the consulate,” said Chandran.“When I brought it to the notice of the court, the court passed the orders that the benefits be given to the family of the deceased at the earliest,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/case-for-repatriation-of-una-mans-body-filed-239519
16-04-2021||---||Himachal Day: Ex gratia announced for Covid warriors, relief  for hoteliers||Mandi, April 15Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur presided over the state-level Himachal Day function at Padhar in Mandi district today. He unfurled the Tricolour and took salute from the contingents of the police and Home Guard jawans.The Chief Minister also flagged off 135 two-wheelers for women help desks at each police station.He announced Rs 1,500 ex gratia/honorarium to the Class III and IV employees such as staff nurses, ward boys and Asha workers involved directly in the service of Covid patients for April and May.No demand charges for pvt schoolsHe announced a subvention scheme for the tourism industry in the wake of the pandemic for three months till June. All hotels and tourist lodges would be exempted from paying demand charges for two months and would not have to pay late charges and could pay these in easy instalments. He said the demand charges would not be levied on private schools as these had also been affected.He also announced the interest subvension scheme for the transport sector and 50 per cent concession on State Road Tax on stage carriage for three months from April and also 50 per cent concession on passenger tax for three months on taxis and contract carriage.He paid respects to the freedom fighters and great sons of the soil, who strove for the special identity of HP. He also paid tributes to first Chief Minister Dr Yashwant Singh Pamar.He said the state started its development journey from the scratch as at the time of its formation, the literacy rate was only 4.8 per cent. There were only 88 health institutions, 288 km of roads and potable water was available in a few villages.Electricity was also limited to only six villages and the per capita income was only Rs 240. Himachal today was among the most prosperous states having a road length of 38,470 km, 14,010 villages had been connected with roads and the remaining villages would soon have facilityState thenThe state started its journey from the scratch. The literacy rate was only 4.8 per cent. There were only 88 health institutions, 288 km of roads and clean drinking water facility was available in a few villages. Electricity was also limited to only six villages and the per capita income was only Rs240.And nowHimachal today is among the most prosperous states having a road length of 38,470 km, 14,010 villages have been connected with roads and the remaining villages will soon have facility. The per capita income is Rs 1,90,407 and literacy rate 82.80 per cent as per 2011 Census||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-day-ex-gratia-announced-for-covid-warriors-relief-for-hoteliers-239520
16-04-2021||Shimla||Government advisory hitting tourist inflow in Himachal: Assn||The recent advisory of the state government, making Covid negative report mandatory for tourists from seven heavily hit states has affected the tourist inflow, said Tourism Industry Stakeholders Association president Mohinder Seth.The tourism industry was slowly heading towards revival due to the free flow of tourists and the stakeholders were getting revenue to meet their expenses but the second wave of Covid has again taken a toll on the industry.He said up to 65 per cent of the total revenue of the year was generated in the summer from March 15 to July 25. However, this time, 100 per cent advance bookings had been cancelled, he added.Seth urged the government to charge subsidised tariff for two years for water, property tax, garbage fee and completely abolish demand charges and other fees charged from the hotel industry. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/government-advisory-hitting-tourist-inflow-in-himachal-assn-239521
16-04-2021||Shimla||Rain predicted in 5 Himachal dists till April 21||The Met office today issued yellow and orange warnings for rainfall in five districts tomorrow. The warning indicated thunderstorm, lightning, hailstorm and winds at a speed of 30-40 km at isolated places in Shimla, Bilaspur and Mandi districts and heavy rainfall, thunderstorm, lightning and hailstorm at isolated places in Chamba and Kangra.The Met Department also predicted a wet spell in the state till April 21, barring April 19. Maximum temperatures decreased by 3 to 4 degrees and Una was the hottest at 35.4°C while Keylong was the coldest at night at -0.7°C. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rain-predicted-in-5-himachal-dists-till-april-21-239522
16-04-2021||---||Ignored for incentive, Himachal doctors upset||Shimla, April 15The Himachal Medical Officers Association (HMOA) has expressed resentment over doctors being ignored for a special incentive announced for other healthcare workers looking after coronavirus patients. Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today announced an incentive of Rs 1,500 for healthcare workers such as staff nurses, ward nurses, ward boys and other Class III and IV employees who are providing care to Covid patients. “Our protest is not about money. By keeping doctors out of the list, it seems the government doesn’t consider us corona warriors. It’s demoralising for doctors providing round-the-clock care to Covid patients,” said HMOA secretary Dr Pushpinder Verma.He alleged that it was not the first time that the government had meted out a step-motherly treatment to doctors. “Earlier, the government stopped the grade pay incentive for newly appointed Medical Officers, which every contractual employee gets. It comes out to be around 22 per cent of their salary,” said Dr Verma. “And then, doctors appointed in Medical College at Tanda and Mandi in January were not paid salaries for two and a half months,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ignored-for-incentive-himachal-doctors-upset-239523
16-04-2021||---||Bhardwaj presides over event in Shimla||Shimla, April 15The pace of development of the state can be gauged by the fact that today there are primary and secondary schools at every two km and one AIIMS and six medical colleges have been opened, said Urban Development Minister Suresh Bhardwaj while presiding over the 73rd district level function organised to mark Himachal Day at The Ridge here today.Over one lakh domestic water connections have been provided in Shimla district alone under the Jal Jeevan Mission and Dhalli police station has been adjudged as the best in the state.He said that in order to provide jobs in urban areas, the state government has started Mukhya Mantri Shahar Aajivika Guarantee Yojna under which unemployed youth can get jobs by registering their name in the record of Municipal Corporation. He would be given unemployment allowance if not provided job within 15 days. Himachal is the first state in the country to start this scheme, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bhardwaj-presides-over-event-in-shimla-239524
16-04-2021||Dharamsala||Himachal Day celebrated in all Kangra subdivisions||The district level Himachal Day function was organized at Dharamsala today with Speaker of Himachal Vidhan Sabha Vipin Singh Parmar hoisting the national flag on the occasion. While speaking on the occasion, Parmar said that Himachal came into being in 1948. Since then the state has taken great strides in the field of development. Now it was among the most developed hill states of the country.A cultural event was also organized on the occasion.The Himachal Day function was also organized at all the 11 sub divisions in Kangra district. The state level function of the statehood day organized in Paddar area of Mandi district was telecast live in all the sub divisions. BJP workers and government employees participated in the event. The participation was low key due to rising corona cases in the district.Earlier, the government had decided to hold a Rath Yatra to mark the 50 years of full statehood being granted to Himachal Pradesh. However, the yatra was later postponed due to rising corona cases. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-day-celebrated-in-all-kangra-subdivisions-239525
16-04-2021||Our Correspondent||Frontline staff feted by Himachal minister Rakesh Pathania||Chamba, April 15Forest, Youth Services and Sports Minister Rakesh Pathania said in the past three years, the plantation was done in 6,381 hectares of forestland in Chamba district.The minister stated this while presiding over the district-level Himachal Day celebrations at Chamba.Besides corona warriors, the minister also awarded the persons associated with ‘Chalo Chamba’ campaign and the winners of an online competition of essay and painting organised during the national road safety month.MLAs Pawan Nayar and Jiya Lal Kapoor were also at the function.Meanwhile, a function was also held at Bhanjraru in Churah subdivision of Chamba district which was presided over Deputy Speaker Dr Hans Raj.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/frontline-staff-feted-by-himachal-minister-rakesh-pathania-239526
16-04-2021||Our Correspondent||Himachal leading in development,
says Edu Minister||Kullu, April 15Education Minister Govind Singh Thakur unfurled the National Flag to commence the district-level celebrations of 74th Himachal Day at the Dhalpur Maidan here today and took the salute from an impressive parade.He said that Himachal is the leader in terms of development. When it became a full-fledged state in 1971, the literacy rate was 31.96 per cent and there were 4,693 educational institutions and 587 health institutions. He added that at present, the literacy rate is 82.80 per cent, and there are 15,553 educational institutions and 4,320 health institutions.The minister said, “It is a matter of pride for us that we have adopted modernisation along with preserving our rich cultural heritage. Himachal Pradesh has achieved many feats in development in the past seven decades and the present government has accelerated overall development in various spheres”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-leading-in-development-says-edu-minister-239527
16-04-2021||Our Correspondent||Rapid strides made in development: Sarveen Chaudhary||Una, April 15The district level Himachal Day was observed at the government senior secondary school ground in Una city where Social Justice and Empowerment Minister Sarveen Chaudhary unfurled the national flag and took salute at a march past presented by contingents of the Himachal Police, Home Guards and NCC.Addressing the gathering, Sarveen Chaudhary said the state had made major strides in development and social uplift after coming into existence.The minister said as against 10,000 km road network in 1971, the state now has a network of over 38,700 km. The literacy rate had increased from 31.46 per cent to 86.8 per cent. She added that 4,200 health institutions spread across the length and width of the state were providing facilities to the people.Speaking about her own department, she informed that 23,400 new old age pension beneficiaries had been added in Una district during the tenure of the present state government. She informed that during the first three years of the Jai Ram Government, Rs 135 crores had been spent under MNREGA to provide employment to the weaker sections of the society in Una district.The minister administered an oath to all those present to take precautions to check the spread of Covid.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rapid-strides-made-in-development-sarveen-chaudhary-239528
16-04-2021||Chamba||Chamba town areas go without water||Residents of some localities of Chamba town went without water supply today when Forest Minister Rakesh Pathania was here to preside over the Himachal Day function.   A Junior Engineer of the Jal Shakti Vibhag said the water supply was hit due to some work on the supply line feeding the town.  An Assistant Engineer responsible for water supply to the town said he was not aware of the problem. Residents face water supply shortage every 15 to 20 days without prior information. They have urged Irrigation and Public Health Minister Mahender Singh Thakur to direct the officials of the Jal Shakti Vibhag to look into the matter. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/chamba-town-areas-go-without-water-239529
16-04-2021||Our Correspondent||Uniform growth Himachal's agenda: Rural Minister||Hamirpur, April 15The state government was committed to uniform development of the state. This was stated by Virender Kanwar, Rural Development Minister, while addressing people on the Himachal Day here today.He said that despite corona virus pandemic, the development works in the district continued uninterrupted. He said that Rs 46 crore were spent on MNERGA works in the previous year while Rs 110 crore were spent in the past three years. As many as 119 farmers were provided Rs 2.8 crore for solar fencing in the district to protect crops while 900 hectare land area would be covered under Shiva Project. He said that over 843 hectare area was already identified and being developed.Virender Kanwar said that 4,417 families were provided assistance for house construction and over Rs 60 crore were given to the beneficiaries in the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/uniform-growth-himachals-agenda-rural-minister-239530
16-04-2021||---||Himachal honoured for surpassing targets of Ayushman Bharat||Shimla, April 15Union Health and Family Welfare Minister Harsh Vardhan on Wednesday felicitated Himachal Pradesh for surpassing the Ayushman Bharat targets last year.The Central Government had allocated a target of making 983 Health and Wellness Centres (HWCs) functional in 2020-21, and by March 31 this year the state had 1,022 functional HWCs, a 104 per cent success rate. “The provision of comprehensive primary health care reduces morbidity and mortality at much lower costs and also significantly reduces the need for secondary and tertiary care. For achieving the target, all primary health centres and sub-centres are to be upgraded to HWCs,” said NHM Director Dr Nipun Jindal.He said that the HWCs at the health sub-centre level were being equipped and staffed with an appropriately trained primary health care team comprising a Community Health Officer, multi-purpose and ASHA workers. He added that services provided at the HCWs consisted of 12 packages encompassing maternal, child, adolescent health and family planning and the national programmes would also be run through these centres.“These centres would conduct universal screening of the population above the age of 30 years for hypertension, diabetes, oral cancer and breast and cervical cancer among women,” said Dr Jindal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-honoured-for-surpassing-targets-of-ayushman-bharat-239531
16-04-2021||Hamirpur||4 months on, CT scan machine at Hamirpur medical college out of order||The CT scan machine at Dr Radhakrishnan Government Medical College and Hospital here has been out of order for over four months forcing people to go to private labs that charge at their own sweet will.The machine had developed a snag a year ago and was repaired, but for the past four months it is non-functional. It was learnt that one company had offered to donate a CT scan machine to the medical college, but the authorities were yet to complete the formalities for installing the machine. Ramesh Kumar, who took his ailing father to the medical college, said he had to go to a private CT scan centre for the test that charged exorbitantly.Narender Thakur, MLA, Hamirpur, Rajender Rana, MLA, Sujanpur, and Prem Kaushal, spokesperson, HPCC, have urged the government to restore CT scan facility at the medical college.Kaushal also alleged that not only CT scan machine but the ultra sound machine of the medical college was out order since October last year. He alleged that the possibility of connivance between private operators and people responsible for operation of machines in the medical college could not be ruled out. Patients were compelled to go to private centres when government machines were operational, he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/4-months-on-ct-scan-machine-at-hamirpur-medical-college-out-of-order-239532
16-04-2021||Mandi||Move to shift Bandrol veggie market opposed||Residents of Bashing panchayat and the Kullu police, Kullu are opposing the move to shift the vegetable market at Bandrol to the Police Lines, Bashing, for some time. The reason being that the youths of the panchayat use this ground for sports activities, while the district police use it for departmental activities.The government is constructing a vegetable market at Bandrol to provide better marketing facilities to farmers, necessitating the market to be shifted till the completion of the work.Earlier, Bashing panchayat had given an NOC to the APMC, Kullu, to shift the market from Bandrol to Bashing temporarily. But now the newly elected panchayat is opposing the shifting of the market. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/move-to-shift-bandrol-veggie-market-opposed-239533
16-04-2021||Ambika Sharma||Labour crisis forces Paonta Sahib farmers to use harvesters||Tribune News ServiceSolan, April 15Farmers at Paonta Sahib in Sirmaur district are facing a shortage of labourers for wheat harvesting. The movement of migrant labourers from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar has been hit due to the recent Covid surge.There has been no reverse migration of labourers to Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and other states, and farm labourers have been coming to Himachal during the wheat harvesting season. However, given the grim Covid scenario in Uttar Pradesh, migrants have not come for wheat harvesting this season. The fear of getting stranded and facing hardships in case another lockdown is imposed has deterred them from coming to the state this year.“In the absence of migrant labourers in Paonta Sahib, we have adopted mechanised harvesting. The crop is ready for harvesting and we can’t wait for labourers. The recent spike in Covid cases has created uncertainty about the availability of migrant labourers, and farm machines such as reapers and harvesting combines have been pressed into service to harvest the crop,” says Rakesh Kumar, a farmer of a Paonta Sahib village.He says that the shortage of labourers experienced last year had compelled the villagers to buy these machines and now these had been rented to other farmers as well. Though the administration had arranged these machines last year, harvesting operations of some farmers were delayed. “Rs 600 per bigha is charged for the use of farm machines by the owners. Several such machines were bought last year,” says Rakesh.Sirmaur district produces 53,400 metric tonnes of wheat annually grown over 26,700 hectares. The crop is sown between October 15 and December 15 and is harvested in April and May. Farming is a major activity in the district as other employment avenues are limited and all family members engage in harvesting during the peak season.Pawan Sharma, Deputy Director, Agriculture, Sirmaur, says, “There is no restriction on the inter-state movement of machines this year, and farmers have adopted mechanised harvesting of wheat in Paonta Sahib and other areas of the district”.There was a bumper crop last year but this year, the yield was much less due to deficient rainfall. “The crop yield has been good only in rain-fed areas while it has been significantly less in the areas dependent on rainfall due to scanty rain in the past several months”.“The procurement of wheat has already begun at two centres of the Food Corporation of India at Kala Amb and Paonta Sahib,” adds Sharma.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/labour-crisis-forces-paonta-sahib-farmers-to-use-harvesters-239534
16-04-2021||---||Thefts at 2 houses in Nalagarh||Solan, April 15Cash and valuables worth several lakhs of rupees were stolen from two houses at Nalagarh last night.In the first case, gold jewellery and cash to the tune of about Rs 10 lakh were stolen from the house of Ram Gopal at Brahman Beli village.The miscreants broke the grill of a room and took away Rs 4 lakh and jewellary from an almirah.Valuables worth about Rs 90,000 were also stolen from another house at Nanowal Tapriya village while the residents were asleep.The miscreants broke the grill and the wire mesh of a room to enter the house from the rear.A family member detected the theft around 3 am when he woke up to break her Ramzan fast and saw cupboards and boxes ransacked.The police have registered cases under Sections 457 and 380 of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/thefts-at-2-houses-in-nalagarh-239535
16-04-2021||Abhinav Vashisht||Rohtang shut, Baralacha La offers alternative||Kullu, APRIL 15If the tourists visiting Kullu-Manali are unable to visit the 13,058-feet high Rohtang Pass when it is out of bounds due to heavy snow, they now have the option of visiting the Baralacha Pass (16,040 feet) or Shinku La (16,600 feet) in the Lahaul valley through Atal Tunnel in one day from Manali.The Border Roads Organisation (BRO) set a record this year by restoring the Manali-Leh route much ahead of the normal time in March. As a result, tourists will be able to enjoy pleasant journey of the Manali-Leh road.Darcha is 101 km from Manali and the Baralacha Pass is 45 km from Darcha. Tourist places like Patseu, Zingzingbar and Bharatpur City are also attractive tourist attractions on the way to Baralacha. Shinku La is 40 km from Darcha on the Zanskar-Padum route and it connects border areas of Ladakh to Himachal. As these passes remain covered with snow throughout the year, tourists can enjoy snow even in summers.The snow from the Rohtang Pass is expected to melt early this year as the region witnessed lesser snowfall in the winter but the visitors will be able to witness the snow at the Baralacha and Shinku La passes during the summers.The travel from Manali to Baralacha or Shinku La will be less cumbersome as the BRO, working relentlessly, has improved the condition of the road. A resident of Manali said tourists would be able to undertake the journey to these passes within one day from Manali. He said new tourist destinations were likely to emerge as tourist footfall in the Lahaul valley was increasing in the wake of the opening of Atal Tunnel.There are arrangements for stay of tourists in Darcha, Jispa, Gemur, Keylong and Sissu in Lahaul. The government has also registered more than 400 homestays in the Lahaul valley and tourists can also stay in these units.At present the tourists are rushing to the Lahaul valley to witness snow as the Rohtang Pass has not been thrown open yet. The BRO is yet to undertake the snow-clearance operation on the Manali-Rohtang road as Atal Tunnel has already been thrown open. Commander Colonel, 38 Border Road Task Force Uma Shankar, said there was forecast of snowfall in the coming days and road clearance to Rohtang Pass will be done after that.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rohtang-shut-baralacha-la-offers-alternative-239536
16-04-2021||---||65-yr woman crushed in threshing machine in Paonta Sahib village||Solan, April 15A 65-year-old woman, Sheela Devi, of Balluwala village in Paonta Sahib subdivision of Sirmaur district died after being crushed in a threshing machine this afternoon.The mishap occurred when a tarpaulin sheet that she was was standing on blew up in the wind and got wrapped around her, exposing her to the rolling shaft of the crusher. She was killed on the spot before her family members, who were also working in the field, could come to her rescue, said Paonta Sahib DSP Bir Bahadur.Bahadur said the body was handed over to the family after a post-mortem examination. Inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the Cr PC were underway.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/65-yr-woman-crushed-in-threshing-machine-in-paonta-sahib-village-239537
16-04-2021||Our Correspondent||Elderly woman’s purse snatched in Palampur||Palampur, April 15Miscreants snatched the purse of old woman Vidya Devi from a busy market today. Vidya Devi had gone to the local Civil Hospital for vaccination.While she was returning to Lohana village on the outskirts of Palampur, a miscreant snatched her purse containing cash, mobile phone and other documents near Subhash Chowk. She raised the alarm but none came to her rescue and the miscreant managed to run away towards telephone exchange.Later, family members of the victim reported the matter to the police but no one had been arrested so far. DSP Amit Sharma said a case had been registered. He said the police tried to seek clues from the CCTV footage but all cameras, installed in the town, were found out of order.Information gathered by The Tribune revealed that CCTV cameras, installed in the town by the local MC spending lakhs of rupees, had been non-functional for the past few years. However, no efforts had been made either to replace or repair these cameras.The company, which was given the contract for their installation, failed to provide service. The Palampur MC had failed to initiate action against the company.CCTV cameras non-functionalCCTV cameras, installed in the town by the local MC spending lakhs of rupees, have been non-functional for the past few years. However, no efforts have been made either to replace or repair these cameras.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/elderly-womans-purse-snatched-in-palampur-239538
16-04-2021||Our Correspondent||Illegal mining continues in Binwa||Palampur April 15Large-scale illegal mining going on in the Binwa river at Baijnath has posed a threat to the existence of the 13th century Shiva temple at Baijnath.Despite tall claims by the administration and the Mining Department, a large number of mules can be seen carrying the extracted sand stone and bajri from the river for further transportation.The mining has also endangered a bridge over the river on the Pathankot-Mandi highway.A team of mediapersons on the request of various environmental groups visited Baijnath to witness mining activities in the river. Environmental bodies said if the mining activities in the river was not checked, it could damage the ancient temple.Residents of Baijnath told mediapersons that they had brought the issue to the notice of the mining authorities and the local administration, but it was still going on. They said there was a complete ban on all type of mining activities in the river. They said water level in the river had gone down which was weakening the retaining walls of the temple.The mining activities were threatening the existence of the temple. The government should take care of it. Even locals should make sure that the temple was preserved, said residents of Baijnath and Paprola towns.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/illegal-mining-continues-in-binwa-239539
16-04-2021||Our Correspondent||Roads remain a distant dreamin Kullu villages||Kullu, April 15People in many villages of Kullu district have not been able to get road facilities till date. It exposes the government’s claims that many schemes have been launched to connect far-flung rural areas on priority with the road networkPeople living in these areas are leading difficult lives due to the lack of road connectivity. Many villages of the Upper valley, Lug valley, Parbati valley, Sainj valley, Banjar valley, Seraj valley, Anni and Nirmand are still deprived of road facility.In some areas the initiative has been taken to build roads, but due to various issues the construction has been affected.Villagers face hassles in case of emergencies due to the non-availability of roads. Elderly or patients have to be carried on the back or cot in many villages to reach the nearest road in emergent situations.Major fire incidents had destroyed many villages in the past as these were inaccessible to fire tenders. As many as 46 houses and 47 cowsheds were gutted in a fire on December 19, 2007, in Mohini village. More than 150 houses and five temples were gutted on May 1, 2008. About 80 houses and an ancient temple were destroyed in a fire at Kotla village on November 15, 2015. Nine houses were gutted at Jindi village in Lug valley area on February 25, 2019. Three houses were gutted in a fire in Narogi village on May 27, 2018, because fire tenders could not reach the spot as the village is not connected by road.Agriculturists of these inaccessible areas have to spend hefty amounts to transport their produce to marketing yards. Students of many villages have to travel long distances to reach their institutions. The cost of items of daily needs is much higher in these areas.The DPR of many roads is ready, but due to non-receipt of NOC from the Forest Department, the work of these roads was hanging fire.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/roads-remain-a-distant-dreamin-kullu-villages-239540
16-04-2021||Palampur||Garbage burning at Aima routine affair||Residents of Sugar, Awarana, SSB Chowk, Neugal Park and Differpatt areas of Palampur recently lodged a protest against the burning of garbage in the Aima treatment plant.The NGT has banned the burning of garbage and ordered all states to impose a fine of Rs 25,000 on those who are found violating the order. However, there is no impact of the NGT order on the MC staff in the town.MC employees set garbage on fire daily, resulting in air pollution. Despite repeated requests by residents, no action has been initiated by the municipal authorities to address the problem which is adversely affecting human health.Santosh Kumar, senior citizen residing near ITI College, told this correspondent that garbage dumps in the Aima plant had been emitting smoke, increasing respiratory ailments. He had called up corporation officials time and again, but no steps had been taken to check the menace.A paediatrician said there was also an increase in the cases of respiratory problems among children because of air pollution. No MC official was available for comments. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/garbage-burning-at-aima-routine-affair-239541
16-04-2021||Debris and construction material have piled up at Shivnagar in Totu. This has reduced the width of the road considerably||Remove debris from road||Decision to cancel exams not goodThe decision to not hold exams for Class X may appear fine at the moment but it is not good for the students in the long run. The government missed the chance in February and March, when examinations could have been conducted with appropriate SOPs in place. — Vipin, SanjauliWHAT OUR READERS SAYIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?THE TRIBUNEinvites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/remove-debris-from-road-239542
16-04-2021||On the occasion of Himachal Day||NSUI pays tribute to YS Parmar||'Know Himachal' campaign beginsHimachal Pradesh Student Parliament started a month-long online campaign - 'Know Himachal' - on Thursday. The campaign will educate people on social media about how the state was formed, its food, folk music, local musical instruments, dance, besides religious and tourist places. Those interested can become a part of this campaign by making a video on any of the subjects mentioned above and sending it to Whatsapp number 8580655519.Varsity takes community initiativeThe Jaypee Youth Club of Jaypee University of Information Technology (JUIT), Waknaghat, in collaboration with 'The Omega Leo Club' held 'WE CARE', an event to unite people for community awareness. With a sense of responsibility towards the environment, the two-day event witnessed events like 'Green Hands' and 'Save the Saviour'. The participants planted saplings in and around their homes. Students also made paintings under the theme 'Impact of Covid on environment' under Green Hands, a painting competition. More than 50 students joined virtually. Ishita Kapoor, president of the student's JYC, coordinated the event with her team.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nsui-pays-tribute-to-ys-parmar-239544
16-04-2021||Ambika Sharma||Baddi pharma unit to make Remdesivir||Tribune News ServiceSolan, April 13Baddi-based Dr Reddy’s Laboratories has been granted approval by the Drug Controller today to manufacture Remdesivir, which is an approved drug by the Drug Controller General of India for restricted emergency use in India. It is used for treatment of Covid-19 patients hospitalised with severe symptoms.The Centre recently banned its export following its shortage in hospitals and spike in Covid cases. Navneet Marwaha, Drug Controller, Baddi, said, “The company has been given approval to produce Remdesivir for domestic use and this is the fourth such unit in the state to make this drug for use in India.”Cipla and Hetero Labs in Baddi were the first units that secured a nod to get this drug manufactured in HP. Paonta-based Nitin Lifesciences has been manufacturing it since 2020 for both pharma companies. Apart from this, Jubilant Pharma in Nalagarh was also manufacturing it.Marwaha said Remdesvir made in HP was being supplied pan-India and manufacturers had ramped up their capacities vis-à-vis its growing need in the pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/baddi-pharma-unit-to-make-remdesivir-238888
