17-04-2021||Shimla||Snow cleared for passage of over 500 people stuck on Manali-Leh road||Rescue teams have cleared snow on the Manali-Leh road in Himachal’s Lahaul-Spiti for a safe passage of over 500 people stuck there since April 4, state police said on Saturday.A joint rescue operation by the Border Roads Organisation (BRO), Lahaul-Spiti administration and police started on Friday to ensure a safe passage for 536 passengers on 117 vehicles, they said. The entire operation lasted over 14 hours and ended around midnight. Meanwhile, 41 passengers stranded at Killingsarai and Baralacha due to a snowstorm on Friday night were also brought to Darcha in Lahaul, police said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/snow-cleared-for-passage-of-over-500-people-stuck-on-manali-leh-road-240445
17-04-2021||Ambika Sharma||Cong outwits BJP, captures Solan MC||Tribune News ServiceSolan, April 16Congress candidates Punam Grover and Rajiv Kaura were elected Mayor and Deputy Mayor, respectively, of the Solan Municipal Corporation here today.Grover defeated BJP’s former municipal council president Pawan Gupta. Congress candidates polled nine votes as against eight polled by the BJP nominees Manish Kumar and Shailender Gupta for the mayor and deputy mayor’s posts.In a bid to attain the majority figure of nine, the BJP projected an independent candidate Manish Kumar, who was suspended from the party last year, as its candidate for the mayor’s post. The party, however, failed to muster majority votes. The BJP could win merely seven of the 17 seats while the Congress won nine and one seat was bagged by an independent.The BJP was confident of bagging at least the Mayor’s post through cross-voting. Its plan, however, was foiled as the Congress cleverly chose Punam Grover as Mayor and promised the post to Sardar Singh after half term. Likewise, they chose Rajiv Kaura as Deputy Mayor while having a tactical understanding to give the post to others later.The Congress has emerged stronger with this victory as its senior leaders like Harshwardhan Chauhan, Rajinder Rana and others successfully managed to keep all nine councillors at a secluded place at Shoghi. They arrived just before the poll and gave no opportunity to the BJP to poach their members.HPCC president Kuldeep Rathore, while addressing mediapersons, alleged that the BJP tried to lure their elected councillors by offering them crores but their members did not succumb to their pressure. He said this victory will pave way for their comeback in the next year’s Assembly elections. “The BJP’s loss in the civic body polls is the writing on the wall as they captured urban and civic bodies through manipulation across the state.”BJP’s MC election in-charge and Nahan MLA Rajeev Bindal, two Cabinet ministers and a host of other leaders failed to address the issue of infighting, which cost the party dear.The BJP has received a major setback with this loss and this does not augur well for the party in Solan where it is struggling to have its MLA for the last two terms.BJP banked on cross-votingThe BJP was confident of bagging at least the Mayor’s post through cross-voting. Its plan, however, was foiled as the Congress cleverly chose Punam Grover for the post of Mayor and promised the half term to Sardar Singh. Likewise, it chose Rajiv Kaura as Deputy Mayor while having a tactical understanding to give others a chance to head the post later||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cong-outwits-bjp-captures-solan-mc-240024
17-04-2021||Shimla||Adequate medicines, oxygen beds available in Himachal: Chief Minister||Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today said that there was adequate availability of medicines and oxygen beds in the state. He chaired a high-level meeting here to review the Covid-19 situation and took stock of various arrangements.“There is adequate availability of medicines, oxygen beds, masks and sanitisers in the state,” he said. He directed the Health Department to enhance the capacity of oxygen beds in the hospitals.Thakur said that so far, 13,60,794 persons had been screened for Covid through RT-PCR, rapid antigen tests, True-Nat and CV-Nat and the testing rate in the state was 194,399 persons per 10 lakh.He said that he was touring various districts to take stock of the situation. Besides, he was communicating with the representatives of PRIs, urban local bodies and various organisations to make efforts to bring public awareness regarding prevention of the pandemic at the grass-roots level. He added it was important to increase the participation of the public representatives to break the chain of the virus.Thakur said along with a dedicated helpline for Covid-19 patients in home isolation, the use of e-Sanjeevani and telephone number 104 was being encouraged. He instructed the doctors to contact Covid patients in home isolation for counselling. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/adequate-medicines-oxygen-beds-available-in-himachal-chief-minister-240025
17-04-2021||---||842 Covid cases, 9 deaths in Himachal Pradesh||Shimla, April 16As many as 842 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 74,195. Besides, nine persons died of the virus in the past 24 hours. Three deaths each were reported in Hamirpur and Shimla and one each in Una, Mandi and Sirmaur.The highest number of 212 cases was reported in Kangra, followed by 106 in Solan, 102 in Shimla, 100 in Mandi, 85 in Una, 77 in Lahaul and Spiti, 71 in Sirmaur, 63 in Kullu, 17 in Bilaspur, eight in Chamba and one in Kinnaur. The number of active cases rose to 7,711.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/842-covid-cases-9-deaths-in-himachal-pradesh-240026
17-04-2021||---||Gudiya rape and murder case: Verdict on April 28||Shimla, April 16The Sessions Court will pronounce its judgment in the four-year-old Gudiya rape and murder case on April 28. The court heard the arguments of the defence and the prosecution on the DNA report and other evidence today.The CBI stated that the DNA report was correct. The CBI had arrested Anil Kumar, alias Nilu, a woodcutter, in the case on April 13, 2018. The state forensic laboratory at Junga had also pointed out that only one person was involved in the brutal crime and country liquor found on the spot indicated the involvement of a low profile person.On July 4, 2017, a minor girl reportedly went missing while on her way back from school at Kotkhai in Shimla. On July 6, her body was found in a nearby forest at Haliailla in the Kotkhai area of the district. The postmortem confirmed rape and murder.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/gudiya-rape-and-murder-case-verdict-on-april-28-240027
17-04-2021||---||Kaul Singh hits back, says CM Jai Ram Thakur has become egoistic||Mandi, April 16Agitated by the political attack made by him yesterday, senior Congress leader Kaul Singh Thakur today said that by Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur has become egoistic because of his official power. Kaul Singh said that the Chief Minister should be decent but in the association of IPH Minister Mahender Singh Thakur, he is behaving in an arrogant way.The Chief Minister had targeted the Kaul Singh Thakur by saying that he had amassed huge property disproportionate to his known sources of income, which irked Kaul Singh.Challenges cm to initiate probeAddressing a press conference here today, Kaul Singh said that, “The Chief Minister was compromising on corruption after he took the charge of CM office. Health scam occurred in the state during Covid period but he did nothing to punish the guilty. Masks and sanitisers were sold at high prices and medicines, oximeters and ventilators were purchased on high prices. Despite that the Chief Minister had remained mum.“While targeting me politically at Darang assembly segment in Mandi yesterday, the Chief Minister said that ‘main theth Seraji hun, mujhe mat chhero’ ( I am pure Seraji, do not tease me’). These words of the Chief Minister reflect that he has centered himself only on Seraj. Instead of saying I am a Seraji, the CM should have said I am a Mandyali if he consider himself from Mandi”, said Kaul Singh.Kaul Singh challenged the Chief Minister to initiate inquiry against him over corruption allegations. “If the Chief Minister has sufficient evidence against me that I have disproportionate property, then why he was silent for the last three years. I dare him to initiate an inquiry against me to prove his allegations. The BJP had produced chargesheet against Congress leaders in the state but why the Chief Minister did not act over the chargesheet to take action against Congress leaders to prove the corruption charges leveled by the BJP”, Kaul Singh said.He said that the Jai Ram Thakur-led state government was biased on development issue and was focusing on Seraj and Dharampur assembly segments in Mandi district. Being a Chief Minister from Mandi, he should ensure development of each assembly segment in Mandi equally without any bias.Kaul Singh also targeted the IPH Minister Mahender Singh Thakur and alleged scam in Jal-Jeevan Mission in the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kaul-singh-hits-back-says-cm-jai-ram-thakur-has-become-egoistic-240028
17-04-2021||Subhash Rajta||Spike in hepatitis C cases due to intravenous drug abuse in Shimla||Tribune News ServiceShimla, April 16The Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC) and Hospital has registered a significant increase in the number of hepatitis C cases in the past one year. And the reason behind the majority of the cases is the growing intravenous drug abuse in the state, particularly in Shimla district. “We have seen about 150 cases of hepatitis C at the IGMC in the past one year or so. Except for a few kidney-related cases, the majority of people contracted the disease due to the use of intravenous drugs. They used a common needle to inject drugs and contracted hepatitis C,” said Dr Brij Sharma, Head of Gastroenterology Department.“From 2009 to 2019, I had seen just five to 10 cases of hepatitis C contracted through the use of IV drugs at the IGMC. In little over a year, this number has increased manifold. The sharp rise in hepatitis C cases due to drug abuse is alarming and we need to make our youths aware of its dangers to health,” said Dr Sharma.A majority of the hepatitis C patients were young. “Most of the patients we received were in the age bracket of 20 to 35 years, with a handful of them even younger than 20,” said Dr Sharma. “Most of them were from Shimla district, and only a few from Kinnaur district. The disease could prove dangerous, if left untreated,” he said.Incidentally, Shimla district has been a hotbed of drug abuse for a while now. In the first meeting last month, the Shimla Zila Parishad members had expressed serious concern over the growing prevalence of drug abuse among the youths in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/spike-in-hepatitis-c-cases-due-to-intravenous-drug-abuse-in-shimla-240029
17-04-2021||Our Correspondent||HPTU suspends  UG examinations||Hamirpur, April 16The Himachal Pradesh Technical University (HPTU) today suspended undergraduate examinations that were in process from March 23. Professor SP Bansal, Vice-Chancellor, said here today, the examinations were suspended for undergraduate classes as per the guidelines of the government.He said the postgraduate exams would continue as per the previous schedule. The decision was taken following the spread of Covid-19 pandemic in the state, Bansal said. He said the examinations for the remaining subjects would be conducted as per the further directions of the government. The results for the exams already conducted would be announced as per the schedule, the Vice-chancellor said.Anupam Thakur, registrar, HPTU, and Rajender Guleria, Dean, pharmacy, were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hptu-suspends-ug-examinations-240030
17-04-2021||Dalhousie||Dalhousie Civil Hospital adjudged ‘best’ in Himachal||The government hospital in Dalhousie has once again received the state-level ‘Kayakalp’ award for the year 2020-21. The hospital had also bagged the top honours in 2018 and received an amount of Rs 25 lakh under this programme, which was started in 2016 by the National Health Mission.Chief Medical Officer (CMO) Dr Rajesh Guleri said in the rankings released on the basis various health facilities in health institutions for the year 2020-21, the Dalhousie hospital had been adjudged the “best” with a score of 572 in Himachal Pradesh. The Civil Hospital of Karsog stood second and that of Sunni bagged the third spot.Scored 572 pointsIn the rankings released on the basis of various health facilities in health institutions for 2020-21, the Dalhousie hospital has been adjudged the best with a score of 572 in Himachal Pradesh. The Civil Hospital of Karsog is second and that of Sunni is third. —Dr Rajesh Guleri, CMOHe said this award was given on the basis of availability of different types of facilities in health institutions.“Significantly, Chamba district is also a part of the Central Government’s Aspirational District scheme. It is the only district in the state which is aspirational, and in such a situation, if any health institution in the district stays at the top of the entire state, then the credit goes to doctors and other staff working in that institution,” the CMO said.The Dalhousie hospital is also working as a Covid hospital in Chamba district. Dr Vipin Thakur, incharge of the Civil Hospital, said the hospital had received 2016, 2017 and 2019 commendation awards, whereas in 2018, it got the first position in the entire state.“It is the hard work and participation of all which has brought the Civil Hospital, Dalhousie, to this point. The whole team deserves praise for this and in future too, the health institution will be known for providing good facilities,” Deputy Commissioner DC Rana said. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/dalhousie-civil-hospital-adjudged-best-in-himachal-240031
17-04-2021||Our Correspondent||Link road to Hamirpur villages inaugurated||Hamirpur, April, 16Union Minister of State for Finance and Corporate Affairs Anurag Thakur inaugurated the link road to Amtar and Bela villages constructed at the cost of Rs 1 crore under the Pradhan Mantri Gramin Sadak Yojana in Naduan subdivision today. The road is the only link to the Atal Bihari Vajpayee Cricket Stadium and had been in a bad shape from the past many years.The road will benefit over 2,000 persons in Bela and Amtar villages and parts of Nadaun nagar panchayat too.Thakur said 165 link roads would be constructed by spending over Rs 300 crore in the district and 142 of these had been already completed. He advised members of the gram panchayat to prepare development schemes and make the best use of funds provided by the government. He said the government was providing a huge funding for MGNREGA works, which was increased to Rs 73,000 crore.Thakur appealed to people to abstain from mass gatherings and stay safe. He said the second wave of Covid-19 was more deadly.The minister also announced to provide Rs 2 lakh for starting development works in Bela gram panchayat.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/link-road-to-hamirpur-villages-inaugurated-240032
17-04-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi---||Unregistered rehab centres to be penalised||Tribune News Service  Shimla, April 16 Private de-addiction and rehabilitation centres running clandestinely in the state without proper registration with the Himachal Pradesh State Mental Health Authority (HPSMHA) will be imposed a penalty of up to Rs 5 lakh. “It is mandatory for all mental health establishments, including de-addiction centres and rehabilitation centres, running in the state to get registered under Section 65 of the Mental Health Care Act 2017. Establishments that defy the provisions of the Act will be dealt with as per Section 107 of the Act that has the provision of penalties,” says Dr Sanjay Pathak, Chief Executive Officer, HPSMHA.  The fine would range from Rs 5,000 to Rs 50,000 for the first violation, Rs 50,000 to Rs 2 lakh for the second and Rs 2 lakh to Rs 5 lakh for the third violation. The professional providing services in unregistered centres would also be liable to pay a fine of Rs 25,000, he said.   An FIR would also be registered under Section 304 of the IPC (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) against the operators or the NGO running unregistered establishments in the case of the death of a patient. The orders come after a person reportedly died in an unauthorised de-addiction centre in Gagret subdivision of Una district last month. In August last year, the HPSMHA had ordered the closure of two de-addiction and rehabilitation centres in Kasauli subdivision of Parwanoo in Solan district following the death of two inmates. Inspections were conducted after it came to the notice of the mental health authority that norms and guidelines were not being followed. Another issue is that in several establishments patients are not examined by a medical officer or physiatrists and the centres charge money for the services and facilities not provided to patients. At present, there are 65 de-addiction and rehabilitation centres in the state, most of these located in Una and Solan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/unregistered-rehab-centres-to-be-penalised-240033
17-04-2021||Ravinder Sood||Early forest fires have officials on tenterhooks||Palampur, April 16The early summer and the long spell of dry weather sparked forest fires in the state. Fire incidents have also been reported in the past one week.Most of the forest in and around Palampur is on fire. Earlier such incidents were witnessed around mid-April, in May or June. However, early forest fires have officials worried, as a longer summer is expected this year.A senior forest officer told The Tribune that the only consolation was that the situation was under control and the department had succeeded in controlling fire.He added that most of the fire incidents were caused by humans to facilitate the growth of succulent grass, and leave for domestic cattle. He appealed to people to help the department to save forests from fire.“There has been virtually no rainfall in January and February in lower hills of the state. This dry spell coincided with the shedding of leaves by pine trees, which are highly inflammable and trigger fires with the rise in temperatures and wind. Firefighting has become a major challenge,” he added.Information gathered by The Tribune reveals that in the absence of adequate financial support from the government for taking preventive measures, the number of fire incidents has risen in Palampur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/early-forest-fires-have-officials-on-tenterhooks-240034
17-04-2021||Our Correspondent||Baijnath temple shut after Covid threat||Palampur, April 16The Archeological Survey of India today shut the famous Shiva Temple at Baijnath, 20 km from here, in view of rising number of cases of Covid-19 in the state.A notification issued by the Director General of ASI said states: “All heritage assets, monuments, including temples under the control of ASI all over India including Baijnath temple, will remain closed till further order following directions issued by the government keeping in view the rising Covid 19 cases. No pilgrims or visitors will be allowed to enter in the temple or its premises. Only the staff will be allowed into temples from today morning”.Talking to mediapersons at Baijnath, the trustees of the temple said they were expecting a large number of devotees due to Navratris going on this week. They said the web and YouTube channels would be operational to provide ‘darshan’ to devotees. The devotees coming for the Shiva temple are being stopped at the entry points and sent back after counseling on corona virus.The temple built in 1204 AD by the two native merchants by the name of Ahuka and Manyuka is dedicated to Lord Shiva. A revered shrine of Himachal Pradesh, it is located at a distance of 16 km from Palampur in the Beas valley. The Lingam (known as Vaidyanath) here is one of the 12 Jyotirlingas in India. The architecture of the temple is of the ‘Nagara’ style, which has been imbibed from Orissa’s traditional style. The water of this temple is believed to contain medicinal properties, which can cure several diseases. Thus the shrine is visited by thousands of pilgrims every year.The major festival here is Shivratri, when thousands of devotees visit the temple to seek the blessings from Lord Shiva. The temple is considered a part of India’s rich heritage.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/baijnath-temple-shut-after-covid-threat-240035
17-04-2021||Lalit Mohan||Tenders for flood control works on hold||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, April 16The Irrigation and Public Health (IPH) Department has put on hold tenders of about Rs 600 crore for wire created embankments to be put in place along the rivers of the state as a flood control measure. It has also sought a report on a controversial condition in the tenders that is allegedly aimed at eliminating competition and favouring a few contractors, sources said.Dharminder Gill, Engineer-in-Chief, Projects, admitted that the government had ordered all tenders to be put on hold. He said that Secretary, IPH, Vikas Labroo had sought a report on the matter.Action has been taken after the matter was reported in these columns. The department had recently floated tenders of about Rs 600 crore for wire created embankments for flood control along the rivers in the state. It put a condition that only those contractors, who had handled projects of 5 mm wire created embankments, would be eligible to bid for the tenders. This made contractors, who are working on wire created embankments in various parts of the state and in Punjab, ineligible to bid. The affected contractors alleged that generally the department floated tenders for creating embankments with 4 mm wire or even a more thick wire. The thickness of wire as the eligibility criterion for bidding for wire embankment projects was quite unusual, they said.The sources said that most of the contractors, who had handled the work of 5 mm wire embankments, had worked on flood control works along the Swan river of Una district. Asked about the controversy, IPH Minister Mahinder Singh said, “Ask my Engineer-in-Chief about the matter”.Report sought on controversial conditionThe department authorities have sought a report on a controversial condition in the tenders that is allegedly aimed at eliminating competition and favouring a few contractors, sources said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/tenders-for-flood-control-works-on-hold-240036
17-04-2021||Our Correspondent||Covid protocol in place for tourist season in Himachal, says minister||Kullu, April 16Education Minister Govind Singh Thakur said safety of every citizen of the state was the priority of the government, especially during the Covid-19 crisis. He convened a meeting today with administrative officials and stakeholders related to tourism for smooth functioning of the business and related activities in Manali. Office-bearers and members of the taxi union, hotel association, rafting association, paragliding association and various other beneficiaries of the tourism industry addressed their issues and concerns before the minister.The minister said, “The tourist season is about to start and we have to be fully prepared to welcome the guests visiting the district.” He said the Manali Hoteliers’ Association had already taken all measures to prevent the spread of Covid-19. He said he did not want to let the tourism of the district be affected like the last year and for that it was necessary that all businessmen followed the protocol. Thakur said, “The state is leading a strong fight against the pandemic and we sincerely hope that people will cooperate.” He directed the health department officials to hold meetings with associations at different places to make them aware of the guidelines.The minister said parking spots should be identified at some places along the road for tourist vehicles from Solang Nala to Atal Tunnel’s south portal. He said local people should be allowed to do certain tourism-related activities in a planned manner so that their business was not affected.Thakur said during summer additional police force should be deployed between Manali to Solang Nala to manage the vehicular movement.He also directed to set up mobile toilets at some places towards Solang Nala and Atal Tunnel.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-protocol-in-place-for-tourist-season-in-himachal-says-minister-240037
17-04-2021||---||Intermittent rain at Shimla, Dalhousie||Shimla, April 16Intermittent rain lashed a few parts of the state today. Shimla and Dalhousie received 3 mm to 5 mm of rainfall, besides Bhuntar, Mandi and Sundernagar. The local Met office has issued a yellow warning of a thunderstorm and lightning for low and middle hills in the days to come.A cloudy sky and drizzle made the queen of hills more beautiful and this is the reason that about 60 per cent of the total tourists visiting Shimla come in March to July to get respite from the heat wave in the plains. However, this year, the scenario is different, as a large number of bookings have been cancelled due to advisories issued by the state government in the wake of the spurt in Covid cases.The MeT office has warned of a thunderstorm, and lightning accompanied by gusty winds in isolated areas in Bilaspur, Shimla and Solan on April 17 and in Una, Chamba and Mandi on April 20. It has also predicted wet weather in the state till April 22, barring on April 18, as a fresh western disturbance is likely to affect the western Himalayan region from April 19.The maximum temperatures rose by 1°C to 2°C and Una was the hottest with a high of 37.3°C while Keylong was the coldest at night with a low of 1.1°C.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/intermittent-rain-at-shimla-dalhousie-240038
17-04-2021||Our Correspondent||Scrap dealer from Kangra district held for buying looted  machinery||Nurpur, April 16A special investigation team (SIT) of the Nurpur police today arrested Madan Lal, a scrap dealer of Nagrota Bagwan in Kangra district, for purchasing the looted machinery of the pump houses of water supply schemes in Hamirpur and Kangra districts from a gang of robbers.Three members of the gang were arrested three days ago. Today, Ravi Kumar of Hamirpur district and Tej Singh and Suresh Kumar of Kangra district were produced in a court here that remanded them in police custody till April 20.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/scrap-dealer-from-kangra-district-held-for-buying-looted-machinery-240039
17-04-2021||---||Manali-Leh highway opened for traffic||Mandi, April 16As many as 37 persons, including women and children, were rescued by the police and BRO personnel from Baralacha Pass on the Manali-Leh highway last night. These people were traveling from Leh side towards Lahaul valley, when sudden snowfall blocked the highway for traffic movement. As a result, they remained stuck near Baralacha pass for hours last night.Police and BRO team led the rescue operation which continued till late night and all the stranded people were rescued. The BRO, in the process, restored the Manali-Leh highway for traffic movement via Baralacha Pass and around 119 light vehicles were allowed to move ahead from Darcha in tribal district Lahaul Spiti to towards Leh today.Some vehicles had been stuck at Darcha for the last 11-12 days because of the Manali-Leh NH was blocked following heavy snowfall at Baralacha Pass on April 4.Deputy Commissioner Lahaul Spiti Pankaj Rai told The Tribune, “After restoration of the highway, 119 light vehicles were allowed to move towards Leh from Darcha today, while around 36 vehicles crossed Sarchu towards Leh from Lahaul side.” “A team of BRO, police, ITBP and District Disaster Management has been deputed in the area to monitor the traffic and provide assistance to the people in distress. Despite freezing temperature in the region, this team is working relentlessly to help the stranded people and regulate the traffic”, said the DC.He stated that heavy vehicles are still struck at Darcha. These will be allowed to move towards Leh from Darcha after all light vehicles move to Leh from Lahaul side.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/manali-leh-highway-opened-for-traffic-240040
17-04-2021||Kullu||Cases rising, no Spring Fest in Kullu this year||The three-day-long state level Spring Festival, locally known as Pipal Jatra, will not be held this year. The fair is held normally from April 28 to 30 each year and traders from within and outside the state set up temporary stalls in Dhalpur ground as is done during the world famous Kullu Dasehra festival.Due to the recent spike in the number of corona cases, the government has put restrictions on fairs, festivals and gatherings due to which the event will not be organized for the second consecutive year. Even last year the festival was not held due to Covid-induced lockdown.Kullu Municipal Committee President Gopal Krishan Mahant said following recent guidelines by the government it will not be possible to conduct the Spring Festival. He said the meeting for reviewing preparations for the festival is generally held in the first week of April but no such exercise has been carried out this year.He said no preparations had been made for the festival and it was unlikely that it would be organized even on a small scale. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cases-rising-no-spring-fest-in-kullu-this-year-240041
17-04-2021||The School Parents Association Friday submitted a memorandum to the ADC||Memo against private schools submitted to Shimla ADC||Online Himachal Day celebrationsSinging, dancing, cooking, photography and poetry competitions were held during virtual Himachal Day celebrations at Shoolini University. Chancellor of the university PK Khosla talked about the significance of the day. Vivek Atray, motivational speaker, was the chief guest. Vikrant, a Ph D student, bagged the first position in the singing competition, while Ankita Chhetri of B.Sc (Biotech), stood second. Debolina Biswas, a MA (Yoga) student, and Priyanjali Rajta, a B.Sc (Micro) student, were given consolation prizes whereas MBA student Florance Alfred received a special award for music. Dr Nitika Thakur, a faculty of Biotechnology, bagged the first prize in the dance competition.Date sheet for uG classes withdrawnHimachal Pradesh University has withdrawn the date sheet for undergraduate classes, as per the instructions of the state government in view of the deteriorating Covid-19 situation. The new date sheet of all undergraduate classes shall be issued in due course and made available on the university website. The date sheet of BA, B.Sc, B.Com (Pass and Honours), Shastri 1st, 2nd and 3rd years, B.Vocational 1st, 3rd and 5th semesters, BHM 1st, 3rd, 5th semesters, and BDS 1st, 2nd, 3rd years and the final year supplementary examination was released.Governor releases bookGovernor Bandaru Dattatreya on Friday released a book Five sons of Himachal Pradesh written by litterateur, social worker and retired officer of the HP Information and Public Relations Department Shiv Singh Chauhan. The book focuses on the contributions of former Chief Ministers towards the development of the state. The Governor appreciated Chauhan's efforts and said that everyone should remember the efforts and visions of our leaders in taking the state forward on the path of development and prosperity. He said the book is important for future generations to understand the history of the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/memo-against-private-schools-submitted-to-shimla-adc-240042
17-04-2021||A truck is rotting at Fagu||Abandoned Truck an eyesore||Leaking sewage pipeAleaking sewage pipe outside the KNH Hospital in Shimla is causing a lot of inconvenience to patients and the hospital staff. Sewage water flows onto the road and the nauseating smell makes it difficult for people to even pass by. The authorities concerned should mend the pipe as early as possible. — Naresh Thakur, ShimlaWHAT OUR READERS SAYIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?THE TRIBUNEinvites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/abandoned-truck-an-eyesore-240044
17-04-2021||Ambika Sharma||Water level depleting in 50 per cent Solan schemes||Tribune News ServiceSolan, April 16Fifty per cent of the 318 potable water schemes in Solan division are facing a decline in water level owing to deficit rains, ranging from 40 to 60 per cent.Only in seven schemes, the water availability is 75 per cent and above. The situation is likely to worsen in the coming days if it does not rain. Though the Met Department has predicted rain in the coming days, it is yet to be seen if it will help replenish the drying water sources.“Water is supplied on alternate days to Solan town and its surrounding area. In Solan, the problem of faulty distribution owing to leakages is causing wastage. As against the requirement of 60,000 lakh litres, 80,000 lakh litres is being provided per day,” said Sumit Sood, Executive Engineer, Jal Shakti Vibhag, Solan.Plan to dig borewellsIn order to meet the rising paucity of water, 20 places have been identified in the division where borewells will be dug. We are waiting for the tendering process to be finished. Once done, borewells will help meet the water shortage in rural areas. Local resources are facing a sizeable decline in the level of water discharge in these areas. —Sumit Sood, executive engineer, Jal Shakti Vibhag, SolanAreas surrounding Solan like Kumarhatti and Dharampur are being provided five to seven lakh litres per day from Solan as water sources in these areas have relatively dried up.Given the grim scenario, water is being supplied after two days now in the villages. “In order to meet the rising paucity of water, 20 places have been identified in the division where borewells would be dug to meet the shortage. We are waiting for the tendering process to be finished. Once done, borewells will help meet the water shortage in the rural areas. Local sources are facing a sizeable decline in the level of water discharge in these areas,” said Sood.The staff is also banking on deploying water tankers if there is no rain in the coming days. With more and more people opting for off-season vegetable cultivation and commercial ventures being on the rise, the demand of water is far more than the supply.This has put an immense pressure on the scarce water sources.No new potable water scheme has been commissioned in the villages lying in the Kasauli Development Area in decades. The population, however, has registered a steep increase, owing to commercialisation of the area.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/water-level-depleting-in-50-per-cent-solan-schemes-240045
17-04-2021||Lalit Mohan||Himachal Pradesh unit raided as Madhya Pradesh doctor sells fake Remdesivir||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, April 16Himachal drug control authorities today conducted raids at a pharma unit in Kangra district after a doctor was arrested yesterday for selling spurious Remdesivir injections in Indore, MP.Sources said the MP drug control authorities conveyed to their Himachal counterparts that the arrested doctor had confessed that he sourced the spurious injections from a pharma unit in the Damtal area of Kangra district.The production in the unit has been stopped and the authorities have seized its sale records.State drug controller Navneet Marwah said the Madhya Pradesh authorities had informed them that the spurious Remdesivir injection carried the label of the Tulip Formulations unit in Damtal.“On the basis of the preliminary inquiry, it cannot be said with certainty that the accused doctor had sourced the drug from the Kangra unit,” the drug controller said, adding that pharma units of the same company are also located in Jammu and the Chintapur area of MP. Records have been sought from the Madhya Pradesh drug control authorities for further inquiry.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-pradesh-unit-raided-as-madhya-pradesh-doctor-sells-fake-remdesivir-240054
