19-04-2021||Mandi||New anti-bacterial material to help reuse of face masks, PPE||Researchers at the Indian Institute of Technology Mandi have developed a novel virus-filtering, self-cleaning and antibacterial material that can be used to make and reuse face masks and other PPE equipment.The new masks can kill microbes, and are solar light-cleanable. It can also filter more than 96 per cent of particles that are in the size range of the Covid Virus (120 nanometres), without compromising on the breathability of the fabric, and could thus be a powerful tool to prevent the spread of coronavirus and other microbial infections, according to the study, published in the journal Applied Materials and Interfaces.The researchers have developed prototypes of a 4-layered face mask using the molybdenum sulphide (MoS2) modified fabric. The team used a material that is hundred thousand times smaller than the width of the human hair to confer antimicrobial properties to polycotton fabric.They incorporated nanometre sized sheets of MoS2 at the sharp edges and corners, which act as tiny knives that pierce bacterial and viral membranes, thus killing them.“Keeping the urgency of the pandemic situation and cost-effectiveness in mind, we have developed a strategy to repurpose existing PPEs, especially face masks, by providing an antimicrobial coating to these protective clothing/textiles,” said lead researcher Amit Jaiswal, Assistant Professor, at the varsity’s School of Basic Sciences.“The ananoknife’-modified fabrics demonstrated excellent antibacterial activity even after 60 cycles of washing,” Jaiswal said.It also makes this an excellent way to reuse masks and reduce biological waste generation. The reusability of the fabric will also enable it to be integrated with homemade masks, Jaiswal said.In addition, when exposed to light MoS2exhibits photothermal properties, that is, it absorbs solar light and converts it into heat, which kills the microbes.“Within 5 minutes of solar irradiation, all the MoS2-modified fabrics showed 100 per cent killing of both Escherichia coli and Staphylococcus aureus,” said the researchers in the study. Thus, merely hanging out the masks in bright sunlight can clean the mask and make it ready to wear again.The proposed materials can also be used to fabricate screens/sheets for creation of makeshift isolation wards, containment cells and quarantines for holding individuals who come in contact with pathogens. IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/new-anti-bacterial-material-to-help-reuse-of-face-masks-ppe-241318
19-04-2021||Shimla||COVID-19: All educational institutions in Himachal to remain closed till May 1||With a steep surge in Covid cases, Himachal government has decided to keep all educational institutions, including schools, colleges and universities, of the state closed till May 1, 2021.The decision was taken at a high-level meeting chaired by Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur with senior officers to review the COVID-19 situation in the state, here today.During this period, the faculty of schools, colleges and universities would also not come for duty.The chief minister said he recently visited three districts of Una, Hamirpur and Bilaspur of the state and took stock of the COVID-19 situation.The state Cabinet meeting would be held on April 22 to take few more decisions to contain the spread of COVID-19 virus.He directed the officers to enhance the bed capacity in the hospitals.He said that steps would be taken to ensure proper availability of oxygen and medical staff in the state.He said that bed capacity would be enhanced in Nerchowk Medical College, IGMC Shimla, Zonal Hospital Dharamshala, Tanda Medical College, Sunder Nagar Hospital and various other hospitals.He said that health workers would be posted in appropriate number for care of COVID-19 patients.He said that special emphasis was being laid on providing better healthcare and other facilities to the patients under home isolation.The vaccination drive has been given added pace in the state and so far, 11.46 lakh people have been inoculated the first dose.The state was at the seventh position in the vaccination drive in the country on the basis of population density rate.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-19-all-educational-institutions-in-himachal-to-remain-closed-till-may-1-241308
19-04-2021||Solan||Himachal drug authorities constitute panel to enquire into Remdesivir case||In a bid to enquire into the illegal manufacture of 3,000 vials of Remdesivir seized by the Chandigarh police on Saturday from Baddi-based Health Biotech Limited pharmaceutical unit, the State Drug Controller on Monday constituted a five-member panel headed by deputy drug controller(DDC).State Drugs Controller, Navneet Marwaha, said a committee comprising the DDC, assistant drugs controller and two drug inspectors will probe the issue and submit a report within seven days.They will inspect all records pertaining to the manufacture and export of the vaccine in the last ten months. "Though the records are examined routinely since violations like diversion of the vaccines meant for exports have been detected by the Chandigarh police, a thorough probe would bring out the extent of irregularities," informed Marwaha.Notably, the unit director Gaurav Chawla is among six people arrested by the Chandigarh police on Saturday. Printed labels had been found pasted on the 3,000 vials by the unit staff. The government of India had banned the export of Redmesivir on April 11 given its shortage in the domestic markets. It is a key anti-viral vaccine for severely ill hospitalised Covid patients and was much in demand due to a surge in Covid cases.Apart from this, assistant drug controllers of respective areas of Sirmaur and Baddi have also been directed to verify records of 5 other pharma units, including 2 at Baddi and 3 in Sirmaur district, who manufacture Remdesivir for exports.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-drug-authorities-constitute-panel-to-enquire-into-remdesivir-case-241249
19-04-2021||Hamirpur||No need for lockdown in Himachal Pradesh: Jai Ram Thakur||There is no need of imposing a lockdown in Himachal Pradesh as the state government is doing its best to deal with the Covid situation, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur said on Monday.   He said the government is working on a mechanism under which the dreaded virus would be contained, and the economy of the state strengthened.People's cooperation is the need of the hour to combat coronavirus, he said, noting that people's cooperation was seen missing this time and they should come forward to tackle the situation by observing all Covid-related norms.He said vaccination, along with wearing face masks, social distancing and washing hands repeatedly, is the main weapon to deal with the virus.Replying to a question, he said the BJP is united and would win the Mandi Lok Sabha and Fatehpur Assembly bypoll with ease as the people are happy with the performance of the BJP-led governments both at the Centre and in the state.On the issue of helping families who have lost family members to Covid, he said since their number was high, a final decision to this effect would be taken after thorough discussions.Thakur said the government is keeping a watch on the drought situation and would ensure that there is no water crisis in any part of the state and adequate supply of water would be made available to the people.Replying to a question about his visit to Hamirpur to meet former chief minister PK Dhumal, he said it was a courtesy call.Dhumal is a senior leader and his suggestions are vital for running the government, he added.To a question, he said media personnel would also be vaccinated on a priority basis.The Covid death toll in Himachal rose to 1,177 on Sunday with 10 more fatalities, while 788 fresh cases pushed the infection tally to 76,375. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/no-need-for-lockdown-in-himachal-pradesh-jai-ram-thakur-241232
19-04-2021||Palampur||Himachal hoteliers: Waive power, water bills during lockdown||The state hotels and banquets hall associations today urged CM Jai Ram Thakur to waive power and water bills during the period they were closed due to the Covid lockdown.  The association that met here today said they had extended full cooperation to the state in combating the pandemic in 2020 and would continue to do so  now.  Vinay Sharma, association president, raised the problems being faced by owners of such facilities and the losses suffered by them due to the lockdown. Banquet halls, hotels and small restaurants were closed after the nationwide lockdown because of which the economy was severely hit. He said the government should charge domestic rate of power from small units that had been hit badly.  “We have suffered losses. Our facilities were shut during the lockdown and many are still not in a position to resume operations. There is a lot of uncertainty today. We request the CM to waive power and water bills incurred during the period they were shut,” he added. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-hoteliers-waive-power-water-bills-during-lockdown-241029
19-04-2021||Our Corresppondent---||3 youths die as landslide hits car in Chamba||Chamba, April 18  Three youths were killed when the car they were travelling in was hit bya sudden landslide from the hillside after heavy downpour on the Chamba-Uteep-Panela road hereon Saturday night, the police said on Sunday. On receiving information, the district administration swung into action and carried out the rescue operation with the help of locals. Chamba Subdivisional Magistrate Shivam Pratap Singh said the deceased had been identified as 27-year-old Naveen and 27-year-old Akshay, both residents of Kumaharka village, and 30-year-old Kushal, a native  of Bharaini village of the district.  An immediate relief of Rs 10,000 each had been provided to the next of kin of the deceased, the Subdivisional Magistrate added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/3-youths-die-as-landslide-hits-car-in-chamba-241031
19-04-2021||Rajiv Mahajan||Finally, HRTC leases out shops at Nurpur bus stand||Nurpur, April 18The Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) finally leased out its commercial property at the bus stand here on Saturday. The Tribune had carried a story in these columns four months back to highlight the issue of 23 shops, including three stalls and two canteen kitchens, lying idle in the double-storey shopping complex at the bus stand.The HRTC had spent Rs 1.40 crore on the bus stand-cum-shopping complex at Chogan in Nurpur town. It was inaugurated on September 7, 2017, a few months before the last Assembly elections.Will generate Rs13 L per yearAs many as 23 shops, including three stalls and two canteen kitchens, had been lying idleNow, 10 shops, two stalls and one canteen kitchen have been leased out for 11 months, which would fetch around Rs13 lakh per year to the HRTCThe HRTC Divisional Manager, Dharamsala, told The Tribune that 10 shops, two stalls and one canteen kitchen had successfully been leased out after opening sealed tenders and auction, for a period of 11 months, which would fetch around Rs 13 lakh per year to the HRTC exchequer. He revealed that the remaining nine shops and one kitchen canteen would be leased out in the second phase of auction to be conducted after the Covid situation gets better.Notably, the Regional Officer and Nodal Officer of the HRTC, Pathankot, had invited tender-cum-open auction bids in November 2018 to lease all 23 shops for 30 years. The HRTC had fixed Rs 1,500 as monthly rent but invited an open tender for the maximum one-time collection of money by leasing the commercial property for 30 years. However, it kept the interested lessees away from this auction and only a single shop and one stall could be leased out at that time. But this time, the HRTC changed its pattern of leasing out its property. Despite leasing it for 30 years, it has invited tenders for the period of 11 months, which attracted more lessees.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/finally-hrtc-leases-out-shops-at-nurpur-bus-stand-241032
19-04-2021||Dharamsala||FCI to set up centres in Mand, Nalagarh||The Food Corporation of India (FCI) will set up a new procurement centre in the Mand area of Kangra district to facilitate state farmers who are facing problems after the Punjab Government barred them from selling their wheat in its mandis this year. Another new procurement centre will be set up at Nalagarh in Solan. General Manager, FCI, Rajesh Gulia said due to the changed scenario this year, the FCI had decided to set up procurement centres/mandis at Mand and Nalagarh. “Mandis for wheat procurement are opened in the state every year by the FCI, keeping in view the recommendations of the state Food Department.” This year, wheat procurement centres across Himachal have been opened, and one each in Kangar and Takrala  areas of Una are operational.  In Kangra, mandi was operational in Fatehpur but to date, no wheat had been procured there, said Gulia. He said the FCI in Himachal was procuring wheat directly from farmers at the MSP of Rs 1,975 per quintal and the payment was being made electronically and directly intothe bank accounts of farmers within 48 hours of purchase,  as per the specifications ofthe Centre. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/fci-to-set-up-centres-in-mand-nalagarh-241033
19-04-2021||LAMPUR||Parmar dismisses charge, says will make Pal apologise||Vipin Singh Parmar, Speaker of state assembly and an MLA from Sulaha constituency, today denied the allegations of Congress leader Jagjivan Pal who had held the Speaker guilty of violating the Covid protocol in his constituency by organising large gatherings, public meeting and religious functions. Addressing news conference here, Parmar said the allegation leveled against him by the Congress leaders were not based on facts and politically motivated with an intention to tarnish his image. Parmar said he had always followed the Covid guidelines issued by the state government or the Government of India while holding functions and public meeting in his area. He said there were certain important function in his area like celebration of Ambedkar Jayanti which were important, where he properly followed the proper guidelines. He said the BJP would soon organize a dharna against the Congress leader and force him to apologize for launching a sinister campaign against him.  Earlier in a press conference Congress leader Jagjivan Pal had threatened to stop all high profile programmes of the Speaker in Sulaha area being organized against the Covid protocol guidelines which were spreading Covid 19 infection putting lives of people at risk. He alleged that the Speaker had organized a community lunch in the areas where hundreds of people gathered. Pal had warned the Speaker to stop holding big gathering and respect the directions pertaining to Covid protocol. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/parmar-dismisses-charge-says-will-make-pal-apologise-241040
19-04-2021||Our Correspondent||Notice to Kullu school over sharing profit from sale of books||Kullu, April 18The Directorate of Higher Education, Kullu, has issued a show-cause notice to a private school here after it was established in an inquiry that a book vendor had deposited 10 per cent of the amount of sales of books in the school’s account.Surjeet Singh, Deputy Director, Higher Education, Kullu, said an inquiry was initiated after orders from the Deputy Commissioner. He said as per fact finding report submitted by the inquiry officer and statement given by the school management, it was established that the book vendor had deposited 10 per cent amount of sale of books into the school’s account.The Deputy Director said this was a blatant violation of rules as it encouraged corruption. He said a show-cause notice had been issued to the school.He said the report had been submitted to the DC and further action would be taken as per the directions. He said an inquiry into another branch of this school in Manali was also under way. He added that the inquiry of other schools could also be done on complaint and as per the directions of the DC.The Kullu Book Seller’s Association had submitted a complaint to the Chief Minister, Secretary, Education, DC and other officials that many private schools in Kullu were having nexus with a book vendor and books of their schools were available with this vendor only. They said other vendors were not even provided book lists by some schools. They added that private publishers provided these books only to a specific vendor and other vendors were not able to procure these. They alleged that this particular vendor was evading government taxes. They demanded that accounts of this particular vendor should be scrutinised as he had nexus with many other private schools. They said NCERT and HP board books should be mandated in private schools so that parents could buy them from any vendor.Parents of students of many private schools alleged that books advised by the schools were available with only one vendor, but the authorities concerned take action only on complaint. They said strict regulations should be made for private schools and their enforcement should be ensured to prevent fleecing of parents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/notice-to-kullu-school-over-sharing-profit-from-sale-of-books-241037
19-04-2021||Our Correspondent||GST Act violation: Excise officials recover Rs37.9L||Hamirpur, April 18The Excise and Taxation Department recovered a penalty of Rs 37.95 lakh for the violation of Goods and Service Tax Act at Ghumarwin in Bilaspur on Saturday.A team of the department detained a truck bearing a UP registration number, carrying 390 gunny bags of “beedis” worth Rs 66,96,428. The truck driver failed to produce the e-way bill of the stock. He produced a bill of Rs 4,20,864 of the stock, which was actually found to be worth Rs 66,96,428.Manoj Dogra, Deputy Commissioner, State Excise and Taxation, Bilaspur, said the department had recovered a fine of Rs 37.95 lakh.He said the recovered amount was deposited in the state exchequer. He said the stock was shipped from Jalpaigudi in West Bangal to Mandi in the state. Since the supplier of the stock was not registered in the state, a temporary registration was done to recover the amount, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/gst-act-violation-excise-officials-recover-rs37-9l-241047
19-04-2021||---||Critical remarks by staff to invite action, warns Himachal Government||Shimla, April 18The Himachal Government has taken serious exception of critical and contradictory statement being issued by teachers union and employees regarding decisions of the state government and warned that such activities in print media and social media was violation of conduct rules.In a notification issued, the education department has directed the deputy directors education and principals to take notice of such posts and news in media and initiate disciplinary action against the employees concerned as per the conduct rules besides issuing necessary instructions.Withdraw orderThis is an attempt to curb employees' agitations. Employees will be forced to take to streets if this notification is not withdrawn with immediate effect. — Vijender Mehra, state president, CITUA large number of employees, especially in the education department, have taken to the social media to express their displeasure over the decisions of the union and state government.However, the CITU has termed the decision as violation of the constitution and fundamental rights. CITU state president Vijender Mehra said this was an attempt to curb the employees’ agitations and gave a call to all the employees and trade unions to oppose the decision. He warned that people would be forced to take to streets if this notification is not withdrawn with immediate effect.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/critical-remarks-by-staff-to-invite-action-warns-himachal-government-241048
19-04-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi ---||Himachal Pradesh Education Department seeks suggestions from teachers, parents||Tribune News Service Shimla, April 18  Five days after the state government postponed the Himachal Pradesh Board exams for Classes X and XII and undergraduate university examinations in the wake of rising Covid-19 cases, the Education Department today sought suggestions regarding the opening of schools for students and conducting board exams in the state.  In a letter to all deputy directors and principal/headmasters, Director, Higher Education, Amarjeet Sharma said the decision to close schools for students and postpone examinations had been taken in the larger interest of the stakeholders of the department and therefore, it was important to consider their viewpoint and suggestions. Sharma directed the Deputy Directors and principal/headmasters to seek suggestions from school management committees (SMC), teachers, students, parents, employees and their respective associations and submit the same within a week. Suggestions have also been sought on taking online/offline classes of X and XII students who are taking their board examinations, starting of ‘Har Ghar Pathshala’ programme and creation of subject-wise e-content, attendance of teaching and non-teaching staff in the school if the students are not called to attend classes in the school. Suggestions have also been sought on the promotion of students of Class X on the basis of the first and second term examination and pre-board exams.  He said a meeting with the registered associations of the lecturers/teachers and other stakeholders could held when the situation improves. However, he said, the written suggestions would be of great help to the authorities in taking necessary decisions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-pradesh-education-department-seeks-suggestions-from-teachers-parents-241052
19-04-2021||Opportunism is not new in politics. It||No permanent friends or foes||Political bonhomieWhen it comes to speaking up against each other, the traditional politicians in the state observe bonhomie. When it comes to exposing wrongdoings or corruption the traditional politicians have a set of choices on which issues to speak and on which to keep quiet. When certain wrongdoings were brought up in Irrigation and Public Health (IPH) department, many opposition leaders chose not to come out openly about it owing to their good relations with ruling party politicians. People are missing the politicians who would fearlessly take up issues of corruption, exposing each other.Flip flop on Covid restrictionsThe knee jerk reaction of the Himachal government to impose restrictions and then withdraw the decision has not gone well with the people in general who have started questioning the wisdom of the government to take decisions without due consideration. Obviously, the stakeholders are not taken into confidence and the decisions are reversed after adverse reaction. It is high time the government learns from its mistakes and starts acting responsibly, said a senior politician.(Contributed by Ambika Sharma, Lalit Mohan and Bhanu Lohumi)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/no-permanent-friends-or-foes-241058
19-04-2021||Tourists coming to Kasauli do not bother to wear masks. At a time when the pandemic is peaking||Tourists roaming without masks risky||Crop insurance Scheme needs amendmentThe existing crop insurance scheme has failed to benefit farmers in Kangra district as its stringent conditions have become the main bottlenecks for rendering succour to the beneficiaries. Most of the farmers in the state are not educated enough to take benefits of this government-sponsored scheme. The government should bring requisite amendments to the present crop insurance pattern. The natural calamities are also proving disastrous to the agriculture sector and the present relief manual to accord compensation to the farmers was merely eyewash. The government should also amend this manual keeping in view the larger interest of the farming community in the state. Suresh Pathania, KangraIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/tourists-roaming-without-masks-risky-241059
19-04-2021||On the recommendation of the Departmental Promotion Committee||Graduate teachers promoted||Contact programme cancelledA special personal contact programme of the second-year students of BEd scheduled to be held from April 24 to 29 at the Regional Centre, Dharamsala, ICDEOL, MLSM, Sundernagar, have been postponed due to the prevailing Covid situation.SFI members protestOn the call given by its All-India Committee, the Students' Federation of India (SFI) held a protest outside the Deputy Commissioner's office against the alleged violence of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS). The SFI alleged that the RSS had been dividing people on the lines of caste, culture and religion since its inception. The protesters alleged that the RSS had been using people's emotions and faith to grab political power. The SFI also blamed the RSS for the murder of a 15-year-old in Kerala and demanded judicial inquiry.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/graduate-teachers-promoted-241062
19-04-2021||Chandigarh||Remdesivir vials seized in Baddi||Three thousand Remdesivir injections were seized and six persons arrested for allegedly trying to sell the medicine used for Covid-19 treatment without any licence or permit, the Chandigarh Police said. The accused belonged to Kerala, Delhi and Madhya Pradesh, they said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/remdesivir-vials-seized-in-baddi-240985
19-04-2021||---||Pipe bursts at Mandi project, generation hit||Mandi, April 18The power generation at the 110-MW Shanan hydro project in Jogindernagar has come to a standstill as a water pipe burst at the British era plant late last night.Though no loss of life was reported, the bursting of the pipe adjoining the penstock led to waterlogging inside the powerhouse, said sources. The penstock or sluice is a heavy steel pipe that carries water from reservoir to powerhouse for power generation. British era plantResident Engineer Daljeet Singh told The Tribune that water leakage from the pipe forced them to stop power generation. He said the fault was likely to be rectified in a day or two.Jogindernagar Sub-Divisional Magistrate Amit Mehra said the administration was in touch with the plant authorities for early restoration of power generation.Situated in Himachal Pradesh’s Mandi district, Shanan plant is one of the oldest hydro projects in north India. The project was commissioned in 1932 and is currently under the control of Punjab State Power Corporation Limited. The entire revenue goes to the Punjab Government.The project is to be handed over to the Himachal Pradesh Government in 2024 after the completion of a 99-year lease.Before Partition, the project was fulfilling the power needs of entire undivided Punjab as well as Delhi. The project sources its water from Uhl river, which is tapped into a reservoir using a barrage at Barot. It is then diverted to the powerhouse using a tunnel and penstocks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/pipe-bursts-at-mandi-project-generation-hit-241001
19-04-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Chanshal to be developed as tourist spot||Tribune News ServiceShimla, April 18Chanshal is all set to emerge as a 365 days tourist destination with paragliding in summers and skiing in winters as a team of the Atal Bihari Vajpayee Institute of Mountaineering and Allied Sports (ABVIMAS) has conducted two trials and found the project feasible.Chanshal is located at a height of 4,250 m in Rohru and is also the highest peak in Shimla district. The wind pressure was more during the second trial and now third trial for paragliding would be held on April 25 to measure the wind speed at different times to see the suitability and access the safe hours for paragliding, said Aditya Negi, Deputy Commissioner, Shimla.Plan to hold festival in JuneWe are also planning to hold Chanshal festival in June to promote the area, provided the Covid situation is under control. A musical night will be organised, besides showcasing local cuisine and products during the festival. — Aditya Negi, Shimla Deputy CommissionerThe flight time would be around 10 to 15 minutes and modalities like take off and landing points were being worked out besides identifying local youth who could be trained in paragliding, he said. “We are also planning to hold Chanshal festival in June to promote the area, provided Covid situation is under control. A musical night will be organised, besides showcasing local cuisine and products during the festival,” he added.The district administration was also contemplating to develop three-four sites on Chansal top under the eco-tourism umbrella with sitting arrangement and telescope as the site had a beautiful view, said BR Sharma, SDM, Rohru.Moreover, the Pabbar has been cleared for river rafting which would be done in a 15-km stretch from Mandali to Sandour. To add to it, boating activities would be started in the backwaters of Sawara Kuddu hydropower project and Hatkoti temple trust would be roped in for management of boating facilities as the office of the temple trust is located near the dam site.The initiative to Chanshal valley, the Pabbar river and backwaters of Sawara Kuddu hydropower project as tourist destinations under “Nai Rahen, Nai Manzil” will help in promoting these sites. The locals will be trained in adventure sports which will help in creating self-employment avenues at the doorstep.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/chanshal-to-be-developed-as-tourist-spot-241030
19-04-2021||r Correspondent---||Thural villagers protest illegal mining in Neugal||Palampur, April 18 Villagers of the Thural panchayat of Palampur subdivision on Sunday protested the illegal mining going in the Neugal river near Noun village on the state highway. The villagers, comprising mostly youths, assembled in large numbers at Thural on Sunday and later thronged the mining site along the Neugal and forced the mafia to stop the illegal practice. The villagers said despite a ban, large-scale mining was going on unabated in the Neugal under the shelter of the Mining Department and Forest Department.  “Moreover, despite a ban on the use of machinery for mining in the state, the mafia has pressed into service JCBs, tractor-trailers and earthmovers and therefore we have decided to seize them,” they added. “Repeated complaints and protests by locals have also failed to yield the desired results.”  The protesters further said roads, irrigation channels, cremation grounds and village pastures had been destroyed because of the continuous mining in the area. He said the PWD, IPH, Revenue and Forest Departments, which had suffered maximum damage to their property, had become mute spectators and failed to act against the culprits, who allegedly had political backing. Two days ago, villagers had complained to the Mining Department following which the officer concerned imposed a fine of Rs 7,200 on the defaulters, but failed to stop the illegal activity.  The villagers said now they had decided to resort to a direct action and would continue their fight against illegal mining till the practice was stopped and the matter was resolved.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/thural-villagers-protest-illegal-mining-in-neugal-241051
19-04-2021||Palampur||Pandemic being handled poorly by Centre, Himacha govt: Former CM Shanta Kumar||Former CM and veteran BJP leader Shanta Kumar has expressed grave concern over the worsening situation of the Covid-19 in the country. He alleged “poor management” of the situation by the Union and state governments.“It is written in our scriptures ‘Aaapat kale, maryaada nasti’, which means that when life itself is at stake, all rules can be broken. In today’s situation, there was absolutely no need of holding the Kumbh Mela,” he said.He said it was unfortunate that people were dying of Covid and leaders were busy in elections and campaigning. He said it was okay to allow economic activities under strict guidelines but religious, social and political events should have been banned by the Centre. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/pandemic-being-handled-poorly-by-centre-himacha-govt-former-cm-shanta-kumar-241038
19-04-2021||---||Himachal to distribute ‘kadha’ packets to enhance immunity||Shimla, April 18Ayurveda has enhanced its footprint in the state during the pandemic. At present, 1,252 Ayurvedic health institutions — including 1,185 Ayurvedic Health Centres, 34 Ayurvedic Hospitals, 14 Homeopathy Health Centres, three Unani Health Centres, four Amchi Health Centres and 12 other institutions — are providing facilities to the people of the state.A press release issued by the government stated that the Department of Ayurveda distributed Madhushishtiyadi Kashay (‘kadha’) to people during the pandemic to enhance their immunity. “About 1.5 lakh packets of ‘kadha’ have been distributed and a target has been set to produce more than seven lakh packets in the future,” the release said.Besides, the state government has established herbal gardens in Jogindernagar in Mandi district, Neri, in Hamirpur district, Rohru in Shimla district and Jungle Jhalera in Bilaspur district to promote Ayurveda. Different types of medicinal plants are being grown in these herbal gardens, which are used to prepare medicines for various ailments.“Under the medicinal plant cultivation scheme, the Department of Ayurveda is providing financial assistance to farmers in different agro-climatic zones for growing such plants,” the release said. The Ayurveda Department is also providing medical insurance benefits through health cards under the Ayushman Bharat Yojana in Ayurveda hospitals of the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-to-distribute-kadha-packets-to-enhance-immunity-241039
19-04-2021||---||With cases rising, Shimla's DDU turned into Covid hospital||Shimla, April 18The sharply increasing coronavirus cases have forced the government to re-notify Shimla’s Deen Dayal Upadhyay (DDU) as dedicated Covid care hospital with immediate effect. The OPDs running at the hospital have been shut and the facilities like the issuance of disabilities certificates, medical/fitness certificates, etc, have been shifted to the Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital till further orders.The government has appointed senior orthopedic surgeon Dr Ravinder Mokta as the new Medical Superintendent of the hospital.To accommodate patients with milder symptomsThere are already close to 100 patients at the IGMC. It can accommodate up to 150 patients. In view of the surge, it was decided to reactivate DDU to accommodate patients with milder symptoms needing oxygen — Dr Surekha Chopra, CMO, Shimla It was around three months ago when a sharp decline in the cases was witnessed that the hospital was denotified as a Covid care facility. With the state registering more than 1,000 cases everyday for a while now and the Covid facility at the IGMC likely to overwhelmed sooner than later, the hospital has been turned into a Covid care facility. “There are already close to 100 patients at the IGMC. It can accommodate up to 150 patients. In view of the surge, it was decided to reactivate DDU to accommodate patients with milder symptom needing oxygen,” said Shimla CMO Dr Surekha Chopra.Incidentally, the DDU faced oxygen-related issues last year when the pandemic had hit the peak in November-December. To tide over the crisis, the hospital had increased the number of type D cylinders to over 200 from a meager 36 and subsequently an oxygen plant was announced for the hospital. “From our side, the oxygen plant is ready. The company needs to do some testing. Hopefully, it will be functional within a week,” said Dr Mokta.Meanwhile, not everyone is happy with government’s decision to reactivate DDU as a Covid facility. “The OPDs at the zonal hospital has a footfall of 1,200-1,500 patients everyday. This hospital caters to people of the districts of Shimla, Kinnaur and even parts of district Solan for almost every aliment. This decision is going to cause a lot of inconvenience to them,” said CPM leader Sanjay Chauhan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/with-cases-rising-shimlas-ddu-turned-into-covid-hospital-241041
19-04-2021||---||49 test +ve in Pinegrove School||Solan, April 18With 49 staff and students testing positive in Pinegrove School, Mangoti Mor near Dharampur, the total number of positive cases has climbed to 150 in its two schools. Solan district recorded the highest number of 171 cases in the state today.Deputy Commissioner, Solan, KC Chaman, said, “The situation is alarming at Pinegrove Schools at Dharampur and Subathu where 49 fresh cases have taken the number of positive cases among staff and students to 150 today. It is worrisome to note that children as young as seven years too figure in the list. Both schools have been declared containment zones.”Besides, 10 cases have been reported from Dr YS Parmar University of Horticulture and Forestry, Nauni, 15 from Ultra Tech Cement Plant, Panali village in Arki sub-division, six from Rashtriya Military School, Chail, seven from Vikas Mohalla at Solan which has been declared a micro containment zone.The large number of cases emerging from the educational institutes, especially residential, has increased the worry of the district administration as young children were testing positive along with the staff.Meanwhile, the covid situation in the state continues to remain grim with 788 fresh cases being reported today, besides 10 death in the last 24 hours.The number of active cases shot up to 8,696, with the total positive cases till now being 76,375. Ten persons, including five in Kangra, two in Shimla and one each in Sirmaur, Kinnaur and Mandi, succumbed to the virus in the last 24 hours.The highest number of 171 cases was reported in Solan, 133 in Kangra, 108 in Mandi, 93 in Sirmaur, 72 in Kullu, 67 in Una, 66 in Hamirpur, 33 in Chamba, 21 in Shimla, 11 in Lahaul-Spiti and two in Kinnaur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/49-test-ve-in-pinegrove-school-241042
19-04-2021||---||Snow at Baralacha La keeps Leh road shut for 2nd day||Mandi, April 18Following heavy snowfall at the Baralacha La on Saturday, the Manali-Leh highway remained closed for traffic on the second consecutive day on Sunday.Due to the highway closure, a large number of vehicles were stranded at Darcha and Sarchu on both sides of the Baralacha pass in the region.On Sunday, the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) started the snow-clearance operation on the Manali-Leh highway near the Baralacha pass to restore the traffic movement in the region.Route unfit for travel for a weekThe highway won't be fit for traffic movement near the Baralacha pass for at least a week, so people are advised to avoid taking this route. The movement of tourists from Darcha towards Sarchu is also restricted. — Manav Verma, SP, Lahaul & SpitiAccording to the BRO sources, around 5-ft fresh snowfall was reported at the Baralacha pass on Saturday. Strong blizzard and freezing temperature are posing difficulty for the BRO to clear the road.Travelling on the Manali-Leh highway has become a risky affair because the entire stretch from Darcha to Sarchu is now an avalanche-prone area following the fresh snowfall.According to Manav Verma, Superintendent of Police, Lahaul Spiti, the top priority of the district administration is to evacuate the stranded vehicles as well as people from Darcha and Sarchu and send them to their native places safely as soon as the BRO restores the highway for the traffic movement via the Baralacha pass.The SP said the highway would not be fit for normal traffic movement near the Baralacha pass for at least a week, so people have been advised to avoid their journey on this route during this period.Meanwhile, the stranded people are waiting desperately for the restoration of the highway to head towards their native places. So far, 788 stranded people have been evacuated by the police, BRO and ITBP personnel in Lahaul Spiti two days ago. Still a large number of people are stuck in the region.Lahaul Spiti DC Pankaj Rai said the district administration was providing free ration to the stranded people and arrangements had been made for their stay.He said as soon as the highway was restored, all of them would be sent to their native places with immediate effect.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/snow-at-baralacha-la-keeps-leh-road-shut-for-2nd-day-241043
19-04-2021||---||Met Dept issues warning for hail, storm in Himachal Pradesh||Shimla, April 18The higher reaches and tribal areas of the state received another spell of mild snowfall while intermittent rains lashed mid and lower hills.The local MeT office has issued yellow warning of thunderstorm, lightening, hailstorm and gusty winds with speed 30-40 kmph at isolated places in mid and lower hills on April 20 and 21.Gondla received 15 cm of snow followed by Hansa 3 cm and Kothi 2 cm.Manali with 49 mm of rain was wettest in the state followed by Seobagh with 48 mm of rain, Kothi with 38 mm, Dalhousie 36 mm, Bhunter 33 mm, Jogindernagar 30 mm, Bajura 29 mm, Dharamsala, Mandi, Sujanpur Tira and Palampur 26 mm each, Janjheli and Gohar 24 mm each, Nadaun, Solan and Pandoh 23 mm each, Dehra Gopipur and Baldwara 22 mm each, Tinder and Shimla 21 each, Shillaro and Bijahi 20 mm each.Maximum temperatures in the state rose by 3 to 4°C and Una was hottest in day with a high of 33°C. Keylong with -0.2°C was the coldest at night.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/met-dept-issues-warning-for-hail-storm-in-himachal-pradesh-241045
19-04-2021||Our Correspondent---||Cooperate with Forest Department in checking fires, panchayats told||Dalhousie, April 18  Deputy Commissioner DC Rana said today that the government was serious regarding environmental protection and several guidelines had been issued for the prevention of forest fires, including decision to discontinue timber distribution rights to nearby villages.  In addition, there was a provision under the Forest Protection Act and the Disaster Management Act to take action against those found guilty in forest fire cases, the DC said.  “During the present times, smoke arising from fire in surrounding forests can cause trouble for Covid-19 patients,” the DC said.  Chamba district was included in the list of the most sensitive areas and in such a situation, cooperation of people was important in maintaining the ecological balance, the DC said. He asked the newly elected representatives of the Panchayati Raj Institutions (PRIs) to cooperate with the Forest Department in this regard and also work for bringing awareness among the public.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cooperate-with-forest-department-in-checking-fires-panchayats-told-241046
19-04-2021||Lalit Mohan||Dharamsala ropeway project victim of apathy||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, April 18The failure of the state forest authorities to provide clearance for constructing multilevel parking on 0.72 hectare forest land for the Dharamsala-McLeodganj ropeway is threatening the viability of the project.TATA ropeways that would connect Dharamsala with McLoedganj is nearing completion. As per the planning, the project is scheduled to be tentatively commissioned by June 2021. However, the company executing the ropeway project is concerned that it would not be able to operate the ropeway due to lack of parking.Despite the fact that the Dharamsala-McLeodganj ropeway was a major project in the region involving an investment of Rs 200 crores, the officials concerned have shown no urgency in meeting government commitment. The MoU for constructing the ropeway was signed between government and TATA Reality and Infrastructure Ltd. in the year 2015. As per MoU the government, under the Smart City project was to construct multilevel parking near take off point of ropeway in Dharamsala.The TATA authorities took all clearances from forest department for developing the ropeway in the year 2017. The construction was started in the same year. However, the government authorities did not process the case for creating the parking. The ropeway project was expected to complete by June 2020 but it was delayed by a year due to Covid lockdown.Though the ropeway is ready the Smart City project authorities are yet to tender the work for construction of parking.Deputy Commissioner Kangra, Rakesh Prajapati, when contacted, said that the state forest authorities were preparing the case for transfer of 0.72 hectare forest land for constructing parking near take off point of ropeway. The case would then be sent to the union ministry for environment and forest for clearance. The Smart City project has kept Rs 18 crores for the construction of multi-level parking and tender would be issued once forest clearance was received.When asked about the inordinate delay in forest clearance for parking land he said matter was expedited.Sources here said that the TATA project managers were lobbying hard with the government authorities to get a parking lot near the ropeway take off site in Dharamsala. The authorities of TATA ropeways fear that since the approach to ropeway was very narrow and there was hardly any parking very few tourists would use it.The project manager of TATA Ropeways here, Praveen Upathaya, when contacted, said that he had recently met the municipal commissioner, Dharamsala, and district authorities to sort out the parking issue. They have assured that parking place near take off site would be provided. They have also assured that the process of forest clearance for constructing the permanent parking would be expedited. “We are trying to launch the project in June”, he said.Notably, the Dharamsala-McLeodganj ropeway would consist of 18 gandolas. Each gandola would be able to carry eight people at a time. The ropeway would have the capacity to carry 800 per persons per hour.Timeline for project||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/dharamsala-ropeway-project-victim-of-apathy-241034
19-04-2021||Our Correspondent||CM: Himachal government strengthening infra to deal with Covid effectively||UNA, APRIL 18Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today cautioned the people that peak in Covid infections was yet to come and while the government was gearing up its infrastructure and strengthening resources, the people too need to follow all precautions.Jai Ram Thakur was addressing mediapersons here before chairing a district level Covid review meeting at the Panchayat Bhawan. He said a 1,650-bed capacity hospital, dedicated to Covid patients, existed in the state of which 617 beds were occupied. He added that the bed strength would be raised to 3,000 shortly.Rules out lockdownThe Chief Minister ruled out imposition of lockdown, saying that discussions with a wide cross-section of people had concluded that lockdown badly hit the economy. He, however, said some strict restrictions would be imposed in the coming days. He pointed out that the Covid vaccination being given to people in Himachal Pradesh had 70 per cent efficacy. Wearing masks and using sanitisers was necessary as vaccine was only an added tool to prevent infection. Even after vaccination, people should continue to take precautions.The Chief Minister said the fresh wave was causing an increased fatality rate and the infection rate among students and young people had increased as compared to the previous wave. Of the 8,444 active cases in the state, 95 per cent were in home isolation, making it necessary for the government to monitor the health of these patients.Jai Ram said health parameters of patients in home care would be regularly monitored by health and ASHA workers, while representatives of Panchayati Raj Institutions had been entrusted with monitoring roles. He assured that PPE kits, oxygen, masks and sanitisers were adequately stocked and associated Covid paraphernalia was being spruced up.The Chief Minister ruled out imposition of lockdown, saying that discussions with a wide cross-section of people had concluded that lockdown badly hit economy. He, however, said some strict restrictions would be imposed in the coming days. He pointed out that the Covid vaccination being given to people in Himachal Pradesh had70 per cent efficacy.Wearing masks and using sanitisers was necessary as vaccine was only an added tool to prevent infection. Even after vaccination, people should continue to take precautions.Thakur expressed serious concern as regards the Covid situation in the neighbouring Punjab. On a question that closing some prominent religious institutions temporarily would stop the rush of devotees from other states, he said religious institutions will remain open for ‘darshan’, but there would be no community meals, sermons or yajnas. He informed that in addition to the existing ambulance, three more have been sent to Una district to transport Covid patients.Replying to another question regarding BJP setback in the recent urban body elections, which the opposition claimed was a semifinal ahead of the 2022 Assembly elections, the Chief Minister said that the BJP had won all six nagar panchayat elections. As regards the three Municipal Corporation elections, he said the Dharamsala civic polls were wrested by the BJP from sitting Congress councilors and lost the Solan body by just one vote. As regards Palampur, he said he respected the people’s verdict.The CM, however, said that the results of the ensuing bypolls for Fatehpur Assembly and Mandi Lok Sabha seats would be in favour of the BJP and claimed that the repeat of BJP in the 2022 Assembly elections was inevitable.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cm-himachal-government-strengthening-infra-to-deal-with-covid-effectively-241036
19-04-2021||Chandigarh||3,000 Remdesivir injections seized from Himachal's Baddi, 6 held||Three thousand injections of Remdesivir were seized and six people arrested for allegedly trying to sell the medicine used in the treatment of COVID-19 without any licence or permit, said the Chandigarh Police on Sunday.                            Acting on a tip-off, a team of police raided a local hotel here and apprehended five persons for trying to strike an illegal deal, said police.Three accused belonged to Kerala while one each from Delhi and Madhya Pradesh, they said. A pharma unit was also raided in Himachal Pradesh’s Baddi and police seized 3,000 Remdesivir injections from there, an official statement said. Police said a director of the unit was also arrested.A case under relevant sections of the IPC, the Essential Commodity Act and the Drugs and Cosmetics Act was registered in this regard. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/3-000-remdesivir-injections-seized-from-himachals-baddi-6-held-240905
