20-04-2021||---||Covid surge: Temples in Kangra to close from April 23||Dharamsala, April 20Owing to increase in coronavirus cases in Kangra district in the last few days the district administration has imposed stricter regulations.Deputy Commissioner Rakesh Prajapati while addressing a press conference on Monday evening said temples in Kangra district would be closed for pilgrims and devotees from April 23.Kangra district has famous temples as Jawalamukhi temple, Brijeshwari Devi temple and Chamunda Devi that received thousands of devotees during Navaratras. The deputy commissioner said the temples would be closed down till further orders for devotees.Read: Himachal government restricts wedding parties to 50, imposes 5-day workweek as it deals with rising COVID casesHe said positivity rate in Kangra district had increased from 3 per cent to 13 per cent in April. He added that in April, 51 deaths have been reported due to coronavirus. Yesterday, 526 fresh cases were reported in Kangra and today the count is expected to go over 300, he said.The DC added that due to it as per the directions of the state government, it has been decided to that all government and private offices would remain closed on weekends that it Saturday and Sunday. During the five week days also the government offices would operate with 50 per cent staff. General public has been barred from coming to government offices and has been requested to approach government offices online for regular works.He said all pilgrims who have come from Kumbh mela and Varindavan Dham  in Uttarakhand and UP have been directed to remain in home isolation for a period of seven days. Thereafter, they would have undergo RTPCR test for coronavirus negativity. The panchayat pradhans have been directed to ensure the said condition.The DC said there shall be no restriction on movement of people on state or inter-district borders. The tourists coming to hotels would not be stopped enroute. However, the staff of all hotels would be tested for Corona infection through RTPCR test every 15 days.The DC said there would be no movement after 8 pm to 6 am for exempted categories that would be specified in detailed order.For marriages gathering 50 persons has been allowed with prior permission from the respective sub divisional magistrate. The people would have to apply online for permissions to conduct marriages.He said all areas where 5 or more cases of Corona are being reported would be declared as micro containment zones and anyone violating home isolation condition would be booked by police officials.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-surge-temples-in-kangra-to-close-from-april-23-241755
20-04-2021||Shimla||HP CM urges returnees to self-quarantine at home||Himachal Pradesh Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur on Tuesday urged people returning to the hill state, especially from states with heavy caseloads, to self-quarantine at their homes to contain the spread of COVID-19.The state government took steps to curb the spread of the virus, including reducing the regular six-day week for government employees to five days a week.The decision to urge returnees to self-quarantine comes amid reports that a number of HP residents are returning from other states, including Delhi and Maharashtra, after lockdowns were imposed there.Talking to the media here, Thakur said the HP government had last year quarantined for up to 14 days those people who had returned to the hill state from other states.The returnees should now either self-quarantine at their homes or get themselves tested for COVID-19 to contain the spread of the virus, he said.Meanwhile, the state government took several steps, including introducing a five-day working week, to contain the spread of the virus in the state. Earlier, the state government had a six-day week ending on Saturday.Thakur said that government offices would be closed on Saturday. They will be open from Monday to Friday with a strength of 50 per cent.The chief minister said not more than 50 people would be allowed to take part in social gatherings including marriages. This will be applicable for both indoor and outdoor gatherings, he added. Earlier, 200 people were allowed for outdoor gatherings.Political rallies will also not be held, he said, adding that small meetings with less than 50 people can be organised.Thakur indicated that a decision to close religious places in the state might also be taken on April 23. Devotees have been allowed only to pay obeisance at temples in view of the Navratras, he added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hp-cm-urges-returnees-to-self-quarantine-at-home-241738
20-04-2021||Shimla||12 more COVID deaths in HP, toll surpasses 1,200-mark||Himachal Pradesh reported 12 more COVID-19 fatalities,  pushing the death toll to 1,202, while the infection count reached 78,828 on Tuesday with 758 fresh cases, an official said.The death toll from the pandemic stands at 303 in Shimla, followed by 276 in Kangra, 146 in Mandi, 92 in Una, 89 in Kullu, 82 in Solan, 57 in Hamirpur, 55 in Chamba, 44 in Sirmaur, 28 in Bilaspur, 17 in Kinnaur and 13 in Lahaul-Spiti, the hill state’s Special Health Secretary Nipun Jindal said, citing data updated till 2 PM on Tuesday.The number of active cases in the state stands at 9,717, Jindal said.On the bright side, 810 people recovered from the disease in the past 24 hours, he added. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/12-more-covid-deaths-in-hp-toll-surpasses-1-200-mark-241736
20-04-2021||Shimla||Himachal government restricts wedding parties to 50, imposes 5-day workweek as it deals with rising COVID cases||The Himachal Government has decided to restrict wedding gatherings to 50 people and impose a five-day workweek in the state—measures that come in the middle of a second wave of the coronavirus pandemic that claimed 13 lives and caused 1,700 infections on Monday.The decision was taken at a Cabinet meeting that Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur chaired on Tuesday to discuss possible measures they could take to contain the virus that has already crippled several parts of the country since these past few weeks.     The decision also leaves open the possibility of a weekend lockdown in the state.  Some of the other decisions taken on Tuesday are a complete ban on political and government events, closing down temples to pilgrims after the Navratras, and restricting people on public transport to half capacity.Several overnight and long-distance buses of the Himachal Roadways Transport Corporation have already been indefinitely been cancelled.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-government-restricts-wedding-parties-to-50-imposes-5-day-workweek-as-it-deals-with-rising-covid-cases-241728
20-04-2021||UNA||Entrance test postponed in Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya, Pekhubela||The entrance test for admission to class VI in Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya, Pekhubela, in Una district, scheduled to be held on May 16 has been postponed indefinitely. School Principal Anupa Thakur, in an official press release, stated that the examination had been cancelled in all states, barring three northeastern states of Mizoram, Nagaland and Meghalaya. She said the new date would be notified 15 days prior to the examination. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/entrance-test-postponed-in-jawahar-navodaya-vidyalaya-pekhubela-241388
20-04-2021||Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many||Waste being dumped in nullah||The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com Waste being dumped in nullahPeople throw waste material like disposable plates, cups, leftover food from weddings and other functions in a nullah in Narola village in Mandi. Not only does this waste emanates a foul smell, it also poses as a threat to people's health. Villagers had taken up the issue with the Mandi CMO two years ago but the situation has remained unchanged. — Capt Jagdish Chand (retd), Baldwara, Mandi Selective widening of roadAt certain places in Dharamsala, it seems politicians decide the design of roads. The Kotwali to Khaniara road was recently widened by the PWD after spending crores of rupees. However, at two or three points near some houses/commercial establishments of politicians, the road was widened by a few meters whereas at other places, it has been widened by just one or two feet or not altered at all. It is strange that the department found black spots on the road only near the houses of politicians. — Mukesh Kumar, Dharamsala||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/waste-being-dumped-in-nullah-241390
20-04-2021||The ABVP on Monday submitted a list of 55 volunteers to the Deputy Commissioner. If required||ABVP submits list of volunteers||Special chance for BHM studentsThe HPU has granted a special chance to the students of Bachelor of Hotel Management from the academic session 2011-12 to 2016-17 to complete their degree. Those interested will have to deposit Rs 20,000 per semester and can appear in the next examination (odd and even) as and when held by the university.SFI submits memorandumThe SFI on Monday submitted a memorandum to the Director, Higher Education, regarding the scholarship of SC and ST students and demanded the withdrawal of a circular that threatens action against the employees speaking up against government policies. The SFI also demanded a rollback of 25-per cent increase in the cost of books.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/abvp-submits-list-of-volunteers-241391
20-04-2021||Palampur||Follow Covid norms: Kangra NGOs||Six NGOs of the town expressed concern over the Covid surge in Kangra district. They said: “Some people are taking the battle against the coronavirus lightly by not following the Covid protocols.”KB Ralhan, a social activist and convener of the People’s Voice, said the situation was grim and the health infrastructure had almost crashed. There was shortage of beds, medicines and oxygen and the only solution was to follow the Covid protocols. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/follow-covid-norms-kangra-ngos-241392
20-04-2021||NURPUR||Re-survey sought of BPL-free gram panchayats||The Nagrota Surian Block Development Committee (BDC) in Jawali sub division has demanded re-survey of below poverty line (BPL) families in those gram panchayats in the block which had been declared BPL-free gram panchayats.BDC chairperson Pooja Rani and vice chairman Dhiraj Atri along with six BDC members have submitted a memorandum to the state government through Deputy Commissioner, Kangra seeking re-survey of the gram panchayats.In the memorandum, the BDC members have stated that Behi-Pathiar, Bhatehar, Ddhagar, Ghar, Haar, Mariana, Lahru, Ludhiar, Nargala, Nyangal, Palhora, Panalath and Trilokpur gram panchayats had been declared BPL free a few years ago. They claimed that even after declaring BPL-free, the ground realities were entirely different as a number of families were so poor and living miserable lives in the absence of own house and any source of livelihood. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/re-survey-sought-of-bpl-free-gram-panchayats-241393
20-04-2021||Our Correspondent||Staff unions in Kangra oppose gag order||NURPUR, APRIL 19The government order, restricting teacher organisations from issuing statements against government decisions, has fumed employees in Kangra district.Madan Rana, state president of the Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS), said some bureaucrats were spoiling the image of the Jai Ram Thakur government. He said the order was draconian in nature depriving the employees of their right to air their voice against the wrong decisions of the government.“The employees are not the bonded labour and the BMS will oppose the order and meet Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur,” he said.Rajinder Minhas, Kangra district president of the New Pension Scheme Employees’ Union, said the employees had the fundamental right to oppose wrong and anti-employees policies of any government. It was ironical that the government was using social and print media in highlighting its achievements but threatening its employees of disciplinary action if they raised their voice against its wrong decisions.Ashwani Kumar, Kangra District Non-Gazetted Employees Federation, said it was anti-employees and the federation would oppose it tooth and nail.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/staff-unions-in-kangra-oppose-gag-order-241395
20-04-2021||Our Correspondent||Una District staff body flays Education Director’s ‘gag’ orders||Una, April 19The Una District Non-Gazetted Officers (NGO) Federation today criticised the orders of the Director of Higher Education Department calling for disciplinary action against employee leaders for airing their grievances against the government in the media.President of the federation Ramesh Thakur and chairman Bhupinder Singh, in a press note issued here today, termed the orders as anti-employee. They said that instead of addressing the genuine demands of the employees, senior officers were issuing diktats.The federation leaders said that the orders were in contradiction of the constitutional rights provided to the trade unions.In a notification issued, the Education Department had directed the deputy directors, education, and principals to take notice of such posts on social media or news in media and initiate disciplinary action against the employees concerned.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/una-district-staff-body-flays-education-directors-gag-orders-241396
20-04-2021||---||If needed, Himachal govt can acquire private hospitals: Minister||Shimla, April 19Urban Development Minister Suresh Bhardwaj today said the government could acquire private hospitals, if required, to accommodate Covid patients in Shimla. “We can increase the number of beds in Shimla. Besides the IGMC and the DDU, the ayurvedic hospital, too, could be used for Covid patients. It can have up to 50 beds. Also, if needed, private hospitals, too, can be acquired,” he said during a visit to Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital. “The government is fully prepared to handle the situation,” he said.Suresh Bhardwaj, Urban Dev Minister‘IGMC fully equipped’The IGMC Hospital is fully equipped to handle the situation, be it the availability of beds, oxygen or medicines.He said that in the event of cases increasing further, the hospitals at Rohru and Rampur too could be used as dedicated Covid hospitals to ensure cases don’t pile up too much at DDU.Later, the minister also visited the IGMC along with Health Minister Rajiv Saizal to stake stock of the preparedness of the hospital to handle the crisis. Following the meeting with the officials and doctors at the IGMC, the health Minister said the hospital was fully equipped to handle the situation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/if-needed-himachal-govt-can-acquire-private-hospitals-minister-241397
20-04-2021||---||MC gears up to make Shimla ready for electric vehicles||Shimla, April 19The Shimla Municipal Corporation has taken a significant step towards preparing the city for electric vehicles in not-so-distant future. The civic body’s Finance, Contract and Planning Committee approved the proposal for the installation of 20 electric vehicle-charging stations in the city in its monthly meeting here today.“This decision is for the future that is not too far away,” said MC Commissioner Ashish Kohli. “The Centre is putting thrust on reducing its petroleum import bill and hence wants a significant percentage of vehicles to shift to electric mode by 2030. So we are going to see more electric vehicles in the times to come and we will need adequate charging stations to facilitate this transition,” he said.The proposal for installing the charging stations came from two companies – Energy Efficiency Service Limited and Rajasthan Electronics Industries Limited. “These two PSUs asked us to give these the contract to install charging stations free of cost. Once the stations become functional, the companies will share the revenue with the MC,” said Kohli. The stations will be run and maintained by the two companies.Kohli further said the MC staff and officials of the companies had identified the sites for the stations. “Apart from these, councillors will look for additional sites in their wards to install more stations. Everyone realises that electric vehicles are the future. We will now bring the proposal in the House,” he said.At the moment, the Himachal Road Transport Corporation has three charging stations in the city for its 50-plus fleet of electric buses and cabs. “In towns and plain areas, electric vehicles are the way to go. The operation cost per km in electric vehicles is around Rs 12-20 less as compared to the vehicles running on traditional fuel,” said DS Negi, Regional Manager, Shimla. “Besides, these vehicles are pollution free and that’s an invaluable advantage,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mc-gears-up-to-make-shimla-ready-for-electric-vehicles-241389
20-04-2021||---||Toll plaza on Parwanoo-Solan stretch becomes functional||Solan, April 19The state’s first toll plaza set up on the Parwanoo-Solan section of the National Highway-5 became operational today at Sanwara today.Sources said 95 per cent of the four-laning work has been completed on the highway. Initially, four of the eight lanes have been made functional. Work is underway to complete the remaining lanes of the toll plaza at the earliest.Udaipur-based Coral Associates has been entrusted the task to collect toll ranging from Rs 55-300 for various categories of vehicles for three months initially.Fastag has been made compulsory so those who don’t have it will have to pay double the amount, informed an official of the National Highways Authority of India.Commuters, who are yet to secure fastag, had to pay double the toll for using this highway today. Being the key road connecting the state’s capital of Shimla and being the gateway to Himachal Pradesh, it registers a huge rush of vehicles from various states. The four-laning has paved the way for smooth flow of traffic and this will especially benefit the commuters in the apple transport season when the movement of trucks often created traffic jams and chaos.This section of the highway has been four-laned on the engineering procurement and construction mode. Out of 39 km, work has been completed on 37 km of the stretch and the grant of provisional completion certificate to the private company four-laning the highway, GR Infraprojects, has paved the way for the collection of toll. Its four-year maintenance period has also begun from April 13, informed GR Infraprojects project in-charge Balwinder Singh.Work to complete the state’s first viaduct bridge on this section near Timber Trail Resorts was also in an advanced stage. This bridge was initially not planned in this project and the road was supposed to be widened towards the hill side. However, since no land was available, the valley side was chosen to widen the highway. The construction of this 160-m-long and 40-m-wide bridge was another key feature of this widened highway. A sum of Rs 19 crore is being incurred on constructing the bridge.Apart from this, work to complete the underpass at Saproon iss underway. This will help in resolving the traffic woes of this highway at the busy Saproon Chowk.The highway, whose four-laning had begun in September 2015, is likely to be completed in the next few months now.Tax to range from Rs 55 to Rs 300 for different categories||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/toll-plaza-on-parwanoo-solan-stretch-becomes-functional-241382
20-04-2021||Vijay Arora||High Court notice on plea challenging HPU VC’s appointment||Shimla, April 19The HP High Court today issued notices to the Principal Secretary to Governor-cum-Chancellor, H.P. University, Dr Sikander Kumar, Vice Chancellor of H.P. University and Registrar of University on a petition challenging the appointment of Dr Sikander Kumar as Vice Chancellor of HP University.A division bench comprising Chief Justice L Narayana Swamy and Justice Anoop Chitkara passed this order on a petition filed by one Dharam Pal Singh, who has alleged that the appointment of Dr Sikander Kumar has not been made in accordance with the UGC Regulations, 2010, which require that a person to be appointed as Vice-Chancellor must have an experience of 10 years as professor in university system or 10 years of experience in an equivalent position.The court directed the respondents to file their replies and listed the matter for further hearing on May 20.The petitioner alleged that Dr Sikander applied for the said post on July 16, 2018 and was appointed as Vice-Chancellor of the university on August, 02, 2018. The petitioner has alleged that Dr Sikander misled the search committee regarding possessing experience of 10 years.The petitioner has prayed to direct Dr Sikander Kumar to establish his eligibility for becoming Vice-Chancellor of the university as on the date of applying for the post of Vice-Chancellor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/high-court-notice-on-plea-challenging-hpu-vcs-appointment-241399
20-04-2021||---||Shimla plan to be ready in 3 years||Shimla, April 19The state capital, which is still growing on the basis of the 1979 Interim Development Plan (IDP), might finally get a development plan.Urban Development and Town and Country Planning Minister Suresh Bhardwaj has directed the officials to prepare the Shimla Development Plan within the next three years. He discussed the issue with officials from the TCP Department and Real Estate Regulatory Authority (RERA) and other experts in the area.Bhardwaj has directed the officials to get the Draft Shimla Development Plan ready so that it could be notified. He also directed the officials to convene a meeting of the various stakeholders to complete the preparation of the Development Plan.Even as the TCP Department has been preparing development plans of various towns the state capital is yet to get its own plan. Though the process of preparation of the Shimla Development Plan was undertaken almost eight years back after several round of deliberations but it never got the approval of the government and hence was never notified.Successive governments have been accused of dithering on enforcing strict regulations for construction and building by-laws. The maximum number of illegal and unauthorised constructions in the state are in the state capital and the suburbs.The issue of regularisation of over 25,000 unauthorised structures all over the state has been hanging fire due to court directives. The court has directed that no retention policy must be brought about and there must be strict enforcement of TCP norms.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shimla-plan-to-be-ready-in-3-years-241400
20-04-2021||Our Correspondent||Villagers of Kharanal, Baijnath, protest dumping of dead chickens in Binwa||Palampur, April 19Hundreds of villagers of the Kharanal area in Baijnath subdivision, 20 km from here, today held a protest against the dumping of dead chickens and garbage in the Binwa. The river is considered the life line of the people of Baijnath and Jaisinghpur subdivisions.Men, women and children assembled at the Kharanal panchayat bhavan and held a meeting. They threatened direct action if the authorities concerned do not check the dumping of garbage and dead chickens in the river, which has resulted in large scale contamination of water.Panchayat pradhan Rohit Jamwal said that the Binwa is a major source of drinking water in the area, and the IPH Department lifts water from the river for 12 schemes feeding at least 100 villages. He added that if the dumping of dead chickens was not checked, it could cause an epidemic in the area. He requested the authorities concerned to save the river from contamination. The villagers also resented illegal mining in the river, which has dried up water channels. They said most of irrigation channels had either dried up or damaged by the mining mafia, causing inconvenience to farmers.Jamwal said that the local administration was well aware of the situation but no steps had been initiated to check the dumping of dead chickens in the river and stop illegal mining. He added that they had submitted memorandums to the SDM, Baijnath, and the Mining Department but garbage dumping and illegal mining was still going on unabated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/villagers-of-kharanal-baijnath-protest-dumping-of-dead-chickens-in-binwa-241403
20-04-2021||---||Educational institutions closed till May 1 in Himachal||Shimla, April 19Due to a steep surge in Covid cases, the state government has decided to keep all educational institutions — schools, colleges and universities — closed till May 1.During this period, the faculty members will also not go to these institutes for duty. The decision was taken at a high-level meeting chaired by Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur with senior officers to review the Covid-19 situation in the state here today. The Chief Minster said he recently visited three districts of Una, Hamirpur and Bilaspur and took stock of the situation. The state Cabinet meeting will be held on April 22 to take a few more decisions to contain the spread of Covid-19.He directed officers to enhance the bed capacity in the hospitals. He said steps would be taken to ensure proper availability of oxygen and medical staff in the state. He said the bed capacity would be enhanced at Nerchowk Medical College; IGMC, Shimla; Zonal Hospital, Dharamsala; Tanda Medical College; Sunder Nagar Hospital etc. He said adequate health workers would be posted for the care of Covid patients.He said emphasis was being laid on providing better health care and other facilities to patients under home isolation. So far, 11.46 lakh people have been inoculated for the first dose. The state is at the seventh position in the vaccination drive in the country on the basis of the population density rate.Covid review meet||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/educational-institutions-closed-till-may-1-in-himachal-241387
20-04-2021||Abhinav Vashisht||Situation grim; 1,695 Covid cases, 13 deaths in Himachal||Kullu, April 19The worsening coronavirus situation has increased the worries of businessmen and tourism stakeholders in the district. Traders apprehend that due to the recent spike in Covid cases in the state and other parts of the country, a lockdown may be imposed again, leading to a bigger crisis.The traders say that the economy was derailed last year due to the lockdown and if a similar situation arises this year, their survival would be jeopardized. They add that the arising situation can again cause huge financial losses to businessmen. They urge the government not to impose a lockdown.The tourism industry of the region has again been hit hard due to the surge in Covid cases and the restrictions imposed by some states. The tourist influx in Kullu and Manali from December 2020 to March 2021 was good but now various tourist spots in the region wear a deserted look. Many hoteliers have been forced to lay off employees, as the tourist footfall has decreased drastically and there is no business. Travel agents, hoteliers, transporters, taxi unions, adventure activities operators and other beneficiaries of the tourism industry were hopeful of doing good business this year but the recent spike in Covid cases has them on the edge. Tourism is the only source of livelihood for a large number of local people and it is also the backbone of the local economy.The hoteliers are keen to continue operations by following Covid prevention protocols but tourism has again come to a standstill. Though the government has not imposed stricter restrictions on tourists, not many are coming to the state due to the surge in Covid cases. The major tourist season here is from April to June but there has been a sharp decline in the number of visitors.Manali Hoteliers Association president Anup Ram Thakur says that the streets in Manali wear a deserted look nowadays and the arrival of tourists is negligible. He adds that the hotel occupancy has nosedived and the number of tourists has decreased by about 95 per cent. The government should provide relief to the industry in electricity, pollution, water, sewerage, garbage and other related charges of hospitality units. House tax and interest on bank loans of the hospitality units should be waived for the no-business period. The government should also formulate a concrete plan to revive the tourism industry.Caption: A street in Model Town of Manali wears a deserted look on Monday. Tribune photo||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/situation-grim-1-695-covid-cases-13-deaths-in-himachal-241405
20-04-2021||Ambika Sharma||Panel to probe illegal Remdesivir production||Tribune News ServiceSolan, April 19In a bid to probe illegal manufacture of 3,000 vials of Remdesivir vaccine seized by the Chandigarh police from Baddi- based Health Biotech Limited pharmaceutical unit on Saturday, the State Drug Controller today constituted a five-member panel headed by deputy drug controller (DDC).State Drugs Controller, Navneet Marwaha, while confirming the news, said a committee comprising DDC, assistant drugs controller and two drug inspectors will probe the issue and submit a report within seven days. They will inspect all records pertaining to the manufacture and export of this vaccine for the last about 10 months.“Though the records are examined routinely but since violations like diversion of the vaccines meant for exports have been detected by the Chandigarh police, a thorough probe would bring out the extent of irregularities”, informed Marwaha.Further action as per the report findings would be initiated against the unit. The unit director Gaurav Chawla is among six persons arrested by the Chandigarh police. Printed labels had been found pasted on the 3,000 vials by the unit staff in a bid to facilitate local sale of the vaccine.The Government of India had banned export of Remdesivir on April 11 given its shortage in the domestic markets. It is a key anti- viral vaccine for severally ill hospitalised Covid patients and was much in demand due to surge in Covid cases.Apart from this, assistant drug controllers of respective areas of Sirmaur and Baddi have also been directed to verify records of five other pharma units — two at Baddi and three in Sirmaur district, who manufacture Remdesivir for exports.A team of Chandigarh police had arrested six persons from a hotel in Sector 17 on Saturday, where a deal was being hatched to sell these vaccines at inflated price. A representative of the said company was also present at the hotel with samples of the vaccines in violation of the norms as he had no license for its sale in the domestic markets. A case was registered against the arrested persons.In a bid to mint profits, the said vaccines were being sold surreptitiously in the local markets through an organised network at inflated prices. This case has brought the working of this unit under a cloud and the local drug authorities were further probing the matter.Report within seven days||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/panel-to-probe-illegal-remdesivir-production-241404
20-04-2021||Legal Correspondent||High Court stays Kalka ex-MLA’s sentence||Shimla, April 19The High Court today stayed the three-year sentence awarded to former Kalka MLA Pradeep Chaudhary by a Judicial Magistrate, Nalagarh, in the case of assault and rioting.Justice Sandeep Sharma passed the order on a petition filed by Pradeep Chaudhary, challenging the order of the Additional District and Sessions Judge, Nalagarh.The Judicial Magistrate, Nalagarh, on January 28 had convicted and sentenced Pradeep in an almost 10-year-old case. The FIR was registered on June 13, 2011. As per the prosecution, Chaudhary and others turned violent, attacked police personnel and damaged the public property while agitating on the issue of the death of a person.Chaudhary contended before the court that since he had challenged the conviction awarded by the Judicial Magistrate, Nalagarh, before the Appellate Court and till the pendency of the appeal, the sentence awarded to him by the trial court should be stayed. Allowing his plea, the High Court stayed the sentence awarded to him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/high-court-stays-kalka-ex-mlas-sentence-241401
20-04-2021||Our Correspondent||Himachal CM Jai Ram Thakur blames Congress govts for poor financial health||Hamirpur, April 19“The state is reeling under financial bankruptcy and those who ruled the state for longer duration are responsible for it,” said Jai Ram Thakur, Chief Minister, while addressing the media here today.He said the coronavirus had hit the development and affected people economically too. The government wanted to help them but the financial health of the state was the constraint. He said he was travelling across the state to review the preparedness to combat the emerging situations.Thakur said the state had witnessed over 2,000 cases in 20 days and death toll had reached to 1,177. The only respite was that the recovery rate was over 90 per cent.The government had established over 550 containment zones to provide health services to patients while 8,000 people were in home isolation.He said the government was working to improve the bed capacity in health institutions. The state had a sufficient stock of oxygen. The Opposition had misled people on the stock status of oxygen. It should speak responsibly and avoid statements that would create panic in the public. He said the health department had completed vaccination of over 12 lakh people. The government would set up oxygen plants at Chamba, Dharamsala, Hamirpur Mandi and Nahan soon.Thakur said the government was working on declaring mediapersons as corona warriors and they would be provided vaccination on the line of frontline workers.Thakur said a meeting with former Chief Minister Prem Kumar Dhumal was a courtesy call. Dhumal was a senior leader and instead of calling him to the crowded place, it was better to meet him at his residence.Talking on the performance of the BJP and election preparedness, Thakur said it had emerged strong in the elections.No oxygen shortageThe state has a sufficient stock of oxygen. The Opposition has misled people. It should speak responsibly and avoid statements that create panic in the public.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-cm-jai-ram-thakur-blames-congress-govts-for-poor-financial-health-241402
20-04-2021||---||Himachal CM reviews Covid, water crisis in Bilaspur||Shimla, April 19Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today urged doctors, paramedical staff and other health workers to bring a behavioural change in their attitude while treating Covid patients. He was presiding over a meeting to review Covid and the drought-like situation in Bilaspur.Most of the doctors and other paramedical staff were working with commitment but still greater commitment was required to ensure better results. “Strengthening the mechanism of home isolation is the need of the hour as about 95 per cent of the active cases are in home isolation,” he said.The effective data about the patients in home isolation must be collected and they should also be provided pulse oximeter, hand sanitiser and other essential medicines. He said the active involvement of local pradhans in rural areas should be ensured to effectively coordinate with the family members of positive patients in home isolation.Thakur urged members of Beopar Mandals to give their wholehearted support to the government to fight the spread of the pandemic.He said deaths reported during the last about 50 days had gone up from 970 to 1,177. Asha workers must also record other co-morbidities of the patients in home isolation so that better treatment could be provided.Thakur said a campaign must be launched to ensure the active participation of elected representatives of PRIs and urban local bodies, NGOs, Mahila Mandals, Yuvak Mandals, etc to strengthen the mechanism of home isolation.Reviewing the drought-like situation in Bilaspur district, he felt the need for rationing of water supply. He said hand pumps could also be installed in the areas facing a water crisis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-cm-reviews-covid-water-crisis-in-bilaspur-241398
20-04-2021||Solan||‘Platinum’ rating for Chitkara University||Chitkara University has been awarded ‘Platinum’ rating by QS I-GAUGE, a comprehensive and independent rating system for India’s universities and colleges.Rated on seven primary indicators and five secondary indicators, which range from teaching and learning, employability and social responsibility to research and innovation, the QS I·GAUGE rating provides a unique and comprehensive perspective of India’s higher education institutions for learning. Post assessment, the institutes are awarded an overall rating ranging from Bronze to Platinum+.Chitkara University was rated ‘Platinum’ in four key indicators: ‘ Employability,’ ‘Facilities,’ ‘Entrepreneurship,’ and ‘Governance & Structure.’ In the other five indicators, namely ‘Research,’ ‘Teaching & Learning,’ ‘Faculty Quality,’ ‘Diversity and Accessibility,’ and ‘Social Responsibility, the university was rated ‘Diamond’.The award certificate was presented recently at Bangalore by Dr Ashwin Fernandes, QS Regional Director - Middle East, Africa & South Asia & CEO QS I-GAUGE.Citing the rigorous process preceding the rating, Dr Archana Mantri, Vice-Chancellor, said, “QS I-GAUGE follows a rigorous and comprehensive institutional rating procedure, and the application process can become cumbersome and time consuming for the unprepared applicants, but owing to Chitkara University’s process centric approach to teaching, research and learning, we were ready with all the documentation even before we started the application process. I am happy that the wonderful teamwork and quality education at Chitkara University finally has the recognition of QS I -GAUGE.”Dr Madhu Chitkara, Pro-Chancellor, Chitkara University, said “The governing board has entrusted us with the surmountable task of surpassing our benchmarks and acquiring ‘platinum’ rating by none other than QS I-GAUGE is certainly a feather in our cap.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/platinum-rating-for-chitkara-university-241394
20-04-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||Eye on elections, Himachal seeks early hearing in Supreme Court against National Green Tribunal order||Tribune News ServiceShimla, April 19Keen to regularise the over 25,000 unauthorised constructions, the Himachal Government has sought an early hearing of the petition in the Supreme Court against the National Green Tribunal (NGT) order, seeking relaxation in the construction norms.Urban Development and Town and Country Planning (TCP) Minister Suresh Bhardwaj, who also happens to be the local Shimla MLA, has said a request has been made for an early hearing of the petition already filed in the Supreme Court.With Assembly elections due next year, the Jai Ram Thakur regime is keen that some solution to the long-pending issue can be found at the earliest.The highest number of such structures (over 10,000) is located in Shimla town and its suburbs. Several influential people, including politicians, bureaucrats and realtors, are owners of these unauthorised structures.The state government has moved the SC against the November 2017 NGT order, which not only barred fresh constructions in the already congested core area but also came as a hurdle in the regularisation of over 25,000 unauthorised constructions across the state. For now, the ball is in the SC court, where Himachal Government will seek one-time exemption for regularisation of these unauthorised structures.However, various courts, including the NGT and HC, have come down heavily on the successive regimes for encouraging the violators by bringing about six retention policies.Majority of illegal structures in Shimla||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/eye-on-elections-himachal-seeks-early-hearing-in-supreme-court-against-national-green-tribunal-order-241486
20-04-2021||Rajiv MahajanNurpur||Stone laid two yrs ago, Nurpur war memorial project in limbo||To recognise the sacrifice made by the valiant soldiers of lower Kangra district, the state government had proposed a war memorial in Nurpur over two years ago. Sainik Welfare and Irrigation & Public Health Minister Mahender Singh had laid the foundation stone of the memorial on the premises of the office of Superintending Engineer, IPH, Nurpur, on March 2, 2019, with much fanfare.However, even after two years, no work has been started on the memorial and its foundation stone is gathering dust.Enquiries revealed that during the stone-laying ceremony, no land had been identified but the minister had announced that Rs 80 lakh had been earmarked for this project, which would be completed in one year. Intriguingly, the government recently identified land near Noorpur Public School here in ward number two. The land is yet to be transferred in the name of Sainik Welfare Department.A lot of resentment is brewing among the ex-servicemen in the area over the dilly-dallying attitude of the government in starting the construction. As many as 9,500 ex-servicemen with 30,000 dependants are living in lower Kangra district, comprising Nurpur, Jawali, Fatehpur and Indora subdivisions.Col NS Pathania (Retd.), chairman of Ex-Servicemen League, Nurpur unit, said, “The foundation stone of the war memorial had been laid without procuring any land, which was an insult for our martyrs. It amounted to playing with the sentiments of thousands of ex-servicemen of this region. Why was the foundation stone laid in a government office when no land was available?”Local MLA and Forest Minister Rakesh Pathania told The Tribune that he had contacted Sainik Welfare Minister Mahender Singh Thakur to enquire about the tentative period in which the construction would begin but he did not share any timeframe for this purpose.Meanwhile, Col KS Chahal (Retd.), Deputy Director, Sainik Welfare Board, Kangra, said after identifying the land for the proposed war memorial, its drawing and design had been approved. “The Sainik Welfare Department has applied for forest clearance so that the identified land can be transferred in the name of the department,” he said.CorrectionApropos the above news item "Stone laid two yrs ago, Nurpur war memorial project in limbo" that was published in these columns on April 18, a quote of Col NS Pathania (retd), chairman of Ex- Servicemen League, Nurpur unit, was inadvertently attributed to Nurpur MLA Rakesh Pathania. It was Col NS Pathania who had stated that he had contacted Sainik Welfare Minister Mahender Singh Thakur to enquire about the tentative period in which the construction would begin but he (the minister) did not share any timeframe for this purpose.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/stone-laid-two-yrs-ago-nurpur-war-memorial-project-in-limbo-240715
