21-04-2021||Shimla||HP reports 823 new cases, infection tally crosses 80,000-mark; 13 more dead||Himachal Pradesh reported 823 new COVID-19 cases and 13 fatalities on Wednesday, pushing the state's infection tally to 80,233 and the death toll to 1,219.Four deaths were reported in Shimla, three each in Solan and Kangra, two in Sirmaur and one fatality was from Hamirpur, the hill state's special health secretary, Nipun Jindal, said, citing data updated till 2 pm.Among the districts, Kangra tops the list with 13,106 cases so far, followed by Shimla (12,758), Mandi (12,079), Solan (10,195), Una (5,642), Sirmaur (5,343), Kullu (5,191), Hamirpur (4,897), Bilaspur (4,181), Chamba (3,633), Lahaul-Spiti (1,634) and Kinnaur (1,574).The death toll due to the pandemic stands at 307 in Shimla, 280 in Kangra, 147 in Mandi, 92 in Una, 89 in Kullu, 85 in Solan, 58 in Hamirpur, 55 in Chamba, 47 in Sirmaur, 28 in Bilaspur, 17 in Kinnaur and 13 in Lahaul-Spiti, Jindal said.He said the number of active COVID-19 cases in the state stands at 9,983 now.Also, 852 more patients have recovered in a span of 24 hours, taking the total number of recoveries to 69,003, the official added.Meanwhile, 13,68,118 beneficiaries have been vaccinated against COVID-19 in the state till April 20. While 12,15,982 people got their first dose, 1,52,136 people were administered their second shots. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hp-reports-823-new-cases-infection-tally-crosses-80-000-mark-13-more-dead-242196
21-04-2021||Tribune Web Desk||In pics, Shimla, Manali higher reaches receive unusual April-end snow||Chandigarh, April 21Tourist spots in higher reaches of Himachal Pradesh, including Narkanda, Manali, Kinnaur and Lahaul-Spiti received fresh snowfall.Perplexed over the freak weather, local orchardists feel it was unusual to receive snow in April-end.Manali town saw a low of 4.8 degrees with 43 mm rain. However, nearby places like Atal Tunnel had moderate a spell of snowfall.Aman Singh Thakur, a local grower in Ratnari in Kotkhai, has expressed concern over snow and inclement weather during April as he fear that this could damage this year's fruit crop because apple and other fruit trees are in bloom."Baghi is at a good height and we will suffer a loss thought it is too early to tell how much. But orchads, which had no hail nets, are sure to be at harm," said Thakur.Meanwhile, Lahaul-Spiti, Kinnaur and Chamba also received moderate snowfall during the night and the weather remained cloudy and extremely cold in the morning."We are back to heaters. It seems that the winters are back," said Shamsher Singh Thakur, a leading apple grower in Manali. He said that they are yet to study the impact of the cold on the crop, but snow at this time was no good news.The minimum temperature in Keylong in Lahaul-Spiti was recorded at minus 0.3 degrees Celsius, the coldest in the state. It saw 12 cm snowfall.Kalpa in Kinnaur district recorded a minimum of 0.1 degree with 11.4 cm snow.Lower hills of the state experienced widespread rain.The meteorological office has forecast more rain and snow in the state till April 23.Meanwhile, in Jammu and Kashmir, the Zojila Pass, that connects the Ladakh to Kargil, was also opened for traffic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/in-pics-shimla-manali-higher-reaches-receive-unusual-april-end-snow-242175
21-04-2021||Lalit Mohan||Rs 600 cr tenders for flood control works in Himachal rivers cancelled||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, April 20The IPH Department has cancelled Rs 600 crore tenders of flood control works in the rivers of the state due to the controversy over a condition of wire thickness.Sources said that IPH Secretary Vikas Labroo had written to the State Technical Advisory Committee (STAC) to revise the condition and ordered the cancellation of the tenders.The matter was reported for the first time in these columns. The department had introduced a condition in the tenders that only those contractors, who had earlier worked on 5 mm wire created embankments, were eligible to bid. The eligibility condition was allegedly added to favour a group of contractors, who had earlier worked on 5 mm wire created embankments in the Swan canalisation project.When The Tribune highlighted the matter, the IPH Secretary put the tenders on hold on April 16 and sought a report on the matter. The sources said that Engineer-in-Chief (Projects) Dharminder Gill stated in his report that the eligibility condition in the tenders was discriminatory and would reduce competition. The Secretary ordered the cancellation of all tenders, which would be reissued after the STAC revises the condition.The sources said that the condition of 5 mm wire in creating embankments was continuing as per the 21-year-old recommendation of the STAC. However, despite the fact that technology had advanced the STAC was never approached for amending the condition since then. Labroo admitted that the tenders had been cancelled on the basis of the field report.The cancellation of the tenders had also brought under scrutiny the flood control works done for Swan canalisation in the past one decade. The sources said that most of flood control works in the Swan were done on the basis of this controversial condition that eliminated competition and favoured a few contractors. Most of the flood protection works in Punjab and Haryana are done using 4 mm wire embankments.Due to this condition, the department had also paid more for earth works. While the PWD had paid at the maximum rate of about Rs 200 per cubic metre for earth works done for roads, the IPH Department paid Rs 500 per cubic metre.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rs-600-cr-tenders-for-flood-control-works-in-himachal-rivers-cancelled-241880
21-04-2021||ibune News Service---||Family members allege foul play in Rajpura youth’s death||Solan, April 20 Family members  of a pharmaceutical company  employee,  Sandeep Kumar, whose body was recovered from a canal by the Ropar police on Sunday, today alleged that  the Nalagarh-based  company staff  was responsible for his death. A gathering of about 250 people from Rajpura village, including about 100 women, gathered outside the  company  and they  demanded to  know the circumstances which had led to his sudden  death. Notably, a suicide note was recovered by the Punjab Police near a canal, in which he had said no one should be held responsible for this extreme step. Sandeep Kumar (33), who was working in the HR department, had come to the company on April 14 in the morning but had left after sometime.  His   motorcycle, mobile phone and purse were found abandoned near a canal, near Ropar, on Friday last.    SP, Baddi, Rohit Malpani, said  the Punjab Police were investigating as the body was recovered in their area.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/family-members-allege-foul-play-in-rajpura-youths-death-241881
21-04-2021||r Correspondent---||Team fined for shooting song in Pong Wetland Wildlife Sanctuary||Nurpur, April 20 Frequent visits of tourists as well as video shooting of Punjabi songs in the Bathu Di Lari in the Pong Wetland Wildlife Sanctuary in Jawali sub division of Kangra district has put a question mark on the authorities concerned that are responsible for checking violation of the ban of movement of visitors in the wildlife area imposed in the wake of second phase of outbreak of Avian Influenza (H5N8) in the last week of March month. A video shooting of Punjabi songs in the Bathu Di Lari on Tuesday attracted a huge crowd of spectators who watched the shooting without following SOPs of physical distancing and wearing of masks adding to the risk of community spread of Covid 19 in this inter- state border area.  The DC directed the SDM Fatehpur and Jawali police to check violation of Covid SOPs and violation of ban on the movement of visitors in the area. Jawali DSP Sidharth Sharma said the police after conducting an inquiry fined the Punjabi song video shooting team which had not taken the requisite permission and violated the restriction imposed by the Wildlife Department. As per the information, a large number of tourists from the neighboring Punjab have been visiting this particular destination for the past over one week. The Bathu Di Lari remained submerged into Pong reservoir water after monsoon season and came out from the deep water on the onset of every summer. The Wildlife Department had put a signboard restricting the movement of visitors in Bathu Di Lari Wildlife Sanctuary area.  A tower here on the verge of collapse is also attracting visitors who used to climb it risking their lives. Any mishap can occur due to crumbling tower.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/team-fined-for-shooting-song-in-pong-wetland-wildlife-sanctuary-241882
21-04-2021||Our Correspondent---||Call to punish officials for losses to HPSEBL||Nurpur, April 20 The Himachal Pradesh State Electricity Board Ltd (HPSEBL) Employees’ Union has demanded stern action against board officials, who had been found guilty of causing losses to the tune of crores of rupees by extending undue financial benefits to a Kullu-based company during 2014-15.  Kuldeep Kharwara, president of the union, said today that a five-member inquiry committee constituted by the board management had in its report on July 16, 2016, found two officials guilty of violating rules to extend huge financial benefits to the company.  He appealed to Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur to implement the recommendations of the inquiry reports and initiate action against the guilty officials of the HPSEBL.  He alleged that instead of taking action against the guilty officials, the HPSEBL rewarded them with service promotions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/call-to-punish-officials-for-losses-to-hpsebl-241883
21-04-2021||Hamirpur||Ex-servicemen corporation generates Rs 8-crore profit||The HP Ex-Servicemen Corporation has generated a profit of Rs 8 crore during the pandemic, said its CMD Brig (retd) Khushal Thakur today.He said that the corporation continued its activities during the pandemic and the profit was the result of relentless work done by the members. He said despite adverse conditions, the corporation had generated employment for 2,000 ex-servicemen against 1,800 in 2019.It had donated Rs 51 lakh to the state Covid care fund. A Demand Manager App that was created to streamline truck operations at Barmana. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ex-servicemen-corporation-generates-rs-8-crore-profit-241884
21-04-2021||Shimla||Engineers Association poll||Lokesh Thakur and Tanuj Gupta have been elected as president and general secretary of the executive committee of the HP Power Engineers’ Association for 2021-23. The other office-bearers are Vinod Verma, Vikas Sharma (vice-presidents) & Ravinder Thakur (secretary, finance). — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/engineers-association-poll-241885
21-04-2021||Saurabh Malik---||Special Judge couldn’t have cancelled bail to IPS officer ZH Zaidi: HC||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, April 20 The Punjab and Haryana High Court today ruled that the Special Judge could not have straightaway cancelled the bail granted by the Supreme Court to senior IPS officer of HP cadre ZH Zaidi in the Kotkhai custodial death case.  The High Court, at the same time, dismissed his regular bail plea after holding that the same had been already been declined by a coordinate bench and there was no material change of circumstances since then to justify the grant of fresh bail. Justice Arun Monga observed bail was granted to Zaidi by the apex court vide order dated April 5, 2019. But the petitioner was put in jail on January 24, 2020, as his bail was cancelled by Special Judge, CBI court. The main reason was that he had tried to intimidate, pressurize and influence a prosecution witness and there was possibility of him intimidating, influencing and pressurizing other witnesses from the police department. After hearing CBI counsel Sumeet Goel and arguments on Zaidi’s behalf, Justice Monga added this was the petitioner’s third foray in the high court for bail, after having been unsuccessful in assailing the bail cancellation order, which was upheld by a coordinate bench vide order dated May 21, 2020. Justice Monga asserted the petitioner was granted bail by the Supreme Court and he was directed to be released on satisfaction of appropriate conditions as may be imposed by the trial court. Merely because the Supreme Court directed that the petitioner be released on satisfaction of appropriate conditions, it would not and could not change the reality that the order granting bail was that of the Supreme Court and not the trial court. Justice Monga further asserted once the trial court held that the petitioner had violated the undertaking given in form of personal bond submitted at the time of furnishing the bail and the surety bonds, it ought to have followed the course of action prescribed under the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure for forfeiture of bonds executed by him and the surety/sureties, besides imposition and recovery of penalty thereof.  “Instead, the trial court straightaway cancelled the bail granted to the petitioner by the Supreme Court. The trial court of Special Judge, being lower in the hierarchy, naturally and logically, could not, or even otherwise, at least for reasons of judicial discipline and propriety, ought not to have straightaway cancelled the bail granted to the petitioner by the Supreme Court. However, I am unable to re-appraise the facts and circumstances pre-existing at the time of passing of coordinate Bench order dated May 21, 2020, declining bail to the petitioner,” Justice Monga concluded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/special-judge-couldnt-have-cancelled-bail-to-ips-officer-zh-zaidi-hc-241886
21-04-2021||---||Kangra temples to shut from April 23||Dharamsala, April 20The district administration has imposed stricter regulations in view of the rise in Covid-19 cases in Kangra in the past few daysCurbs on movement from 8 pm to 6 amDeputy Commissioner Rakesh Prajapati told mediapersons here today that the temples in the district would remain closed for devotees from April 23 till further orders. The district has the famous temples of Jawalamukhi, Brijeshwari Devi and Chamunda Devi that are visited by thousands of devotees during the Navaratras.He said that all government and private offices would remain closed on weekend (Saturday and Sunday). During the five weekdays also, the government offices would operate with 50 per cent staff. The general public has been barred from visiting government offices.Prajapati said that all pilgrims coming from the Kumbh Mela and the Varindavan Dham, had been directed to remain in home isolation for seven days. Thereafter they would have to undergo the RTPCR test. The panchayat pradhans had been directed to ensure the compliance of the orders.The Deputy Commissioner said that there shall be no restriction on the movement of people on the state or inter-district borders. Tourists coming to hotels would not be stopped en route. The staff of all hotels would undergo the RTPCR test every 15 days.He said that no movement of people, barring those in the exempted categories, was allowed between 8 pm and 6 am. A gathering 50 persons would be allowed in marriages with prior permission from the SDM. People could apply online for the permission.He added that where ever five or more Covid cases are reported would be declared a micro containment zone and anyone violating the home isolation norm would be booked.Palampur: The Covid situation in Kangra district has become alarming. It has the highest positivity rate of 13.63 per cent in April. In March, it was just 3.69 per cent. As many as 526 persons tested positive in the district, the highest in one year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kangra-temples-to-shut-from-april-23-241887
21-04-2021||UNA||Fresh curbs in Una from tomorrow||As the Covid positivity rate reached 25 per cent in Una, Deputy Commissioner Raghav Sharma today ordered a restriction in timings for opening shops and business establishments in rural and urban areas of the district. The new restrictions will be applicable from April 22 till the next notification. Organising religious, social, political, sports and cultural gatherings has also been banned till further orders.  As per an official press note, all shops in rural and urban areas will remain closed on Sundays. The only exemption will be for barbers and those selling medicines and food items including dairy, poultry, meat, vegetables and fruits, besides eating joints and these will be allowed to function from 7 am to 8 pm only.  On weekdays, shops and business establishments throughout the district will open from 9 am to 6 pm. The decision was taken after a meeting between the DC and members of the Beopar Mandal. The DC said all SDMs had been directed to make public announcements regarding the new orders. The new orders also make it mandatory for all to seek prior permission from SDMs for small gatherings on marriages and deaths. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/fresh-curbs-in-una-from-tomorrow-241888
21-04-2021||Ambika Sharma||Administration on tenterhooks as cases rise in border district||Tribune News ServiceSolan, April 20The rising number of Covid positive cases has left the administration of bordering districts like Solan and Sirmaur worried.Shortage of staffThe biggest challenge is the paucity of staff to take care of Covid patients. Stress is on ring-fencing Covid hotspots though there are four containment zones, too. All residential educational institutes continue to show more positive cases and this is worrisome. — KC Chaman, Deputy Commissioner, SolanThese districts account for nearly one-fourth of the case load in the state. Out of the 1,695 new cases registered yesterday, as many as 453 are from Solan and Sirmaur alone. They also account for 2,584 active cases out of 9,783 registered in the state till last evening.Because of industrial hubs like Baddi-Barotiwala-Nalagarh, Parwanoo, Kala Amb and Paonta Sahib, there is large-scale daily entry of workers from high load states like Punjab and Haryana. Besides, movement of trucks from Maharashtra, Delhi, Karnataka, etc., leaves the areas more susceptible.The setting up of an oxygen generation plant at Dr YS Parmar Government Medical College, Nahan, has been delayed as the technical persons concerned are unable to spare time. “Given the surge in other states, the technical people are finding it difficult to come to Nahan though pipelines have been made functional to facilitate the setting up of the plant,” said an official.“The number of critical patients requiring oxygen and better medical facilities is rising every week and such patients are referred to the IGMC Shimla”, added the official.The DDU Zonal Hospital at Nahan has been declared a dedicated Covid hospital since April 18 given the surge in cases in Sirmaur district.In the state’s industrial hub of Baddi-Barotiwala-Nalagarh the health department was unable to make functional two ventilators despite the rising number of critically ill patients. Such patients are referred to MMU medical college at Sultanpur which too was facing a scarcity of facilities.The rise in number of cases in residential schools and universities has become a cause for concern in Solan; Four schools have been declared containment zones.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/administration-on-tenterhooks-as-cases-rise-in-border-district-241889
21-04-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||Himachal: Unhindered movement from border areas increases risk||Tribune News ServiceShimla, April 20There has been a huge spike in Covid cases, but the state government is dithering over dealing with the situation firmly. The unhindered movement of people from border areas without any check will put the lives of people at risk. Though the administrations of the border districts of Kangra and Una are keen on imposing curbs on the entry of people from places such as Delhi and Punjab, the government has not taken any decision in this regard, possibly fearing public resentment.10,000 entered stateAccording to an estimate, more than 10,000 people entered Himachal from the Una border the day the lockdown was enforced in Delhi.“Should people not behave responsibly? There is no check at the inter-state borders. We feel people should also behave responsibly, as it is not just the job of the government to enforce rules,” said Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur when asked about enforcing stricter restrictions. Increasing testing to over 10,000 has also been demanded for the vigorous detection and isolation of infected people, especially after the recent elections in Mandi, Dharamsala, Solan and Palampur.“Random checking of people returning from the Kumbh Mela to the Arki area in Solan district led to the detection of 16 positive cases. So, should there be no curbs on all such returnees,” asked a helpless officer. The decision of the Una administration, one of the worst hit districts, to check all public carriers and put some checks at the border areas was deferred for reasons best known to the higher authorities. According to a rough estimate, more than 10,000 people entered Himachal from the Una border the day the lockdown was enforced in Delhi.The Una authorities were keen that if a RT-PCR test report could not be made mandatory for people coming from high infection load states, at least they should be allowed to keep a record of the people, and their vehicles. “If we have a database of people coming to the state, we can at least monitor their condition and ensure that they remain in home isolation with the help of the elected representatives of the urban local bodies and the panchayati raj representatives,” says the official.In Kangra, which had reported 525 cases yesterday, the situation is getting serious.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-unhindered-movement-from-border-areas-increases-risk-241890
21-04-2021||Shimla||1,340 new cases, 16 deaths in Himachal Pradesh||The situation in the state continues to be grim with 1,340 Covid cases reported today. Besides, 16 persons died of the virus in the past 24 hours. The number of active cases today shot up to 10,027  and  79,410 positive cases . Sixteen persons — six in Kangra, four in Shimla, three in Una and one each in Hamirpur, Sirmaur and Mandi — died.  The highest number of 265 cases was reported in Solan, 173 in Una, 164 in Shimla, 155 in Sirmaur, 138 in Hamirpur, 107 in Mandi, 104 in Bilaspur, 78 in Lahaul-Spiti, 68 in Kangra, 36 in Kullu and 35 in Kinnaur and 17 in Chamba. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/1-340-new-cases-16-deaths-in-himachal-pradesh-241891
21-04-2021||Our Correspondent---||Missing pilot’s bag, helmet found from Dhauladhars after 4 months||Palampur,  April 20 A rescue team  today recovered  a helmet, water bottle, bag and goggles  of missing paraglider Rohit Badhoria from the Dhauladhars, about 35  km from here,  on Monday. However, the team failed to trace him or his parachute. The pilot, who had taken off from Billing, was last seen on January 8. The family had announced a prize money of Rs 3 lakh for tracing the pilot.  Officials sources said that family members and friends  of Rohit, who hailed from New Delhi, had  identified  the goods.  A member of the search team said that  the belongings were  found after crossing the Jalsu Pass at a height of 14,000 feet.  Since the weather was not favorable yesterday, peaks were covered with five or six feet  of snow, therefore, the  search  operation had to be abandoned mid way. It was a tough task to reach there and recover him.  Members of the team told The Tribune that if whether permitted, the search operation would be started next week again. The rescue teams would also  be sent via Chamba. They were now  hopeful that the body of the missing pilot would be recovered  as snow melts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/missing-pilots-bag-helmet-found-from-dhauladhars-after-4-months-241892
21-04-2021||Subhash Rajta||Covid curbs: Technology being used to keep tabs on weddings in Shimla||Tribune News ServiceShimla, April 20The wedding season is here, and it has set the alarm bells ringing in upper Shimla. Last year, weddings proved to be super-spreader events in upper Shimla, with people ignoring all Covid regulations. On Tuesday, the government capped the attendance in weddings at 50 to ensure that functions don’t add to the already surging Covid numbers.To ensure the official concerned has actually gone to the event to survey, we are using apps like note cam, geo-tagging, etc. Besides, we will ask for a picture, too, of the event.— Saurabh Jassal, SDM , TheogThat’s a timely decision, but the compliance is tough. The administration at the local level is banking on the use of technology and the involvement of representatives of Panchayati Raj Institutions to ensure that people abide by the number rules and other associated protocols. “We are leveraging technology to ensure weddings are conducted within the allowed norms,” said SDM, Theog, Saurabh Jassal. “We have already made flying squads comprising BDOs, tehsildars, police, revenue officials for the purpose. To ensure the official has gone to the event, we are using apps like note cam, geo-tagging, etc. It gives us longitude and latitude of the place that the officials have visited and the time too. Besides, we will ask for a picture, too, from the event to make it even more fool-proof,” said Jassal.He added that there would be an element of surprise in these visits. “We will gather input about when most people are likely to be there at the event. So, our teams will accordingly plan their visit,” said Jassal.Gurjeet Cheema, SDM, Kumarsain, is relying more on the cooperation and involvement of PRI representatives. Incidentally, Kumarsain was the first area to see a major spike in cases due to weddings last year. Within a couple of days, the count had gone from zero to over 70. “This time, we have had meetings with PRI representatives almost 20-25 days ahead of the wedding season to avoid a repeat of last year,” said Cheema. “We have involved them in a big way this time, given them the leadership role. In fact, all permissions for weddings are being routed through them.”The administration will, of course, keep tabs but the local pradhans, ward members too will have to be on their toes. “Pardhans and ward members are invariably invited to all weddings in their area. So, making them a part of the mechanism will be quite effective,” said Cheema.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-curbs-technology-being-used-to-keep-tabs-on-weddings-in-shimla-241893
21-04-2021||Shimla||Few devotees visit Shimla temples on Ashtami||The fear of corona kept people from thronging the famous Shimla temples like Kali Bari and Ram Mandir even on the auspicious occasion of Ashtami. Compared to normal times when the temples are flooded with people, this time, it was a low-key affair this time.The Kali Bari temple administration had put up signage at every corner of the temple to remind people not to lower their guard and follow all Covid norms. “We have put in place strict protocols. We are ensuring there’s proper social distancing, no ‘prasad’ is given and people leave quickly after offering their prayers,” said Amlan Goswami, a member of the temple administration. A few, however, did turn up to offer prayers to their deity. “The Kali Bari temple is very famous, and people come here with lot of faith. This time fewer people have come because of corona, but I couldn’t stop myself as all protocols are being followed here,” said Vrinda Singh, a devotee. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/few-devotees-visit-shimla-temples-on-ashtami-241894
21-04-2021||Ravinder Sood||Roads constructed for illegal mining in Neugal river near Thural dismantled||PALAMPUR, April 20Local administration along with heavy police force and mining department officials today dismantled a road constructed by mining mafia leading to illegal mining site in Neugal river near Thural, 30 km from here. The mining department also issued warning to mining mafia to refrain from illegal mining activities or face action under the Indian Penal Code and environmental laws.The Tribune had carried a news in these columns yesterday highlighting large-scale illegal mining going on in Neugal river near Thural, where villagers had also lodged protest against the illegal mining.The residents of Thural area had also protested against illegal mining going on in Neugal river near Naun village damaging local paths, electric installations, water channels, roads and cremation grounds.Today officials of the mining department along with police force arrived on the spot and dismantled road with the help of JCB machine constructed by the mining mafia to reach the river bed.Local youth, who have launched a campaign against illegal mining in Neugal river, welcomed the step of mining department and said that illegal mining was not only resulting in large-scale environmental degradation in Thural area but it was also causing loss to the state exchequer in lacs daily as mined material was being lifted without paying royalty to the state government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/roads-constructed-for-illegal-mining-in-neugal-river-near-thural-dismantled-241895
21-04-2021||Keeping in view the increasing number of Covid-19 cases||Evaluation of documents  for Lecturer put off||EMRS entrance exam POSTPONEDKeeping in view the prevailing conditions due to Covid-19 and closing of all educational institutions, the state government has decided to postpone the combined Eklavya Model Residential School (EMRS) entrance exam 2021 scheduled for May 2. The new date for the entrance exam would be conveyed in due course. A spokesperson of the state government informed here today that the government has also decided to close all Eklavya Model Residential Schools and hostels till May 1.TALK on pandemics in litERATUREThe Department of English, Shoolini University, organised a virtual session on "Pandemics in Literature". Along with the faculty of the department of English, the speakers were Manuel Broncano of TAMU Texas of USA, Nilak Datta of BITS Pilani, Goa, and Professor ML Raina, who has been Professor Emeritus at Panjab University, Chandigarh. The keynote address was delivered by Prof Tejnath Dhar of Shoolini University. Prof Pawel Jedrzejko from the University of Silesia, Poland, also participated. Professor Tej Nath Dhar gave a historical overview of pandemics and epidemics in literature. He referred to Bocaccio and also talked about Daniel Defoe's novel, A Journal of Plague Year. Nilak Datta talked about the book that was born out of the Belletristic sessions itself, "Covid's Metamorphosis: Stories of Our Corona Times."||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/evaluation-of-documents-for-lecturer-put-off-241971
21-04-2021||Two iron rods jutting out at the entrance of the Nurpur bus stand have been injuring passengers. The cemented portion of the passage is partially damaged and these iron rods have come out. At night or during late evening hours||Iron rods pose risk at Nurpur bus stand||Streetlights DysfunctionalDysfunctional streetlights at Banjar Nagar Panchayat in Kullu district has become a cause for concern for commuters in the region. As a result, streets plunge into complete darkness once the sun sets. Children and women feel unsafe on these streets. The Nagar Panchayat should make these lights functional for the convenience of the common man with immediate effect. — Ramesh Kumar, Banjar, KulluWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/iron-rods-pose-risk-at-nurpur-bus-stand-241972
21-04-2021||Shimla||Himachal Pradesh caps weddings at 50, 5-day week in offices||Announcing stricter curbs amid the surge in Covid cases, the Himachal Pradesh Government today capped at 50 the attendance at weddings, funerals and other social, religious and political gatherings from April 22.It imposed a five-day workweek in government offices and ordered the public transport, including inter-state and intra-state buses, to ply at 50 per cent capacity with immediate effect till May 1. The temples will remain out of bounds for the general public from April 23.Stricter curbsTemples to remain shut from April 23 onwardsShops, malls, sports complexes to remain shut on weekendsThe decisions were taken at a meeting chaired by Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur here. “In view of the sharp rise in Covid cases and fatalities, we have decided to limit the attendance at weddings, funerals, social, religious, sports, cultural and political gatherings at 50,” he said. The earlier limit was 50 for indoor and 200 for outdoor gatherings.Barring shops selling essentials, all commercial establishments like shops, malls, markets, gyms, sports complexes and swimming pools will remain closed on weekends. There will be a five-day week for employees of all government offices, autonomous bodies and PSUs and 50 per cent attendance on the other five days till May 1.Though a sharp rise in infections and fatalities had been witnessed in the state over the past few days, the Chief Minister ruled out a lockdown for now. He said they would first focus on micro-containment.Thakur said no reports of exodus of migrant workers in view of lockdown fears had been received from the hill state. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-pradesh-caps-weddings-at-50-5-day-week-in-offices-241974
