22-04-2021||Shimla||Himachal Pradesh's positivity rate mounts to 17.95 pc as COVID-19 cases spike||The COVID positivity rate in Himachal Pradesh was recorded at 17.95 per cent, about the same as the national average over the past week, as the state continues to witness a surge in coronavirus cases, data provided by the state Health Department stated.According to the data updated till 7 pm on Wednesday, 1,692 of the total 9,423 samples taken for testing in the state were found COVID positive which amounts to a positivity rate of 17.95 per cent.The positivity rate in seven of the 12 districts in Himachal Pradesh was over 15 per cent on Wednesday.According to latest figures, the weekly national positivity rate is 17.35 per cent.The highest positivity rate of 81.81 per cent was recorded in Lahaul-Spiti, followed by 31.71 per cent in Solan, 25.77 per cent in Shimla, 22.42 per cent in Hamirpur, 17.66 per cent in Kangra, 16.87 per cent in Mandi and 16.30 per cent in Sirmaur, the data showed.The positivity rate of 12.85 percent was recorded in Kullu, followed by 11.07 percent in Una, 10.27 percent in Bilaspur and 7.98 per cent in Chamba.However, no new case was recorded in Kinnaur district on Wednesday.Himachal Pradesh reported 1,692 new COVID-19 cases and 17 more fatalities on Wednesday, pushing the infection tally to 81,102 and death toll to 1,223, the hill state's special health secretary Nipun Jindal had said.Of the total COVID-19 cases in the state, Kangra district has recorded a maximum of 13,286 cases so far, followed by Shimla 12,839, Mandi 12,152, Solan 10,483, Una 5,708, Sirmaur 5,382, Kullu 5,217, Hamirpur 4,932, Bilaspur 4,231, Chamba 3,637, Lahaul-Spiti 1,661 and Kinnaur 1,574.The death toll due to the pandemic stands at 307 in Shimla, 281 in Kangra, 147 in Mandi, 94 in Una, 89 in Kullu, 85 in Solan, 60 in Hamirpur, 55 in Chamba, 47 in Sirmaur, 28 in Bilaspur, 17 in Kinnaur and 13 in Lahaul-Spiti. The number of active COVID-19 cases in the state climbed to 10,793.Also, 907 patients have recovered in a span of 24 hours, taking the total number of recoveries to 69,058, the data showed.Meanwhile, 13,89,574 beneficiaries were vaccinated against COVID-19 in the state till April 21.While 12,33,876 people got the first dose, 1,55,698  people were administered the second dose. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-pradeshs-positivity-rate-mounts-to-17-95-pc-as-covid-19-cases-spike-242661
22-04-2021||---||Verify MBU degrees of govt staff: Regulatory panel chief||Shimla, April 21The degrees of regular and contractual employees of the state government issued by Manav Bharti University (MBU), Solan, should be verified.In a letter to the Chief Secretary, Chairman of the Himachal Pradesh Private Educational Institutions Regulatory Commission (HPPIERC) Maj Gen Atul Kaushik (retd) has said that to ensure that only competent and eligible candidates work in the government sector, it was important to verify the degrees of all contractual and regular employees issued by the MBU.He said that a mechanism should be in place for the verification of degrees issued by all private universities. The degrees should be sent to the commission before the convocation so that these could be matched with the admission disclosures submitted by the private universities in the state.“In several cases, it has been found that the names of the degree holders are different from the names submitted in the admission disclosures. Recently, one such case was forwarded to the police for investigation,” Maj Gen Kaushik (retd) told The Tribune.Meanwhile, a committee has been constituted to recommend measures to help genuine MBU students in the verification of degrees and migration.Around 110 pass-out students of the MBU under the banner of the Justice for Manav Bharti Students’ Association had urged the commission to safeguard the interests of genuine students, whose certificates and degrees were not being verified and authenticated due to the ongoing probe into the fake degree scam. They had requested the commission to put an interim mechanism in place to verify the documents.A special investigation team of the CID has detected 36,000 fake degrees in 14 of 55 hard disks scanned so far. Investigations have pointed out that every degree was sold for Rs 1 lakh to Rs 2.5 lakh. The University Grant Commission had alerted the authorities concerned in 2019 about the fake degree racket.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/verify-mbu-degrees-of-govt-staff-regulatory-panel-chief-242361
22-04-2021||Solan||Shimla highway caves in near Chambaghat, traffic diverted||A section of the National Highway No. 5 caved in near the Directorate of Mushroom Research at Chambaghat in Solan district late last evening. As a result, vehicular traffic was diverted through a single lane on the Solan-Kaithlighat section.Cracks were visible on the road surface as the excavation work for a flyover was under way. A big crater had appeared right in the middle of the road, and only a narrow section of the road was available for vehicular traffic. This is the lone road connecting Solan to Shimla and it witnesses huge vehicular rush every day. Policemen were deputed to ensure smooth movement of traffic.Airef Engineers started the work to repair the road in the morning; the company is handling the project to widen this section of the highway. “The site has been dug up for a pillar to be erected there for a flyover but it has led to soil erosion below the road. The work was underway to fill the crater while the remaining road was being repaired to make it functional,” said DSP Ramesh Sharma.It is a populated habitation having buildings on both sides and so the construction of a flyover is fraught with problems. In another instance, the lower portion of a two-storey guesthouse of Mohan Meakin at Chambaghat caved in two days ago.This is the second time that this section of the highway has caved in. Earlier, the highway had sunk near Waknaghat in September 2020, disrupting traffic for more than 16 hours.The work to widen the 22.91 km stretch of the road from Solan to Kaithlighat to four lanes was started in December 2018. The project assigned for 30 months was to be completed at a cost of Rs 598 crore on the engineering, procurement and construction mode. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shimla-highway-caves-in-near-chambaghat-traffic-diverted-242362
22-04-2021||Subhash Rajta||Flower growers fear tough times amid Covid restrictions||tribune news serviceShimla, April 21A week-long lockdown announced by the Delhi Government and restrictions on gatherings at weddings have caused panic among flower growers of the state. They suffered huge losses last year on account of lockdowns and strict restrictions on weddings and other functions. With the pandemic going out of control, they feel they are in for a tough time yet again. “Last year, I suffered losses over Rs 20 lakh. The situation looks equally grim this time too, with governments starting to impose lockdowns and restrictions on functions,” said Pyare Lal, a veteran flower grower from Mahog village, known as flower village, in Chail, around 30 km from Shimla.Produce sold in Delhi’s Gazipur mandiThe flower growers have to market their produce in Delhi's famous Gazipur Flower Mandi. From there, flowers are transported to different parts of the country.The flower growers have to market their produce in Delhi’s famous Gazipur Flower Mandi. From there, flowers are transported to different parts of the country. “Besides lockdown in Delhi, the restrictions on weddings, places of worship hamper our business. If only 50 people are going to be invited for weddings, who is going to bother to buy flowers for decoration. We are so dependant on weddings that we plant and harvest flowers according to the wedding season,” he said.Kuldeep Singh, another grower from the area, said, “After losing money last year, we were looking forward to the coming wedding season to recover a part of our losses. However, restrictions on weddings and other functions are back and we are back where we were last year.”“If the restrictions continue, the flower industry will be ruined. And we can’t even expect any support from the government, given what happened last year. Our losses were in lakhs of rupees and financial assistance we received was only a few thousands,” he said.So disappointed are these growers that they are thinking of or beginning to switch over to crop cultivation or other businesses. “We don’t know for how long the pandemic will extend. So, I have planted over 200 apple plants this time” said Pyare Lal.Ram Gopal, a flower grower in Jubbarhati, shares the concern expressed by the duo but isn’t as worried as they are. “We grow exotic vegetables, mainly red and yellow capsicums, along with flowers. While people may stop buying flowers, they will continue to buy these vegetables, more so because these are seen as immunity boosters. So, we can make up for some losses we suffer in the flower business through these vegetables,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/flower-growers-fear-tough-times-amid-covid-restrictions-242363
22-04-2021||Abhinav Vashisht||Lahaul-Spiti administration works to improve tourism||Kullu, April 21The Lahaul and Spiti district administration is improving facilities and infrastructure to facilitate tourists and promote eco-friendly sustainable tourism in the area.The administration had ordered 50 prefabricated toilets with bio-digesters at a cost of Rs 43 lakh and the first lot of 24 arrived at Sissu recently. Lahaul and Spiti Deputy Commissioner Pankaj Rai said that 10 of the 20 dumpers provided by the Shimla Municipal Corporation were placed at tourist hotspots yesterday. He added that 11 locations, including tourist places such as Sissu, Udaipur, Triloknath, Tandi Sangam, Deepaktaal and Chandertaal, had been identified and prefabricated toilets would be installed there.Rai said that one vehicle would collect dry waste from these dumpers and bring it to the material recovery facility site at Sissu and from there it would be sent to the ACC cement plant at Barmana. He added that due to the increasing number of tourists and the commencement of many business activities, pro-active measures were necessary to ensure the proper disposal of dry waste so that the pristine ecology of the area was not polluted. Residents used wet waste to feed livestock or as fertiliser.Rai said that people were being apprised about the necessity to dispose of waste properly and solid waste management had been incorporated as a co-cognitive subject in the curriculum of schoolchildren. The region had witnessed the arrival of thousands of tourists from Manali every day after the opening of the Atal Tunnel, boosting the local tourism industry.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/lahaul-spiti-administration-works-to-improve-tourism-242364
22-04-2021||NURPUR||Relief sought as rain hits rabi crop harvesting||After facing a prolonged dry spell during the months of January and February, intermittent rains during the past few days have hit farmers hard in lower Kangra districts comprising Nurpur, Jawali, Fatehpur and Indora sub divisions, disrupting the ongoing harvesting of wheat.  The farmers, who have suffered losses to their farm yields due to the vagaries of weather, are a harried a lot as their harvested wheat crop lying in the field after cutting has become wet and unfit for thrashing to extract wheat grains. The rain has also flattened their crops standing in the fields.  Rakesh Kumar and Subhash Singh of Kopra lamented that rains at this stage of the harvesting season is a cause of concern to the farmers who had still to harvest their crops. Karan Singh of Indora and Inderjeet of Fatehpur said rain that lashed the area at regular intervals when harvesting was in progress had not only hampered the harvesting but also deteriorated the quality of their farm yield. Vijay Kumar and Ravi Thakur of Jawali lamented that they had cut their wheat crop and kept in the open for thrashing but untimely rain had damaged their crop. In Kangra district wheat is being cultivated in around 94,000 hectares of land. PC Saini, deputy director, agriculture, Kangra said that if rainfall continued in the coming days it would be more harmful to the rabi crops being harvested these days.  Suresh Singh Pathania, president of Kangra district Bhartiya Kisan Union, has appealed to Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur to provide relief to the farmers who had been hit hard by untimely rain. The rain, however, is considered beneficial for vegetable and fruit crops in the subtropical region in lower Kangra areas. A farm expert said this rain would be beneficial for mango, litchi and other fruits. “The rains will increase the size of fruits and also improve their quality,” he asserted. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/relief-sought-as-rain-hits-rabi-crop-harvesting-242365
22-04-2021||Our Correspondent---||Sobha Singh museum shut till May 2||Palampur, April 21  In view of the prevailing Covid-19 crisis, Sobha Singh Art Gallery and Museum will remain closed till May 2.  The management took the decision in compliance with the government advisory issued for public safety. “We have taken this decision as a step to assist the district and the local administrations in preventing and managing the pandemic effectively,” a spokesperson of the gallery said. The Sobha Singh Art Gallery and Museum is situated at Andretta art village, 11 km from here,  The art gallery and museum attracts domestic and foreign tourists, besides a large number of art lovers and general masses from all over the country and beyond.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sobha-singh-museum-shut-till-may-2-242366
22-04-2021||Lalit Mohan||Bed facility ramped up in Kangra||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, April 21With Covid cases increasing in Kangra district, the district health authorities are again ramping up bed facility in dedicated Covid hospitals. The increasing number of cases is putting pressure on the health facilities, leading to complaints from patients at various levels.Kangra Deputy Commissioner Rakesh Prajapati, while talking to The Tribune, said beds at the Tanda medical college had been increased from 64 to 108. Out of these, 75 are occupied. Besides, a 130-bed facility, especially for Covid cases, has been created in Dharamsala Zonal Hospital, out which 114 beds are occupied. Besides, a 40-bed Covid facility has been created in Dadh, the DC said.Pressure on TMCThere are fewer Covid facilities in the adjoining districts of Mandi, Chamba and Kullu. Hence, most of the patients suffering from complications are being referred to the Tanda medical college. This is increasing workload pressure on the already scarce health staff in the medical college, says sources in the Health DepartmentHe said a 75-bed facility had been kept on standby in two private hospitals in Kangra district.Sources in the Health Department said since there were lesser Covid facilities in the adjoining districts of Mandi, Chamba and Kullu, most of the patients suffering from complications were being referred to the Tanda medical college. This was increasing pressure in the already scarce health staff in the medical college. Sources here said the Tanda medical college had to post specialist doctors in Covid wards, hitting services in specialty departments.Certain people are complaining of lack of facilities in Covid hopsitals. Harminder Singh, a resident of Kangra, alleged that he had admitted his mother at the Covid hospital in the Tanda medical college. ‘The conditions there were pathetic,” he alleged. He said he had submitted a copy of the Supreme Court order to the medical college authorities that mandate that CCTV cameras should be installed in Covid hospitals. However, the hospital did not pay any heed to my request.The DC, when asked about the complaint of Harminder Singh, said efforts would be made to redress his problem. However, he denied any dereliction in duty on the part of the hospital staff.Sources said there was a shortage of Class IV staff willing to work in Covid hospitals. The district administration is trying to recruit additional staff on a contract basis to cope up with the problem.The problem being faced by the district health authorities was that unlike last year, the NGOs and religious institutions that had come forward to help in tackling the Covid crisis were missing this year. Last year, a large number of NGOs and religious institutions had provided lodging and free food to patients kept in isolation.In the last three days, Kangra district has witnessed about 1,100 new cases and 13 deaths. The positivity rate of about 13 per cent in Kangra district was among the highest in the state.Former minister and AICC secretary Sudhir Sharma, in a statement issued here today, has demanded that a door-to-door vaccination drive should be carried out.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bed-facility-ramped-up-in-kangra-242367
22-04-2021||---||Snowfall in tribal areas, heavy rain lashes state||Shimla, April 21Cold conditions revived in mid and high hills of Himachal as the region was lashed by thunderstorm and hailstorm, accompanied by intermittent heavy rains, while tribal areas received another spell of snowfall. As many as 201 roads were blocked in the state. A maximum of 177 roads were blocked in Lahaul and Spiti, 13 in Chamba, seven in Kullu and four in Kinnaur.The local Met office has issued a yellow warning of heavy rainfall, thunderstorm, lightening and gusty winds at isolated places in Kangra, Mandi, Shimla and Solan district tomorrow (April 22) and predicted wet weather in the region till April 24.Kalpa received 17 cm of snow, followed by Keylong with 12 cm and Kothi 3 cm. Manali, which received 43 mm of rains, was the wettest in the state, followed by Kothi at 42 mm, Seobagh 40 mm, Dalhousie 38 mm, Baldwara 35mm, Jogindernagar 34 mm, Bhuntar 32 mm, Reckong Peo 28 mm, Sundernagar and Kotkhai 27 mm, Naina Devi 26 mm, Mandi and Gohar 24 mm, Banjar and Bajura 23 mm each, Bharmaur and Tinder 22 mm each, Jhandutta 20 mm, Dharamshala, Baijnath and Shillaro 19 mm each, Shimla, Bilaspur, Pooh, Beer and Khadrala 18 mm each, Rampur 17 mm, Berthin, Pandoh and Rohru 16 mm each, Kasauli, Kumarsen, Palampur and Aghar 15 mm each, Jubbar Hatti, and Janjehli 14 mm each.The minimum temperatures decreased and Keylong was the coldest at night, recording a low of minus 0.3°C. The maximum temperatures decreased by 9°C-10°C and Nahan was the hottest in the day with a high of 29°C.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/snowfall-in-tribal-areas-heavy-rain-lashes-state-242368
22-04-2021||Shimla||Industry Minister tests positive||Industry Minister Bikram Singh tested positive today. He was unwell and admitted to the IGMC, Shimla.    Meanwhile, 1,692 Covid cases were reported in the state today. Besides, 17 death occurred in the past 24 hours. Four persons each died in Shimla and Kangra, three in Solan, two each in Sirmaur, Hamirpur, and Una. The highest number of 509 cases was reported in Kangra, 288 in Solan, 224 in Shimla, 205 in Sirmaur, 120 in Hamirpur, 97 in Mandi, 67 in Una, 58 in Chamba, 56 in Bilaspur, 41 in Kullu and 27 in Lahaul-Spiti. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/industry-minister-tests-positive-242370
22-04-2021||Our Correspondent||Covid spike: Manali traders, hoteliers on tenterhooks||Kullu, April 21The worsening Covid situation has increased the worries of businessmen and tourism stakeholders in the district. They fear that due to the recent spike in Covid cases in the state and other parts of the country, a lockdown may be imposed again, leading to a bigger crisis.The traders say that the economy was derailed last year due to the lockdown and if a similar situation arises this year, their survival would be jeopardized. They add that the arising situation can again cause huge financial losses to businessmen. They urge the government not to impose a lockdown.The tourism industry of the region has again been hit hard due to the surge in Covid cases and the restrictions imposed by some states. The tourist influx in Kullu and Manali from December 2020 to March 2021 was good but now various tourist spots in the region wear a deserted look. Many hoteliers have laid off employees, as the tourist footfall has decreased drastically and there is no business. Travel agents, hoteliers, transporters, taxi unions, adventure sports operators and other beneficiaries of the tourism industry were hopeful of doing good business this year but the recent spike in Covid cases has them on the edge.The hoteliers are keen to continue operations by following Covid prevention protocols but tourism has again come to a standstill. Though the government has not imposed stricter restrictions on tourists, not many are coming to the state due to the surge in Covid cases. The major tourist season here is from April to June but there has been a sharp decline in the number of visitors.Manali Hoteliers Association president Anup Ram Thakur says that the streets in Manali wear a deserted look nowadays. He adds that hotel occupancy has nosedived and the number of tourists has decreased by about 95 per cent. The government should provide relief to the industry in electricity, pollution, water, sewerage, garbage and other related charges of hospitality units. House tax and interest on bank loans of the hospitality units should be waived for the no-business period.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-spike-manali-traders-hoteliers-on-tenterhooks-242371
22-04-2021||---||IPH Minister BJP in-charge for Mandi Lok Sabha bypoll||Shimla, April 21The BJP is gearing up for the Mandi Lok Sabha byelection. State BJP president Suresh Kashyap today entrusted the responsibility of the preparation for the byelection to Irrigation and Public Health (IPH) Minister Mahender Singh. Education Minister Govind Thakur would assist Mahender Singh as co-incharge while Rakesh Jamwal, Sundernagar MLA and state BJP general secretary, will be the organisation coordinator. The seat was rendered vacant following the demise of party MP Ram Swaroop Sharma.The allotment of duty means Govind Thakur will not be asked to contest the bypoll. His name was doing the rounds as a probable candidate but with his appointment as co-incharge for the byelection, the possibility of the party fielding him is almost ruled out. “I am confident that the BJP will register an impressive win in the bypoll by a huge margin,” said Kashyap.Mandi being the home district of Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, it is a prestige issue for him to ensure the victory of the party candidate. Moreover, against the backdrop of the BJP’s not so good performance in the recent municipal corporation elections — the Congress won the Solan and Palampur urban bodies — it becomes even more imperative for the BJP to win by an impressive margin.The BJP is yet to finalise its candidates for the byelection but the prominent contenders are Brig Kushal Thakur (retd), and party office-bearers Ajay Rana, Payal Vaidya and Pankaj Jamwal from Jogindernagar.On the other hand, an upbeat Congress, too, seems to be in a dilemma over the selection of the candidate for the byelection. The names of former minister Kaul Singh Thakur, former MP and former Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh’s wife Pratibha Singh and former Union Telecommunication Minister Sukh Ram’s grandson Ashrey Sharma are doing the rounds.Prestige issue for CM||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/iph-minister-bjp-in-charge-for-mandi-lok-sabha-bypoll-242372
22-04-2021||UNA||Una health centre to get 70 more beds||The Una district administration has decided to provide additional 60 to 70 beds at the makeshift District Covid Health Care centre at Palkwah village in Haroli subdivision. At present, the facility has 40 beds.  Deputy Commissioner Raghav Sharma today inspected the centre and ordered more beds to be placed on the second floor and two halls in the building. He said some beds at the CHC building at Dhussara Village in Amb subdivision could also be reserved for Covid patients.   Later, Sharma issued instructions that Covid patients and their family members would have to live in isolation at their homes for 17 days. He said all travellers from UP, Punjab, Maharashtra, Delhi, Gujarat, Karnataka and Rajasthan would have to inform the panchayat or local urban body. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/una-health-centre-to-get-70-more-beds-242373
22-04-2021||Solan||Car falls into gorge, 3 killed||Three occupants of a car were killed when the vehicle fell into a deep gorge, near Borli village in Sangrah subdivision of Sirmaur last night. They were returning from Nahan when the mishap occurred. Surjan Singh and his son Vipin Thakur of Shivpur village were killed on the spot, while Sunil Dutt and Vikas, who were grievously injured, were taken to Sangrah hospital by a local resident. Vikas, a resident of Uttar Pradesh, died at Nahan medical college today. The police were probing the matter. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/car-falls-into-gorge-3-killed-242374
22-04-2021||Our Correspondent ---||Tough task ahead for newly elected councillors||Palampur, April 21 The elected councillors of the Palampur Municipal Corporation have a tough task ahead. Problems like garbage disposal, installation of streetlights, removal of garbage dumps in different parts of the town, restoration of garbage treatment plants non-functional for the past three months, poor roads and contaminated drinking water are the main issues haunting them.  The residents of Palampur have given the Congress two thirds majority in the MC and now they want action from the elected representatives. Though both rural and urban voters want job opportunities the need for a better living is their first priority. Besides, environmental issues like keeping Palampur clean and green are equally important to the electorate as are better garbage disposal mechanism, schools, hospitals and health care centres.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/tough-task-ahead-for-newly-elected-councillors-242375
22-04-2021||Ambika Sharma||Fresh report sent to govt on border row with Haryana||Tribune News ServiceSolan, April 21In a bid to settle pending boundary dispute between Haryana and Himachal Pradesh at the state’s gateway at Parwanoo, the district administration has sent a fresh report to the state government after conducting a joint spot inspection by the officials of revenue and forest departments.A Survey of India’s recent report had claimed that Himachal Pradesh had encroached upon some land belonging to the neighbouring Haryana at Parwanoo.“An examination of the revenue records of 1908-09 revealed that the dividing line between Haryana and Himachal Pradesh has been shown in the shape of a nullah in khasra number 332. This line divides Mouja Gumma of Himachal and Khera Sita Ram of Haryana and it has been entered in equal share of both states”, points the report.“The proposed dividing line drawn by the Survey of India and reflecting pillars 11, 12, 13 and 14 in the illegal possession of Himachal Pradesh is not correct as per the revenue records of both the states. These pillars exist in R-56, which is reserve forest number 56, of Parwanoo Forest Range and it is hence not accepted by the state”, points the report further.Officials emphasise that R-56 was measured during the forest settlement of 1937-38, when none of the states was in existence. Hence the issue of encroachment on the boundaries of Haryana was ruled out. Even the notification dated December 24, 1952, by the then Pepsu government and published on January 4, 1953, notifies that the diving line between the two states is Taksal Nallah Bridge and Kalka Shimla Road and pillar number 13 is a boundary to mark existing in the nallah.“Thus the proposal of the Survey of India regarding the ridges being the diving line between the two states is incorrect keeping in view the field position”, states the report.Various offices of the state forest department, a circuit house and a PWD rest house are situated in the R-56. Besides, the state police barrier, state forest barrier, barrier of the excise and taxation department, and offices of the assistant and junior engineers of the state Public Works Department also exist on this forest land. All these offices are claimed to be in Haryana.Deputy Commissioner, Solan, KC Chaman, said, “There is an inter-state boundary dispute at Parwanoo with Haryana which is being continuously monitored by the Ministry of Home Affairs. A recent Survey of India report has shown some parts of the bordering areas in Haryana following which a fresh survey was got re-done on the basis of available record. Its report has been sent to the Government of Himachal Pradesh and all issues have been meticulously dealt with in the survey, The survey sheets too have been sent to the government for further action in this matter.”Survey conducted again||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/fresh-report-sent-to-govt-on-border-row-with-haryana-242376
22-04-2021||Our Correspondent||20 stuck near Baralacha after fresh snowfall||KULLU, APRIL 21Around 20 commuters, mostly labourers, were stuck between Keling Serai and Baralacha Pass as the Lahaul valley experienced fresh snowfall yesterday evening. Lahaul and Spiti DC Pankaj Rai said that some trucks, a pick-up van and around four small cars having mostly labourers were stuck as two vehicles broke down blocking the road from both sides.He said that 147 persons were rescued and brought back to Darcha, while around 20 persons were still stuck in two Tempo Travellers and four small vehicles amid the snow. He added that police tried to stop them as well but they were adamant not to return back and tried to cross the Pass and got stuck. Rescue teams were sent from Keling Serai and Zingzingbar today but the teams could not reach the stranded vehicles due to tough conditions and poor visibility because of blizzards.Lahaul and Spiti SP Manav Verma said the Border Roads Organization (BRO) and police personnel carried out the rescue operations which continued till wee hours today amid heavy snowfall. He said that a BRO officer rescued 17 persons at 3 am while 130 persons had been rescued earlier.The SP added that even his vehicle was stuck and he came on foot to Darcha. He said that rescue operations were underway and today all the stranded persons will be rescued.After the relentless efforts of the BRO and police, about 100 trucks carrying goods and vegetables and other vehicles ferrying mostly labourers, which were stuck at Darcha since April 4 due to snowfall, were sent from Darcha to Sarchu by crossing the Baralacha Pass (16,043 feet) on the Manali-Leh highway yesterday. However some vehicles were stuck as snowfall started in the evening.Although the BRO had restored the Baralacha Pass on April 16 and the smaller vehicles had crossed through but the trucks and some other vehicles could not cross due to poor road conditions. They could not proceed beyond Darcha due to heavy snowfall again on April 17.The BRO had restored the 425-km Manali-Leh highway for vehicular traffic in a record time on March 28 this year but it was risky to commute, especially in view of the adverse weather conditions.Meanwhile, mercury in the entire region dipped as the higher reaches of Lahaul and Kullu received snowfall and lower reaches were being lashed by rains since yesterday evening.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/20-stuck-near-baralacha-after-fresh-snowfall-242378
22-04-2021||ibune News Service---||Agri varsity signs MoU to produce female calves||Dharamsala, April 21 Farmers engaged in cattle rearing and dairy industry may get an option to produce only female calves from their cows, as CSK HP Agriculture University signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU), here today, with Genus ABS India Private Limited, Pune, to use semen for genetic gain. Prof HK Chaudhary, Vice-Chancellor, said the new research project held an immense value in genetic upgradation of exotic as well as indigenous breed of cattle being reared in the state. At the same time, it would help in managing male stray bulls by reproducing superior progeny of female calves through artificial insemination, he said. The Vice-Chancellor said rapid farm mechanisation had undermined the utility of bulls, so calves were not seen. The farmers had been neglecting them and many male calves had died in the first month of birth, while others ended up as abandoned, he said. It would produce results about parameters such as milk production and genetic potential in progeny, said Prof Chaudhary. He said this high-impact research in the department of veterinary gynecology for enhancement of livestock production efficiency would produce results benefiting dairy farmers. He suggested that postgraduate students of the university should be involved in labs of the 80-year-old GABS India Ltd. Madhumeet Singh, director, extension education, said this was the first-ever organised study being undertaken regarding use of sexed semen in the state. It would be operated in two phases over 18 months. In the first phase, 100 farmers rearing Jersey and Sahiwal cows, indigenous breeds, would benefit. As the sex of calves would be selected at the time of artificial insemination, the stray cattle menace could also be tackled, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/agri-varsity-signs-mou-to-produce-female-calves-242379
22-04-2021||Kullu||Tributes paid to Bhuttico’s founder on birth anniversary||The 101st birth anniversary of Thakur Ved Ram, founder of handloom cooperative society Bhuttico, was celebrated on a small scale amid the Covid crisis at the Bhutti colony, 5 km from here, today. Bhuttico chairman and former minister Satya Prakash Thakur paid floral tributes to the statue and the bust of Thakur Ved Ram. He said Thakur Ved Ram was the soul of Bhuttico and he had accomplished many tasks. He said Ved Ram had strengthened the handloom sector and generated employment for weavers. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/tributes-paid-to-bhutticos-founder-on-birth-anniversary-242380
22-04-2021||Our Correspondent||Kullu book vendor under Excise dept lens, records seized||KULLU, APRIL 21A team of the Excise and Taxation Department has inspected the records of a book vendor, who had deposited 10 per cent of the amount of sale of books in the account of a private school here. The team visited the shop here and seized documents and asked the owner for several records.The Kullu Book Seller Association had submitted a complaint to the Chief Minister, the Secretary, Education, the DC and other officials that many private schools had a nexus with a book vendor and books of their schools were available with him only.They had alleged that the vendor deposited 10 per cent of the amount of the sale of books in the account of a private school and the practice encouraged corruption.They had further alleged that the vendor was evading taxes by creating multiple firms and demanded that his accounts should be scrutinised. They had alleged that he used to provide bills without GST number or name. The complainants had also submitted some bills to the department. The team has started investigating the bills provided by the vendor to its customers.The complaint was made on the CM’s portal and from there it was forwarded to the Mandi Excise and Taxation Department. The owner has opened various outlets in Mandi and Kullu. As the complaint was made from Kullu, the matter was entrusted to the Kullu Excise and Taxation Department. Now, the department will prepare an inquiry report and send it to the Mandi office and after that action will be taken.JR Soni, Assistant Commissioner, Excise and Taxation, Kullu, said the department had received a complaint against the book vendor and investigation had been started. Some documents had been seized by the department and some sought from the owner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kullu-book-vendor-under-excise-dept-lens-records-seized-242381
22-04-2021||---||Dalai Lama wishes ex-PM quick recovery||Dharamsala, April 21The Dalai Lama has wished former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh a speedy recovery from Covid.In a released issued yesterday, a spokesperson of the Dalai Lama said on learning that the former Prime Minister had tested positive for coronavirus, the Dalai Lama wrote a letter to him, expressing sympathy. “I pray that you will make a swift recovery,” he wrote.“As you know, I have enormous respect for you and count you as an old friend, I hope we may see an early end to the challenges the coronavirus poses as it threatens every nation across the world,” said the Dalai Lama.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/dalai-lama-wishes-ex-pm-quick-recovery-242385
22-04-2021||---||Himachal salary cut for Covid draws sharp reaction||Shimla, April 21The Himachal Government’s decision to order a cut in salary of its employees for the HP Covid-19 Solidarity Response Fund has evoked a sharp reaction from the public on social media.The Department of Health and Family Welfare today issued orders for deducting two-day salary from the emoluments of Class I and II officials and one-day cut in case of Class III and IV staff. The employees of the health department have been exempted from the cut.People took to social media to lash out at the government over the cut, bringing up the “wasteful expenditure” on luxury vehicles of ministers and bureaucrats and their huge travel expenses. Some criticised the decision while mentioning the government’s move to take on lease a Russian helicopter for the Chief Minister’s official engagements. Some said that while enhanced pay and other benefits were yet to be given to employees, there was no check on the government’s extravagance.“Despite several social welfare measures taken by the state government during the Covid pandemic, hardships might still be faced by the citizens, particularly the poor and marginalised sections of society,” the order read while justifying the cut. It further stated that the need of the hour was to coordinate efforts of the state government, civil society and all citizens to strengthen the healthcare infrastructure which required funds.An appeal was also made to the well-off people to make liberal contribution and donations to the HP Covid-19 Solidarity Response Fund.CM, ministers, MLAs to contribute too||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-salary-cut-for-covid-draws-sharp-reaction-242352
22-04-2021||---||Highway caves in near Solan; vehicular traffic diverted||Solan, April 21Vehicular traffic was diverted through a single lane near Chambaghat on the Solan-Kaithlighat section of national highway-5 as a portion of the road caved in near the Directorate of Mushroom Research at Chambaghat late Tuesday evening.Cracks were also visible on the road surface as excavation work was underway to construct a flyover. Since a big crater had appeared right in the middle of the road, only a narrow road was available for the vehicular traffic.This is the lone road which connects Solan to state capital Shimla and it caters to a large volume of vehicles on a daily basis. Policemen were deputed on the spot to ensure smooth movement of the traffic.Work to repair the road was started in the morning by the staff of Airef Engineers engaged in four-laning this section of the highway. “Since a pillar has to be erected at the site for construction of a flyover, its base had been dug up but it led to erosion of the earth below the road. Work was underway to fill the crater while the remaining road was repaired by providing support to make it functional,” DSP Ramesh Sharma said.With buildings on both sides, construction of a flyover is fraught with problems. In another instance, the lower portion of a two-storey guest house of Mohan Meakin had caved in two days ago at Chambaghat rendering the building unsafe for habitation.This is the second such instance where the highway has caved in on this section of the highway. Earlier, the highway had caved in near Waknaghat in September 2020 and it had disrupted traffic for more than 16 hours.Four-laning of this 22.91 km stretch road from Solan-Kaithlighat was initiated work in December 2018. Assigned for a 30-month period, the work was awarded at a cost of Rs 598 crore on the engineering procurement and construction mode.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/highway-caves-in-near-solan-vehicular-traffic-diverted-242211
