23-04-2021||Tribune Web deskChandigarh||In pictures: Himachal reports rain, snow; damage to apple, cherry crop possible||The cold weather conditions revived by heavy rain and untimely snow in the higher reaches of Himachal Pradesh on Friday have left orchardists worried as the dip in temperature may harm various fruits.The rain was accompanied by hail in several parts of the hill state, especially the Shimla district, which contributes most to the county's apple production.The crop of cherry, which is is ready for harvesting, is likely to be affected too.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/in-pictures-himachal-reports-rain-snow-damage-to-apple-cherry-crop-possible-243064
23-04-2021||Ambika Sharma||To evade tax barriers, heavy vehicles use rural roads in Kasauli area||Tribune News ServiceSolan,April 22In a bid to evade taxes, the multi-axle vehicles carrying tonnes of industrial goods, especially from the steel units in Baddi-Barotiwala-Nalagarh (BBN) industrial hub, are using the narrow village roads of Kasauli tehsil.Though the e-way bills are compulsory for vehicles carrying industrial goods, truckers are evading tax payment by using village routes which have no excise and taxation barriers. These trucks usually start their journey after 10:30 pm from the BBN hub when there is little fear of checking.“On the regular route, a vehicle has to pass through the excise barrier at Parwanoo, but these truckers use escape routes to evade tax,” said an excise official.Villagers in the affected areas are up in arms over the use of rural roads as an industrial corridor. They have been complaining about trucks descending on the Patta Mehlog-Kasauli road after midnight on a daily basis. The village roads are neither designed to withstand such heavy load nor are repaired on a regular basis.“A steep road from Baand to Chamiyan village has been the worst-hit,” a local resident said, adding that these vehicles also face difficulty negotiating the narrow Garkhal junction where five roads meet. There are traffic jams too when several trucks cross the area. The Solan DC said the police had been directed to ensure that multi-axle trucks did not ply on rural roads leading to Kasauli.The DC, State Taxes and Excise, said: “Staff will be deputed to check these trucks and see if there is evasion of tax as this is not a regular route used by trucks carrying industrial goods.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/to-evade-tax-barriers-heavy-vehicles-use-rural-roads-in-kasauli-area-242907
23-04-2021||Shimla||42-yr-old rain record in Shimla broken||A severe hailstorm and thunderstorm accompanied by intermittent heavy rain lashed Shimla and its surrounding areas today, disrupting normal life. Shimla received 86 mm of rain in the past 24 hours, breaking the 42-year-old record of heavy rainfall in one day in April. The temperature in the capital city fell to 4°C. Earlier Shimla had received the maximum rainfall of 111 mm on April 15, 1979.The thunderstorm disrupted power supply, uprooted trees and blew off roofs of kaccha houses at several places. Dodra Kwar was cut off from the rest of the state. As many as 179 roads in the state were blocked. The highest number of 140 roads was blocked in Lahaul and Spiti district, followed by 16 each in Chamba and Kinnaur, seven in Kullu, and one in Shimla.Tribal areas received another spell of fresh snowfall; Keylong witnessed 18 cm of snow, followed by Kalpa 16 mm and Kothi 3 mm.Widespread rain lashed the region. Manali received 74 mm of rain, followed by Jogindernagar 71 mm, Dalhousie 66 mm, Kothi 65 mm, Baijnath 56 mm, Palampur 54 mm, Bhuntar 40 mm, Dharamsala and Narkanda 38 mm each, Sundernagar 37 mm, Tinder 35 mm, Mandi and Tissa 34 mm, Malan 33 mm, Banjar and Chhatrari 32 mm each, Seobagh 31 mm, Jubbar Hatti 28 mm, Janjehli 27 mm, Khadrala and Keylong 26 mm each, Bharari 25 mm, Bhoranj and Bakloh 24 mm each, Bijahi and Bajura 23 mm each, Naina Devi and Karsog 22 mm each, Kasol and Sangla 21 mm each, Moorang 20 mm and Ghumarwin and Bilaspur 18 mm each.The local Met office has issued a yellow warning of a thunderstorm and lightning at isolated places in Bilaspur, Shimla and Sirmaur districts tomorrow. It has also predicted a wet spell in the region on April 23, 24 and 28. The minimum temperatures were three to four degrees below normal and Keylong was the coldest at night recording minus 0.7°C. The maximum temperatures were nine to 10 degrees below normal and Nahan with 26.7°C was the hottest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/42-yr-old-rain-record-in-shimla-broken-242764
23-04-2021||Shimla||Untimely snow in Shimla, Kinnaur leaves apple growers jittery||The cold wave sweeping the region has left apple growers worried. For the past three days, rain, hailstorm and snow have lashed apple-growing belt in Shimla and Kinnaur.“It has been snowing here intermittently for the last three days. The snow has occurred at the time of flowering, causing damage,” said Narayan Negi from Reckong Peo in Kinnaur. He further said it had snowed 7-8 inches almost everywhere in Kinnaur, leading to anxiety among the growers. “It’s rare to have snowfall post mid-April and that too 7-8 inches. I feel our 60 per cent crop has damaged. Trees too have suffered damage,” he said.Many places, including Narkanda, have been hit by hailstorm that has caused more damage than the snow. “We had seen a fierce hailstorm on Wednesday for about half an hour. It tore apart the anti-hail nets, broke the structure supporting the nets, and damaged flowers,” said Rajesh Sharma from Narkanda.Harish Chauhan, an orchardist from Rohru, said the disturbance in weather would adversely affect the production. “The weather has become unpredictable for the last few years. The government and other stakeholders will need to see if it’s because of climate change. The government should also assess the damage growers have suffered,” said Chauhan.SP Bhardwaj, a former joint director with the Nauni university, has different point of view. He said snowfall and rain would not have adverse effect on crop setting unless petals were damaged. “The amount of rain we have had will have a positive effect on the crop. Now, plants can do without rain for at least one and a half month, and it will also help fruit attain a bigger size,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/untimely-snow-in-shimla-kinnaur-leaves-apple-growers-jittery-242769
23-04-2021||Dharamsala||Wheat crop flattened in Kangra||Heavy rain lashed most parts of Kangra district today, damaging wheat crop. The harvesting is going on in the lower areas of Kangra district, including Dehra, Nurpur, Jawali, Fatehpur, Nurpur and Indora.Joginder Kumar, a farmer from Indora, said his harvested wheat was lying in the fields. Now, it had gone wet. It might have increased the moisture content in wheat and the procurement authorities were not likely to buy it, said worried Joginder.In the upper areas of Kangra district, including Dharamsala, Kangra, Palampur and Baijnath, the farmers are yet to start harvesting. However, farmers are fearing that the increased moisture in the air will expose their wheat crop to fungal diseases.The Punjab Government has banned the entry of wheat from Himachal into its mandis. To help out farmers, the FCI has opened procurement centres in Kangra and Una districts. The farmers are, however, fearing that the unseasonal rain and weather may increase moisture in their crop and the FCI may reject it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/wheat-crop-flattened-in-kangra-242780
23-04-2021||Our CorrespondentPalampur||Bara Bhangal cut off as white blanket covers Dhauladhars||Upper reaches of Dhauladhar hills and high-altitude areas of Palampur experienced heavy snowfall in the past 20 hours while lower areas were lashed by heavy rain. The entire region is in the grip of a severe cold wave. Heavy snow and rain are expected in the next 24 hours.Bara Bhangal was cut off from the rest of the world following heavy snowfall at the Thamsar Pass located at a height of 19,000 feet. Rajgunda, Kothi Kohar and upper reaches of the Lolar Pass also experienced heavy snow.Normal life in the Palampur region was paralysed following snowfall and rain. Power supply and transport services were also hit. Many parts of Palampur, Baijnath, Jaisinghpur, Chhota Bhangal and adjoining areas remained without power following a snag in the transmission lines feeding many parts of Kangra.Vehicular traffic to Chhota Bhangal and Billing has come to standstill. The district administration has suspended paragliding at Bir Billing. It has advised tourists and locals not to visit Billing as the roads are slippery and blocked at many points following rain and snowfall.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bara-bhangal-cut-off-as-white-blanket-covers-dhauladhars-242790
23-04-2021||Abhinav VashishtKULLU||BRO rescues 87 from Baralacha||The Border Roads Organisation (BRO) has rescued the remaining 87 commuters, including two women and three children, who had been stuck near the Baralacha Pass since Tuesday. As many as 32 trucks, two tempos and four small vehicles were stranded near Baralacha on April 20 due to snowfall.Power network hitLahaul and Spiti DC Pankaj Rai said the rescue operation began immediately and a joint team consisting of personnel from the BRO, the police and the district administration rescued 147 persons by the night of April 20. However, further attempts by rescue teams were unsuccessful due to poor visibility owing to the heavy snowfall.The DC said the rescue operation was later resumed by the BRO in the morning yesterday and after two failed attempts, the rescue party could finally make a breakthrough at 4 pm. He said the remaining 87 persons were rescued on the wee hours today. Around 10 truck drivers decided to stay with their vehicles and did not return with the rescue team.He said all 234 rescued persons were brought to Jispa and were provided first aid, food and lodging. Their Covid tests had been conducted and the positive cases were being taken care of. Two persons had suffered chilblains and were being given treatment.The DC lauded the relentless efforts of BRO officers for the rescue operation that lasted more than 35 hours amid one of the heaviest snowfall spells of the season along with avalanches and slides on the entire stretch from Darcha to Baralacha. He said the district administration had helped more than 1,000 stranded persons in 19 days.Meanwhile, the Lahaul valley was reeling under darkness as the power lines were damaged due to heavy snowfall. The road connectivity had been hit.There were reports of damage to greenhouses and rootstocks at various places.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bro-rescues-87-from-baralacha-242793
23-04-2021||The road heading towards doctors’ hostel from the Sanjauli-IGMC road is littered with garbage. It’s used by many people||Garbage littered on sanjauli-IGMC road||Issue water bill monthlyChamba residents have urged the state Jal Shakti Vibhag to issue water and sewerage bills to its consumers every month instead of three months, so that they may not feel the burden of paying the bills. Moreover, the authorities should not give due date for paying the bills during holidays, which results in penalty to defaulters unnecessarily. Like this time, the due date of paying bills was fixed for April 15. Being a holiday, it resulted in penalty to consumers. — Suresh Kashmiri, ChambaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/garbage-littered-on-sanjauli-igmc-road-242794
23-04-2021||Shoolini University organised a meeting of Joint Research Development and Advisory Committee (JRDAC) to discuss the research initiatives. It was organised online under the chairmanship of Prof RC Mahajan||Research initiatives discussed||HPU distance edu admissions till Apr 30The ICDEOL, Himachal Pradesh University (HPU), has decided to reopen portal for admission/registration from April 22 for students of February to March-2021 session and extend the date up to April 30. Director Prof Kulwant Pathania said the portal would be open for all undergraduate, postgraduate and diploma courses, except BEd and MA-Education. He said the handbook/prospectus for admission was available on ICDEOL website www.icdeolhpu.org. The students have been advised to visit admissions.hpushimla.in for registration. The students may contact 0177-2833419,2833444 and 2832239. This extension shall be the last opportunity to seek admission as per the guidelines of the UGC (DEB), Prof Pathania said.Earth Day celebratedHIMCOSTE joint member secretary Nishant Thakur said the HP Envis Hub of HP Council for Science, Technology and Environment celebrated Earth Day, in collaboration with Kerala ENVIS Hub, under the programme ‘Ek Bharat, Shreshta Bharat’. Online painting as well as slogan-writing competitions and quiz were held on the theme 'Restore our Earth' for students from HP and Kerala.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/research-initiatives-discussed-242796
23-04-2021||Shimla||No oxygen shortage in Himachal as 4 plants functional||While four of the proposed seven PSA (pressure swing adsorption) oxygen generating plants in the state have become functional, work on three remains to be completed even as the demand is escalating in view of rise in Covid cases in the hill state.Bed strength 2,300, being enhanced to 3,000All 137 beds for Covid patients at the IGMC, Shimla, and 70 at Mashobra are full while 63 of the 90 beds at Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital in Shimla are occupied. Himachal at present has 2,300 beds for Covid patients, and the number is being raised to 3,000.The active cases have steadily increased in Himachal from 218 on February 23, 2021, to around 11,000 in a short span of time. The surge being observed in the second wave is much higher and steeper than the case progression in the first wave, leading to fear gripping the people, who are flocking hospitals even in case of a viral or flu.“Four of the proposed plants at Zonal Hospital, Dharamsala, Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital (Shimla), Ner Chowk (Mandi) and Medical College (Nahan) have become operational to meet the demand for oxygen in case of Covid patients,” revealed Amitabh Awasthy, Secretary, Health and Family Welfare.He said as of now there was no shortage of oxygen anywhere in the state. “With the regular supply at these four plants besides additional dependence on cylinder, the state would be able to meet its requirement for the next 20 days even if positive cases continue to mount at the same pace being witnessed right now,” claimed Awasthy.Though as of now the state is meeting its escalated oxygen requirement if cases continue to mount at the same pace, Himachal might have to seek help from outside. All the 137 beds for Covid patients at the Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC), Shimla, and 70 at Mashobra are full while 63 of the 90 beds at Deen Dayal Upadhyay here are occupied. This clearly indicates that the need for hospitalisation is rising. Himachal presently has a total bed capacity of 2,300 for Covid patients, which is being enhanced to 3,000.The work at the other proposed PSA oxygen plants at the medical colleges at Hamirpur and Tanda in Kangra is expected to be complete by April 30. The work has been held up as the staff engaged for the work has rushed to the high load states of Maharashtra and Gujarat. The work here is scheduled to resume by April 25. “Since the work that remains to be complete is minor, we are hopeful that once the staff deputed by Government of India for the purpose resumes work, the oxygen plants would come into operation from May 1,” said Awasthy.There is concern among the general public as well the health department regarding some person who have tested positive not adhering to the norm of home isolation. The main reason behind this is the slackened tracing and monitoring mechanism as compared to the last year and a general casualness. Both among the people as well as staff responsible for this task.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/no-oxygen-shortage-in-himachal-as-4-plants-functional-242816
23-04-2021||Shimla||Free jabs to 18-44 age group in Himachal||The state government today decided to provide free of cost vaccination to people between 18 to 44 age group in government health institutions across the state from May 1. The decision was taken by the Cabinet at its meeting chaired by Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur here today.A presentation was made on the Covid situation in the state and enhancing facilities at various health institutions was discussed.It was also decided to constitute mobile teams at block level to provide better treatment to the Covid patients under home isolation. One vehicle would be provided exclusively to shift serious patients to health institutions. It was also decided in the meeting that each medical college would have dedicated team headed by a senior doctor to supervise Covid cases for better treatment of patients.It was also decided to provide incentives to the outsourced employees engaged in tackling Covid-19 pandemic at Rs 200 per shift. It was also decided that government, besides providing better treatment to patients under home isolation, would also provide a nutrition kit to Covid patients.The Cabinet decided to regularize the services of daily/contingent workers who have completed five years of continuous services as on March 31, 2021 or are completing it on September 30, 2021 against the available vacant posts in various departments. It also gave its nod to regularize the services of contractual employees who have completed three years of services as on March 31, 2021 or are completing service on September 30, 2021 in various departments of the state government.The Cabinet decided to convert the services of part time workers completing eight years of continuous services on March 31, 2021 or are to complete on September 30, 2021 in government departments into daily wagers.The Chief Minister and his Cabinet colleagues contributed their one-month salary towards Chief Minister Covid Fund in the Cabinet. The cheques were handed over by the Chief Minister to Chief Secretary Anil Khachi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/free-jabs-to-18-44-age-group-in-himachal-242824
23-04-2021||Legal CorrespondentShimla||Himachal Pradesh High Court reverts to virtual hearing after 2 months||The Himachal Pradesh High Court has reverted to virtual hearing of cases following the recent spike in Covid-19 cases. It had resumed physical hearing two months ago.The High Court has ordered through its Registrar General that “keeping in view the rise in Covid-19 cases, the High Court has decided to switch over to virtual hearing till further orders”.The court order said, “However, in exceptional cases, physical hearing will be held with the consent of the counsels of the contesting parties”.On the other hand, the members of the District Bar Association has resolved that there will be adjournments in all pending cases till May 7 in the District Courts of Shimla and only proxy counsels will appear.It has resolved that the counsels of the parties will appear only in those cases where urgent relief is involved and which require their presence or of their clients.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-pradesh-high-court-reverts-to-virtual-hearing-after-2-months-242838
23-04-2021||Chamba||Chamba shops to be shut on weekend||All markets, shops and commercial establishments, including malls, gyms and sports complexes, would remain closed on Saturday and Sunday in Chamba district till May 1, said District Magistrate (DM) DC Rana in orders issued here today.The markets in the district will remain open from 9 am to 7 pm on weekdays, he said. The orders would not apply to shops dealing in items of daily need such as fruits, vegetables, milk, milk products and pharmacies.Restaurants, dhabas and hotels in the district shall continue to operate in accordance with the prescribed SOPs issued by the Department of Tourism. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/chamba-shops-to-be-shut-on-weekend-242845
23-04-2021||Shimla||Covid tally rises by 1,774 cases, 18 fatalities in Himachal||There was no respite on the Covid front as 1,774 fresh cases were reported today. Besides, 18 death occurred in the past 24 hours. Six persons died of the virus in Mandi, five in Kangra, two each in Shimla, Hamirpur and Sirmaur and one in Bilaspur.The number of active cases shot up to 11,859 as the total positive cases rose to 82,876.The highest of 449 cases was reported in Kangra, followed by 201 in Hamirpur, 189 in Solan, 188 each in Shimla and Mandi, 163 in Una, 119 in Bilaspur, 110 in Sirmaur, 87 in Kullu, 38 in Chamba, 29 in Lahaul Spiti and 13 in Kinnaur. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-tally-rises-by-1-774-cases-18-fatalities-in-himachal-242848
23-04-2021||Shimla||People not keen on vaccine, govt worried||A sudden decline in the interest being shown by people to get the Covid vaccine seems to be worrying the government as appeal is being made to people to come forward to get the jab.Data culled from the Health Department reveals that 12.72 lakh people had received the first dose while 1.64 lakh the second dose. A total of 14.37 lakh of an estimated 70 lakh population has been vaccinated.“Although the pace of vaccination had been good, recently a dip has been observed in the number of people coming forward for vaccination. Although instructions have been issued to districts to ramp up the vaccination drive, it is important for those who are eligible for vaccination to know its benefits,” stressed National Health Mission Director Dr Nipun Jindal.The figure includes 78,785 health workers, who have got the first jab, and 64,658 have got the second jab as well. So far, 48,605 of the other front line workers have got the first vaccine dose while 36,074 have completed the two-dose course.Of the 1,223 Covid deaths taken place, 1,109 persons were over 45 years of age. Of these, two had taken two doses of vaccine. “However, in one of the cases, the time between second dose and death has been four days,” said Dr Jindal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/people-not-keen-on-vaccine-govt-worried-242850
23-04-2021||Mandi||Traders impose curbs in Mandi||The Beopar Mandal, Manali, has decided to impose a partial lockdown to check the Covid-19 outbreak.A meeting of the Beopar Mandal held today decided that all shops, except dhabas, hotels and restaurants, would remain closed on Sunday. The shops would open from 10 am to 3 pm from Monday to Saturday. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/traders-impose-curbs-in-mandi-242852
23-04-2021||Shimla||Coffee-table book on birds in Himachal out||Coffee-table book titled “Himachal Birds: A Visual Treat” detailing list of 672 birds and 31 important birding areas in Himachal compiled by DGP, Prisons, Somesh Goyal, who is also the founder president of Himachal Birds, a forum dedicated to the conservation of avian habitat, was released by Governor Bandaru Dattatreya here today.Keeping in view the directions by the government in view of sharp rise in Covid cases, the function was organised at a small scale in the presence of only two persons.Endangered speciesThe book with 208 photographs includes visuals of rare and endangered bird species like Himalayan Monal, Western Tragopan, KoklassScaly-bellied Woodpecker and Siberian Stonechat found in HP.There are 1,350 bird species in India out of which 50 per cent are found in Himachal and the idea is to promote birding as a hobby besides promoting the state as a birding tourist destination, said Goyal.“An effort has been made to bring out an interesting read and I hope that the book would contribute in exploring and encouraging more people to take birding as a hobby so that more birds could be found besides promoting birding tourism in the state”, he said adding that it is a tribute to the state as the golden jubilee year of the statehood is also being celebrated.The book is available at Flipkart at a price of Rs 2,500. It took almost 10 months to finish the book started during lockdown, said Goyal who has authored 10 books.The Governor admired the toil of Somesh Goyal on birds of the state and said, it was not easy to capture such good pictures with the camera while in the police and his passion was praise worthy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/coffee-table-book-on-birds-in-himachal-out-242855
23-04-2021||Ravinder SoodPalampur||Shepherds stuck amid snowfall in Himachal Kangra district||Following unusual snowfall in the month of April in high-altitude areas of Kangra, Chamba and Lahaul Spiti districts of state, scores of shepherds have been held up in Palampur and other areas of Kangra district. These shepherds were on their way to Bara Bhangal and parts of Chamba district. With the onset of summers these tribes move to high hills along with their flock of animals every year.Held-up in PalampurScores of shepherds have been held up in Palampur and other areas of Kangra district. These shepherds were on their way to Bara Bhanghal and parts of Chamba district.These shepherds are from traditional Gaddi community and have been moving like this for generations. In summers, they move up in high-altitude areas of Dhauladhar hills, Chhota and Bara Bhangal, Lahaul Spiti, Kinnaur and in parts of Chamba district. In winters they roam from one place to other in Una, Bilaspur, Kangra, Hamirpur and Sirmaur districts in search of greener pastures for their animals.Talking to The Tribune, Bhag Singh, who is camping near Palampur along with his animals for the past 20 days, said that he had planned to move to Bara Bhangal in the first week of April but because of unusual snowfall he had been held up.The change in the snow lines in the past few years and global warming have impacted the traditional routes of seasonal migration making their lives risky and rendered difficult search for new pastures. Global warming has led to erratic rain and snowfall also shifted the snowline.A Divisional Forest Officer, while talking to The Tribune, said the global warming and unusual rain and snow in the high-altitude areas had forced these tribes to camp near Palampur, Baijnath, Gopalpur and Paror. They are camping here for the past few days. He said since all traditional routes of shepherds had been blocked because of heavy snowfall in Dhauladhars in the past 15 days there was no possibility of their moving further areas in the next 10 days.Trilok Kapoor, chairman, state wool federation, said that unusal snow and rain had made the lives of these Gaddi tribes miserable and forced them to camp in open. Animals are suffering from different diseases because of bad weather. He said the new generation was also not willing to take over this profession anymore. He said the state government had launched a number of new schemes for the benefits of shepherds, providing them high resolution torches, medicines to animals, tents, etc. Besides, the best breeds of sheep and goat were also being provided to them free of cost by the government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shepherds-stuck-amid-snowfall-in-himachal-kangra-district-242856
23-04-2021||Hamirpur||Tax on milk illegal: Congress||The tax levied by agriculture produce marketing committees in the state on sale and supply of milk was unlawful, said Sunil Sharma, AICC member, here today.He said the government should clarify that on what account and under which Act, tax was levied on sale of milk. He said milk was exempted from taxes and this tax had caused losses to milk suppliers in the state. He said even after collecting the tax, suppliers were not provided any facilities during the pandemic, when they were travelling day and night to ensure supply of milk to people.He said the government should provide tax relief to the business community, as they were suffering heavy losses during the pandemic. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/tax-on-milk-illegal-congress-242857
23-04-2021||Mandi||Probe Kaul Singh’s assets: MLA Jawahar Thakur||Darang MLA Jawahar Thakur has accused former minister and Congress leader Kaul Singh of amassing property disproportionate to his known sources of income. He has said that the state government should investigate the matter.Jawahar, while addressing mediapersons here today, said, “Kaul Singh had represented Darang eight times. He had been a minister of different departments during the Congress regime in the state and amassed huge properties disproportionate to his known sources of income during that period”.Meanwhile, Kaul Singh said, “I had earned the properties from legal sources of income and I pay income tax regularly to the Centre”. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/probe-kaul-singhs-assets-mla-jawahar-thakur-242858
23-04-2021||Dharamsala||Earth future is ours: says Dalai Lama||The Dalai Lama in a message delivered today on the World Earth Day, urged people to save environment. “The future of earth is our future and it is our only common home,” he said.“On the Earth Day 2021, I appeal to my brothers and sisters throughout the world to look at both the challenges and the opportunities before us on this one blue planet that we share”, Dalai Lama said.“In the face of such global problems as the effect of global heating and depletion of the ozone layer, individual organizations and single nations are helpless. Unless we all work together, no solution can be found. Our mother earth is teaching us a lesson in universal responsibility,” he said.“Take the issue of water as an example. Today, more than ever, the welfare of citizens in many parts of the world, especially of mothers and children, is at extreme risk because of the critical lack of adequate water, sanitation and hygienic conditions. I am grateful that the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Antonio Guterres, has issued an urgent global call to action,” the Dalai Lama said.“If our planet is to be sustained, environmental education and personal responsibility must grow and keep growing. Taking care of the environment should be an essential part of our daily lives.“On this Earth Day let us all commit ourselves to doing our part to help make a positive difference to the environment of our only common home, this beautiful earth,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/earth-future-is-ours-says-dalai-lama-242859
23-04-2021||Mandi||HRTC staff not paid March salary||The employees of the HRTC have not been paid the salary for March. The most affected are contractual employees, especially Class III and IV workers, who receive meager salaries. They have appealed to the Chief Minister to look into the matter.The affected employees told The Tribune that the delay in the payment of salary had made life difficult for them and they were unable to meet the daily expenses of their families. Jaswant Singh, Gagan Rana, Rohit Gularia, and Om Prakash said, “April is about to end but still we have not been paid the salary for March. Conductors and bus drivers work overtime day and night to deliver the best services to the people of the state but till now they have not been paid night allowance and the overtime dues for the past 30 months”.“The employees of other departments are getting salaries and other emoluments in time, then why the HRTC employees have not been paid the March salary,” they said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hrtc-staff-not-paid-march-salary-242861
23-04-2021||Solan||Ensure Covid test of workers from other states: DC||Sirmaur DC RK Pruthi today directed industry representatives from Kala Amb and Paonta Sahib to ensure that workers returning from other states join duty only after undergoing the RT-PCR test.He was addressing a meeting with the representatives of civic bodies, industry and barber associations at Nahan.He exhorted the representatives of various organisations to encourage people, who had returned from the Kumbh Mela, to get themselves tested for Covid. He also directed them to ensure that people in home isolation adher to the guidelines.“Public representatives should encourage people of the age of 45 years and above to take the Covid vaccine and ensure that there is no congregation of more than 50 persons in their areas,” added Pruthi. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ensure-covid-test-of-workers-from-other-states-dc-242863
23-04-2021||Shimla||Himachal to provide free Covid vaccine to people between 18 and 44 years||The Himachal Pradesh government on Thursday decided to bear the expenses of Covid-19 vaccine for those aged between 18 and 44 years as the vaccination is free for people of 45 years and above.It was also decided that all government officials will preferably get vaccinated.At a Cabinet meeting chaired by Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, it was decided the jab for those between 18 and 44 years would be provided in government hospitals and health institutions.It was decided to constitute mobile teams at block level to provide better treatment to the patients under home isolation. One vehicle would be provided exclusively to shift seriously-ill patients.It was decided that each medical college would have a dedicated team headed by a senior doctor to supervise the cases for better treatment.The Chief Minister and his cabinet colleagues contributed their one-month salary towards the Chief Minister Covid Fund. The cheques were handed over to Chief Secretary Anil Khachi for the fund during the meeting. IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-to-provide-free-covid-vaccine-to-people-between-18-and-44-years-242694
