24-04-2021||Shimla||24 deaths, 2,073 fresh virus cases in Himachal Pradesh||Twenty-four more people died from coronavirus in Himachal Pradesh on Saturday as 2,073 fresh cases surfaced, pushing the state’s infection tally to 86,138, an official said.So far, the infection has claimed 1,291 lives in the state, Special Health Secretary Nipun Jindal said. Kangra reported the maximum eight deaths on Saturday, followed by five in Hamirpur, three in Mandi, two each in Shimla, Solan and Chamba and one each in Sirmaur and Una, Jindal said, citing the official data updated till 7 pm. He said the number of active COVID-19 cases in the state stands at 13,411. As many as 877 coronavirus patients recovered from the infection, taking the total number of recoveries in the state to 71,396, he said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/24-deaths-2-073-fresh-virus-cases-in-himachal-pradesh-243604
24-04-2021||Shimla||16 forest officials fined Rs 34 lakh for felling of 416 trees in Himachal||For the first time in recallable past, the Himachal Pradesh High Court has imposed a fine of Rs 34 lakh on 16 forest officials, including two Conservators of Forests, for illicit felling of 416 trees in the Shimla forest range between 2015 and 2018.Holding that the officials responsible for the loss of 100-year-old trees have to be put to task, the court gave them an opportunity to appear before it on May 27, the next date of hearing, if they want themselves to be heard before making the recovery and entry of the lapse in their service record.The orders were passed by a division bench comprising Chief Justice L. Narayana Swamy and Justice Anoop Chitkara on a letter taken up suo moto as public interest litigation (PIL) for conducting a fair and impartial investigation into the illegal felling of trees in the Koti forest range in Shimla district.Miffed over the non-compliance of its directions on illicit felling of trees, the high court had earlier directed the Principal Secretary (Forests) and the Principal Chief Conservator of Forests to be present in the court on April 20.In the last hearing, the bench had directed the Principal Secretary for computation of recovery of Rs 34,68,233 from 16 officials, including two Conservators of Forests, two Divisional Forest Officers, three Assistant Conservators of Forests, two Range Forest Officers, six Block Officers and one Forest Guard.During the hearing, it was brought to the notice of the court by amicus curiae B.C. Negi that it was the mandatory duty on the part of the Range Officer, the Assistant Conservator, the Divisional Forest Officer and the Deputy Conservator to carry out field inspection and detect any felling.He apprised the court that instead of initiating action against the high-ranked officers, action was taken only against the low-rank officials.Advocate General Ashok Sharma said that three officers failed to bring the illegal felling into the notice of their superiors, therefore action was initiated against them.He said Bhoop Ram, who is a licensee of a stone crusher, had illegally cut 416 trees, the cost of which is Rs 34,68,233. Out of this, almost the entire amount has been recovered and only approximately Rs 4 lakh is to be recovered.The court observed that the state must have recovered the cost of timber, but the value of trees cannot be evaluated as trees “are oxygen producers and de-carbonisers”.“The officers who are responsible for this loss of trees of 100 years of age have to be put to task. This kind of illegal and illicit felling of trees cannot be compensated in any manner,” observed the bench.It also observed that the order of the Department of Forest Farming and Conservation dated May 4, 1984, confers duty on the part of the officer to visit the forest and it should have been treated as a mandatory duty.“When a person has an important duty to perform, he is bound to perform that duty; and if he neglects or refuses to do so, and an individual in consequence sustains injury, that lays the foundation for action to recover damages by way of compensation.“The duty is cast upon the officer which is an administrative duty and which is not discretionary and failure on the part of the officer to perform the duty is misfeasance, which means a failure to do something when there is a legal duty to do, especially by a person in authority,” the bench said.The judges observed that the responsibility of felling of trees has to be fixed, from the Forest Guard up to the Principal Chief Conservator of Forests, as all these officers are responsible for inaction, in terms of mandatory field instructions and field touring for the purpose of physical verification and there is dereliction of duties on their part. IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/16-forest-officials-fined-rs-34-lakh-for-felling-of-416-trees-in-himachal-243590
24-04-2021||---||7-day home quarantine or negative report must for Himachal residents heading home||Shimla, April 24Himachal government late on Friday made it mandatory for all those returning to the state to remain in one-week home quarantine or else enter with RTPCR negative report. Himachal on Friday recorded the highest ever 26 deaths in a single day since the outbreak of Covid, last year.Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur in a video message appealed to the people to cooperate in the fight against Covid.  He said those returning home should inform the urban body or Panchayati representatives about their return home. He added that the health staff will guide and assist all such people under home isolation regarding testing and medication.Thakur expressed concern over the worrisome situation with an average of almost 1,500 cases being reported daily.  He said all precautionary measures must be taken to ensure that the situation does not go out of hand.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/7-day-home-quarantine-or-negative-report-must-for-himachal-residents-heading-home-243509
24-04-2021||Shimla||Only 1 oxygen plant working in Himachal, govt claims 4||Even as the Himachal Government yesterday claimed four pressure swing adsorption oxygen generation plants have been made operational in the state, an investigation by The Tribune found that only one such plant at Zonal Hospital, Dharamsala, is functional. The ones at Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital (Shimla), Government Medical College and Hospital (Mandi) and Dr YS Parmar Government Medical College (Nahan) are yet to be made operational. The Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare is funding the project. Shimla’s former Deputy Mayor and CPM leader Tikender Panwar said: “Why mislead the public and make false claims when the situation is quite the contrary?”Dr Ravinder Mokta, Medical Superintendent, Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital, said: “The structure is ready and the company is doing some last-minute testing. We are hoping to start the plant in the first week of May.”At Nahan college, civil and electrical works have been completed at a cost of Rs 14 lakh, but the plant is yet to be commissioned. “The case surge in Maharashtra has delayed the arrival of engineers. The technical team is now scheduled to arrive on April 26 for commissioning the plant,’’ said Dr RK Pruthi, Deputy Commissioner, Sirmaur. Similarly, the plant at Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri Government Medical College and Hospital in Mandi is also not functional. Dr RC Thakur, principal, said it would take another two days as engineers were yet to report at the site. — TNSTech teams stuck in Maharashtra||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/only-1-oxygen-plant-working-in-himachal-govt-claims-4-243346
24-04-2021||Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many||Sabji Mandi Road narrow||The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com Sabji Mandi Road narrowThe stretch leading to the Sabji Mandi from the cart road was renovated recently, but it has become even more narrow. There's hardly any place for the vehicles to cross. Road could have been widened when it was being repaired. — Amit Chauhan, ShimlaWater, power crisis at ChopalChopal has been facing electricity and water problems for the past many days. Every now and then, for no apparent reason, the electricity trips. A 66-kv station has been under constructed for a long time, but nobody knows when it will be completed. Also, there is a severe shortage of water, casing problem to the people of the area. — DS Chauhan, Shimla||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sabji-mandi-road-narrow-243234
24-04-2021||APG Shimla University has laid the foundation stone of APG Shimla University Rotoract Cub. Prof Ramesh Chauhan||Stone laid for Rotoract Club||Postpone exams at HPU: NSUIThe NSUI has urged the government to postpone all exams under way at the HPU at the moment. It stated that the government had shut all educational institutions till May 1 due to spike in Covid cases, but the exams at the University Institute of Legal Studies were still going on. NSUI's Yasin Bhatt said by conducting these exams without following the SOPs, students' lives were being put in danger. Asking the exams to be postponed, Bhatt urged the administration to put on hold all appointment processes at the university.Parents demand fee rollbackParents gathered outside Dayanand Public School, Shimla, demanding the rollback of 65 per cent increase in tuition fee this year. The school administration, however, did not let them in and shut the gates, drawing sharp criticism from the parents. The parents also threatened to launch an agitation if the sharp hike was not withdrawn. The parents urged Education Director to enforce 2019 notification, which states that no school can enhance fee without holding the general house of the parents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/stone-laid-for-rotoract-club-243235
24-04-2021||Our Correspondent||Compensation sought for farmers||Bharmour, April 23Bharmour MLA Jia Lal Kapoor has urged Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur to provide compensation to farmers and orchardists for the damage caused to their crops and fruit orchards due to snowfall, hailstorm and heavy rains in tribal subdivisions of Bharmour and Pangi.In an official communiqué issued here today, Kapoor asked the officials of agriculture and horticulture departments to evaluate the damages caused to the crops and fruits and apprise the state government of the situation so that the people could get compensation on time.Kapoor said that cash crop of peas and fruit had suffered a lot of damage.Kapoor said the roads and bridges had also been damaged in these tribal areas; adding that the instructions had been issued to the officials of the departments concerned to prepare an estimate.He informed that instructions had been issued to Resident Commissioner of Pangi and Additional District Magistrate of Bharmour to restore the blocked road routes and restore traffic so that the people did not face any problem in movement.Kapoor also directed the officials of Jal Shakti Vibhag and state electricity board to maintain proper arrangements for water and power supply in the affected areas of Bharmour and Pangi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/compensation-sought-for-farmers-243236
24-04-2021||Our Correspondent||Roads blocked in Lahaul-Spiti||Mandi, April 23Traffic movement was halted in the Lahaul valley today following heavy rain and snowfall. Keylong received over 60 cm of snow in the past two days while normal life was disrupted in Lahaul and Spiti district.Power supply cables and poles were damaged in different parts of the district in the past three days, plunging the Lahaul valley into darkness. However, the power supply was partially restored at Keylong. The Manali-Leh highway remained blocked for the second consecutive day today due to heavy snowfall. Over 300 people were stranded in the Lahaul valley. Deputy Commissioner, Lahaul and Spiti, Pankaj Rai told The Tribune that the stranded people would be sent towards Leh from the Lahaul side via Srinagar as soon as the BRO restores the Manali-Keylong road in one or two days. The Manali-Leh highway was blocked ahead of the Solang valley towards Lahaul via the Atal Tunnel. The Jalori Pass National Highway No. 305 was also blocked.Around 36 roads were blocked in Kullu district alone, while power supply was also affected in rural areas.In Mandi district, 43 roads were blocked due to the snowfall, while 79 power transformers were damaged, affecting power supply in rural areas. The entire region is in the grip of a severe cold wave.As per sources, the heavy snowfall has caused considerable damage to agriculture and horticulture produce in Lahaul and Spiti, Kullu and Mandi districts. Apple orchards have been damaged in the Janjehli area of Mandi district while in the Lahaul valley, greenhouses have been damaged.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/roads-blocked-in-lahaul-spiti-243237
24-04-2021||---||Rain triggers landslides in Bharmour region||Dharamsala, April 23Heavy rain triggered landslides and blocked main road linking the Bharmour tribal area of Chamba district with other parts of the state.The Bharmour-Chamba-Pathankot national highway remained blocked for about six hours today morning, affecting main supplies in and out of tribal area of Chamba. Sources said that many rural roads in tribal areas of Chamba were also blocked due to landslides triggered by heavy rain in the last two days.Executive Engineer, PWD, Bharmour, Sanjeev Mahajan said that the Chamba-Bharmour National Highway was blocked today morning near Luna.Mahajan said that JCB machines were immediately deployed and the road was cleared after about six hours.Today morning Bharmour town received snowfall. Snow at the end of April surprised many and triggered cold wave in the area.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rain-triggers-landslides-in-bharmour-region-243238
24-04-2021||Shimla||Building collapses in Shimla, rain disrupts power supply||Widespread rain, hailstorm, thunderstorm and unseasonal snowfall have wreaked havoc in Himachal. A five-storey building collapsed in the Sanjauli area of Shimla city due to heavy rain today. However, no loss of life was reported, as the local administration got the building vacated after its retaining wall started caving in yesterday, said Deputy Commissioner Aditya Negi. A part of the Boulieganj to Tutu road also caved in and buses and heavy vehicles were diverted via Chakkar.The maximum damage to the apple crop was caused in Theog, Rohru and Kumarsein due to hailstorm that pierced through anti-hail nets. Tribal areas and higher hills received another spell of snowfall. Kalpa received 38 cm of snow, followed by Keylong 20 cm, Kothi 10 cm and Khadrala 8 cm. Narkanda, Khadrala, Kharaptthar, Shilaroo, Matyana, Dalog valley and other places had moderate to heavy snowfall, leading to a sharp fall in the mercury.Power supply remained disrupted in Shimla and hundreds of vehicles were stranded on the Manali-Leh road and other roads. Meanwhile, the police have rescued all 147 persons stranded at the Baralacha Pass at -25°C.Manali was the wettest with 69 mm of rain, followed by Bhuntar 64 mm, Kotkhai 63 mm, Palampur 55 mm, Dalhousie 44 mm, Kangra 43 mm, Baldwara and Seobagh 42 mm each, Kumarsen and Tinder 40 mm each, Bajura, Shillaro, Jogindernagar and Rampur 39 mm each, Banjar and Kandaghat 38 mm each, Shimla and Dehra Gopipur 37 mm, Karsog, Sarahan and Jubbar Hatti 35 mm each, Dharamsala and Reckong Peo 33 mm each, Naina Devi 32 mm, Baijnath 31 mm, Rajgarh 30 mm, Ghamroor 28 mm, Narkanda 27 mm, Nadaun, Jubbal and Wangtoo 26 mm each, and Manikaran 20 mm.Meanwhile, biting cold conditions continued in tribal areas and other higher hills and the minimum temperatures dropped by five to 12°C. Keylong was the coldest with a low of -1.4°C. Una recorded a high of 25.2°C. The local Met office predicted a dry weather for next three days. — TNSRoad sinksA portion of the road at Boileauganj also sank on Friday. As a result, traffic had to be diverted, causing a jam in the area.Tribal areas get intermittent snow||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/building-collapses-in-shimla-rain-disrupts-power-supply-243240
24-04-2021||Subhash Rajta||Snowfall wreaks havoc in apple belt in Himachal||Tribune News ServiceShimla, April 23Heavy and untimely snowfall today morning caused unprecedented damage to apple crop and trees in the higher reaches of Shimla, Kinnaur and Lahaul & Spiti. The four to six inches of snowfall not only damaged the crop, but also tore apart anti-hail nets, broke branches and uprooted trees at many places.Harish Chauhan, An OrchardistLong-term damageThe loss is not of the current crop. It will take growers several years to offset the damage as many trees have fallen under the weight of the snow.“The loss is not of the current crop. It will take growers several years to offset the damage as many trees have fallen under the weight of the snow,” said Harish Chauhan, an orchardist, and president of the Fruit, Vegetable and Flower Growers Association of Himachal Pradesh. “The government will need to grant a massive relief package to the growers, even if it requires taking loan from the Centre,” he said. Apart from apple, fruits like cherry, plum and pear, too, have suffered a massive damage.Acknowledging the massive loss, Horticulture Minister Mahender Singh said he had issued orders to the horticulture and revenue officials to assess the damage. “We have apprised the Centre of the damage. We will try and get assistance from the Centre to compensate the growers,” he said.The higher reaches had been enduring incessant rain and hailstorm for the last three days, but the snowfall today came as the last straw for apple growers. “It’s the worst loss we have ever suffered. Even our elders don’t remember such snowfall in April and the destruction,” said Lokender Bisht, president of the Progressive Growers Association. “Apple and other fruits above the 7,000-feet altitude have been hit severely. Even by conservative estimates, around one crore apple boxes have been wiped. The state and the Union governments should declare it a natural disaster and provide assistance to fruit growers at the earliest,” he said.The maximum damage has been reported from the orchards which were under anti-hail nets. “These nets gave in due to the snow accumulated on them and trees couldn’t take the weight. In these orchards, about 90 per cent of the trees have suffered damage. We could have borne the crop loss, but the damage to the trees have set us back by many years,” said Bisht.“The orchardists won’t be able to take this loss unless the government offers a helping hand. We have been totally destroyed,” said Rajiv Dimalu, an orchardist from Rohru.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/snowfall-wreaks-havoc-in-apple-belt-in-himachal-243242
24-04-2021||Shimla||Himachal Govt sets up centres for wheat purchase||The state government has decided open wheat procurement centres this year.Agriculture Minister Virender Kanwar said here today that farmers of Kangra, Solan, Sirmaur and Una sell their produce in Punjab and Haryana. Therefore, it hadbeen decided to open wheat procurement centres in the state for their convenience, he added.He said that except Lahaul-Spiti and Kinnaur districts, wheat is grown in all districts in the state and about 672 thousand MT of wheat is estimated to be produced this year. The government has fixed the wheat MSP at Rs 1,975.Kanwar said that procurement centres had been opened at Paonta Sahib and Kala Amb in Sirmaur district, Kangar (Haroli) and Takrala in Una district and Fatehpur in district Kangra. He directed for opening a centre at Nalagarh in Solan district.He said about 6,701 quintals of wheat had been procured this year. Of this, 5,570 quintals had been procured in Paonta Sahib, and 367 quintals at Kala Amb. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-govt-sets-up-centres-for-wheat-purchase-243243
24-04-2021||Legal Correspondent||Virtual full court reference on demise of ex-CJ||shimla, April 23A virtual full court reference was held today through video conferencing to mourn the demise of Justice Gulab Chand Gupta, former Chief Justice of High Court of HP.Justice Gupta left for his heavenly abode on April 7 at the age of 88 years at his residence in Jabalpur in Madhya Pradesh. Justice Gupta is survived by his daughter. He had served as the Chief Justice of High Court of HP from September 09,1994 to February 2,1995.While paying tribute to Justice Gupta, Chief Justice L Narayana Swamy said that Justice Gupta was a highly self-disciplined, intelligent and hardworking person and a distinguished Judge who had a profound knowledge of all branches of law.Chief Justice Narayana Swamy expressed his deep condolence to the bereaved family and said that passing away of Justice Gupta is not only a loss to the bereaved family but also to the entire legal fraternity.Besides, Ashok Sharma, Advocate General; Rama Kant Sharma, chairman, Bar Council of Himachal Pradesh; Nareshwar Singh Chandel, president, HP High Court Bar Association; and Bal Ram Sharma, Assistant Solicitor General of India paid tributes to Justice Gupta. A two-minute silence was also observed as a mark of respect to the departed soul.Justice Tarlok Singh Chauhan, Justice Sureshwar Thakur, Justice Vivek Singh Thakur, Justice Ajay Mohan Goel, Justice Sandeep Sharma, Justice Chander Bhusan Barowalia, Justice Anoop Chitkara, and Justice Jyotsna Rewal Dua also attended the full court reference through video conference.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/virtual-full-court-reference-on-demise-of-ex-cj-243244
24-04-2021||Solan||700-bed private isolation centre at BBN soon||A private isolation facility with 700 beds will be set up in the Baddi-Barotiwala-Nalagarh (BBN) industrial hub in the next few days.KC Chaman, Deputy Commissioner, said the isolation centre would be ready in about 10 days and would help cope with the increasing Covid cases in the belt.Various religious institutions have come forward to offer their buildings, including the Radha Swami Satsang Bhawans at Kirpalpur, Baddi and Panjhera, Manav Ruhani Satsang Kendras at Reru, Baddi, Barotiwala, Manpura and Chowkiwala, and Sant Nirankari Bhawans at Nalagarh and Barotiwala. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/700-bed-private-isolation-centre-at-bbn-soon-243245
24-04-2021||Subhash Rajta||Bed situation at key Himachal hospitals worrisome||Tribune news serviceShimla, April 23The bed occupancy rate in Dedicated Covid Health Centres (DCHC), Dedicated Covid Hospitals (DCH) and medical colleges across the state is 48.4 per cent. Out of 1,525 beds available in these facilities, only 738 were occupied till Friday afternoon. The occupancy rate in Dedicated Covid Care Centres is much lower at 18.3 per cent. Out of 782 beds, only 141 are occupied.The current occupancy rate may seem comforting, but there’s more to these numbers than meets the eye. Worryingly, the number of patients in two hospitals that cater to the majority of the severely ill patients – IGMC, Shimla, and Medical College, Tanda – are quite high. While 133 out of 147 beds are occupied at the IGMC, which amounts to 90 per cent occupancy, the Tanda hospital has 84 out of 108 beds occupied.What will happen when each bed available in these hospitals is taken? With the state registering over 1,500 cases regularly for the last few days, the dreadful situation could present itself any day. The IGMC says it can enhance its capacity by 100 beds within 24 hours as and when the current capacity is overwhelmed. “Everything from staff, oxygen and other equipment is in place. We can provide 100 additional beds without hiccups in 24 hours,” assured IGMC Medical Superintendent Dr Janak Raj.Similarly, the Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital, too, can add to its current tally of 90 beds. “We can take up the number to around 120 beds if required. The only thing is, these additional beds won’t have centralised oxygen attached, the patients here will have to rely on smaller oxygen cylinders,” said DDU Medical Superintendent Dr Ravinder Mokta.Given the number of cases the state is adding to its active cases every day, it wouldn’t be long before this additional capacity, too, is overwhelmed. The Health Department is banking on the recent restrictions the government has announced to arrest the sharp spike and save health infrastructure from turning inadequate.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bed-situation-at-key-himachal-hospitals-worrisome-243246
24-04-2021||---||Segregate canteen staff from those who go out: Administration to schools||Solan, April 23The district administration today directed the managements of residential schools to ensure that the canteen staff on their campuses are segregated from those who go out to purchase groceries and other essential items.Several schools had reported Covid cases, and it was observed that their canteen staff had gone out and contracted the virus, and later spreading it to other staff members and students.Deputy Commissioner KC Chaman virtually reviewed the Covid situation in the residential schools today. He said, “Given the detection of Covid cases in several schools such as Rasthriya Military School (RMS) at Chail, Lawrence School at Sanawar, Pinegrove School at Dharampur and Subathu, all schools have been directed to submit a detailed report specifying measures taken to contain the pandemic”.“Each school will appoint a nodal officer, who will maintain a record of students and staff members exhibiting Covid symptoms and also those remaining absent for five or more days. He will also remain in constant contact with the block medical officer and the SDM to effectively deal with any exigency,” said Chaman.The school managements would ensure that the staff and the students were segregated and the Covid appropriate behaviour was strictly followed. All students and staff as well as visitors would have to undergo the RT-PCR test, besides a quarantine of seven days. Medical officials also suggested that school should ensure proper ventilation in closed spaces with exhaust fans.As many as 107 cases have been reported in Pinegrove School, Dharampur, and 25 in the RMS, Chail. The schools have discontinued classroom teaching and students are gradually leaving the campuses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/segregate-canteen-staff-from-those-who-go-out-administration-to-schools-243247
24-04-2021||---||Ensure uninterrupted power to oxygen plant, HPSEBL told||Solan, April 23The district administration has directed the officials of the HP State Electricity Board Limited (HPSEBL) to ensure uninterrupted power supply to oxygen manufacturing plant, Inox Air Products at Barotiwala. This is the fourth such plant of Inox Air in North India.Deputy Commissioner, Solan, KC Chaman, said in a bid to facilitate this oxygen manufacturing plant which was catering to Jammu, Punjab, Delhi, Haryana, Chandigarh and Himachal, the officials of the HPSEBL have been directed to ensure availability of uninterrupted power supply round the clock to this plant.As much as 115 metric tonnes per day liquid oxygen is being supplied by this plant to various hospitals in these states. It has suspended supply of oxygen to the industries given the medical emergency and it was only catering to the hospitals now, informed an official.With demand for medical oxygen surging in various states owing to spike in the Covid cases, the district administration was monitoring its supply on a daily basis. DC KC Chaman said, “A field report is being sought every morning and evening to ensure that the manufacturers faced no problems.”Himachal Oxygen plant at Paonta Sahib in Sirmaur district and Baddi Filling Station are also providing oxygen cylinders to the state’s hospitals, informed officials.State Drugs Controller Navneet Marwaha said a drug inspector was monitoring the manufacturing and distribution of oxygen from the Inox Air Products daily. Emergencies were being catered to on priority.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ensure-uninterrupted-power-to-oxygen-plant-hpsebl-told-243227
24-04-2021||---||Covid-19: Highest 26 deaths in one day, 1,189 cases in Himachal||Shimla, April 23As many as 1,189 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 84,065. Besides, the highest 26 deaths in one day were reported in the past 24 hours.Nine persons died in Kangra, seven in Hamirpur, six in Shimla, two in Sirmaur and one each in Mandi and Kullu.The highest number of 330 cases was reported in Kangra, followed by 216 in Solan, 135 in Mandi, 112 each in Una and Sirmaur, 84 in Chamba, 83 in Hamirpur, 59 in Shimla, 44 in Bilaspur, 10 in Kullu and four in Lahaul and Spiti. The number of active cases rose to 12,246.The total number of deaths that have taken place in the state due to the virus has risen to 1,267.As many as 69,747 persons have recovered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-19-highest-26-deaths-in-one-day-1-189-cases-in-himachal-243229
24-04-2021||Lalit Mohan||Covid surge leads to shortage of antiviral drugs in Kangra||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, April 23Antiviral drugs are not available in local chemist shops following a sharp rise in Covid cases in Kangra district and hoarding by people. These medicines are prescribed to coronavirus patients who have developed serious complications.Navneet Marwah, State Drug ControllerAwaiting complaintIf we receive a complaint about the shortage of the two antiviral medicines, we can ensure their supply as these are being manufactured in the state.Mahesh, a resident of Palampur, said that an elderly member of his family suffering from Covid complications was prescribed Favipirvar 400 mg. However, he could not find the medicine in any medical store of Palampur. Thereafter, he placed an order for the drug in Jalandhar and got it transported to his place in an HRTC bus, he added.Enquires by The Tribune from various drug stores in Dharamsala revealed that Favipirvar and Remdesivir, both antiviral drugs being prescribed by doctors to Covid patients, were not available at any medical store.Chemist shop owners are blaming hoarding of the two drugs by local residents and their increased demand in other parts of the country for their shortage in Kangra. A shop owner said, “There was no shortage of Favipirvar 400 mg about a week ago, as local doctors rarely prescribed it. However, its demand increased over the past one week. The stock of the medicine with me is over. I have placed an order for it but am yet to get the supply”.The local drug store owners said that they were not getting the supply of Remdesivir injections. Deputy Commissioner, Kangra, Rakesh Prajapati said, “There is no shortage of Remdesivir or Favipirvar drugs in Tanda medical college or any other government facility created for Covid patients in the district. We have ample stocks of the drugs”. Asked why the drugs are not available in the market, he said that he would look into the matter.State Drug Controller Navneet Marwah said that the demand of the two antiviral drugs had gone up in many parts of the country, leading to their shortage in chemist stores in some parts of Himachal. However, there were ample supplies of these medicines in all government facilities. “If we receive a complaint about the shortage of the two antiviral medicines, we can ensure their supply as these are being manufactured in the state,” he said.Sources said that as most of the Covid patients were staying in home isolation, the trend of self-medication had increased. Due to the fear of developing complications, many people were hoarding Remdesivir or Favipirvar, creating their artificial shortage in the market.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-surge-leads-to-shortage-of-antiviral-drugs-in-kangra-243239
