25-04-2021||Shimla||Highest figure of 31 COVID-19 deaths reported in Himachal||Himachal Pradesh registered the highest ever COVID-19 death figure on Sunday with 31 positive patients succumbing to the virus in the last 24 hours.The Covid situation in the state continues to remain grim with 1,363 fresh cases being reported on Sunday.The number of active cases today shot up to 13,577 with the total positive cases till now being 87,501.A total of 31 people, including 12 in Kangra, four each in Mandi and Shimla, three each in Una and Hamirpur, two each in Solan and Sirmaur and one in Bilaspur, died in the last one day.This week, the fatality figure has shot up with 26 and 24 deaths being reported on two days.The figure of 31 deaths in the state is highest ever since the outbreak of Covid early last year.Kangra continues to remain the worst hit, with a total of 315 fatalities and 14,848 deaths.The fatality figure of 321 in Shimla district is the highest among all the districts primarily due to the presence of super speciality care here in the state capital.The highest number of 423 cases were today reported in Kangra, 229 in Solan, 224 in Shimla, 149 in Sirmour, 104 in Hamirpur, 83 in Mandi, 64 in Bilaspur, 38 in Una, 27 in Kullu, 10 in Kinnaur, nine in Chamba and three in Lahaul Spiti.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/highest-figure-of-31-covid-19-deaths-reported-in-himachal-244046
25-04-2021||---||Dr Reddy’s gets 2nd nod to make Remdesivir||Solan, April 24Paonta Sahib-based Dr Reddy’s Lab has been granted approval to manufacture Remdesivir. It is being used for the treatment of Covid patients hospitalised with severe symptoms. This is a major step to ramp up its manufacturing.This is the second such approval sought by Dr Reddy’s Lab to manufacture Remdesivir this month.Assistant Drug Controller, Nahan, Sunny Kaushal, who granted the approval, said Dr Reddy’s Lab would manufacture it on a loan licensing basis at Nitin Lifesciences, Paonta Sahib. Its two units were already manufacturing it for Cipla and Hetero Labs, Baddi.State Drugs Controller Navneet Marwaha said the pharmaceutical industry had been directed to ramp up the manufacturing of Covid-related drugs to ensure their ample supply throughout the nation. There was no shortage of the medicines and the staff were monitoring their distribution on a regular basis.Himachal Pradesh is credited with manufacturing every third drug being sold in the county. Medicines like Remdesivir, Favipiravir, Ivermectin, Dexamethasone and Azithromycin are being used in the treatment of Covid and all are manufactured in the state.While Glenmark Pharma’s Baddi unit has been manufacturing oral antiviral drug favipiravir used for treating mild to moderate Covid patients since June 2020, other drugs are being manufactured by several pharma companies.Marwaha said Dr Reddy’s Lab had granted approvals for manufacturing Remdesivir both dry and liquid injections in a bid to ramp up its capacities amid the pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/dr-reddys-gets-2nd-nod-to-make-remdesivir-243633
25-04-2021||UNA||Rs 30 crore fine on Gagret firm for evading GST||The Una Excise and Taxation Department on Friday slapped a penalty amounting to about Rs 30 crore on a firm located in Gagret subdivision for reportedly manipulating the GST. Rakeswh Bharatiya, Joint Commissioner of the Central zone of the Excise and Taxation department located in Una district, in a press release said the Chief Executive Officer of the said firm had created three new firms through which bogus purchases of goods was being done.Bharatiya said the firm was duly registered under the Companies Act as well as in the GST portal, but did not exist physically. He said three firms were created to manipulate the provisions of the Input Tax Credit (ITC) to its benefit and evade due GST amount.The Joint Commissioner said the irregularities pertained to the period 2018 onward and were under investigation. He said the Director of one of the three firms had deposed that he was not even aware of purchase of some property by his firm, which was being managed by the CEO of the Gagret based firm. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rs-30-crore-fine-on-gagret-firm-for-evading-gst-243634
25-04-2021||Legal Correspondent||Recover Rs 34L from 16 forest officers: Himachal High Court to Principal Secretary||Shimla, April 24Taking serious note of the issue of illicit felling of 416 trees in the Koti forest range, the HP High Court has directed the Principal Secretary (Forests) to take steps for the recovery of Rs 34,68,233 from 16 officers, including two Conservators of Forests, who were posted at Bhalawag Beat, Koti Forest Block, Koti Forest Range, Shimla forest divisions and the Shimla forest circle from 2015 to 2018.However, while passing the order, the court afforded an opportunity to the officers to appear before it on May 27 if they want themselves to be heard before the aforesaid recovery is made and the entry of the aforesaid lapse is made in their service records.A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice L. Narayana Swamy and Justice Anoop Chitkara passed the orders on a petition taken up suo motu by the court as a public interest litigation (PIL). During the course of hearing, it was brought to the notice of the court by Senior Advocate BC Negi, the amicus curiae appointed in the matter, that as per the mandatory field Instructions, it is the mandatory duty of the Range Officer, Assistant Conservator of Forests, Divisional Forest Officer and the Deputy Conservator of Forest to carry out field inspections and detect any felling of trees. The Range Officer, DFO and the CPD shall undertake 100 per cent inspection of all works under their jurisdictions and submit report, as per the schedule indicated.Negi said that instead of initiating action against the higher officers, action was taken against officers/ officials lowest in the rank and they had been targeted.The court observed that the state must have recovered the cost of timber, but the value of trees could not be evaluated as trees are oxygen producers and de-carboniser.The court said that the officers, who are responsible for the loss of trees of 100 years age, had to be taken to task. This kind of illegal felling of trees could not be compensated in any manner. The responsibility of tree felling was to be fixed from the Forest Guard up to the Principal Chief Conservator of Forests, as all these officers were responsible for inaction, in terms of mandatory field instructions and field touring for the purpose of physical verification and there was dereliction of duty on their part.Illegal felling of treesThe court afforded an opportunity to the officers to appear before it on May 27 if they want themselves to be heard before the recovery is made and the entry of the lapse is made in their service records.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/recover-rs-34l-from-16-forest-officers-himachal-high-court-to-principal-secretary-243635
25-04-2021||---||Unexpected snow, rain fill depleting water sources in Himachal||Shimla, April 24The untimely and unexpected snowfall has caused massive damage to farmers and fruit growers. However, the record rain and snow in April have charged up water sources and have driven away the shortage of water supply in the city. “We will be comfortable with the water supply for at least a month. Our water sources have recharged by around 75 per cent,” said Shimla Jal Prabandhan Nigam Limited (SJPNL) AGM Rajesh Kashyap.Earlier, the authorities were apprehending that Shimla could face water shortage this time due to scarce rain and snow in winters. The SJPNL had even prepared an action plan to deal with the impending drought-like situation and resultant water shortage. “The rain and snow was totally unexpected. The snowfall, in particular, has recharged the ground water. Rains, on the other, hand have reduced the irrigation demand on the sources,” said Kashyap. Also, the reduced footfall of tourists due to Covid has also reduced the demand.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/unexpected-snow-rain-fill-depleting-water-sources-in-himachal-243636
25-04-2021||Mandi||230 rescued, taken to Manali from Lahaul||As many as 230 persons were evacuated in 28 vehicles from Lahaul and taken to Manali today. The Border Roads Organisation had restored the Manali-Keylong road via Atal Tunnel. It helped the Lahaul administration to evacuate the stranded persons.They had been stuck in the Lahaul valley since April 4 because of the closure of the Manali-Leh highway following a heavy snowfall at Baralacha and its nearby places. They had been going to Leh.Manav Verma, Superintendent of Police, Lahaul Spiti, said 230 persons were evacuated in 28 vehicles from Lahaul. They were escorted by a joint team of the police and the District Disaster Management Authority from Keylong up to Manali. He said 13 persons were also taken to Keylong from Solang. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/230-rescued-taken-to-manali-from-lahaul-243637
25-04-2021||Shimla||Virus kills two kids in Himachal||Covid claimed the lives of 26 persons, including two children, in Himachal Pradesh. A five-year-old died in Kangra and a 10-year-old in Hamirpur. “We did not see children dying in the first wave. Only the aged and those with co-morbidities were at high risk,” observed Dr Malay Sarkar, clinical in-charge, Covid-19.Meanwhile, Deen Dayal Upadhyaya (DDU) Hospital here has run out of beds. “We now have 91 patients. We have arranged for a few more beds,” a doctor said. Although the IGMC portal showed it had five vacant beds, sources claimed the hospital was refusing fresh admissions. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/virus-kills-two-kids-in-himachal-243675
25-04-2021||Dipender Manta||Threat of snow avalanche looms large in Lahaul & Spiti||Tribune News ServiceMandi, April 24The threat of snow avalanche looms large in the tribal Lahaul & Spiti district after heavy snowfall occurred in the region in the last two days. The district administration of Lahaul & Spiti has issued an advisory for the residents of the Lahaul valley asking them to refrain from venturing out of their houses in the next few days to avoid any untoward incident.The SASE (Snow Avalanche Study Establishment), Manali, has issued a warning of snow avalanche at different locations on the Manali-Leh highway as well as in Kullu and Lahaul & Spiti. On Friday, an avalanche triggered in the Chandra river in Lahaul & Spiti, which blocked the flow of river water for hours in the region.The Manali-Leh highway was blocked for traffic movement on the third consecutive day from Keylong. Manav Verma, Superintendent of Police, Lahaul & Spiti, said it would take at least more than one week for the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) to restore the Manali-Leh highway for traffic movement via the Baralacha pass. As many as 38 vehicles, including 32 trucks, were stuck near the Baralacha pass because of heavy snowfall in the region. These vehicles were moving to Leh from Lahaul side, when sudden heavy snowfall blocked the highway two days ago.The SP stated that those persons who want to travel to Leh or return from Leh to other parts of the country should contact the Ladakh police regarding the status of Ziji La on the Srinagar-Leh National Highway and plan their travel accordingly.He said it would take time to restore the Manali-Leh highway for normal traffic because around 38 vehicles were already stuck midway at the Baralacha pass. This region has received heavy snowfall. Due to that, it will take time for the BRO to restore the Manali-Leh highway for normal traffic.Warning issuedThe Snow Avalanche Study Establishment, Manali, has issued a warning of snow avalanches at different locations on the Manali-Leh highway, besides in Kullu and Lahaul & Spiti. On Friday, a snow avalanche was reported in Chandra river in Lahaul & Spiti, which blocked the flow of river water for hours in the region.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/threat-of-snow-avalanche-looms-large-in-lahaul-spiti-243638
25-04-2021||Lalit Mohan||Hit hard, Kangra hoteliers seek financial package||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, April 24The second wave of Covid has spelled doom for the hotel industry in the Kangra region. Facing a bleak scenario, the industry has demanded a financial package from the state government to bail out the hotels in distress.Last year, the government had introduced an interest subversion scheme for the hotel industry in the state that had been due to the lockdown. The scheme was aimed at providing working capital to the hoteliers to cope with losses suffered on account of the lockdown. The hoteliers were to be given loans by cooperative, nationalised and private banks for a period of four years. The government was to pay 50 per cent interest on the loans for a period of two years as subsidy.The scheme was introduced in April 2020 and it lapsed in December. However, in entire Kangra district just six hoteliers got the benefit of the scheme.Ashwani Bamba, president of the Hotel and Restaurant Association of Dharamsala, said the provisions under which the interest subversion scheme was offered to the hoteliers were very strict. The scheme was linked with the GST deposited by the hoteliers in the last financial year. This kept most of the small and medium hoteliers away from the scheme.Cooperative banks were offering loans to the hoteliers under the scheme at an interest rate of 11.5 per cent whereas the prevailing interest rate in other banks was 8 per cent. Besides, the banks demanded collateral for loans whereas the government had recommended that the loans would be given as working capital, he added.Bamba claimed that due to unattractive provisions of the scheme, just 24 hoteliers had applied for the interest subversion scheme of the government and only six of them got the benefit.The hoteliers are now alleging that the second Covid wave has done more damage than last year to the tourism industry. Last year, the banks were not pressing the hoteliers to pay back loans. Now, most of the banks have started turning loans into Non-erforming Assets (NPAs) after March 31, the hoteliers alleged.In a letter to the Director Tourism, the Hotel and Restaurant Association of Kangra has demanded a fresh financial package. They have demanded that the hoteliers should be provided working capital of Rs 2 lakh per room. The scheme should be linked with rooms available with the hoteliers and not with the GST paid by them.They have demanded that the loans should be given to hotel units as working capital for a period of six years. They have demanded that the interest rate on working capital loans should not be more than 8 per cent or the reverse repo rate, as fixed by the RBI. The hoteliers seek a moratorium on the working capital loans for two years till tourism returns to a normal level in the state.The hoteliers also allege that though the Union and state governments are floating schemes to bail out the distressed tourism industry private and PSU banks are not coming forward to provide loans to them.They say if a financial package is not given, more than half of the tourism properties in the region might become permanently unviable.Their contention||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hit-hard-kangra-hoteliers-seek-financial-package-243639
25-04-2021||Our Correspondent||Two of family killed, four hurt in mishap in Nurpur||Nurpur, April 24Six members of a family were injured, four of them seriously, when the car they were travelling in collided with an Army vehicle at Jonta on the Pathankot-Mandi National Highway, near here, on Saturday. They were taken to the local Civil Hospital where two of them were declared brought dead. Three others sustained serious injuries while the fourth is kept under observation.The car reportedly collided with the Army Gypsy while overtaking it. The deceased have been indentified as car driver Satwinder Singh (40) and his wife Champa Devi (38), both residents of Mastgarh (Jawali).The seriously injured are Gurleen Kaur, Rani Devi and Snehlata, who were referred to Tanda Medical College, Kangra, from the Nurpur Civil Hospital. The victims were on their way back to their village after attending a marriage at Indora.The police have registered a case against the deceased car driver. The bodies were handed over to the bereaved families after a postmortem examination.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/two-of-family-killed-four-hurt-in-mishap-in-nurpur-243640
25-04-2021||Dharamsala||AICC secretary offers house to Covid patients||Former minister and AICC secretary Sudhir Sharma has met Kangra DC Rakesh Prajapati and submitted a proposal offering his house in Dharamsala to be converted into a Covid care centre.Sharma said the increasing number of Covid cases in Kangra were taxing the health system. He said his house located in Rakkar locality of Dharamsala could accommodate 50 patients as per the norms set for isolation and treatment.He also offered to provide food, ayurvedic tea, recreational areas and television in case the house was converted into Covid isolation and a treatment facility at his own cost. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/aicc-secretary-offers-house-to-covid-patients-243641
25-04-2021||Dharamsala||Congress flays 7-day isolation move for Himachal workers||Congress leaders today flayed a proposal of the government to isolate state workers coming from outside for seven days.In a statement issued here, Congress leaders from Kangra, including former minister and AICC secretary Sudhir Sharma, former MLAs Jagjivan Pal, Sanjay Rattan and Yadwinder Goma and HPCC general secretary Kewal Singh Pathania, said the proposal was impractical.They alleged that thousands of Himachalis commuted daily for work to other states. If the government isolated them when they came back home, they were likely to lose their jobs. Besides, thousands of residents came back home from other states on weekends to take care of their parents.Generally, a house consists of one or two rooms with shared bathrooms and toilet facilities in the state. How could a family spare one room to isolate one member of the family, the leaders alleged. Those who were being asked to stay in home isolation could contact the leaders. The Congress would arrange rooms for such people. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/congress-flays-7-day-isolation-move-for-himachal-workers-243642
25-04-2021||Chamba||Don’t venture out unnecessarily: Chamba Deputy Commissioner||Deputy Commissioner DC Rana today appealed to the people not to go out of their homes unnecessarily at weekends so that the growing chain of Covid pandemic could be controlled.He also urged the people to ensure compliance of the guidelines issued by the government for the prevention of Covid-19 pandemic as a precautionary measure even in marriages.The movement of devotees to religious places and other shrines has also been banned. Moreover, people should not go to tourist places anymore on weekends and stay safe in their homes, the DC advised.He urged the people to ensure vaccination in the immunisation centres near their homes and also motivate others to get vaccinated.The DC, however, warned that strict action would be taken against those violating the Covid-19 guidelines. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/dont-venture-out-unnecessarily-chamba-deputy-commissioner-243643
25-04-2021||Ambika Sharma||Oxygen leakage at Nalagarh hospital, 2 patients shifted||Tribune News ServiceSolan, April 24Two critically-ill patients (a 29-year-old man and a 32-year-old woman) were shifted to the ESIC Hospital at Katha in Barotiwala in the district today after they did not get oxygen due to a leakage in the supply pipeline at a newly created makeshift hospital at Nalagarh.The faulty pipeline led to the loss of oxygen from 20 of the 40 cylinders provided to the makeshift facility. Four doctors have been posted at the makeshift hospital.An anaesthetist was deputed at the ESIC-Katha after this episode. Though the doctors at the Nalagarh hospital wanted to shift the two patients, who were facing breathing problem, to a higher medical facility, they failed to get approval from two other hospitals.“Two critically-ill patients were brought to the makeshift hospital at Nalagarh Friday evening,” said Dr KD Jassal, Block Medical Officer, Nalagarh. The government had earlier announced the appointment of new staff at this hospital.Deputy Commissioner KC Chaman said, “Two serious patients were on Saturday shifted from the makeshift hospital at Nalagarh to the ESIC Hospital at Katha where they were provided oxygen and ventilator support. Some technical glitches led to disruption in oxygen supply and efforts are afoot to rectify the fault”.“Of the eight ventilators available at the ESIC Hospital, Katha, two were made functional on Saturday and efforts were afoot to make the remaining ones operational soon. Requisite connectors are being arranged from Wipro industries,” added Chaman.The Central Building Research Institute, Roorkee, had set up the makeshift hospital in February and Vice-President M Venkaiah Naidu had inaugurated it virtually. Two ventilators available there are yet to be made functional due to the lack of accessories such as multipurpose monitors and connectors with humidifiers of requisite units.The Block Medical Officer had apprised senior officials about the requirement of connectors on April 16 but precious little had been done to make them functional.Doctors said ventilators received by the state under PM-Cares had failed to operate due to technical glitches. The absence of 5 ampere sockets was being cited as one of the reasons.Faulty pipeline to blameThe faulty pipeline led to the loss of oxygen from 20 of the 40 cylinders provided to the makeshift facility at Nalagarh (pic).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/oxygen-leakage-at-nalagarh-hospital-2-patients-shifted-243628
25-04-2021||Palampur||Free food to those in home isolation in Palampur||Parivartan, a local NGO, has come forward to help patients by providing them food free of cost on their doorsteps daily. The NGO has been providing lunch and dinner to the patients, who are quarantined at home, and finding it difficult to get food.Surbhi Soni, president of the NGO, said many people had tested positive for Covid-19 in Palampur town and the adjoining areas in the past one week. They had to stay indoors and were unable to arrange food. So, the NGO decided to start a home delivery food service for the patients, free of cost .“In the first phase, we are providing only lunch and dinner. If needed, breakfast will be added soon,” she said.She said phone numbers had been displayed on Facebook and other social media platforms. The patients could register themselves to avail of the services, she said. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/free-food-to-those-in-home-isolation-in-palampur-243629
25-04-2021||---||Covid-19: Highest 2,073 cases, 24 deaths in one day||Shimla, April 24The Covid situation worsened today as the highest ever 2,073 fresh cases were reported in the state, taking the tally to 86,138. Besides, 24 persons died of the virus, the highest in one day. Eight deaths were reported in Kangra, five in Hamirpur, three in Mandi, two each in Shimla, Solan and Chamba and one each in Una and Sirmaur.The highest number of 360 cases was reported in Kangra, followed by 317 in Solan, 269 in Shimla, 207 in Sirmaur, 194 in Hamirpur, 184 in Bilaspur, 142 in Una, 92 in Kullu, 31 in Chamba, seven in Kinnaur and five in Lahaul and Spiti. The number of active cases rose to 13,411.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-19-highest-2-073-cases-24-deaths-in-one-day-243630
25-04-2021||---||Radha Soami sect offers centre for Covid care||Dharamsala, April 24The Kangra district administration has proposed to set up 500-bed Covid hospital equipped with oxygen facility at the Radha Soami sect regional headquarters in Paror.Sources here said the sect had offered its over 300-kanal preaching centre for corona patients. The centre is equipped with modern kitchen facilities and toilets. It could accommodate thousands of people. Last year also, during the lockdown, the sect had set up a facility for the stay of thousands of patients.Kangra DC Rakesh Prajapati said a Covid hospital for about 500 patients at Paror was being set up on the directions of Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur. He also said a proposal had been sent to the government to take over a private hospital at Gaggal in Kangra.In the district, Tanda medical college has the capacity to accommodate 108 patients, the Dharamsala Zonal Hospital 130 and Dadh hospital 40. With the increasing number of cases, the bed capacity in the district is getting exhausted.Former minister and senior Congress leader GS Bali has questioned the preparedness of the government for tackling the second wave of the pandemic. He said it was unfortunate that the authorities were lying regarding the oxygen supply in hospitals. While the government had been claiming that four oxygen plants were functioning, the fact was that just one oxygen plant in Dharasmala was working. The failure of the authorities to get the oxygen plants functional beforehand was a serious lapse on the part of officials and action should be taken against them, he said.Bali also questioned the unavailability of anti-viral drugs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/radha-soami-sect-offers-centre-for-covid-care-243631
