26-04-2021||Shimla||COVID-19: Online registration a must to enter Himachal Pradesh||Online registration has been made mandatory from Tuesday midnight for people wanting to enter Himachal Pradesh, a state government notification said.The order was issued on Sunday by the state health secretary under the HP Epidemic Disease (COVID-19) Regulations, 2020. All people desirous of entering the state shall register themselves online and details of their arrival will be shared with all concerned for the purpose of quarantine requirement and contact tracing, the order said.This will be applicable from April 27 midnight to May 10, it added.“However, there shall be no monitoring of the inter-district and intra-district movement, except that from or into a containment zone,” it added.The notification further stated that all returnees from the coronavirus hotspots shall be treated as “high-risk contacts” and shall be subjected to the protocol of home/institutional quarantine for a period of 14 days since entry into the state or earlier if he/she is tested negative for COVID-19 on the sixth or seventh day after entry. However, the requirement of quarantine shall not be applicable to those who are returning from hotspots but have undergone a RT-PCR test, conducted not earlier than 72 hours before entering the state, the order said. Those will not be quarantined who have been vaccinated and a period of minimum 14 days has elapsed since the second dose of vaccine, it said, adding that the person must possess the final vaccination certificate issued to him or her.     The requirement of quarantine will also not be applicable on those who travel to Himachal Pradesh from the hotspot areas for a short duration, not exceeding 72 hours, for medical, business or office purpose, it said.Similarly, the state residents who visit hotspots outside the state for a short duration for medical, business or office purpose and return within 72 hours will also be exempted from any requirement of quarantine, provided they are asymptomatic. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-19-online-registration-a-must-to-enter-himachal-pradesh-244538
26-04-2021||Shimla||Himachal to supply oxygen to Delhi amid COVID-19 crisis||The Himachal Pradesh government will arrange oxygen supply to Delhi, which is facing acute shortage of the life-saving gas for COVID-19 patients, from the hill state, an official spokesperson said here on Monday.Himachal Pradesh Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, on the request of Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, has agreed to arrange emergency supply of oxygen to Delhi amid the COVID-19 crisis, he added.       जयराम जी, आपकी इस मदद के लिए तहे दिल से शुक्रिया https://t.co/lJtJ5XYkWE  In a letter written to his Delhi counterpart, Thakur said that the Himachal Pradesh government was “highly concerned” about the situation emerging in the national capital and would be more than happy to extend all possible help to the Delhi government.Thakur said that officers of the Delhi government may contact additional director of industries for arranging the supply of oxygen from the state.               Kejriwal, in a tweet, also thanked the chief minister for his help. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-to-supply-oxygen-to-delhi-amid-covid-19-crisis-244518
26-04-2021||Lalit Mohan||Confusion prevails over restrictions to be imposed on Himachal borders in Una, Kangra districts||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, April 26With the Himachal government going to restrict entry on state borders from Tuesday making e-registration for people coming in the state mandatory, utter confusion prevails among people of Kangra and Una districts that share borders with Punjab regarding new restrictions.Many Himachal residents who are outside the state for personal or official purposes are clueless about what to do as the government has not even publicised procedures for registration and what to do.Seema Sharma, a resident Una, while talking to The Tribune said she had gone to meet her brother in Chandigarh yesterday. “Now I have to return tomorrow and am clueless about what to do.”Rakesh Sharma, a resident of Shahpur, had gone to Chandigarh for official meeting but would be required to get an RTPCR negative test report to re-enter the state.Thousands of people, including traders, employees and others, daily cross borders from Una and Kangra districts. Last year when the state government had enforced the restrictions on state borders utter chaos was created on state borders. Huge traffic jams were seen at state borders and daily commuters even the state residents used to get harassed.The deputy commissioner Kangra, Rakesh Prajapati when asked about the new restrictions said every person entering into state would have register at covidepass.hp.gov.in. A QR code would be generated after registration that would be scanned on state borders, he said.He also said even Himachal residents who enter or exit state would have to register every time they enter or leave state. In case of people coming from hotspot areas they would have to produce RTPCR negative report to enter the state, the DC said.He added that the commercial vehicles carrying essential commodities would be exempted from registration. When asked about people who work in industries across the state borders and have to commute daily, the DC said they would be allowed to go after inquiries.The deputy commissioner said that main aim of the restrictions would be check the Himachal residents coming back to state from hotspot areas and ensure that they remain under home quarantined for at least 14 days or else they have to undergo RTPCR test.Una DC Raghav Sharma, when contacted, said restriction here would be enforced from April 27 midnight. He said there was an option in e-portal to generate monthly pass.The sources here said that the way government has implemented the new restrictions, it was bound to create confusion at state borders. Even the officials were not clear as to how the restrictions were to be imposed, till the filing of this report.The Congress leaders from Kangra including former minister and AICC secretary Sudhir Sharma and former minister and senior congress leader GS Bali have termed the government measures as ill planned. They alleged since hardly any tourist was coming to state these days, these restrictions would only harass the residents of the state who have to go out of state for various purposes. The state was not being able to provide health care to residents here and so people go Punjab and Chandigarh for treatment. Instead of helping people the government was devising ways to harass people, Bali said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/confusion-prevails-over-restrictions-to-be-imposed-on-himachal-borders-in-una-kangra-districts-244496
26-04-2021||---||Woman killed, 12 injured as HRTC bus overturns near Palampur||Dharamsala, April 26A woman died and 12 people were injured as a Himachal Road Transport Corporation bus overturned near Kahanfat, 20 km from Palampur, on Monday.The driver and conductor of the bus are among the injured. The bus was on its way from Sadwan to Palampur.The deceased has been identified as 60-year-old Rato devi, resident of Sadwan village.Sources said the driver lost control over the vehicle that led to the accident.At the time of the accident, there were 11 passengers on the bus. All injured have been shifted to Tanda medical college.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/woman-killed-12-injured-as-hrtc-bus-overturns-near-palampur-244456
26-04-2021|| A property purchased by a government official near Balamuthia temple in Kangra district stirred a controversy. The official had purchased a small piece of land along the national highway. As he started construction on the site||Locals force work on NH to stop||Sudhir’s desperation?Having suffered a major drubbing, especially by his supported candidates in the recently concluded municipal corporation elections, former Congress Minister Sudhir Sharma seems to be desperate to somehow impress the electorate before the 2022 Assembly polls. His offer that his house in Dharamsala can be used as a dedicated Covid care hospital is also being viewed with suspect by most. Having been accused of shying away from contesting the Kangra parliamentary polls and later Dharamsala Assembly by-poll at the last minute, the going has been very tough for Sharma since he suffered a defeat in 2017. While his detractors feel that the offer about his house as a Covid care facility only showed his desperation about wooing the electorate, who have consistently rejected him. Even though Congress did not fare badly in the Dharamsala MC poll what came a setback was the victory of half a dozen candidates who neither used his picture in their posters nor invited him to campaign for them.Much ado about nothing!Tall claims of having put in place a makeshift hospital to cater to Covid emergencies fell flat at Nalagarh with neither ventilators being operational nor oxygen supply being proper. Health department’s preparedness was exposed when two critically ill patients had to be shifted within hours for want of facilities. Only days ago Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur had inspected this facility and had held marathon Covid preparedness meetings at Baddi. This hospital was cited as a major achievement. One wondered how convening field meetings could improve the scenario when deficiencies could not to be addressed in time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/locals-force-work-on-nh-to-stop-244373
26-04-2021|| The ABVP has demanded that the farmers and fruit growers||Compensate farmers, says ABVP||Stop harassing teachers’ unions: CITUThe CITU state committee has slammed the Education Department's decision to take action against the leaders of teachers’ unions. Demanding that the department should stop harassing the leaders, CITU state president Vijender Mehra said teachers’ union had played a vital role in the state’s trade union agitation. The unions had always raised voice for the betterment of teachers, students and employees, he said. Mehra further said action against the teachers' union was violation of their constitutional rights.Technical fest held at JaypeeThe 15th segment of the annual technical fest of Jaypee University of Information Technology (JUIT) — ‘Murious’ —was held for young minds to showcase their technical skills. Vice-Chancellor Prof Vinod Kumar, Dean-Academics Prof Samir Dev Gupta and Registrar Rakesh Bassi graced the occasion. More than 200 registrations were received for the virtual series of technical, photography and gaming events. Dr Amit Srivastava, Dr Shruti Jain and Prateek Thakral formally introduced the participants to the event.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/compensate-farmers-says-abvp-244376
26-04-2021||A1-km stretch near Bateess Meel on the Pathankot-Mandi National Highway is full of potholes. A deep pothole near Batees Meel has become particularly accident-prone||Potholes on Pathankot- Mandi Highway||— Madhur Mahajan, NurpurMention cost of services outside ‘patwar khanas’Nowhere outside any 'patwar khaha', the cost of services provided by patwaris are mentioned. As a result, patwaris charge money as per their own sweet will. For the convenience of people, the Revenue Department should put up a board outside these offices, detailing the cost of services and the time it would take. — Kultar Guleria, DharamsalaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/potholes-on-pathankot-mandi-highway-244432
26-04-2021||Our Correspondent---||Palampur school building gutted||Palampur, April 25 One block of the building of Bindraban senior secondary school was gutted this afternoon. The furniture of the building, lab equipment, books and stationery were also destroyed in the fire. Two fire tenders from Palampur reached the spot immediately and brought the fire under control. However, one part of the building had already been destroyed by then.  Shopkeepers of Bindraban market and passers-by saw smoke coming out of the building and informed the fire brigade office. Earlier, villagers had brought water in buckets from nearby taps and tried to control the fire. The police has registered a case and the matter is under investigation.  A senior police officer said being Sunday, the school was closed,  and with the ongoing two-day lockdown in the district, it was difficult to understand how the building caught fire. There was no possibility of short circuiting, he said. Ashish Butail, local MLA and Congress leader, visited the spot later in the evening, and assured the villagers that he would put in efforts for reconstruction of the building, so that students’ studies were not affected.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/palampur-school-building-gutted-244366
26-04-2021||---||Narinder Bragta seeks aid for apple growers, farmers||Shimla, April 25 Former Horticulture Minister Narinder Bragta has written to Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, apprising him of the damage that fruit growers and farmers have suffered due to snowfall and hailstorm in the last three days. Bragta demanded financial assistance and several other relief measures for the affected people to help them bear the unprecedented losses.    He urged the Chief Minister to form teams of revenue officials to assess the damage. Besides, he said, officials from the horticulture university and department should visit the affected areas to give technical inputs to farmers for rejuvenating damaged trees. He also demanded that DCs of the affected districts should be directed to ensure that farmers get appropriate compensation from insurance companies.  Bragta suggested that pending subsidy cases of anti-hail nets and equipment be cleared at the earliest to help the aggrieved farmers. Also, payments under Market Intervention Schemes were pending and should be cleared immediately. He demanded that a committee be formed under the chairmanship of a senior minister and Chief Secretary for making a report of damage and sending it to the Centre.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/narinder-bragta-seeks-aid-for-apple-growers-farmers-244367
26-04-2021||Our Correspondent ---||Chamba-Bharmour highway blocked after huge landslide||Chamba, April 25  In the aftermath of heavy rain, a massive landslide that occurred near the Lahal hill slope on the Chamba-Bharmour highway has disrupted traffic since last night, reports reaching here today stated.    As a sequel to this, long queues of vehicles were seen on both sides of the road and people were facing inconvenience. However, the restoration work is underway and the road is expected to be cleared by this evening, said sources.   Meanwhile, Bharmour MLA Jia Lal Kapoor directed local officials to start restoration works on the highway on a war footing and remove the debris from the highway as early as possible so that  traffic could be resumed.   Kapoor also asked officials to restore the roads linking Kugti, Chobia, Harchhu, Garima and other remote areas with the main Bharmour-Chamba highway which were closed due to recurring landslides following heavy rain.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/chamba-bharmour-highway-blocked-after-huge-landslide-244368
26-04-2021||Solan||Tax of Rs 6.5 lakh recovered from trucks||Officials of the Excise and Taxation Department recovered Rs 6.55 lakh as penalty and tax from trucks using the Baddi-Patta Mehlog-Baand-Garkhal-Dharampur escape route in a late night checking in two days.  Deputy Commissioner, State Taxes and Excise, Himanshu Pawar, constituted a team of officials to check tax evasion by trucks  coming from the Baddi-Barotiwala-Nalagarh industrial area after the issue was highlighted in the columns of The Tribune.  The movement of multi-axle trucks, which also posed  traffic hassle on the narrow single-lane route, has also been stopped.  A team comprising assistant commissioners  Padma, Apoorv Chandel, Sunil Kapoor, Rakesh Bhardwaj, Sandeep Negi, Prerit Patial and others inspected the route at night and detected  trucks carrying goods without paying the GST. “Tax and penalty worth Rs 6.55 lakh has been recovered in a single checking. More such checkings will be carried out on a regular basis to ensure that the escape route is not used,” said Pawar.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/tax-of-rs-6-5-lakh-recovered-from-trucks-244369
26-04-2021||Shimla||BJP to launch ‘seva abhiyan’ in Himachal||In view of spurt in Covid cases, the state unit of BJP has decided to launch ‘Seva Hi Sangathan-Abhiyan 2’ in the state. In a release here, state BJP president Suresh Kashyap said as per the instructions of the party national president Jagat Prakash Nadda, several services would be started such as “helpline number” for people facing different types of problems. The BJP has issued 24X7 Covid helpline no. 01772832764 . Kashyap said the helpline would be useful to the people in providing necessary information and assistance about the facilities such as beds, ventilators, etc and arranging necessary medicines for people at their homes. He said public representatives of the BJP at all levels will provide service though the helpline in their respective areas. A large number of sanitisers, mask, karha, fruits will also be distributed by the BJP workers. Moreover, to control Covid-19 infection, a campaign will be started by BJP workers to make the public aware of the measures to prevent infection. Under this campaign, BJP workers will work with the goal of “Mera booth, corona-free booth”.  A four-member team has also been constituted for coordinating the works. The team members include party vice president Sanjeev Katwal, state secretary Payal Vaidya, Varinder Chaudhary and office secretary Pyar Singh Kanwat. The BJP has asked all its units including Mahila Morcha to work out a strategy lending help to people affected with coronavirus. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bjp-to-launch-seva-abhiyan-in-himachal-244370
26-04-2021||Mandi||Covid curbs: Mandi wears deserted look||The town wore a deserted look yesterday as most of the shops remained closed. The movement of vehicles was scanty in Mandi, which usually experiences a heavy rush. Government offices were also closed. The shops selling groceries, vegetables, medicines, dhabas and restaurants were open. Besides, liquor shops were also open in the town.   The government has imposed restrictions to check the spread of Covid-19. Only shops selling essential commodities will open at the weekend. Government staff will work from home on Saturdays. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-curbs-mandi-wears-deserted-look-244371
26-04-2021||Lalit Mohan---||Tourist inflow down to  trickle,  Dharamsala hoteliers to shut ops||Tribune News Service Dharamsala, April 25 Due to fresh wave of Corona pandemic in the country and restrictions imposed in Himachal, tourism in Kangra district has been reduced to a trickle. This was forcing the hotel owners to shut down their operations and shed staff. Ravi Sharma, general manager of a hotel here, said that they would be closing down from May 1. “We are sending all employees on leave from May 1. We have about 20 employees and just four will be kept to maintain the 25-room property. We are being forced to shut down as all our booking for May have been cancelled. It is difficult to even pay salaries of employees,” he said. Ravi said that weekend curfew in Kangra and condition for RT-PCR test 72 hours before entering the hotel was responsible for tourists cancelling the trips to the region. “I had a group of 65 persons coming. The group had come to visit Amritsar, Dalhousie and Dharamsala. The group preferred to extend their stay in Dalhousie and Amritsar rather than coming to Dharamsala as they were required under RTPCR test once again for coming here”, he said. Ashwani Bamba, president, Hotel and Restaurant Association of Upper Dharamsala,  said most of small or medium size hotels with up to 20 to 25 rooms are being forced to shut down as there was no bookings for May.  He said that last year despite lockdown the hoteliers managed to sustain staff as there was no pressure from banks. However, this year the banks have started converting accounts of hoteliers not being able to pay installments into non performing assets (NPA). Already some hotels have been sealed by banks. In such a scenario most of the hotel owners would have to divert whatever financial reserves they have towards paying out to banks rather than paying out to their employees, he said. Sources here said that hotel and other related tourism industry provided direct employment to about 50,000 people in Kangra district. Out of these, about 30,000 people were likely to lose livelihood. Besides the direct employment, people employed indirectly in tourism industry have also been hit hard. There are about 3,000 taxi operators in Dharamsala region only who earn their living out of tourism.  Deepak, a taxi operator, said that he had bought a Swift desire car by raising a loan of 5 lakh from bank. “Now I am not in position to pay the instalments. I am worried that the bank might take my away vehicle and it would be disastrous for my family”, he said. With hotels deciding to lay off employees it is likely to increase unemployment that was already highest in the state in Kangra. Unemployment rate in Kangra was more than 12 per cent in 2020. Last year after lockdown about 2 lakh residents of Kangra returned to the district, losing jobs in other parts of the country. Most of them have failed to go back to jobs in other parts of the country since then.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/tourist-inflow-down-to-trickle-dharamsala-hoteliers-to-shut-ops-244347
26-04-2021||Shimla||Losing biz, Himachal tourism industry seeks aid||Fearing complete closure and huge job loss, tourism industry has demanded special financial package from the government with hotels facing 100 per cent cancellations in view of night curfew and stricter restrictions.The Tourism Industry Stakeholders Association today demanded incentives in the form of working capital limits under interest subvention scheme to sustain in the present situation. “The tourism sector in Himachal is continuously suffering financial setback for the last four years, 2018 due to water shortage, 2019 due to Lok Sabha elections and now due to Covid,” said Mohinder Seth, president of the association.He said in case financial help is not provided to the tourism stakeholders, they will be compelled to close down their units which may result in 100 per cent job loss.Seth said this time for the second consecutive year, the tourism industry will lose business. “We have received 100 per cent cancellations and as such the hoteliers are all set to lose major chunk of revenue,” he said. In present circumstances it has become impossible to meet day-to-day expenses by the hotels, restaurants, taxi operators, adventure operators, water sport operators, photographers and all other tourism units, he added.He said tourism units are unable to pay the interest and EMI of loans raised by them due to loss faced by the industry. “The stake holders fear that the loans raised by them may slip into NPA and as such it is almost impossible to manage the salary bill of the staff, electricity and water bills and other fixed expenditures,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/losing-biz-himachal-tourism-industry-seeks-aid-244348
26-04-2021||Abhinav Vashisht---||Hospitality units closed in Kullu district, staff sent back home||Kullu, April 25 The second wave of Covid has derailed the tourism business in Kullu district for the second consecutive year.  Occupancy in most of the hotels and homestays of the district has been reduced to zero. The advance bookings were cancelled and there are no new queries. The threat and restrictions due to the pandemic have halted the arrival of tourists.  Due to this, most of the hospitality units have curtailed or ceased operations and have sent back most of the staff. Many hotels and homestays in Kullu, Manali, Parbati, Jibhi, Tirthan and other tourist destinations have ceased operations.  Jibhi Valley Tourism Development Association president Lalit Kumar said it seemed that this year as well would be a “no-business year”.  He said a large number of people were dependent on tourism so everybody was reeling under huge financial losses.  He said last year, the government had provided some loan facility to tourism units but smaller units were not benefited from this scheme. He added that some stakeholders of the tourism industry had taken loans and it had become difficult to pay instalments under the present circumstances. The major tourist season in Kullu is from April 15 to July 15. However, most tourism units have again ceased operations.  Hoteliers said it had become difficult to meet the expenses and it was better to shut their units down till the tourist footfall increases after the Covid wave subsides.  The tourism business in Kullu district has fallen again for the second consecutive year. The stakeholders here suffered a loss of more than Rs 1,000 crore last year. About 20,000 people getting direct and indirect employment from the industry were affected.  Meanwhile, the Beopar Mandal of Manali has also decided to self-impose partial lockdown and decided to open shops from 10 am to 3 pm from Monday to Saturday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hospitality-units-closed-in-kullu-district-staff-sent-back-home-244349
26-04-2021||---||Ex-servicemen want upgrade of CSD counter at Baldawara||Mandi, April 25 An ex-Servicemen (ESM) association is demanding the upgrade of Canteen Stores Department (CSD) extension counter at Baldawara in Mandi district.  Capt Jagdish Verma (Retd), president of the Honorary Commissioned Officers Welfare Association, said to cater to the grocery and liquor demands of about over 5,000 ex-servicemen and their dependent, an extension counter of Sarkaghat Canteen Stores Department was opened in May 2014 at Baldawara.  “However, due to the increasing strength of ESM, the workload on the canteen staff has gone up manifold and they always remain overworked. The ESM and their dependent are facing difficulty to avail better service in the canteen” he added. He said, “The association has appealed to the higher authorities in the Army that the counter should be upgraded to a full-fledged canteen.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ex-servicemen-want-upgrade-of-csd-counter-at-baldawara-244350
26-04-2021||---||DCs to assess loss to crops||Shimla, April 25  Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today directed the DCs to assess the loss to crops in their districts so that a damage report could be sent to the Centre for relief. A high-level meeting was held here today to review the huge loss caused to the crops and fruits due to untimely snow, hailstorm and heavy rain.  The Chief Minister said apple, wheat and peas crops had suffered heavy loss. He also directed the DCs to ask insurance firms to send their agents to assess the loss to the crops that are covered under the Crop Insurance Scheme, so that farmers and horticulturists could be provided compensation immediately.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/dcs-to-assess-loss-to-crops-244351
26-04-2021||---||‘Rs 862 cr spent on social security in Himachal’||Shimla, April 25The state government is providing social security pension to 5.77 lakh persons, including 60,000 women, in the 65 to 70 age group.An official spokesperson said the latest benefit extended by the government is the Rs 1,000 pension under Swaran Jayanti Nari Sambal Yojana to women in the 65 to 69 age group. “A sum of Rs 55 crore will be spent on providing this monthly pension to women, irrespective of the age criteria,” he added.The state government is spending about Rs 862 crore per annum on providing social security pension to all the weaker and vulnerable sections of society.In one of the first decisions taken by the BJP regime, the age limit of eligibility for social security pension was reduced from 80 to 70 years without any income limit so as to bring maximum people of the state under social security. With this decision of the state government, 1,63,607 people have got direct benefit in the form of social security pension.The government has sanctioned 1,63,607 new cases of social security pension during its last three-year tenure. Out of which, in the year 2018-19 about 97,139 new cases, in 2019-20 about 23,442 and in 2020-21 about 43,026 new cases of social security pension have been approved in the year 2020-21.The state has enhanced social security pension being provided to widows and differently abled persons from Rs 850 to Rs 1,000 per month with effect from April 1, 2020.The state government is providing a social security pension of Rs 1,500 per month to eligible pensioners in the 80 years and above age group and with more than 70 per cent disabilities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rs-862-cr-spent-on-social-security-in-himachal-244352
26-04-2021||Rajiv Mahajan||De-addiction centres ‘violate’ provisions in Kangra dist||Nurpur, APRIL 25Many drug de-addiction-cum-rehabilitation centres in border areas of lower Kangra district, neighbouring Punjab, are violating standard provisions, which has become a cause for concern for inmates’ families and genuine medical practitioners. Some of the rehabilitation centres do not even have the mandatory registration with the Himachal Pradesh State Mental Health Authority (HPSMHA).Centres established in Indora, Nurpur, Fatehpur and Jawali subdivisions are allegedly violating provisions of the minimum standard services required under the Mental Health Care Act-2017 even after charging an exorbitant fee of Rs 15,000-Rs 17,000 per month. These centres are devoid of requisite infrastructure and do not even have regular psychatrists and psychologists at their disposal. In the absence of these specialists, untrained staff are handling the inmates.These centres fleece people by making tall claims of de-addiction and rehabilitation of addicts within six to eight months, but enquiries reveal that these have been providing non-prescribed drugs to inmates. After spending over Rs 1 lakh, when desired results are not achieved, families of drug addicts eventually shift them to other private centres in hope of better treatment.A drug addict, hailing from the Pathankot area, who got admitted in a rehabilitation centre in Indora, said he left his treatment midway as the centre had no psychiatrist on a regular basis and unqualified staff were giving him questionable drugs during his treatment.Dr Sumeet Singh, a psychiatrist (MD) from Pathankot, who recently treated some patients who came from these centres, alleged that these centres were using drugs like Addnok-N, Buprenorphine, Tramadol, Clonazepam and Lorazepam, which were controlled narcotics and covered under the NDPS Act-1985 and could only be prescribed by a psychiatrist (MD).The HPSMHA has uploaded on its website the minimum standards defined in terms of infrastructure, manpower and WHO-recommended treatment protocol and rehabilitation plan. No inspection team by the HP State Mental Health Authority has ever inspected these centres, said sources.As many as 86 such private centres have been registered with the HPSMHA after the enforcement of HP Mental Health Act-2017 in 2018. Around one dozen centres have been established in lower Kangra areas, out which half are still unregistered.Dr Sanjay Pathak, CEO, HP state Mental Health Authority, said no private operator would be allowed to run unregistered de-addiction-cum-rehabilitation centre in the state. “If such a centre comes into our notice, it will be shut down and penalised as per law,” he said.Devoid of infrastructure, specialists||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/de-addiction-centres-violate-provisions-in-kangra-dist-244353
26-04-2021||Subhash Rajta||Himachal Govt ropes in ayurveda hospital for Covid care, pvt hospitals next||Tribune News ServiceShimla, April 25With Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital overshooting its normal 90-bed capacity and the IGMC hovering around its capacity mark, the Health Department today acquired the ayurveda hospital for Covid patients, adding 30 more beds to the tally in Shimla. The government is planning to acquire two private hospitals, too, in the coming days.“We have taken over the ayurveda hospital and will try and make it functional at the earliest,” said an official. “Initially, we will provide oxygen with cylinders but we will try and have oxygen concentrators too,” he said.At this facility, patients who have become stable or have mild symptoms will be shifted from the IGMC and the DDU. “The idea is to decongest the IGMC and the DDU and make space for patients with severe problems,” the official said.Meanwhile, the DDU breached its normal strength of 90 beds last evening. “We have laid out 25 more beds, taking the total strength to 115. These beds, though, do not have piped oxygen, these will be given oxygen through cylinders,” said a DDU doctor.On Sunday evening, the count at the DDU was 105.At the IGMC, the occupancy rate has fallen from 143 to 133, with the total number of beds being 147 at the moment. The IGMC administration claims it could raise the capacity by another 100 beds within 24 hours if the need arises. Clearly, the time has come for the IGMC administration to lay out additional beds.Incidentally, people are claiming that the IGMC is refusing admissions now. “I had checked with the hospital for a bed on Friday evening, but I was told there was no bed available,” said Sanjay Chauhan, the city’s former Mayor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-govt-ropes-in-ayurveda-hospital-for-covid-care-pvt-hospitals-next-244354
26-04-2021||lan||Nalagarh man offers 60-bed hospital||A Nalagarh resident has offered a newly constructed 60-bed ayurveda hospital for use in the pandemic. Chandershekhar Awasthy, who runs a nursing college, said, “In view of the rising Covid cases, I have offered my 60-bed ayurveda hospital at Nalagarh to the state health department. The services of nurses from the college can also be used for the vaccination drive, as they are well-trained and can assist the department,” said Awasthy. The multistorey building will be inspected by the health officials soon. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nalagarh-man-offers-60-bed-hospital-244356
26-04-2021||Shimla||High Court  restricts court works||Taking note of the Covid situation, the High Court has decided that only urgent cases will be taken up by the court till further orders. In view of the alarming rise in the cases and to minimise the footfall in the courts, the High Court has ordered through its Registrar General that the district courts will take up the matter of urgent nature by virtual/physical mode.  The order further revealed that the registry of the High Court and district court will remained closed on May1, however, the filing counter will remain open that day. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/high-court-restricts-court-works-244357
26-04-2021||---||All oxygen plants in Himachal told to ramp up capacity||Solan, April 25 In  view of the overwhelming demand for medical oxygen, the State Drugs Controller (SDC) has directed all eight oxygen-producing plants to ramp up their capacity. While Inox Air Products is the biggest producer of oxygen, there are two other plants at Baddi, one at Paonta Sahib, one at Una, two at Mandi and one at the IGMC, Shimla, which produce oxygen.  “The oxygen  plants are  utilising about 50 to 70 per cent of their   installed  capacities. Given the rising requirement for medical oxygen,  all producers  have been directed to utilise their capacities to meet the growing demand,” said SDC Navneet Marwaha.  More  than  3,500 cylinders  per day are being supplied to hospitals on a daily basis.   In Himachal, only the Tanda Medical College uses liquid oxygen, which is being supplied by Inox Air Products, Barotiwala, while the rest of the demand is met by oxygen cylinders  manufactured by  other units. SDM, Nalagarh, MP Gurjar today invoked Section 3 of the Epidemic Disease Act,1897, and the Disaster Management Act, 2005, to prohibit  and restrict any excavation or digging  activity along the route to 132-KV EHT underground cable from 132/66/11 KV substation, Barotiwala, to provide uninterrupted power supply to Inox  Air Products, Barotiwala.  Sufficient police personnel would also be deputed along this route to ensure compliance of these orders. “An excavation work undertaken last year in October  with an earth excavation machine had disrupted power supply for three days to Inox Air Products.  In a bid to ensure uninterrupted power supply, a  request has been received from the senior executive engineer of the Power Department to prohibit such works at this juncuture,” said Gurjar. No shortage of oxygen has been registered in the state till now. The officials were, however, ensuring that the manufacturing process was carried out unhindered.  Deputy Commissioner (DC), Sirmaur, Dr RK Pruthi informed that two oxygen plants were functional in the district at Paonta Sahib and Kala Amb.  They had an installed capacity of 4,200 cubic meter per day and were manufacturing 4,100 cubic meter per day of oxygen and both plants were operational round the clock.   “The Paonta Sahib-based  Vishant Enterprises is already providing the facility to all hospitals in the district and this constitutes 10 per cent of its total production.  It can provide more medical oxygen if empty cylinders are made available by consumers,” said Dr Pruthi.   The other unit, Mata Bala Sundari Gases at Kala Amb, which is providing medical oxygen can also provide medical oxygen if it was provided empty cylinders by the consumers, informed the DC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/all-oxygen-plants-in-himachal-told-to-ramp-up-capacity-244358
26-04-2021||Solan||Covid: Centre set up in Baru Sahib in pvt partnership||The  district administration of Sirmaur has roped in a  private sector-run Akal Charitable Trust  to cater to the burgeoning number of Covid cases at Baru Sahib in Sarahan subdivision.     A 100-bed hospital run by the  trust  has been notified  as a Dedicated Covid Care Centre (DCCC) by the district magistrate.  The number of such centres has now risen to  three in the district, two others being  at Sarahan and Rampurghat.  “The infrastructure and logistics were found apt in an inspection conducted by the Chief Medical Officer.  The Medical Superintendent has agreed to provide due medical staff with supportive staff for managing the cases as per the laid protocol,” said Deputy Commissioner, Sirmaur, Dr RK Pruthi. The Ayurvedic Medical Officer, Pacchad, has also been deputed for 12 hours to monitor and supervise the centre on a routine basis.  Three doctors, four nurses, two ward attendants and four housekeeping staffers have been provided for this centre. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-centre-set-up-in-baru-sahib-in-pvt-partnership-244359
26-04-2021||Shimla||31 Covid deaths, 1,363 new cases in Himachal||Himachal registered the highest-ever Covid death figure today with 31 patients succumbing to the virus in the last 24 hours. As many as 1,363 cases were reported today. A total of 31 persons, including 12 in Kangra, four each in Mandi and Shimla, three each in Una and Hamirpur, two each in Solan and Sirmaur and one in Bilaspur, died in the last one day. The highest number of 423 cases were reported in Kangra, 229 in Solan, 224 in Shimla, 149 in Sirmaur, 104 in Hamirpur, 83 in Mandi, 64 in Bilaspur, 38 in Una, 27 in Kullu, 10 in Kinnaur, nine in Chamba and three in Lahaul & Spiti. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/31-covid-deaths-1-363-new-cases-in-himachal-244361
26-04-2021||---||Registration must for entry into Himachal||Shimla, April 25All inter-state movement into the state shall be monitored through registration in Covid e-pass software to monitor compliance with the quarantine requirements and facilitate contact tracing of persons in the event of detection of a positive case as the government announced fresh guidelines in view of surging cases.It will be mandatory for all persons desirous of entering the state to register on the online software and the details of their arrival will be shared with all concerned for the purpose of contact tracing.Rules vis-a-vis hotspotsAll the returnees from the hotspots shall be treated as “high risk contacts” and shall be subjected to the protocol of home isolation for 14 days. They have the option of undergoing RT-PCR test after six or seven days.Those people from hotspots, who are carrying a negative RT-PCR report not older than 72 hours, will be allowed entry without restrictions. Also those who have completed their Covid vaccination and a minimum of 14 days has elapsed and are carrying their certificates would be allowed from hotspots.People, who travel to Himachal from the hotspot for short duration for medical, business or officials work for time not exceeding 72 hours and will not attend any gathering, shall be exempted from quarantine requirements.Children below the age of 10 years age will not require Covid test report if accompanying adults have a Covid negative report.The local panchayat members or urban body representatives will share details of arrivals from outside with health officials. The movement of family members of people who have been quarantined will also be restricted and the local authority will supply essential items at their doorsteps.As per the order, movement of individuals shall remain strictly prohibited between 10 pm and 5 am, except for essential commodities. District magistrate will issue separate orders in their areas, such as under 144 Cr PC and ensure strict compliance.Task forces will be constituted for the enforcement of the SOPs for the organising of permitted gatherings at the local level and initiate action against the violators.The order by Secretary (Health) stressed that keeping in view the circumstances, it is imperative to take necessary measures for the containment of the disease and limit its spread by undertaking efforts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/registration-must-for-entry-into-himachal-244362
26-04-2021||---||Snow-clearing ops begin to open link roads in Lahaul||Mandi, April 25The BRO and PWD authorities have started snow-clearing operation in the Lahaul valley to restore internal roads for traffic movement in the tribal district. Traffic had come to a standstill in the entire Lahaul valley after fresh snowfall hampered traffic movement badly in the region.Today, the BRO and PWD engaged their workforce and machinery in clearing snow so that link roads of the Lahaul valley could be restored for traffic movement. The roads linking Keylong with Udaipur and Keylong with Darcha were thrown open today.A massive landslide was reported today, which cut off the road connectivity to Miyar valley. The BRO had yesterday restored Manali-Keylong road for traffic via Atal Tunnel.The Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) today started bus service between Kullu and Keylong and Keylong and Udaipur for the convenience of tribals in the district.According to Mangal Manepa, Regional Manager, HRTC Depot at Keylong, only three bus routes have been resumed in Lahaul valley, while 21 routes remained suspended. Manepa said that due to heavy snowfall in Lahaul Spiti and Pangi region of Chamba district, a majority of bus routes were affected. In Pangi, today only one bus route was restored out of a total 26.He said that the fresh snowfall in the last three days had caused considerable loss of revenue to the HRTC because a majority of bus routes are suspended. The road from Udaipur ahead towards Pangi was not suitable for traffic movement because of heavy snow.Pankaj Rai, Deputy Commissioner Lahaul Spiti told The Tribune that the snow clearance operation was in full swing in Lahaul valley to restore internal road link roads. He said that the Himachal Pradesh State Electricity Board was working hard to restore power supply in villages. The recent snowfall has done considerable loss to the power structure in Lahaul valley.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/snow-clearing-ops-begin-to-open-link-roads-in-lahaul-244363
26-04-2021||Our Correspondent---||300 sheep, goats killed in avalanche||Palampur, April 25 Over 300 sheep and goats were buried alive under snow after an avalanche hit a camp of shepherds, about 10 km from Baijnath in Dhauladhar hills yesterday. As per the report, Om Parkash, Thanu Ram and Piar Chand, shepherds, who were residents of Deol village, Baijnath, were camping in Duhag area, near hot water springs at Tatwani, when all of sudden, a huge chunk of snow hit the camp, killing 300 sheep and goats on the spot. The shepherd managed to save themselves. Trilok Kapoor, chairman, HP State Wool Federation, said the exact number of animals killed could not be ascertained immediately, as the spot was covered with heavy snow. He said efforts were on to remove the snow to take out the dead animals.  Kapoor said a team of animal husbandry and revenue departments had already been sent to the spot to prepare the estimate of loss caused to shepherds. He said the Chief Minister had already sanctioned immediate relief to the victims, as soon as he received the information.  He said adequate relief would be given to the victims as per the relief manual of the state government. Kapoor said earlier 27 goats belonging to Bhinder, were killed by a leopard, near Dhundu Nala in Baijnath tehsil yesterday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/300-sheep-goats-killed-in-avalanche-244364
26-04-2021||Abhinav Vashisht---||Kullu entrepreneur sets up first hi-tech solar plant||KULLU, APRIL 25 An entrepreneur of Kullu has set up the first hi-tech 250-KW solar plant of the district in Bhuntar, 10 km from here. Rahul Solanki, MD, Tara Solar Energy, said this was the first hi-tech solar plant of the state which was connected with Wi-Fi, providing round-the-clock monitoring of the entire system, including solar panels, inverters and distribution panels. He said the project was connected to the national grid on Tuesday for the testing phase of 15 days for synchronisation.   The MD said the MoU and Power Purchase Agreement had been signed between the company and the HPSEB for 25 years at the rate of Rs 4.06 for per unit of electricity. He said the project would generate about 1,250 units per day on an average and it was capable of generating electricity even during rains and adverse weather conditions.   Solanki said 657 solar panels of 375 watt each were set up in a four-bigha land. He said four 60-KW inverters and one 10-KW inverter and distribution panel of 250 KW were also installed. He said all the equipment was procured from Havells under the ‘’Make in India’’ campaign. He said various protection measures were also taken by the engineers. He said the cost of the entire project was about Rs 1.5 crore. He said the HP Government also provided a subsidy of Rs 5 lakh. He added that the project would provide employment to around 10 persons. The MD said it was an initiative to produce clean and green energy. He added that the project was pollution-free and it would help the state in earning carbon credit.  Virender Chandel, Regional Manager, Havells, said the life of the solar panel was approximately 35 years and the company provided a warranty for 25 years. He said Havells was the only company in India to provide complete solutions under one roof for setting up the solar power plant. He said that the company provided a warranty of 10 years for the inverters and offered to buy back the equipment at 10 per cent of the cost after 25 years. He said the government provides a 40 per cent subsidy to set up small solar plants in houses and a 5-KW plant could be set up on the roof which can cater to daily household electricity requirements.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kullu-entrepreneur-sets-up-first-hi-tech-solar-plant-244365
26-04-2021||Partik Kumar||A stepping stone to Himachal’s food sovereignty||There are some crops that give us money but fail to withstand the changing climate and then there are crops that survive extreme weather conditions but fail in the market,” says Kishor Chand of Seraj valley in Himachal Pradesh, highlighting the dilemma that most farmers are facing in the age of climate change. SoilRagi is cultivated on a variety of soils, ranging from rich loam to poor shallow upland soils. Preparation of landTwo to three ploughings are necessary for preparing a good seed bed. Well-rotten farmyard manure (300 quintals per hectare) should be mixed in the soil before sowing. SowingThe appropriate time is the first week of May. However, it can be sown up to the third week of May, depending upon the weather conditions. In low-altitude areas and on marginal lands, sowing can be done up to the third week of June. Harvesting and threshingThe crop is ready for harvesting by the first week of October. The plants are cut close to the ground. Dried ear heads are beaten with sticks to separate the grains or the sheaves are trodden over by bullocks. The separated grains are winnowed and cleaned.The UN General Assembly has adopted 2023 as the International Year of Millets. The primary objective of this move is to raise awareness about the nutritional and health benefits of millets and their suitability for cultivation under adverse and changing climatic conditions, and to spur policy action in this direction.Rainfed states like Himachal Pradesh need to draw heavily from this initiative. The agrarian livelihood of the state is significantly impacted by climate change. According to reports, extreme weather events, precipitation and temperature are deviating from their long-term trends. This had drastically hit production and income from farms. According to Subhash Singh, a small farm holder from Kangra district, “This season, we waited for a long time, but it didn’t rain at the time of wheat sowing. Last year, we witnessed a heavy hailstorm just a few weeks before harvesting. For two successive years, we have failed to get the desired yield of wheat.”The past four to five decades of agrarian practices in Himachal Pradesh have created conditions for climate change. A section of researchers claims that the intensive monocropping agrarian system has significantly contributed to the acceleration of climatic variations. A flawed agrarian system and changing climate have negatively impacted productivity and income from the farms and drastically affected the health of nature and humans. It is reflected in the form of drying water sources, reducing soil fertility, frail forests and increasing health concerns among people.According to the state’s statistical reports, the area under ragi and common millets has decreased to just 6,000 hectares from almost 35,000 hectares in the past 40 years. Multiple factors have led to these trends, particularly the blind push for the Green Revolution-inspired approach in Himachal Pradesh. In the monocropping regime, this is accentuated by the lack of procurement support to millets and the insistence on the use of chemical fertilisers. Almost 90% of the households in the state are covered under the Public Distribution System (PDS), but the food basket is largely filled through rice and wheat imported from neighbouring states. This has made the state food-secure but taken away its food sovereignty. A combination of all these factors has erased millets from farms as well as plates of Himachalis. At present, the state is heavily dependent on the import of foodgrains to meet PDS needs. The major nutrition and health indicators fall in alarming categories, with more than 50% of the children and women being anaemic.The current conditions need a timely remedy and the past seems to hold significant lessons. According to a section of farmers and policy professionals, the promotion of indigenous agrarian practices, particularly millet farming, can prove to be the best mitigation strategy against climate change.At a time when farming communities of Himachal Pradesh are bearing the brunt of climate change, a decline in farm income and deteriorating health, millets seem to be the best bet to arrest the slide.Millets and other indigenous crop varieties are claimed to be most resilient to climate change. Also, they are the contributor of least emissions as they grow within the ambit of agro-climatic conditions and take minimal extrinsic inputs. An experience of the last two decades of climate change mitigation programmes in agrarian livelihoods suggests that any approach that isn’t financially viable at the farmer’s end will fail to yield results irrespective of its scientific merits. Millets’ cost of cultivation is relatively lower than that of prominent crops; their nutritional benefits are greater. Millets contain a higher amount of minerals, protein and vitamins as compared to rice or wheat.The testimony to millets’ potential in Himachal Pradesh has been provided by farmers’ collectives in recent years. One such initiative is Parvatiye Tikau Kheti Abhiyan (PTKA), a group of farmers in association with some NGOs who are working on the revival of millets in Karsog valley of Mandi district. Nekram, a progressive farmer and a key functionary of PTKA, says, “Initially, 7-8 years ago, we got going as a small group. We started with kodra (finger millet) and sowed it in intercropping with major crops. Over the years, the production in even an erratic precipitation year remained good and doctors started recommending its consumption for health reasons. This word-of-mouth publicity helped us expand to a group of 500 farmers in our region.”“In the subsequent period, we started creating awareness about the urgency of millet cultivation and shared recipes to revive them in the food culture. In this process, we have reached a scale where we are growing for our own needs. But to expand it further geographically as well as productivity-wise, we primarily need better seeds, dehusking machines and an assured market,” he adds.In recent years, the Himachal Pradesh Government has initiated efforts in this direction. Under its Prakritik Kheti Khushal Kisan (PK3) scheme, the agriculture department is promoting a non-chemical agricultural way. According to Ravindra A, an agrarian system expert associated with the Revitalising Rainfed Agriculture Network, “Millets disappeared because of an alternative agrarian system that arose post the 1960s and came with a package of input subsidies, research and extension institutions, and assured market through procurement at the MSP. The revival of millets also needs a complete alternative system that can’t be limited to input support, procurement or training/awareness but instead a mix of all these. We have to focus on production, productivity, processing and procurement simultaneously and rigorously if we want to bring back millets in a big way.”Though millets alone can’t counter the impact of climate change, they hold potential for doing their bit. Himachal Pradesh should adopt a holistic approach to revive millets so as to spur resilience to climate change as well as enhance the income of farming families and in the long run achieve food sovereignty.The author is State Coordinator (HP), Revitalising RainfedAgriculture Network||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/a-stepping-stone-to-himachals-food-sovereignty-244388
26-04-2021||Shimla||Himachal clamps night curfew in Sirmour, Solan, Kangra, Una||In view of a sharp spike in Covid cases, the Himachal Government has imposed night curfew in four border districts — Kangra, Una, Solan and Sirmour — from 10 pm to 5 am from April 27 till May 10.These districts are witnessing a spike in cases. The decision was taken at a meeting chaired by CM Jai Ram Thakur. It was decided to make it mandatory for visitors to the state to carry a negative RT-PCR report not older than 72 hours.In case of no report, the visitors will have to remain in home quarantine for 14 days. They will have the option of getting themselves tested after seven days of their arrival, and if the test comes negative, they won't be required to remain in quarantine. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-clamps-night-curfew-in-sirmour-solan-kangra-una-244182
26-04-2021||Shimla||Himachal govt imposes night curfew from 10 pm to 5 am in four districts from April 27 to May 10||Keeping in view the sharp surge in number of COVID-19 cases, the Himachal Pradesh government has decided to impose night curfew in four districts of Kangra, Una, Solan and Sirmour from 10 pm to 5 am from midnight of April 27 to May 10.This was decided in a high-level meeting held here on Sunday under the chairmanship of Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur. Also read: Highest figure of 31 COVID-19 deaths reported in HimachalIt was also decided to make RT-PCR tests within 72 hours mandatory for all the visitors visiting the state.It was decided that in case the persons visiting the state have not undergone RT-PCR test, they would have to remain in home quarantine or isolation at the place of their residence for fourteen days.  They would also have the option of getting themselves tested after seven days of their arrival, and in case the test comes negative, they do not require to remain quarantined. It was also decided that local bodies, both in urban and rural areas would be closely involved in effective enforcement of all the SOPs and guidelines in their respective areas and empowered to initiate legal action against the violators so as to check spread of the pandemic.It was also decided in the meeting that Special Task Force would be constituted at the local level for effective enforcement of SOPs during all the religious, social, political and cultural gatherings.They would be empowered to initiate strict action against the people violating the guidelines and SOPs issued by the state government from time to time.The state government would keep on reviewing the situation from time to time and decisions would be taken accordingly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-govt-imposes-night-curfew-from-10-pm-to-5-am-in-four-districts-from-april-27-to-may-10-244025
