27-04-2021||Shimla||Himachal Pradesh sees record 2,157 fresh COVID-19 cases, 24 deaths||Twenty-four more people died due to coronavirus in Himachal Pradesh which reported a record 2,157 fresh cases in a single day, taking the state’s virus tally to 91,350, an official said on Tuesday.Meanwhile, no person will be allowed to enter HP without online registration at https://covid19epass.hp.gov.in/applications/epass/apply from Tuesday midnight.Of the 24 deaths, 10 were reported from Kangra, four from Shimla, three from Mandi, two each from Kinnaur and Una and one each from Hamirpur, Solan and Chamba, Special Health Secretary Nipun Jindal said citing data updated till 7 pm.Of the new deaths, 16 were men and eight women in the age group of 25 to 86 years, he said.COVID-19 has claimed 1,374 lives in the state so far, Jindal said.He said 2,157 of the total 11,262 samples taken for testing were found to be COVID-19 positive on Tuesday, which amounts to a positivity rate of 19.16 per cent.The number of active COVID-19 cases in the state stands at 15,115, the senior official added.Kangra has the highest number of active cases at 3,757 followed by Solan (2,519), Shimla (1,604), Sirmaur (1,405), Mandi (1,383), Hamirpur (1,262) and Una (1,036), he added.As many as 1,305 coronavirus patients have recovered from the infection, taking the total number of recoveries in the state to 74,783, he said.In the meantime, online registration has been made mandatory from Tuesday midnight for people wanting to enter HP, a state government notification said.The order was issued on Sunday by the state’s health secretary under the HP Epidemic Disease (COVID-19) Regulations, 2020.All people desirous of entering the state shall register themselves online and details of their arrival will be shared with all concerned for the purpose of quarantine requirement and contact tracing, the order said.This will be applicable from April 27 midnight to May 10, it added. “However, there shall be no monitoring of the inter-district and intra-district movement, except that from or into a containment zone,” it added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-pradesh-sees-record-2-157-fresh-covid-19-cases-24-deaths-245004
27-04-2021||Ambika Sharma||Medical oxygen: Himachal govt to grant licences two more manufacturers||Tribune News ServiceSolan, April 27Keeping in view the rising requirement of medical oxygen, the state health department will soon grant licence to two more manufacturers -- Mata Balasundari Gases at Kala Amb and Shiwalik at Barotiwala.Secretary health, Amitabh Awasthy, who convened a meeting with the oxygen manufacturers, State Drugs Controller Navneet Marwaha, Nalagarh SDM Mahinder Pal, CMO and deputy director Industries at Baddi, today informed that requisite NOCs have been sought by the two units from other departments and they will soon be given licence by the health department.The total number of oxygen manufacturers in the state will rise to 12 with new additions.Oxygen manufacturers were also urged not to divert oxygen to industrial units, like steel units, in view of its growing need in the pandemic. While the state has adequate oxygen availability to cater to its hospitals, a roadmap was also drawn to meet the future exigencies. “The state’s usage of oxygen was 22 metric tonne (MT) while the production capacity was 35 to 38 MT. But keeping in view the rising requirement in view of surging Covid cases, the government was ensuring that there would be no shortage of oxygen in the coming days,” Awasthy said.“Oxygen requirement would surge with the rising bed strength and it will be regularly reviewed to ensure presence of adequate oxygen to all the patients,” added the secretary.The issue of lack of empty cylinders availability vis-à-vis demand was raised by the manufacturers as it was hampering availability of oxygen to various states. The officials assured them of taking up the issue at the appropriate level.In a bid to facilitate the industry, the secretary health also gave a patient hearing to other issues raised by the manufacturers and assured their speedy redress. The manufacturers were also directed to ensure prompt availability of oxygen in view of the pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/medical-oxygen-himachal-govt-to-grant-licences-two-more-manufacturers-244979
27-04-2021||Ambika Sharma||Despite ban, steel industries continue to operate and use oxygen in Himachal||Tribune News ServiceSolan, April 27Steel industries in industrial hubs of Baddi-Barotiwala-Nalagarh in Solan district and Kala Amb and Paonta Sahib in Sirmaur district continued to operate and use industrial oxygen despite the Ministry of Home Affairs directing all states to ban use of industrial oxygen for industrial purposes on Sunday.Enquires made by The Tribune from the officials of the power department revealed that all 12 to 15 steel units in the BBN industrial hub were operational.Superintending Engineer, HP State Electricity Board Limited, Rakesh Thakur said as per power utilisation of steel units in the BBN industrial hub all units were operating.The units had, however, scaled down their production and fewer shifts were operational informed officials.Similar scenario was witnessed in the Paonta Sahib and Kala Amb industrial areas, which was the hub of steel units in the state.There were about 20 functional steel and iron mills in both the district.Notably, keeping in view the acute shortage of life-saving gas, the Ministry of Home Affairs in a communication to all the states and the Union Territories, had banned use of industrial oxygen on Sunday and had clearly stated that “no exception is allowed to any industry” with regard to use of this commodity.Deputy Commissioner, Solan, KC Chaman said the deputy director, Industries, Baddi, has been directed to check all such units and ensure that they were not supplied any industrial oxygen by the manufacturers.He, however, added that no fresh stock of liquid oxygen has been supplied to them by the local oxygen manufacturers and they were exhausting their inventory.He added that the officials of the labour department have also been directed to engage their labour in other works in a bid to provide them employment as these units will have to shut their operations now.Deputy Commissioner, Sirmaur, Dr RK Pruthi, when quizzed, said though there was no shortage of medical oxygen in the state but given its shortage in other states, this issue was being reviewed and directions would soon be issued to the steel units after due deliberations with departments concerned.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/despite-ban-steel-industries-continue-to-operate-and-use-oxygen-in-himachal-244938
27-04-2021||Dharamsala||Dalai Lama contributes to PM-CARES Fund to strengthen India's fight against Covid||Tibetan spiritual leader Dalai Lama on Tuesday announced to make a contribution to the PM-CARES Fund to strengthen India's fight against the “alarming COVID-19 surge”."I have been following the continuing challenge that the Covid-19 pandemic has been posing across the world, including in India, with concern," he said in a statement."At this critical time, during this alarming Covid-19 surge, I have asked the Dalai Lama Trust to make a donation to the PM-CARES Fund as a token of our solidarity with fellow Indian brothers and sisters," he added."May I take this opportunity to express my deep appreciation for all the efforts that are being made to tackle this devastating pandemic, especially by those courageously working on the frontline. I pray that the pandemic threat will end soon," the spiritual leader said.With 3,23,144 people testing positive for coronavirus infection in a day, India's  total tally of COVID-19 cases has climbed to 1,76,36,307, while the national recovery rate has further dropped to 82.54 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday.The Centre had set up the Prime Minister's Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations (PM CARES) Fund in March 2020 with the primary objective to deal with any kind of emergency situation like the one currently posed by the COVID-19 outbreak and provide relief to those affected. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/dalai-lama-contributes-to-pm-cares-fund-to-strengthen-indias-fight-against-covid-244916
27-04-2021||Residents of Narola village||Erratic power supply||— Capt Jagdish Chand Verma, Baldwara, MandiStray cattle menaceDespite repeated requests to the local authorities, stray cattle continue to pose a threat to the people in village Kandrour in Bilaspur. The stray cattle add to traffic snarls on one of the highest bridges here. The bulls have attacked people and now everyone fears them while crossing the bridge. The claims made by the government to move stray cattle to cow sanctuaries are nothing more than claims.— Rakesh Kumar, Ghumarwin (Bilaspur)What our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/erratic-power-supply-244817
27-04-2021||Amiya Krishna||Law varsity student wins competition||Shoolini varsity chalks out NEP planThe Solan-based Shoolini University will implement the recommendations of the National Education Policy-2020 from the upcoming academic session. A detailed plan, which includes the introduction of four-year undergraduate programmes in various disciplines, has been drawn. Students would have the option to exit and re-enter at different stages, as provided in the policy. BTech in Defence Technology and Advanced Manufacturing, four-year BTech (Research), four-year BA (Hons.) in Liberal Arts, Enhanced Master and Doctoral Programmes in Liberal Arts, four-year BSc (Hons.) through Research, Research-based MSc. programmes and enhanced PhD programmes are the new programmes. Vice Chancellor Prof Atul Khosla said they were in line with the policy document released last year and mandated by Governor Bandaru Dattatreya. He said Shoolini University had modified some existing programmes and added several new skill-based ones.Release results, Demands ABVPThe ABVP submitted a memorandum to the Controller of Examination, urging him to declare the pending results of BPEd. The ABVP said the university was taking a lot of time in declaring the results and, as a result, the students who had given exams in 2019 were worried. The ABVP said it was strange that the university could not release results of just 60 students in two years doing the course.Webinar on acting and theatreAPG Shimla University organised a webinar on 'Career in Acting and Theatre' on behalf of Dr Kusha Pandit Chawala, the chairperson of school of humanities here on Monday for the students of APG Shimla university. The idea was to encourage the students to opt for acting and theatre as optional career along with their studies. A renowned theatre artiste, Anil Sharma, attended the webinar as the chief speaker. Sharma said students should opt for acting and theatre courses side by side with their general study as a career alternative. However, they should learn the basic pedagogy of all forms - presentation of acting, theatre on stage, direction, script-writing, character-building, costume-setting, etc.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/law-varsity-student-wins-competition-244802
27-04-2021||Ambika Sharma||Extend  subvention scheme: Hoteliers||Tribune News ServiceSolan, April 26Hoteliers have sought the review and reintroduction of the interest subvention scheme on working capital introduced by the government for the hospitality sector in July last year.Jobs under threatMost hotels have taken loans from banks and will be forced to shut if no financial assistance is provided to repay the loan interest. This will lead to large-scale unemployment as hundreds of local youths are employed in hotels — Devinder Verma, President, Chail hoteliers associationThe scheme had expired on March 31. Facing losses again following Covid restrictions in several states, hoteliers have sought its review and extension.“Since none could avail its benefits, it should be reviewed and reintroduced to help the hoteliers,” demanded Devinder Verma, president, Chail Hoteliers Association.“Most hotels have taken loans from banks and will be forced to shut if no financial assistance is provided to repay the loan interest. This will lead to large-scale unemployment as hundreds of local youths have been employed in the hotels,” said Verma.The scheme had an attractive clause. In the first two years of the repayment of the loan, 50 per cent of the interest was to be reimbursed by the state and the remaining two years of interest were supposed to paid by the borrower.Figures from various banks revealed that about eight hoteliers had secured loans of Rs 85 lakh from a cooperative bank. From Jogindra Central Co-operative Bank, Solan, merely six could avail of the benefits though 10 to 12 had applied.“Issues like lack of security deterred the hoteliers to avail its benefits. Since most hotels have come up in the last few years, these are yet to break even. These have a liability of several crores to the banks.“Nearly 80 per cent of the 30 hotels in Chail and its surrounding areas have shut their operations as bookings have been cancelled from Delhi, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and other Covid-hit states,” said Verma.“Though the staff ranging from 25 to 30 had been deputed after the business was restored a few months ago, the surging Covid cases have again created uncertainty,” added Verma.Similar situation has gripped Kasauli where roads wear a deserted look. A few tourists turned up on Sunday but none ventured to stay in hotels.Director, Tourism, Yunus said, “A virtual meeting was held with all stakeholders in which valuable inputs have been received to re-frame the scheme. Issues like enhancing the repayment period from four to five years and other issues have been raised by them.”He added, “An effort is being made to bring nationalised banks under its ambit as it has been observed that only co-operative banks have participated in it. The scheme has been drawn afresh and sent to the Finance Department.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/extend-subvention-scheme-hoteliers-244689
27-04-2021||Solan||Two killed in Kasauli mishap||Two persons were killed and one injured when the car (HP-14-A-8362) by which they were travelling in fell into a nearly 400 m gorge on the Patta-Joharji link road in Kasauli last evening. The trio were rushed to a local hospital for treatment by the police. Two of its occupants Tula Ram (58) and Khushi Ram (45) were further referred to Government Medical College, Sector 32, Chandigarh as they has received grievous injuries. They, however, succumbed to their injuries. A case has been registered against the driver Laxman, a resident of Nehal village in Kasauli tehsil. Further probe was under way. The cause of the accident was yet to be ascertained.  SHO Sanjay Rana said the trio had come to attend a function at a village in Kasauli and were going back to their native village in Nalagarh when the mishap took place. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/two-killed-in-kasauli-mishap-244690
27-04-2021||Solan||Youth’s body found from Nalagarh village||The Nalagarh police today found the body of a 22-year-old youth on a link road to village Malwala in gram panchayat Baruna in Nalagarh sub-division.  The deceased has been identified as Gurdhyan Singh, a resident of Basowal Sultani village in Nalagarh sub division. His family suspects that three persons — two from Ropar in Punjab and a barber — who were last seen with him are involved in his murder. The youth used to assist his father in farming.  “A case has been registered at Nalagarh under sections 302 and 201 IPC for murder and causing disappearance of evidence and further probe was underway. The body has been sent for a post mortem examination and its report will ascertain the cause of the death”, informed DSP Navdeep Singh. Three persons have been taken into custody. It is alleged that these persons were seen with the deceased, said Singh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/youths-body-found-from-nalagarh-village-244691
27-04-2021||Our Correspondent---||One killed, 10 hurt as bus turns turtle||Palampur, April 26 A 67-year-old woman was killed and 10 others were injured when an  HRTC  bus  met with an accident near Kahanpatt in Sulaha in Palampur  this morning. When the bus, which was on its way to Palampur from Saddun  remote area of Sulaha,   reached near Kahanpatt, its driver failed to negotiate a sharp turn.  The bus turned turtle on the road, killing a woman on the spot while 10 others received serious inquiries. They were shifted to the Tanda medical college. Two of the injured were said to be serious.  SDM Dheera,  along with police and health teams, reached the spot and  supervised the rescue  operation. The police have registered a case under different sections of IPC   and the investigation is underway.  Vipan Parmar, Speaker of the Assembly,   expressed shock over the tragedy  and conveyed  his sympathies  to the family of the deceased. He granted  immediate relief to victims.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/one-killed-10-hurt-as-bus-turns-turtle-244692
27-04-2021||---||CM Jai Ram Thakur opens hospital at Sundernagar||Shimla, April 26  Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur virtually inaugurated a Mother and Child Hospital at Sundernagar in Mandi district today.  Addressing people of Sundernagar from here, he said the hospital was sanctioned by national BJP president and then Union Health Minister JP Nadda in 2017.  He said the pandemic had forced the government to virtually dedicate it to people of Sundernagar.  “The hospital will be used as a dedicated Covid centre and will ensure better health services to people,” he said.  Nerchowk Medical College had been dedicated as a Covid hospital and an additional 100-bedded pre-fabricated centre would be completed within a few days. “The Civil Hospital, Sundernagar, has been upgraded to 150-bedded hospital and additional funds for a lift and other infrastructure will be provided,” he said.    The Chief Minister urged the elected representatives of local bodies to get involved in effective enforcement of the SOPs and guidelines and initiate legal action against violators.   Health Minister Dr Rajiv Saizal said with the inauguration of this hospital, people would get better health services.  Sundernagar MLA Rakesh Jamwal thanked the CM and said the hospital had been completed in a record time of about three years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cm-jai-ram-thakur-opens-hospital-at-sundernagar-244693
27-04-2021||Mandi||Virtual marriage from Mandi||Paras Ram Saini, principal of a Mandi school has performed the marriage of his son Pranshul Saini virtually. The purpose was to avoid the gathering in wake of Covid outbreak. The ceremony was fixed for today at Ahmedabad for which Pranshul visited the bride’s home yesterday. Paras Saini invited his relatives to join the ceremony virtually. Paras said, “I and my wife could not join marriage of our son physically at Ahmedabad because of the Covid crisis but we performed all rituals virtually from Mandi.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/virtual-marriage-from-mandi-244694
27-04-2021||Amritsar||Shimla girl found dead in Amritsar hotel||A girl from Shimla, identified as Simran Bhatia, was found dead under mysterious circumstances at a hotel on the Mall Road in Amritsar today, while her friend Juli Sharma of New Delhi was rushed to a hospital in a serious condition. The police have taken the body in custody and started inquest proceedings.  Assistant Commissioner of Police Sarabjit Singh Bajwa said the cause behind her death would be ascertained by the autopsy.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shimla-girl-found-dead-in-amritsar-hotel-244695
27-04-2021||Kullu||Grandparents held for torturing girl||The police arrested the grandparents of a minor girl, who is stated to be mentally disturbed, after videos showing them torturing her went viral on social media here today.  According to Kullu SP Gaurav Singh, the daughter-in-law of Jamna Das and Him Dasi stated in a complaint that her family, her brother-in-law along with his family and their parents reside in separate rooms of the same house. Her brother-in-law’s daughter is mentally disturbed and her grandparents often beat her up. The grandparents used to threaten them as well when they tried to stop the duo from ill-treating the girl. The complainant made a video on her mobile phone and released it on social media as a last resort to stop the torture of the minor girl.  The SP said a case   had been registered and the matter is being probed.— OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/grandparents-held-for-torturing-girl-244696
27-04-2021||Lalit Mohan||e-registration for entry to Himachal Pradesh leads to confusion||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, April 26The state government has made e-registration for people coming to the state mandatory from tomorrow. Utter confusion prevails among people of Kangra and Una districts that share borders with Punjab regarding the new restrictions. Many Himachal residents, who live or go to Punjab, for personal or official purposes, are clueless about what to do as the government has not even publicised the procedure for registration. Option of monthly pass on the e-portalSeema Sharma, a resident of Una, told The Tribune that she went to meet her brother in Chandigarh yesterday. She was to return tomorrow but is now clueless about what to do.Rakesh Sharma, a resident of Shahpur, has gone to Chandigarh for an official meeting but would be required to get an RT-PCR negative test report to return to the state.Thousands of people, including traders, and workers, go to Punjab for various reasons. Last year, when the government enforced restrictions on the borders, utter chaos prevailed.Rakesh Prajapati, Deputy Commissioner, Kangra, said that every person coming to the state would have to register on covidepass.hp.gov.in. After registration, a QR code would be generated that would be scanned on the borders, he added.He said even Himachal residents would have to register every time they enter or leave the state. People coming from Covid hotspots would have to produce an RT-PCR test negative report to enter the state, he added.However, commercial vehicles carrying essential commodities would be exempted from the condition of registration. People, who work in industries in Punjab and commute daily, would be allowed to go after inquiry, he added.Prajapati said the aim of the restrictions was to check Himachal residents coming from Covid hotspots and ensure that they remain in home quarantine for at least 14 days or else undergo the RT-PCR test.Deputy Commissioner, Una, Raghav Sharma said that the restrictions would be enforced from tomorrow midnight. He added that there was an option to generate a monthly pass on the e-portal.Sources say even officials are not clear on how to implement the orders. Congress leaders Sudhir Sharma and former minister GS Bali have termed the government measures as ill-planned that will only harass Himachal residents and tourists.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/e-registration-for-entry-to-himachal-pradesh-leads-to-confusion-244697
27-04-2021||---||CM Jai Ram Thakur: 1,000-bed facility to be functional in Kangra||Dharamsala, April 26 Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, while presiding over the review meeting of Covid-19 situation in Kangra district today, said that efforts were on to acquire Radhaswami Complex at Parour in Kangra district to operationalise 1,000-bed makeshift hospital. Thakur said the state had adequate PPE kits, face masks and essential medicines to check spread of coronavirus. The state also had adequate supply of oxygen. The focus of the government was on increasing bed capacity for Covid-19 patients to meet any emergency situation. A 50-bed City Centre Multi-specialty Hospital at Gaggal would be made functional tomorrow, he said. He said that in view of sharp surge in the number of Covid-19 cases in the state, the government had decided to impose corona curfew in four bordering districts of the state from 10 pm to 5 am. The people arriving from other parts of the country have been asked to bring an RT-PCR test negative report not older than 72 hours. He  urged the elected members of Panchayati Raj Institutions and urban local bodies to keep vigil on people coming from other parts of the country. He said that doctors and para medical staff must sensitize corona patients and their family members in home isolation regarding dos and don’ts about the virus.  Thakur visited Rajiv Gandhi Government Post-Graduate Ayurvedic College, Paprola in Baijnath  and said a 50-bed capacity facility would be created in the newly constructed building of the Ayurvedic College. He directed the authorities to increase the bed capacity up of the college to 100 beds. Speaker Vipin Parmar, Social Justice and Empowerment Minister Sarveen Chaudhary, Health Minister Rajiv Saizal and MP Kishan Kapoor were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cm-jai-ram-thakur-1-000-bed-facility-to-be-functional-in-kangra-244698
27-04-2021||Shimla||1,692 new cases, 27 dead in Himachal Pradesh||As many as 1,692 persons tested positive for Covid-19 in the state today, taking the tally to 89,193. Besides, 27 deaths due to the virus were reported in the past 24 hours. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/1-692-new-cases-27-dead-in-himachal-pradesh-244699
27-04-2021||Subhash Rajta||42 MT output per day, HP to supply oxygen to Delhi||Tribune News ServiceShimla, April 26Himachal will supply oxygen to Delhi following a request from Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal. In a letter to Kejriwal, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur has said that Himachal is concerned about the situation in the national capital and will be more than happy to extend all possible help to the Delhi Government.Dr Jitender Chauhan, state nodal officer for oxygen, says that the state is “very comfortable” with oxygen supplies and has a plenty of it to spare. “The state can easily offer some supply to Delhi. We are comfortable with oxygen supplies at present and don’t see any problem in near future as well,” he adds.“At the moment, our per day production is 42 metric tonnes while our consumption is merely around 7 metric tonnes. So, you can have an idea how much surplus oxygen we have,” he says. There are oxygen producing facilities in Baddi, Mandi, Una and Paonta Sahib, he adds.According to him, the consumption of oxygen in the Covid care facilities at Shimla, Tanda and Mandi is around 2 MT per day. “At other facilities in the state, the oxygen consumption is very little,” he says.Chauhan sounded confident about the availability of supply in future, too. “Even if there’s a significant surge in Covid cases next month or later, we are estimating a requirement of about 22 MT per day. Even in that scenario, we are quite comfortable,” he adds.“Of around 1,400 plus oxygen and ICU beds that we have at present, the occupancy rate is a tad over 50 per cent. So, even if all these beds are occupied and more of them are laid, we will be able to manage it with around 22 MT oxygen consumption per day,” he says.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/42-mt-output-per-day-hp-to-supply-oxygen-to-delhi-244700
27-04-2021||Shimla||Increase testing in Himachal districs CM Jai Ram Thakur tells DCs||Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today directed all the deputy commissioners to increase the number of testing for Covid in their districts. The Chief Minister  today interacted virtually with Deputy Commissioners, Superintendent of Police, Chief Medical Officers, Principals and Medial Superintendents of all the medical colleges to review the situation.  He said the key strategy of testing, tracing and treatment with effective surveillance through micro containment zones was the need of the hour. He said that the state health department must ensure minimum wastage of vaccine. Thakur said the government had almost reached the target of enhancing the bed capacity for Covid patients to 3,000 and efforts were on to increase the same to about 5,000 to meet any emergency situation. He said there was no scarcity of medicines, medical inputs and oxygen in the state. “As a precautionary measure, the government has requisitioned 3,000 additional D-Type oxygen cylinders to ensure there is no shortage of empty cylinders,” he stated.  The Chief Minister stressed the need for strengthening home isolation system and said Asha workers, Anganwari workers, NGOs, mahila mandals and yuvak mandals must be motivated to help the patients in home isolation by keeping in touch with their family members. He urged the elected representatives of Panchayati Raj Institutions and urban local bodies to keep an eye on the patients in home isolation besides ensuring that the persons visiting the state were strictly following the SoPs. He said the doctors and paramedical staff must ensure effective communication with Covid patients in hospitals for boosting their morale which would help in their speedy recovery. He said that senior doctors must also regularly visit the Covid wards to enquire about the health of patients.  He interacted with doctors, nurses, ward boys and sanitary workers working in Covid care centres and thanked them for their “great” services.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/increase-testing-in-himachal-districs-cm-jai-ram-thakur-tells-dcs-244701
27-04-2021||Our Correspondent---||Rs 5,000 penalty for violating Covid norms at wedding||Kullu, April 26 The police yesterday imposed a fine of Rs 5,000 on Senapaul Sharma, organiser of a marriage function at Jallugran village here, for not following Covid protocols.  Kullu SP Gaurav Singh said that people were not maintaining proper social distance and some of them were not wearing masks properly at the marriage function. He added that legal action was taken and a challan was issued under Sections 111 and 115 of the HP Police Act. The SP said that they would ensure that Covid norms were complied with in all gatherings and strict action would be taken against the violators. He appealed to the people to adhere to the Covid protocols and guidelines of the government and stay safe.   Meanwhile, many social and religious functions had been curtailed, cancelled, postponed or are being rescheduled with a limited guest list and a time-frame due to the restrictions on gathering. Even the state-level Spring Festival will not be held for the second consecutive year in the wake of the Covid crisis. Meanwhile, Education Minister Govind Singh Thakur got his second jab of the Covid vaccine here today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rs-5-000-penalty-for-violating-covid-norms-at-wedding-244702
27-04-2021||Shimla||Move to deduct pension flayed||The Pensioners Welfare Association has opposed the decision of the government to deduct one-day pension of retirees without their consent.  In a statement issued here today, secretary general Hari Chand Gupta said the pensioners were not against extending help to the Covid-affected but the manner in which the deduction was announced without consulting them is wrong. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/move-to-deduct-pension-flayed-244703
27-04-2021||Dipender Manta||Orchardists seek compensation||Tribune News ServiceMandi, April 26Apple growers of Mandi, Kullu and tribal district of Lahaul Spiti are at the receiving end as heavy snowfall has caused losses worth crores to the horticulture and agriculture sector.ANTI-HAIL NETS CAUSE MORE DAMAGEApple orchards having anti-hail nets suffered the maximum damage because nets could not bear the weight of the snow deposited on them and gave way. As a result, apple plants were uprooted and branches of plants were broken at many places.Apple orchards were in full bloom in high altitude areas of these districts. The plants require pleasant weather for better production. But sudden heavy snowfall resulted in drastic dip in temperature, affecting the crop adversely. This will badly hit the apple yield this year.Data collected from the district administration revealed that the untimely heavy snowfall was, in fact, a disaster to the horticulture and agriculture sectors in these districts. The apple orchards having anti-hail nets suffered the maximum damage because nets could not bear the weight of the snow deposited on them and gave way. As a result, apple plants were uprooted and branches of plants were broken at many places.In Lahaul & Spiti, the district administration has calculated losses to the tune of Rs 15 crore approximately. The major loss was caused to the greenhouses in the district.In Kullu district, the district administration has calculated losses of about Rs 20 crore. The major loss to the horticulture sector was witnessed in high altitude areas of Ani, Banjar and Manali areas of Kullu district.Similarly, in Mandi district, the district administration has calculated losses worth Rs 25 crore approximately where major loss to the apple orchards was noticed in Seraj and Karsog assembly segments.Deputy Commissioner Kullu Richa Verma and Deputy Commissioner Mandi Rugved Thakur told The Tribune that the losses to the horticulture and agriculture sector in Kullu and Mandi districts were being assessed and the final report will be submitted to the state government for further action.The affected farmers have demanded a relief package for the losses caused by the untimely heavy snowfall.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/orchardists-seek-compensation-244704
27-04-2021||Our Correspondent---||Collection of sports donation irks parents||Hamirpur, April 26 The collection of sports donation from students seeking admission in government high and senior secondary schools has raised questions on the working of the Education Department in the district. Notably, the Director of Higher Education had stopped collection of sports donations vide its letter dated June 13, 2018. However, the Deputy Director here had issued orders to all schools in the district to collect sports donation on April 17, 2021. The Deputy Director had mentioned that the decision was taken at a meeting of the District School Sports Association held on April 8.  The letter had indicated that the sports donation of  Rs 30 and Rs 40 should be  collected from the students who are taking admission in Classes X and XII, respectively.  Ramesh Kumar, a parent of a student, said when the director had ordered to not to collect sports donation, how could a deputy director order such a collection. He said schools were ordered to collect sports donation even as there would be no sports activity. following pandemic situation.    Dilawer Jeet Chander, Deputy Director, Higher Education, here said the order was issued to all high and senior secondary schools in the district. He said the order was also intimated to the Director, Higher Education, but he was yet to receive clearance from the directorate. He said he would direct all schools in the district to stop collection of sports donation and would act as per the directives of the Director of Higher Education.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/collection-of-sports-donation-irks-parents-244705
27-04-2021||Subhash Rajta||Losses to fruit growers assessed at Rs 81 cr||Tribune News ServiceShimla, April 26As feared, the losses suffered by apple and other fruit growers in the recent snowfall and hailstorms are going to be very high. Even as the assessment for the total damage is on, the Horticulture Department has already prepared estimates of over Rs 81 crore damages. “We have already received estimates of Rs 81.40 crore from the field. Apple growers have been the worst hit,” said Horticulture Director JP Sharma.FARMERS IN SHOCKThe department's data is preliminary at the moment. The farmers are in a state of shock. They have not been able to remove their torn anti-hail nets, assess the damage done to their trees yet. The actual figure of loss will be much higher. — Harish Chauhan, President, fruits, vegetables and flowers growers Association of Himachal PradeshApple growers, on the other hand, feel the exact damage would easily be in the range of Rs 700-1,000 crore. “The department’s data is preliminary at the moment. The farmers are in a state of shock. They have not been able to remove their torn anti-hail nets, assess the damage done to their trees yet. The actual figure of loss will be much higher,” said Harish Chauhan, president of the Fruits, Vegetables and Flowers Growers Association of Himachal Pradesh.In the meeting with Horticulture Minister Mahender Singh today, the representatives of farmers urged the government to compensate the farmers like it did the flower growers last year. “The government will need to assess per plant losses suffered by the growers and credit the compensation directly to the account. While assessing the loss, the loss of crop as well as the damage done to the plant should be considered,” said Chauhan.Apart from the direct compensation, the growers also demanded a few other relief measures, which included immediate release of pending subsidy on anti-hail nets and waver of interest on the Kisan Credit Card scheme.“Many growers had purchased anti-hail nets with loans. So the government should immediately release their pending subsidy on the nets. Also, many growers would find it difficult to pay the interest on their KCC limits. So, the government should exempt them from paying interest this time,” said Chauhan.Meanwhile, the Horticulture Minister has issued orders that committees be constituted under the chairmanship of Deputy Director Horticulture of district Shimla, Kinnaur, Mandi, Kullu, Chamba, Lahaul-Spiti and Sirmaur to prepare the detailed damage report. These committees would include scientists of horticulture university, officers of revenue department and representatives of insurance companies and horticulturists.The minister also directed the officers to prepare and submit a detailed analysis report along with videography of the damages within 15 days. The minister also asked the insurance companies to assess the damage and pay compensation to the eligible growers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/losses-to-fruit-growers-assessed-at-rs-81-cr-244706
