28-04-2021||---||Daily Covid fatalities mount to all-time high of 33 in Himachal; record 2,539 new cases reported||Tribune News ServiceShimla, April 28The state continues to witness a major surge in Covid fatalities as an all-time high of 33 people succumbed to the virus in the last 24 hours, besides a record 2,539 persons tested positive.The number of active cases today shot up to 16,098 with the total positive cases till now being 93,889. A total of 33 persons, including 16 in Kangra, four each in Mandi and Solan, three in Shimla and two each in Una, Hamirpur and Sirmaur, succumbed to the virus.Kangra continues to remain the worst hit, with a total of 693 new cases being detected today, followed by 295 in Sirmour, 292 in Mandi, 283 in Solan, 215 in Shimla, 207 in Bilaspur, 182 in Una, 109 in Kullu, 108 in Hamirpur, 93 in Chamba, 50 in Kinnaur and 12 in Lahaul and Spiti.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/daily-covid-fatalities-mount-to-all-time-high-of-33-in-himachal-record-2-539-new-cases-reported-245465
28-04-2021||---||Six houses gutted in fire in Kotkhai; woman feared burnt alive||Shimla, April 27A woman was feared burnt alive in a fire where six houses were completely gutted at Fanel village in Kotkhai area of Shimla district on Wednesday.The body of Bimla Devi is yet to be retrieved. Fire tenders have been rushed to the spot to douse the flames.The fire broke out at her house and then spread to the others, Additional Superintendent of Police Parveer Thakur said.An investigation is underway to ascertain the cause of the fire, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/six-houses-gutted-in-fire-in-kotkhai-woman-feared-burnt-alive-245386
28-04-2021||Shimla||Distress calls up, paucity of ambulances a worry||With a sharp increase in distress calls for ambulance by Covid patients, 90 dedicated vehicles in the state are proving to be inadequate.The number of calls being received has gone up almost 10 times as compared to last year, resulting in a dire need to ramp up the service. The problem is being faced more in bigger districts like Kangra where distances are huge and the spike is far higher than other areas.IGMC delaying sample reports“We have 47 vehicles of the 108 ambulance service and 43 vehicles of the 102 ambulance service dedicated for Covid care,” said Nipun Jindal, Director, National Health Mission. He admitted that the demand for ambulance had gone up this month.The Director, Health and Family Welfare Department, has been asked to mobilise ambulances of the department. “We are trying to divert more ambulances for Covid care but we fear that this can affect the non-Covid emergencies,” said Jindal.To ease out the situation, the health authorities and district administration have tried to seek the help of private players. However, in some areas, the dependence is on the government setup.In Kangra, which is the biggest district, nine ambulances for Covid patients have been arranged from private players, besides the five already dedicated for Covid care.A total of 69 patients, under home isolation, were shifted to hospitals through ambulances yesterday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/distress-calls-up-paucity-of-ambulances-a-worry-245013
28-04-2021||Shimla||Oxygen cylinders for home use in Shimla in short supply||There is a shortage of oxygen cylinders and concentrators for use at home by people suffering from respiratory diseases in Shimla. Due to the growing panic following a sharp rise in Covid cases, many people have bought cylinders and many have not returned machines and cylinders taken on rent from vendors.Overpricing of oxygen outside hospital?“Concentrators are just not available now. I have several orders lined up and receive hundreds of queries every day, but am helpless as there’s no supply at all,” said Mohit Sarkaik, a vendor of oxygen concentrators. “Besides selling concentrators, we also rent them on a monthly basis for use at home. The problem is that people are not returning the machines, fearing these might not be available if needed again. As a result, these machines are not available to people who actually need them,” he added.The situation is the same with cylinders. Jupiter Oxygen, a refilling facility in Shimla, has stopped selling and renting oxygen cylinders. “Oxygen cylinders are not available at all. If cylinders are available somewhere, their rates are too high. So, we have stopped selling oxygen cylinders altogether,” said Hemant Kumar, the owner of the facility.“Also, we are not renting cylinders anymore because we are not receiving them back. People are either keeping cylinders or may have even sold these because of high prices these are fetching nowadays,” he said. “We have limited our services to just refilling cylinders. If people have cylinders, they can come and refill these here,” he added.An NGO looking to buy or borrow around 25 cylinders to offer to needy people on a security basis has not been able to find any supply. “We give cylinders to patients on a security basis. We thought of increasing the number of cylinders to help people, but they are not available,” said an NGO member.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/oxygen-cylinders-for-home-use-in-shimla-in-short-supply-245014
28-04-2021||Shimla||Medical, dental, nursing classes suspended||In view of the surge in Covid cases in the state, the government has decided to suspend the first three-year classes in medical, dental and nursing colleges till May 10.Dr Surinder Singh, Director, Directorate of Medical Education and Research, issued the orders in this regard today. The message has been conveyed to the principals of all the medical, dental and nursing colleges, both in the government as well as the private sector.Besides suspending classes for first, second and third year students of MBBS, BDS and B Sc (Nursing), the classes for first and second year students of B.Sc (para medical), GNM and ANM also stand suspended. Besides, the classes of first year students of Post Basic B.Sc (Nursing) have also been called off.Since a majority of the students at these colleges are hostellers or staying in paying guest (PG) accommodation, is felt that their assembly in large number could be a cause for potential transmission if anybody gets infected.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/medical-dental-nursing-classes-suspended-245015
28-04-2021||Mandi||Villagers oppose road on forestland||Residents of Kamlah panchayat in Dharampur have alleged that a road is being built on the forest land illegally and the muck is being dumped near their houses as well as in a nullah, posing a threat to the ecology.Villagers have written a letter to the Forest Department to look into the matter. They have also complained on Mukhyamantri Seva Sankalp phone number but no action was taken.Gulshan Kumar, a villager, said, “Despite several pleas to the higher authorities as well as to local administration, no step has been taken to protect our house from the dumped muck. Earlier, a cowshed was damaged in the area.”Divisional Forest Officer at Jogindernagar Rakesh Katoch refuted the claims and said the road was being constructed on a private land.Sub-Divisional Magistrate Sunil Verma said the matter was not in his notice but he would look into it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/villagers-oppose-road-on-forestland-245016
28-04-2021||Shimla||Teachers to be roped in for vax drive||The government today ordered that the staff of the Education Department, especially teachers, would be deputed for the vaccination drive and services provided to people in home isolation.The Secretary, Education, conveyed the decision to the Director (Higher Education), the Director (Elementary Education) and the State Project Director of the Smagra Shiksha Abhiyan.“Following the closure of all educational institutions till May 1, you are directed to inform the staff about the decision,” he said.The decision has been taken by the government in view of the workload on the Health Department staff and staff shortage. According to the department, almost 90 per cent of the total 15,151 active cases are still in home isolation.The CM has stressed on the need for providing proper facilities and guidance to them so that they remain informed and well taken care of. Ensuring proper facilities and information at home will help in fast recovery and less burden on the health infrastructure, said officials. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/teachers-to-be-roped-in-for-vax-drive-245017
28-04-2021||Dharamsala||3,000 weddings in May can be Covid super-spreaders in Kangra||Covid cases are increasing in Kangra district. On an average, the district has been witnessing over 350 cases daily since last week. The positively rate is above 13 per cent that was among the highest in the country. Community functions are said to be the main reason for the rising cases in rural areas.A challenge for admnThe district administration faces another challenge. Thousands of marriages are scheduled to be solemnised in the district in the next 30 days. The authorities are fearing that the functions can act as super-spreaders.Sources said 3,090 permissions had been given by the district administration for marriage functions between April 25 and May 24. Sources in the district administration said the number is likely to increase as in most cases, people seek permission for organising functions a few days before the event.Administrative officials could not deny permission to anybody as it would cause unrest among people, said a senior official while talking to The Tribune.Though the government has capped the gathering in marriage events to just 50, the rule is rarely followed.Kangra DC Rakesh Prajapati admitted that permissions had given to organise about 3,000 marriages. He said flying squads had been formed to check the number of people taking part in the functions. Panchayat pradhans had also been asked to ensure that the participation does not cross the limit and people observe social distancing.“We also expect the people to be more responsible,” he said.As per the information collected by The Tribune, between April 25 and May 24, permissions have been given for organising 165 marriages in Baijnath, 359 in Dehra, 314 in Dharamsala, 155 in Fatehpur, 186 in Indora, 167 in Jaisinghpur, 225 in Jawali, 76 in Jwalamukhi, 284 in Kangra, 203 in Nagrota Bagwan, 276 in Nurpur, 476 in Palampur, 197 in Shahpur and 9 in Dhira.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/3-000-weddings-in-may-can-be-covid-super-spreaders-in-kangra-245018
28-04-2021||Solan||1,477 seek nod in Solan, Sirmaur||Marriages in Solan and Sirmaur districts pose a challenge to the administration. The SDMs are flooded with marriage permissions as 548 approvals were sought in Sirmaur district and 929 in Solan district till April 30.In Solan, 176 permissions have been sought from Arki. SDM Vikas Shukla said panchayats and civic body members had been directed to create awareness about night curfew and restrictions in marriages.Officials are worried over the rising marriages. Though a penalty of Rs 5,000 can be imposed under the HP Police Act for violating the curfew provisions, ensuring marriage ceremonies are held before curfew hours will be an arduous task for them.As many as 175 permissions have been sought in Solan, 108 in Kasauli and 135 in Nalagarh.In Sirmaur district, a maximum of 191 permissions have been sought from Paonta Sahib and 161 from Nahan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/1-477-seek-nod-in-solan-sirmaur-245020
28-04-2021||Mandi||Mandi villagers getting muddy water supply||The muddy water supply in rural areas of the district has become a cause for concern. The Jal Shakti Department has spent money worth crores to construct tanks with water filter to ensure the clean water supply. Villagers blame it on the poor quality work.Residents of Mamel village in Karsog alleged that they had been receiving muddy water for the past few days, causing the fear of water-borne diseases. They said the filter had been non-functional since long.Narayan Singh, Mahender Singh and Suresh Kumar, residents of the village, told The Tribune that department officials were apprised by the people of the muddy water supply but no step had been taken to resolve the issue.XEN, Jal Shakti Department, Ashok Bhupal, refuting the allegations. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mandi-villagers-getting-muddy-water-supply-245021
28-04-2021||Our CorrespondentKULLU||Quality of flour irks villagers in Kullu||The residents of Neuli village of Kharal valley have lodged a complaint with the Food and Civil Supplies Department about the bad quality of flour being provided in the government depot of the village. A video showing the quality of flour has gone viral on social media where the residents are complaining about the lot of flour of a particular mill of Kullu being provided in the government ration depots. The residents said that this can create a major health hazard and the offenders should be dealt with strictly for risking the lives of the people.The viral video has suddenly become the centre of discussion raising the question mark on the quality of ration being provided by the government. The residents alleged that the government was playing with the health of the people by providing poor quality ration. They demanded that strict action should be taken against the suppliers who are providing such health hazardous essential food items to the consumers.District Food Controller Purushotam Singh said that samples of flour were taken from the depot in Neuli village and from the flour mill of the supplier. He said that samples had been sent to the laboratory and further action would be taken after the reports of the samples.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/quality-of-flour-irks-villagers-in-kullu-245023
28-04-2021||The garbage container near a hospital in Sayri||Garbage container not being cleared||Sanitation takes a hitLast year, when the Covid lockdown was imposed in Dharamsala, the authorities had gone into an overdrive to maintain sanitation in the city. However, this time, hygiene in the city has taken a hit. The underground dustbins are not being cleared and are overflowing at places. The sweepers are not coming on weekends during the lockdown as the public or private transport is not functioning. The administration should pay attention to hygiene otherwise it could lead to the outbreak of some other disease in the area. — Suresh Kumar, DharamsalaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/garbage-container-not-being-cleared-245024
28-04-2021||Prof Anand Sagar||Dean of HPU Faculty of Life Sciences||ABVP workers sanitise HPU campusABVP activists on Tuesday sanitised HPU premises. There were five teams of four members each. The teams got down to work at 10 am, and finished by noon. ABVP president Viashal Saklani said Covid had turned very dangerous and everyone should follow SOPs and help each other to beat the pandemic.Hailishi, Samriti win competitionHailishi Hira of Class X and Samriti Chaudhary of Class VIII, both from Jawali, have won an all-India school-level painting competition by Petroleum Conservation Research Association, Government of India. Both students have been selected for the state-level competition. School chairman Dr Rajinder Singh and other committee members congratulated the children and their parents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/dean-of-hpu-faculty-of-life-sciences-245026
28-04-2021||Dharamsala||Kangra hospitals told to keep 50% beds for Covid patients||Kangra Deputy Commissioner Rakesh Prajapati has ordered all leading private hospitals of the district to reserve 50 per cent beds for Covid-19 patients.According to him, the decision has been taken as the number of Covid cases is increasing in the district and Tanda medical college and the Dharamsala Zonal Hospital, both major government facilities dedicated to Covid patients, have exhausted their bed capacities. “Now, we shall start referring patients to private hospitals, which have been told to keep 50 per cent beds for Covid patients referred by the district health authorities,” he said.Govt to pay for patients referred by dist authoritiesTanda medical college has a 120-bed dedicated facility for coronavirus patients while the Dharamsala Zonal Hospital has 130 beds. Today, both hospitals had no bed vacant. The district administration is trying to make a 100-bed facility in the Baijnath Civil Hospital operational for Covid patients.The hospitals that have been directed to reserve 50 per cent beds include Surya Hospital at Raja Ka Talab in Nurpur having 50 beds, Shri Balaji Hospital in Kangra (105 beds), Fortis Hospital in Kangra (95 beds), Maple Leaf Hospital (90 beds), City Hospital (50 beds), Vivekanand Medical Institute (100 beds), Nav Jeevan Hospital at Jawalamukhi (50 beds) and Dalek Hospital (50 beds).As per the orders issued by the Deputy Commissioner, the Health Department shall pay Rs 8,000 per day to private hospitals for patients requiring ventilator support as well as oxygen. For patients requiring oxygen support, the department shall pay Rs 3,000 per day and for patients not requiring ventilator or oxygen support Rs 800 per day. The state government will pay for the patients being referred by the district health authorities. Patients, who go directly to private hospitals, shall pay from their own pockets.The Chief Medical Officer (CMO), Kangra, has been directed to provide 50 PPE kits and 100 N-95 masks to every private hospital. It has also been stated that in the order that hospitals will be paid as per the actual occupancy but they will have to reserve 50 per cent beds for Covid patients.The private hospitals directed to keep 50 per cent beds have been named as secondary-level dedicated isolation facilities and the Kangra SP has been directed to provide security personnel there. The SP has also been directed to ensure the compliance of the orders to reserve 50 per cent beds.The private hospitals have been warned that if they do not comply with the orders, they shall be liable for legal action under Section 34 of the Disaster Management Act. The CMO has been directed to appoint a nodal officer for coordination with the private hospitals.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kangra-hospitals-told-to-keep-50-beds-for-covid-patients-245027
28-04-2021||Solan||Don’t use oxygen for operations, units told||Steel and iron manufacturing units have been directed not to use oxygen for manufacturing processes in the industrial areas of Sirmaur and Solan districts.There are about 20 such units in the Baddi-Barotiwala-Nalagarh industrial areas as well as at Kala Amb and Paonta Sahib. Though some units have cut down their shifts owing to the lack of oxygen availability for various processes, but some are still functional.Centre’s directionsThe Union Ministry of Home Affairs has directed the state government to stop the supply of oxygen for all industrial purposes from April 23 in view of its rising demand for Covid emergencies.General Manager, District Industries Centre, Nahan, says there are two oxygen manufacturers in the district. “They have been directed to restrict their supply only for medical purposes. All eight steel and iron manufacturers in the district have also been informed about the directions of the Ministry of Home Affairs banning the use of oxygen in the industries.”While the ministry has directed the state governments to increase the production of oxygen, the steel and iron industry representatives also approached the district administration for meeting the shortage of oxygen last week. Officials of the power department also confirmed that steel and iron units were functional in the BBN area.Deputy Commissioner Solan, KC Chaman, said the steel and iron industry had been directed not to use industrial oxygen in view of its shortage. Deputy director, Industries, Baddi, had been directed to check all units and ensure that they were not supplied any industrial oxygen by the manufacturers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/dont-use-oxygen-for-operations-units-told-245028
28-04-2021||NURPUR||Naka at Kandwal to monitor visitors||The administration set up a police naka on the Kandwal border today to monitor the entry of people from Covid hotspots. SDM Surinder Thakur said special teams had been deployed to keep a vigil on the people coming from other states. They would have to produce a negative RT-PCR test report. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/naka-at-kandwal-to-monitor-visitors-245029
28-04-2021||Shimla||2,157 fresh cases, 24 deaths in Himachal||As many as 2,157 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 91,350. Besides, 24 persons died of the virus in the past 24 hours. Ten deaths were reported in Kangra, four in Shimla, three in Mandi, two each in Kinnaur and Una, and one each in Solan, Chamba and Hamirpur.Kangra reported the highest number of 631 cases, followed by Hamirpur 300, Solan 264, Mandi 238, Shimla 195, Una 118, Sirmaur 110, Kullu 103, Bilaspur 86, Chamba 82, Lahaul and Spiti 17 and Kinnaur 13. The number of active cases rose to 15,151.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/2-157-fresh-cases-24-deaths-in-himachal-245031
28-04-2021||Dharamsala||Dalai Lama gets 2nd dose||The Dalai Lama received the second dose of Covid-19 vaccine at his residence on Monday. The vaccine was administered by a medical team of Delek Hospital, led by Dr Tseten Dorjee.The entire staff and security personnel of the Dalai Lama, including those living in hisresidence at McLeodganj, were also vaccinated. He made a contribution to the PM-CARES Fund through the Dalai Lama Trust. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/dalai-lama-gets-2nd-dose-245032
28-04-2021||Dharamsala||Plan to take over pvt hospital sparks row||A proposal, mooted by the district health authorities to take over a 50-bed private hospital in Gaggal of Kangra district for Covid patients at Rs 54 lakh per month, has evoked a controversy.Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur inspected the hospital during his visit to the district to review Covid arrangements yesterday.Congress leaders from Kangra have questioned the decision. Former minister and senior Congress leader GS Bali, while talking to The Tribune, said there were many civil hospitals, community health centres and primary health centres in the district that could accommodate corona patients. It was surprising that the government was acquiring a newly built private hospital at an exorbitant cost of Rs 54 lakh per month, he said.Kangra DC said the owners of the private hospital had submitted an offer to the health authorities to use their 50-bed hospital as the dedicated Covid facility. The matter was referred to a committee headed by the CMO, Kangra, to negotiate the rates for it. The committee had proposed to take it over for Rs 54 lakh per month. The proposal had been sent to the government for approval. The proposal had not been accepted, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/plan-to-take-over-pvt-hospital-sparks-row-245033
28-04-2021||Dharamsala||Offers of Sudhir, Rakesh Pathania accepted||The district administration of Kangra has accepted the offers of former minister and AICC secretary Sudhir Sharma and Minister for Forest and Youth Affairs Rakesh Pathania to set up Covid care centres in their properties. While Sharma had offered to set up a 50-bed Covid care centre at his residence in Dharamsala, Pathania had offered to set it up at a nursing college owned by his family trust in Nurpur.In a letter to both leaders, Kangra District Magistrate Rakesh Prajapati stated that the district administration appreciates the interest shown by both leaders for the welfare of Covid patients and accepts their philanthropic request.Both leaders have been requested to arrange 50 beds along with oxygen at the offered locations. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/offers-of-sudhir-rakesh-pathania-accepted-245036
28-04-2021||Mandi||Bed capacity to be raised to 5,000: CM Himachal||Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today visited the newly inaugurated Mother Child Hospital, Sundernagar, in Mandi district to get first hand information regarding facilities in this hospital which would be dedicated for the Covid-19 patients.The Chief Minister also visited the old buildings of BBMB colony at Salappar to explore the possibilities of creating additional facilities for Covid patients.Presiding over a meeting to review Covid-19 situation at Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri Government Medical College, Nerchowk in Mandi, the Chief Minister said the government has decided to upgrade the bed capacity for the Covid patients to about 5,000 beds.The hospital had been dedicated as Covid-19 hospital and an additional 100-bed makeshift facility was coming up in the adjoining complex which would be completed within 4-5 days.He said the government was upgrading and enhancing its capacity to meet any eventuality. About 1000-bed facility would be created for Covid patients at Paror at Radha Swami Complex of Kangra district.The Chief Minister directed the officers to ensure uninterrupted supply of oxygen beds and asked them to provide oxygen facility to maximum beds in Nerchowk.He also directed the officers to enlist all such institutions/buildings in the district that could be used for providing better medical facilities to Covid-19 patients in case of increase in their number. He also felt the need for strengthening home isolation facilities in the state.He said that efforts would be made to strengthen health care facilities in Bilaspur and Hamirpur district to ease the load on Medical College, Nerchowk.Later, the Chief Minister also inspected under-construction makeshift pre-fabricated hospital at Bangrotu in Mandi district and asked the construction company to accomplish the construction work earlier.The Chief Minister also visited Radha Soami Satsang Vyas complex at Khaliyara to explore the possibility of setting up 200-bed prefabricated structure.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bed-capacity-to-be-raised-to-5-000-cm-himachal-245041
28-04-2021||Solan||2 units to get licence to produce oxygen||The Health Department will soon grant licence to produce oxygen to two more firms - Mata Balasundari Gases at Kala Amb and Shiwalik at Barotiwala.Secretary Health, Amitabh Awasthy, who convened a meeting today with the oxygen producers, State Drugs Controller Navneet Marwaha, SDM Nalagarh Mahinder Pal, CMO and deputy director Industries at Baddi, said the NOCs had been sought by the two units from other departments and they will soon be given licence. With this, the total number of oxygen producers will rise to 12.Oxygen producers were also urged not to divert oxygen to industrial units in view of its growing need during the pandemic. While the state has adequate oxygen availability to cater to its hospitals, a roadmap was also drawn to meet the future exigencies. “The state’s usage of oxygen was 22 metric tonne (MT) while the production capacity was 35 to 38 MT. But keeping in view the rising requiremen, the government was ensuring that there was no shortage of oxygen”, said Awasthy.“Oxygen requirement would surge with the rising bed strength and it will be regularly reviewed to ensure presence of adequate oxygen to all the patients”, added the secretary.The issue of lack of empty cylinders availability vis-à-vis demand was raised by the manufacturers as it was hampering availability of oxygen to various states. The officials assured them of taking up the issue at the appropriate level.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/2-units-to-get-licence-to-produce-oxygen-245045
28-04-2021||Solan||Task force to enforce Covid curbs in Sirmaur||In a bid to monitor Covid-related restrictions, including night curfew, which will be enforced from 10 pm to 5 am, the district administration of Sirmaur has constituted a task force.It comprises a DSP, tehsildar, naib tehsildar, block development officer, station house officer, executive officers, secretary nagar panchayat and panchayat secretaries of panchayats.Paonta Sahib DSP Bir Bahadur said monitoring had begun at 10 barriers — Minas, Khodri Majri, Yamuna bridge, Behral, Haripurkhol, Suketi Road Kala Amb, Kala Amb Chownk, Ujal Majri, Thakurdwara and Mehalpreet Nagar.DC, Sirmaur, RK Pruhti, said all inter-state movement into the district would be monitored through registration on Covid e-pass software. Those coming from states like Maharashtra, UP, Delhi, Karnataka, Gujarat, Rajasthan and Punjab will have to register on the online software to monitor the compliance of norms and facilitate contact tracing in case of positive cases. They will have to undergo a 14-day home or institutional isolation. Those carrying RT-PCR negative reports obtained 72 hours prior to entry would be exempt from quarantine.Teams will monitor stamping, scanning and verification of persons registered in the software at the time of entering and exiting from the district at the barriers. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/task-force-to-enforce-covid-curbs-in-sirmaur-245048
