30-04-2021||Shimla||Himachal records 2,358 new COVID-19 cases, 37 deaths||Himachal Pradesh on Friday recorded 2,358 fresh COVID-19 cases and 37 related deaths, a senior health official said.Special Health Secretary Nipun Jindal said the death toll from COVID-19 in Himachal Pradesh stands at 1,484, while the infection tally mounted to 99,287 in the state with the addition of new cases.Ten of the new deaths were reported from Kangra; seven from Sirmaur; five from Shimla; four each from Una and Hamirpur; three from Mandi; two from Kullu and one each from Solan and Kinnaur, he said.There are 18,425 active COVID-19 cases in the state, the official stated.As many as 1,730 coronavirus patients have recuperated from the infection in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of recoveries in the state to 79,310, Jindal said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-records-2-358-new-covid-19-cases-37-deaths-246375
30-04-2021||Solan||Kin of Covid patients raise issue of mismanagement before CM Jai Ram Thakur at Nahan||Himachal Pradesh Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, who came to Nahan to review the COVID-19 preparedness of Sirmaur district on Friday, faced a barrage of questions from the wife of a patient who had died at the Covid isolation ward of local Dr YS Parmar Medical College allegedly due to carelessness of the staff.Exposing the poor management and lack of facilities, the chief minister was made aware of the laxities plaguing the health infrastructure just before he proceeded to review the preparedness in the district.The inconsolable woman, who hails from Paonta Sahib, narrated her woes to the chief minister. Thakur told the woman that he was there to look into these laxities.Exposing mismanagement at the college, kin of two Covid patients who had died had to wait for hours for ambulances to transport the bodies to their native villages.Facing a tricky situation, the officials had to delay the chief minister’s visit to the college sensing the agitated mood of the kin.He was made to wait at the circuit house and was finally taken to the college after a delay of more than half an hour after the ambulances were arranged informed officials.Sources said the councillors of the municipal committee, Nahan, also complained to the CM about the nonchalant attitude of the college staff which was causing resentment among the residents.Coinciding with the CM’s visit, a slew of videos went viral where kin of Covid patients admitted at the college spared no effort to ridicule the working of the doctors at the medical college thus exposing the poor management.Though some doctors were seen trying to explain about the situation to the kin of the patients but it failed to satisfy them.The chief minister after visiting the college was holding a meeting with the officials to review the Covid preparedness.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kin-of-covid-patients-raise-issue-of-mismanagement-before-cm-jai-ram-thakur-at-nahan-246318
30-04-2021||---||23 test +ve at Kasauli school||Solan, April 29Fourteen students and nine staffers tested positive for Covid at Tagore Vanasthali Public School (TVPS), Kuthar, in Kasauli tehsil today.Since children aged between 6 and 17 years have tested positive, it has increased the worry of the district administration. This is the fifth such school where several Covid cases have emerged in the last few weeks.Deputy Commissioner, Solan, KC Chaman, said, “The emergence of 23 cases at TVPS despite strict directions to keep the staff and students secluded from outsiders is worrisome. The school will be contained to check the spread of the infection. Seven clusters, including the district court complex at Solan, have already been contained.”He convened a virtual meeting of civic body and panchayati raj bodies representatives and directed them to ensure adherence to Covid protocols. He instructed them to keep a vigil on the movement of outsiders and discourage people from venturing out.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/23-test-ve-at-kasauli-school-245968
30-04-2021||Ambika Sharma||Body ferried in garbage vehicle for cremation, probe ordered||Tribune News ServiceSolan, April 29Taking a stern note of media reports highlighting breach of Covid-19 norms in transporting the body of a Covid patient in a garbage disposal vehicle to the cremation ground at Baddi yesterday, Deputy Commissioner (DC), Solan, KC Chaman, today directed the additional deputy commissioner (ADC) to enquire into it.ADC Anurag Chander Sharma, examined various aspects of the sordid incident at Baddi today. He will submit a report to the DC.Meanwhile, many social workers have come forward to offer their vehicles for such exigencies. A local resident, Khushiram, has offered his two vehicles to the administration for such exigencies free of cost.Explanation soughtDirector, Urban Development (UD), Abid Hussain has sought an explanation from the executive officer (EO), Baddi, municipal committee.“The act violated the instructions issued by the Director, NHM, for handling and disposing the bodies of Covid patients, which should be done in a scientific, humane and respectful manner,” said Hussain.Former Doon MLA Ramkumar Chawdhary said, “It is shocking that despite the presence of a dedicated vehicle for carrying the dead and eight ambulances in the Baddi-Barotiwala-Nalagarh belt, a garbage transporting vehicle was used to transport the body to the crematorium.”“The incident has exposed the preparedness of the Health Department. The sorry state of affairs was clear from the fact that the ICU at the ESIC, Katha, was not functional despite officials sending numerous communications to senior officials to provide doctors and other staff. Even X-ray machines were not functional in several hospitals,” he said.He urged the Chief Minister to intervene and ensure adequate staff and facilities in the health institutes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/body-ferried-in-garbage-vehicle-for-cremation-probe-ordered-245969
30-04-2021||---||Covid blast: 3,040 cases, 40 deaths in Himachal||Shimla, April 29For the first time, Himachal recorded 3,040 (above 3,000) Covid cases and 40 deaths from the virus today. The tally of positive cases rose to 96,929 while the number of active cases increased to 17,835.Seventeen persons died in Kangra, eight in Shimla, five in Mandi, three each in Bilaspur and Solan, two each in Chamba and Sirmaur in the past 24 hours.Kangra recorded the highest 610 cases, followed by Solan 539, Shimla 412, Mandi 307, Sirmaur 291, Bilaspur 215, Hamirpur 193, Chamba 192, Lahaul and Spiti 93, Una and Kullu 82 each and Kinnaur 24.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-blast-3-040-cases-40-deaths-in-himachal-245970
30-04-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Formula devised to promote Class X kids||Tribune News ServiceShimla, April 29The Education Department has devised a formula for promoting Class X students on the basis of first and second term exams, pre-boards and internal assessment, if the state government decides against holding it. The Cabinet will take a call on the suggestion of the department based on the feedback of stakeholders.According to the formula, 25 marks will be given to students on the basis of each term exam, 30 marks for pre-boards and 20 marks on the basis of internal assessment by teachers. It will be put up in the Cabinet for the final decision.A majority of parents gave a negative feedback on holding board examination for Class X and maintained that Class XII examination should be held only after the Covid situation normalised, said Director, Higher Education, Amarjeet Sharma.The planAlmost 100 per cent of over 10,000 stakeholders were against opening of schools with over 2,000 Covid cases being reported with each passing day and the fatality rate going up. The parents were not willing to take risk by sending their wards to schools.After postponing the Class X and XII board examinations of the Himachal Board of School Education, the department on April 18 sought suggestions from parents, school management committees (SMCs), teachers, students, employees and their associations regarding the opening of schools and conducting exams.They suggested that 50 per cent of the staff could be called to the schools. However, the department was of the opinion that only the required staff should be called. The revision classes are being taken online for board exams.A meeting with associations of lectures/teachers and other stakeholders can be held as and when the pandemic situation eases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/formula-devised-to-promote-class-x-kids-245972
30-04-2021||Our Correspondent||Bharmour, Tissa hospitals to have oxygen facility||Chamba, April 29Ten-bedded Bharmour ayurvedic hospital and 30-bedded Tissa Civil Hospital will have oxygen facility and the Health Department is also increasing the number of oxygen beds in Salooni.Deputy Speaker Dr Hans Raj said this while reviewing the Covid situation in Chamba district here. He said the situation was under control and medicines and vaccines were available.To promote vaccination, panchayati raj institutions and urban bodies should ensure the maximum registration of people through the help desk, adding that teachers would also be involved. The Deputy Commissioner had issued orders to officials of educational institutions.Dr Hans Raj asked the officials to run the general OPD smoothly in Chamba hospital so that people did not face any inconvenience.He said the oxygen plant at the local Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru Government Medical College (PJNGMC) would be made functional soon.He maintained that the uninterrupted supply of oxygen was available in the dedicated Covid hospital, health centres and Covid care centres. He instructed block medical officers that senior medical officers should contact people daily, who were in home isolation.He also directed to ensure the deployment of Home Guard personnel to assist the police for home isolation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bharmour-tissa-hospitals-to-have-oxygen-facility-245973
30-04-2021||Dinesh Kanwar||Abandoned shooting range nuisance for Hamirpur school||Hamirpur, April 29An abandoned shooting range in the hall of Government Senior Secondary School here has become a problem for the school authorities.It is learnt that the shooting range was set up about three years ago by the organisers of asports event.Sources said the organisers had requested the school authorities to provide space in the hall to set up the shooting range. However, after the completion of the event, they did not remove the equipment of the shooting range.Sources revealed that the event was organised by an organisation close to a senior BJP leader so the school authorities were hesitant about taking the shooting equipment out of the hall themselves.The shooting range set up in the school hall has six shooting targets and is of 20 meters approximately. The school is facing a problem to keep its own sports equipment now as the government has supplied over 600 field mats and other sports goods.Neena Dogra, Principal of the school, said the shooting range was set up before she joined the school. She said she was trying to contact the people who had set up this shooting range. She said she would ask them to vacate the school hall as soon as possible as the school had to use the hall for its own purposes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/abandoned-shooting-range-nuisance-for-hamirpur-school-245974
30-04-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Scanty rain causes Rs 133-cr farm losses||Tribune News ServiceShimla, April 29Scanty rains in Himachal caused losses worth Rs 133.50 crores to food grain and commercial crops during Rabi season. Thunderstorm, hailstorm, lightning and unseasonal snowfall and rains during mid-April further compounded the vows of farmers.The total area affected due to deficit rains under food grains was 1,43,389.80 hectares out of which the affected area under wheat, barley, grams and pulses was 1,38,418 hectares, 2,411 hectares, 98.40 hectares and 2462 hectares, respectively. The losses were less than 33 per cent over 52,384.80 hectares and more than 33 per cent in 91,005 hectares.Total sowing target under food grains was 3,72,850 hectares and the actual area sown was 3,72,565 hectares. While the loss to food grains alone was Rs 107.42 crores, the commercial crops suffered loss to the tune of Rs 26. 10 crores. The loss to vegetables was highest at Rs 23.84 crores followed by potato Rs 2.16 crores.Himachal received 59.2 mm average rains from January 1 to February 28, 2021 against normal rainfall of 192.7 per cent, a deficit of 69 per cent. As per reports, the maximum loss of rain was in Bilaspur district.The region received 154. 5 mm average rains against normal rainfall of 170 mm from March 1 to April 27, a deficit of nine per cent. The deficit which had increased to 60 per cent in the first week of April narrowed down somewhat due to heavy rains, thunderstorm, hailstorm and snowfall during the month of April.The unseasonal snowfall and hailstorm caused heavy damage to standing Rabi crops ready for harvesting and even the crop which had been harvested. The wheat crop withered during the month of January and February due to virtual dry spell.“We were in the middle of the harvesting but freak weather conditions damaged the harvested crop while the crop, which was yet to be harvested, was flattened due to storm conditions”, said Kishore, a farmer from Bathal village in Solan district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/scanty-rain-causes-rs-133-cr-farm-losses-245976
30-04-2021||Rajiv Mahajan||4 yrs on, stadium project in limbo||NURPUR, APRIL 29The foundation stone of a multipurpose stadium at Chuwari in the neighbouring Bhatiyat of Chamba district was laid over four years ago but no work has been started. Then Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh had laid the stone on January 15, 2017.The youth are angry as the land for the stadium has not been acquired. The youngsters and sports lovers are forced to go 4 km for activities. Abhinav Sondhi, Abhishek Thakur, Sahil Sharma, Hitesh Bedi, Mohit Gupta and Alam Singh, local sportsmen, said the government was running awareness drives to keep the youth away from drugs but there was nothing to make them busy.Enquiries reveal that even the land for the proposed stadium has not been transferred in the name of the state Sports and Youth Affairs Department. The stone of the stadium had been laid during the previous Virbhadra Singh regime in haste without procuring any land and making any budgetary provision for the project. Drawing and design of the stadium could not be prepared.Pradeep Dhiman, Youth Services and Sports Officer, Chamba, revealed that the department had submitted its file to the Forest Department through Divisional Forest Officer, Dalhousie, for its clearance. Initially, the stadium had been proposed with an estimate cost of Rs 12 lakh. He admitted that a piece of forest land at Chuwari had been identified for the construction of the stadium.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/4-yrs-on-stadium-project-in-limbo-245977
30-04-2021||Palampur||Councillors assure help in controlling pandemic||The district administration convened the meeting of Municipal Councilors of Palampur Municipal Corporation and sought their help in the implementation of Covid 19 protocols in their respective wards.SDM Palampur Dharmesh Ramotra presided over the meeting and said that the councilors could play a significant role in checking rising number of cases of Covid 19 pandemic in Palampur and its adjoining areas.All the 15 councilors along with Municipal Commissioner Pankaj Sharma attended the meeting and a strategy was planned to check the rising number of Covid 19 cases. SDM provided the details of patients under isolation to all the councilors in their respective wards.He asked the councilors to help the administration to minimize crowd in social and religion functions like marriages which had turned into super spreaders in the present circumstances.He told the councilors to educate the infected families, under home isolation, to follow Covid protocol. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/councillors-assure-help-in-controlling-pandemic-245978
30-04-2021||---||Pollution control board’s decision draws hoteliers’ ire||Mandi, April 29The Manali Hoteliers Association is opposing the decision of the pollution control board. The board has asked them to display a notice board outside their units to show the data of hazardous waste generated by their unit.Anup Thakur, president of the Manali Hoteliers Association, said the members were facing inconvenience while obtaining the NOC for the renewal of consent for running hotels.“We wrote a letter to the authorities that ours are not manufacturing units which use hazardous chemicals and generate waste, which can pollute the environment,” he added.“There are a few units which use small generator sets only during power failure in the area. The used oil of generator sets is disposed of through an authorised agency for which information is submitted to the office,” said Thakur.He said, “The Supreme Court has made it mandatory for industries and factories using hazardous chemicals to display online data outside the factory gate on quantity and nature of hazardous chemicals used in the plant, water and air emissions and solid wastes generated within the factory premises. Therefore, these orders are particularly meant for industry and factory not for the hotels.”“We requested the Member Secretary, Himachal Pradesh State Pollution Control Board, to look into the matter and direct the office at Kullu not to compel the hoteliers to display such information. We are already reeling under the Covid stress,” said Thakur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/pollution-control-boards-decision-draws-hoteliers-ire-245979
30-04-2021||Dipender Manta||Leaf plate makers lose livelihood||Tribune News ServiceMandi, April 29The recent surge in Covid-19 cases has severely hit the livelihood of cooks (known as Boti) and leaf plate makers in the district. The district administration has completely banned dhams (community feasts) at marriages and religious functions to check the spread of the virus.According to cooks, as the state government has restricted the number of people in social gatherings to 50, the organisers of marriages and other functions have cancelled bookings for Mandyali dham.Similarly, the demand of leaf plates, which are used in Mandyali dham to serve food to guests during social and religious functions, has declined drastically in the district.Pawan Sharma, who works as a cook in marriages or other social or religious occasions to serve Mandyali dham, has lost his livelihood to the pandemic. He had at least seven bookings of Mandyali dham in advance.Sharma said, “All seven booking have been cancelled due to the Covid crisis, and I have no hope of livelihood revival in near future. Cooking is the lone source of my income to feed my family. But sadly this year too, I again lost my source of livelihood to the pandemic”.Like Pawan Sharma, there are several other people who earn their livelihoods by preparing Mandyali dham in social and religious functions. They, too, have been directly impacted.Similarly, leaf plate makers are doing little business these days. They lament that like previous year, their livelihood have again been severely hit by the pandemic this year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/leaf-plate-makers-lose-livelihood-245980
30-04-2021||Shimla||4 panels to monitor Covid situation||As a measure aimed at streamlining all Covid arrangements, the government today constituted four committees for monitoring the situation. The four committees comprise the Logistic Committee, Covid-19 Patient/ Ambulance Management, Corporate Social Responsibility Coordination/ Contribution Committee and Media/ IEC committee. The Logistic Committee would monitor the availability of oxygen at all facilities, ensure timely placement of orders of oxygen cylinders. It will be headed by MD HP State Electronic Development Corporation Arindam Chaudhary, who will be the convener. Joint Director Ayurveda Rakhi, GM HP Kaushal Vikas Nigam Sunny Sharma and OSD Dr Jaswal would be members and Dr Jitender Chauhan of the Directorate of Health Service would be the nodal officer. This committee will also decide the movement of oxygen cylinders, as per requirement/ patient load both inter district and inter facility, make PSA plants operational and plan for creation of additional bed capacity at various levels. The Covid Patient and Ambulance Management committee has Dr Rajesh Thakur, as convener and Dr Malay Sarkar and Dr Sanjay Mahajan of the IGMC and Dr Padam Negi as members. The committee will advise district teams about the smooth movement of patients to appropriate facilities after analysing symptoms and would also take decision about inter district or inter facility movement of patients. It would also decide the movement or procurement of essential medicines and ensure that there is no shortage of any drug at any Covid facility. The Corporate Social Responsibility Coordination/ Contribution Committee would have Director Urban Development Abid Hussain as convener and Additional Director Sumit Khimta and Dr Ramesh Chand as members. The committee would mobilise corporate and CSR contributions to HP SDMA Covid-19 SDRF fund. They would effectively liaise with all facilities in the state to assess the gaps in resources and mobilize the resources. Mission Director NHM HP Dr Nipun Jindal would be the convener of Media and IEC Committee, which would have Deputy MD Dr Gopal Beri, Dr Anjali Chauhan and Assistant PRO Sanjay Saini as members of the committee. The committee would disseminate information to media and eliminate information gaps at all levels.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/4-panels-to-monitor-covid-situation-245981
30-04-2021||Hamirpur||Anurag Thakur provides 50 oxygen cylinders||The district administration today received a consignment of 50 oxygen cylinders supplied by Anurag Thakur, Minister of State for Finance and Corporate Affairs. Anurag had supplied material for Covid warriors earlier tommorrow that included around 50,000 masks, hand sanitisers and PPE kits.Talking to The Tribune from Delhi, Anurag said people should follow all safety measures.Jitender Sajta, Additional District Magistrate, said the district administration was establishing more Covid care centres. He said Anurag Thakur had enquired about problems the administration was facing and was told about the shortage of oxygen cylinders. With the arrival of 50 oxygen cylinders, the district now has a sufficient stock to meet any emergency. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/anurag-thakur-provides-50-oxygen-cylinders-245982
30-04-2021||Lalit Mohan||Kangra admn moves to check hoarding of oxygen cylinders||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, April 29The Kangra district administration is taking steps to check the hoarding of oxygen cylinders, the demand of which has been rising due to the spurt in Covid-19 cases.District Magistrate, Kangra, Rakesh Prajapati told The Tribune that all traders, dealers, industrial units and medium, small, and micro enterprises (MSMEs), private hospitals and persons shall declare their stocks of oxygen cylinders to the General Manager, Industries, within 24 hours at gmdickgr@gmail.com.“All SDMs have been directed to constitute teams of Executive Magistrates, civil supplies inspectors, Enforcement Officers, Industries, and police officials to physically inspect storage of oxygen cyclinders in all industrial units, other enterprises and by private individuals. The GM, Industries, along with other officials has been directed to prepare an inventory of oxygen cylinders available with individuals, industries and other private enterprises,” he said.Teams to be set upAll SDMs have been directed to constitute teams of Executive Magistrates, civil supplies inspectors, Enforcement Officers, Industries, and police officials to inspect storage of oxygen cyclinders in all industrial units, other enterprises and by private individuals. —Rakesh Prajapati, DM, KangraPrajapati said that the orders had been issued under the Disaster Management Act that all private enterprises and individuals shall provide oxygen cylinders in their possession to the Health Department as and when required.The SDMs had been authorised to take into possession oxygen cylinders lying in industries, with private individuals and traders in cases of an emergency in Covid hospitals, he added.Sources said that the district administration had took the decision after reports that some people and enterprises were hoarding oxygen cylinders. Though enough oxygen is available with dealers in the district, there are not enough cylinders in circulation, creating difficulties in oxygen supply to patients in hospitals.A trader dealing with the refilling of oxygen cylinders said that he had enough oxygen supply. However, people have filled oxygen cylinders in their houses and were not coming for refilling.Some people had even rented cylinders but were not retuning them. The demand of beds with oxygen supply was increasing in Covid hospitals in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kangra-admn-moves-to-check-hoarding-of-oxygen-cylinders-245983
30-04-2021||---||Sirmaur admn mulls weekend lockdown||Solan, April 29 In a bid to contain the spread of Covid-19 in Sirmaur district, the administration is contemplating a lockdown during the weekend. Addressing mediapersons at Nahan, Deputy Commissioner (DC) Dr RK Pruthi said a roadmap was being prepared to impose a complete lockdown during the weekend. “The presence of several  daily wagers who would lose their livelihood was an issue of concern as they had no other means of sustenance. A list of such wagers was being prepared to provide them food packets.” The DC said April had been the toughest month as the rate of positivity had touched 6 per cent though it had slightly decreased to 5.94 per cent. The recovery rate was 75.39 per cent  while the active cases comprised 23.71 per cent of the total positive cases.  As much as 19.32 per cent of the population had been tested. As many as 60 deaths have taken place in the district and the death rate was .88 per cent.  “Permissions for 745 marriages have been granted in the district and the administration will have to further remain alert to ensure adherence to the norms,” added Chaman.   As against the bed strength of 234 in three covid facilities and isolation ward of the Nahan medical college, 139 were in use.  As many as 6,275 cases have tested positive in the district till last evening.  Six   mobile vans have been stationed in the panchayats to create awareness. The Chief Minister will make a day’s visit tomorrow to review the Covid scenario, informed the DC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sirmaur-admn-mulls-weekend-lockdown-245984
30-04-2021||Solan||MES engineer held taking Rs 40,000 bribe||An assistant engineer of the MES was arrested by a team of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau sleuths while accepting Rs 40,000 from a contractor today at Gamberpul near Sabuthu.Additional DGP Anurag Garg said the assistant engineer was demanding Rs 40,000 from a contractor in lieu of releasing his payment of Rs 9 lakh. A bureau team, led by DSP Santosh Sharma, arrested the officer.An FIR has been registered and further probe is under way. The contractor, who hails from Punjab, had constructed a firing range at Subathu Cantonment. The work had been completed about a month ago but the officer was delaying the payment. He was arrested from a hotel at Gamberpul.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mes-engineer-held-taking-rs-40-000-bribe-245985
30-04-2021||Our Correspondent||Agnihotri blames govt for surge in Covid cases, deaths||Una, April 29Leader of the Opposition Mukesh Agnihotri today accused the government of failing to check the spread of Covid that resulted in the rise in the number of deaths.Agnihotri, addressing mediapersons here today, said 400 persons had died of Covid in the last one month, including 200 in the past 10 days. He asked Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur why makeshift hospitals and other Covid-related infrastructure were not readied in the last one year.He said the government had announced free vaccine for persons above 18 years of age from May 1 but now it was saying that the doses were yet to be procured. He added that while people were coming forward for immunisation against Covid, the government was indecisive on the vaccine procurement. The government should be focusing on boosting vaccination to reduce further loss of human lives, he added.Agnihotri urged the government to streamline oxygen manufacturing and supply and deal with the reported shortage of empty cylinders. He said that 2,500 ventilators received from the Union Government were returned recently. He asked the government why the equipment meant for saving lives had not been put to use at the health facilities.He accused BJP leaders, including the CM, of blatantly flouting Covid norms during the recent elections to urban bodies. He said the popularity “hungry” BJP leaders did not spare any opportunity to needlessly reach out to the public even on trivial issues rather than focusing on measures to control the pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/agnihotri-blames-govt-for-surge-in-covid-cases-deaths-245986
30-04-2021||---||Give up copter use, spend on patients, Bali asks CM||Dharamsala, April 29Former minister and senior Congress leader, GS Bali, while addressing a press conference at Kangra, today said that Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur should give up use of helicopter and divert the funds for providing facilities in Covid hospitals of the state.He alleged that as per information more than Rs 5 lakh was being spent every hour on use of helicopter by the CM. The state needs every penny to be diverted towards creating health facilities when not enough was being done by the government.Bali said that the biggest failure of the state and union government was that it has miserably failed to check black marketing of essential equipment, oxygen cylinders and even medicines.In Kangra the cost of oxymeters which as per print rates was just about Rs 500 were being sold at prices of Rs 3000 in local markets. To add to it people are not getting oxymeters which were vital in monitoring oxygen levels in corona patients, he said.Bali alleged that anti-viral drugs were also not available at medical stores. The cost of most of essential medicines as paracetamol and azithromycin has almost doubled since the second wave of Corona virus has hit the country. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/give-up-copter-use-spend-on-patients-bali-asks-cm-245987
30-04-2021||Shimla||4 of family found +ve after wedding||Wedding-related Covid cases have started emerging in upper Shimla. A family of four tested positive on Wednesday at a village in Kumarsain after attending a wedding a couple. “The family had come from Hoshiarpur on April 25,” said Kumarsain SDM Gurjeet Singh Cheema. “When their 3-year-old child started showing symptoms, they went for testing,” said Cheema.  It’s being suspected that the family had contracted the infection in Punjab. Now, the administration is gearing up to conduct mass testing for those attended the wedding. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/4-of-family-found-ve-after-wedding-245989
30-04-2021||Mandi||Vax centre to be shifted to school||The Covid vaccination drive will now again take place at Vijay Senior Secondary School in Mandi from April 30. The vaccination centre will be operational from April 30 here.  The district administration has decided to shift the immunisation centre from Regional Hospital, Mandi, to the school.  DC Rugved Thakur directed the health department officials to make proper arrangements. Earlier too, the vaccination centre was also established at the school. However, it was transferred to the Regional Hospital in Mandi. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/vax-centre-to-be-shifted-to-school-245990
30-04-2021||The stretch of the road that caved in following heavy rains last week in Boileauganj has become a traffic bottleneck. The road has become extremely narrow||Narrow road||Travel risky on damaged holi bridgeResidents of Bajol and Gronda areas of tribal Holi sub-tehsil in Chamba district are facing a lot of problems due to the damaged wooden bridge near Nayagran, which links these areas. The bridge was damaged some time ago and has become risky. Residents have demanded that the repair work of the bridge be undertaken immediately. — Residents, holi (Chamba)WHAT OUR READERS SAYIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?THE TRIBUNEinvites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/narrow-road-245991
30-04-2021||UNA||No vaccine for 18 plus from May 1: CMO||Una Chief Medical Officer Dr Raman Kumar Sharma today said that Covid-19 vaccines for people in the 18 to 44 age group had not been received. Therefore, the vaccination drive, planned from May 1 at various health institutions in the district, will be delayed.In a press note issued here, he said registration for the vaccine for the 18 plus age group had been initiated on the online portal www.cowin.gov.in. While people can get themselves registered, the vaccination schedule link has not be activated for this age group. He said that people can call on toll free telephone numbers 1075 or 104 for further information. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/no-vaccine-for-18-plus-from-may-1-cmo-245993
30-04-2021||Sunil Upadhyay Educational Trust||Blood donation camp today||Stop appointments at HPU: NSUIThe NSUI has demanded that the appointment process underway at the HPU University be stopped like all other activities. Candidates and subject experts travel from various districts of the state and even from outside the state for these appointments, which raises the risk of the spread of the virus. Considering the risk, the NSUI has written to the Governor, demanding that the appointment process be stopped.Appoint permanent VC at CUhp: ABVPThe ABVP has expressed deep concern over the vacant post of Vice-Chancellor in the Central University of Himachal Pradesh (CUHP) for more than a year. In a letter written to the President, the ABVP stated no permanent vice-chancellor had been appointed in this institution even after one year. Demanding appointment of the Vice-Chancellor, the ABVP said not only the students were suffering but many developmental works were also stalled because of the vacant top post.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/blood-donation-camp-today-245994
30-04-2021||---||Gathering at weddings cut to 20, community feasts banned||Shimla, April 29The state government today restricted the number of persons at marriages to 20 and also banned community feasts.All the earlier restrictions, including the closure of all educational institutions, five-day week in government offices and 50 per cent attendance for Class IIII and IV in offices have been extended till May 10. All the temples would also remain closed for devotees till May 10.The decisions were taken at a meeting chaired by Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, here today to review the Covid situation. “Sharp increase in Covid cases was a matter of concern and the state government is making all out efforts to curb spread of this pandemic by taking few stringent steps,” Thakur said. He added that if situation remained grim, the issue of imposing lockdown could be considered by the Cabinet.Limit of 50 persons was being violated: CMThe government has been compelled to take the decision in view of violations of guidelines at weddings. People had been violating the limit of 50 at marriages by inviting people in batches of 50 each. Himachal witnessed the highest fatality figure of 33 deaths yesterday and over 2,500 cases.The Chief Minister assured that there was no shortage of beds, oxygen and medicines in the state. He said the registration for administering vaccines to those in the 18 to 44 age group had begun but the drive will start subject to availability of vaccine.“The vaccine drive will be undertaken in a phased and staggered manner,” he said. It could take another four weeks before the vaccine order is expected to arrive.Thakur said that steps would be taken to increase bed capacity, particularly in heavy load districts such as Kangra, Mandi, Shimla, Solan, Una and Sirmaur. He said that testing capacity would be enhanced in the state and the time for getting test report would be reduced.He said an effective mechanism would be evolved to check and regulate entry of people visiting the state from other parts of the country. He said the people coming from other parts of the country would have to remain under home isolation for 14 days and also give information regarding their arrival to the local authorities as well as elected representatives of PRIs and ULBs.Thakur said till date 16,65,481 people have been vaccinated. He said that in order to ensure optimum utilization and mobilization of resources, the state government had also constituted four committees. He said he had urged the Union Health Minister to provide 5000 D-Type oxygen cylinders and 3000 B-Type oxygen to ensure that there was no dearth of oxygen in the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/gathering-at-weddings-cut-to-20-community-feasts-banned-245967
