03-12-2021||Marriages in the North are in full swing and songs women sing add life and lustre to these happy moments. Those sung at a woman’s wedding are soul-stirring. Some bring tears even to a stone-hearted person. Such songs become more effective when presented in a dialogue form.||Wedding songs make it memorable||Since childhood, I would note the naivety, innocence and wonderful imagination with which women present a bride-to-be as a tender daughter fond of playing with her mates: Bibi dur khelan mat jaayeen sajan ghar avenge; Bibi hath nee fullan de haar tere gal pavenge (Dear daughter, don’t go far away to play with your mates. People from your in-laws’s side are arriving to take you. They have got fresh garlands to put around your neck as a mark of loving acceptance to make you their bahu).The other group of women sings: Nee tu luk ja Radha, nee tu chhup jah Radha; Tenu Krishan dhhandolan aya (You get lost Radha. Yes, you hide yourself at some secret place as Krishna has come to take you).The third group sings thus: Na mein luki rehsaan, Na mein chhupi rehsaan; Dharami babal de sadaye (I can neither get lost nor hide myself. These people are our honourable guests. My father has invited them to give my hand to my would-be-husband in their presence).As the seven sacred rounds of marriage are going on, the women present the side of the bride, addressing the groom: Gauaan da daan mera Babal krenda; Gauaan da daan kyon nheen lainda; Ve rang ratrhiaa Kahna (My father does gau daan, why don’t you accept it, my dear Krishna?)The other side of women represents the groom: Gauaan da daan lende pandit padhe; Dhiaan da daan jmayee; Nee rang ratrhiye Radha (My dear Radha, only pandas and priests accept gau daan. The son-in-law accepts only kanya daan).A group of women sings to the groom to walk tall under the bedi (marriage canopy) thus: Neevaan neevaan kyon challen; Ve bedi uchee bather; Paidal chal ke kyon ayiaan; Ve ghare maa hai vachheri (Why do you walk as if bending? Is not bedi high enough? Why did you come on foot? Your mother is mare-like who could have served you as a vehicle). As the bride is parting from her parental house, they sing: Mere bagaan dee koel, kahaan chali aa... (Where is the cuckoo bird of our gardens going now?)The other women respond from the bride’s side: Dharmi babal de keete bol; Bolaan badhi mein aan chali... (My God-like father has made the promise to give my hand to their boy. I am now leaving so that the promise of my father is kept. Let his word stand sacred as God Himself).Surely, these songs lend sanctity to a marriage. When sung in specific tunes, they make the moments not only sweet, but memorable, too!||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/musings/wedding-songs-make-it-memorable-345718
