12-12-2021||FROM nowhere floaters entered my right eye. I am not able to peer at the computer monitor like before. Without a computer||Written on the heart with hand||Now, this impairment is trying to disrupt my writing routine. But I am not going to allow these floaters to drown me in despair. I am going to reduce my dependence on my computer. Writing on paper is not new to me as I was born in 1954 BC (Before Computer). Those were very painful days in the 1990s, when I wrote and rewrote and typed and retyped my stuff before sending them by post. Now it costs nothing to email your submission. But those days, I had to buy stamps from my limited pocket money. Once I was caught typing my personal matter at the typing institute. The instructor showed me the door.Writing with pen on paper involves you more in what you write than typing on computer keyboards. You put more of yourself in what you want to convey when you write with your hand than when you type on the keyboard. You add your personal flavour when you write on paper. Writing also provides exercise to your stiff fingers since the letters of even simple and easy alphabet of the English language have curves and twists.Typing on the keyboard is a matter of just tapping like a woodpecker. I feel a sense of ownership when I look at those hand-written old yellowed stuff of mine. The computer-typed and electronically-preserved writings of mine do not evoke as much affection as my old handwritten materials do. What I wrote years back with hand still throbs with life whereas what I typed on a computer last week has become stale.Those days, we used to know a lot about people’s character by looking at their handwriting and signature. Nowadays, hardly anyone writes with hand. Electronic manuscripts hold no clue to the character of the author. It is impersonal and aloof. When I used to receive handwritten letters from my grandfather, he used to materialise in front of me. When people wrote with their hands, they used to leave a part of their being in what they wrote painstakingly with their hand. Recently, I opened an old notebook containing autographs of my teachers which I obtained when I left my school. The moment I looked at their handwritten parting messages and signatures, their faces came alive before my mind’s eye.I got my first job because the interviewer fell for my handwriting. Now after 20 years, I am again going to write with my hand. Thanks to the floaters, I am going back to the pad and pen.Postscript: My son typed this for me on a computer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/musings/written-on-the-heart-with-hand-348087
12-12-2021||THE birth anniversary of the country’s first PM Jawaharlal Nehru reminded me of an incident narrated to me by a teacher of my school.||Why Nehru was loved the way he was||Jindu Ram, an ex-Army man, was working as a physical training instructor (PTI) in a high school during the early 1960s. Most PTIs of those days were ex-Army men because trained physical instructors were not available. The district inspector of schools (DI) placed a huge order for the supply of sports material such as shoes, socks, nets, volleyballs, footballs, etc., for high schools of the district without caring to enquire about each school’s particular requirement.In due course, the sports material arrived at our school also, but Jindu Ram was not satisfied. Some items were not required while some were of poor quality. So, he refused to accept them and reported the matter to the headmaster.The headmaster sensed that trouble would ensue if the material was not accepted. He tried to persuade Jindu Ram, and even sought to instil the fear of the DI’s wrath if the supply was not accepted and used. But Jindu Ram stuck to his decision. Obviously, the DI was annoyed. He penalised Jindu Ram by stopping his salary and called for an explanation.Jindu Ram sent his reply through the headmaster, but his salary was not released even after six months. Driven to the wall, he took the tough decision of meeting Nehru, whom he considered to be the leader of the poor and oppressed. Short of money, he set out on foot from his village, took two days to reach Ropar, from where he boarded a train to Delhi. But on reaching Delhi, he was told that Nehru had left for a week’s foreign tour.He passed the week sleeping under a tree and made his way to the airport on the day Nehru was to arrive, wearing his Army uniform adorned with the medals that he had earned during service. He was lined up with other audience seekers. When Nehru came closer, Jindu Ram was overwhelmed by his personality. He saw Nehru talking gently to each person in the line. Nehru asked him: ‘Tell me jawan, what is your problem?’‘Sir,’ said Jindu Ram with choked voice. ‘I have been given only two minutes. What can I say in two minutes?’Nehru was a man of the masses. He placed his hand on Jindu Ram’s shoulders and said, ‘Take as much time as you wish. I will hear all that you have to say.’It took 20 minutes for him to narrate his woes. The events that followed proved a great healer. His stay and return journey were taken care of by the PM’s office.When he returned, the DI was waiting for him with a written apology and six months of his salary in the presence of his school staff.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/musings/why-nehru-was-loved-the-way-he-was-347665
12-12-2021||HAVING grown up watching war movies where reel-life actors play the roles of valiant soldiers and guard the borders||Across barbed wire, an awkward hush||It was my maiden visit to the India-China border. Our driver managed to get a permit to visit the pass. The fact that I was just a few kilometres away from Doklam, where the India-China stand-off had taken place in 2017, thrilled me. But the breathlessness and dizziness, which I had only heard of till now, soon engulfed me and climbing the steep staircase to the border seemed like a daunting task.I experienced extreme headache due to the high altitude, so much so that I nearly dropped the idea of going ahead for fear of collapsing. But curiosity and patriotic fervour got the better of me and I climbed the steps, only to discover the border between India and China divided merely by a barbed wire.Just across the concertina wire was China. Never in my life had I expected to see a Chinese soldier at close quarters. He was standing just four steps away, fetching water to cook his evening meal after his day’s duty was over. Just then, I got a message on my phone from the mobile service provider — Welcome to China!A few local residents had told me about the soldierly bonhomie that was prevalent at the Nathu La border during the pre-Doklam standoff days. Chinese soldiers were friendly with tourists and even used to shake hands and get pictures clicked with them — perhaps their only sources of entertainment at 14,000 ft.But post-Doklam tension was evident. Though Nathu La remains largely peaceful, I could only manage to get hostile stares from across the border. I felt like stepping forward and interacting with the lone Chinese soldier there, when a watchful Indian soldier pointed towards a notice which read: If you cross this wire, you land in China.The sight of Chinese soldiers running their errands across the border seemed bizarre to someone used to watching news bulletins of the India-China skirmishes.Seeing both Indian and Chinese soldiers braving the elements was a unique sight. High altitude, isolation and harsh winds that will leave anyone chilled to the bone were some of the factors uniting them.With boards cautioning of landmines displayed on both sides, it was hard to imagine anything like soldierly bonhomie now. But I was pleasantly surprised when an Indian soldier asked his not-so-friendly Chinese counterpart, who was busy preparing his meal across the concertina wire, in Hindi: ‘Kya bana raha hai?’ (What are you cooking?) To which he replied: ‘Cockroach. Would you like to have it?’||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/musings/across-barbed-wire-an-awkward-hush-346727
