13-12-2021||The news of my son taking up a corporate position in Switzerland was received in family and friend circles with delight. But we felt robbed of our own paradise||Will this heaven ever be a reality?||Although I carried with me the perception of this country being known only for its luxury watches, chocolates and a high standard of living, apart from an opprobrious epithet attached to it in India as a haven for unaccounted money, yet breathtaking natural scenery comprising picturesque lakeside cities and villages, flowery alleyways with blooming tulips, sprawling vineyards where one can get lessons in wine and nature, the majestic beauty of the Alps penetrating from the wispy clouds, the shimmering waters of that continent’s largest freshwater lake, Lake Geneva, amicably shared by Switzerland and France, where it is known as Lac Leman, immaculately preserved and presented heritage monuments and structures, the courteous and disciplined people who heartily care for Mother Nature, make it worthy of the praise bestowed upon this soil.Inside the closed walls of the apartment, another heaven greets me in the enchanting smiles of my grand-daughter. A virtual heaven descends upon me when that little angel wakes me up every morning and greets me with a mischievous smile. I run after her and she shrieks with laughter. I am on cloud nine when she insists on sleeping in my lap, sending waves of envy in other members of the family.Sitting in the balcony of my third-storeyed apartment facing the lake, another heaven subtly brews within me. Lights emerging from the French city of Evian at the far end of the lake’s southern shore lend an amazing and soothing experience. The waters of the lake astonishingly host the border between these two nations. Movement between France and Switzerland is as smooth as the waters of this divine lake. No lines drawn, no barbed wires, no security checks, no gun-wielding commandos and no frisking at any point amazed me, but also made me envious.If these two nations can share their borders, trade, culture and emotions so cordially, why can’t we have the same bond between two countries that were once one? Can’t the waters of the Sutlej, Ravi, Beas, Chenab and Jhelum do the magical Lac Leman? The heavenly imagination of India and Pakistan having such cordial relations, free movement and trade between them and unhindered cultural exchanges breeds in me another heaven which might be a notional one, but I sincerely hope that our generations to come shall surely turn this fictional heaven into a real one, and experience its beauty too.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/musings/will-this-heaven-ever-be-a-reality-349652
