17-12-2021||From horses and dogs to carrier pigeons||Mule power on battleground||Thousands of horses were used to carry guns and ammunition in World War I, and a great statue of ‘War Horse’ has been built at the National Memorial at Staffordshire in England. The military historian Graham Winton said: ‘Animals served in the wars and didn’t have a choice. We tend to forget they existed.’ But they are remembered by their human companions, the soldiers fighting the war.Such are the stories of the humble mules of the Indian Army. Col Rathee of the Mountain Regiment narrates that in the war in December 1971, new guns were received at Pathankot to be transported to a remote area in J&K, the Tangdhar sector, where a conflict was going on.Motorised transport was not possible there, so animal transport (AT) was needed. Mule Artillery (MA) was the name given to the indomitable force specially assigned the task of carrying the heavy guns on their backs to the positions where they were required. Ammunition and other equipment were carried by the Mule General Service (MS).The bond between the men and the mules could be seen in the course of the battle. The howitzer guns had to be dismantled into nine pieces, each piece loaded on to a mule, for which even the saddles had to be modified.A critical battle took place at a feature called Sheshaldi, ‘where the mules played an extremely valuable role’ in changing the course of the battle. Since direct artillery fire was needed to thwart the enemy, two of the older guns were loaded, along with ammunition, and a 35-40 mule caravan was pressed into service. The mountain paths were strewn with landmines, and there were sounds of firing from all around, but the mules did not panic.Pedongi was the name of a heroic mule known for an exceptional feat she performed in the 1971 war. She was unfazed by bullets, airstrikes and trenches, but most remarkable was the incident when an AT column, including Pedongi, was captured by the Pakistan army. A fortnight later, Pedongi escaped from across the border and returned to an Indian post, along with boxes of Pakistani ammunition on her back. She was honoured by the Indian Army with a citation for bravery, and a ceremonial blue velvet rug, and continued in service for many years, even at an altitude of 17,000 ft, entering the Guinness Book of Records as the longest serving mule.Later warfare in Drass and Kargil also saw the AT units back in action. Deservedly, there is a Mule War Memorial at the Army Service Corps Centre and College in recognition of the contribution of the AT units of the Indian Army.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/musings/mule-power-on-battleground-351128
