18-12-2021||The reign of terror and tyranny unleashed by Gen Tikka Khan||The hunt for Dhaka gurdwaras||The first set of gurdwaras came up in 1504, after Guru Nanak’s visit, also referred to as ‘Udasis’. Later, the sixth and the ninth Gurus anchored the establishment of 18 gurdwaras in important cities like Dhaka, Sylhet, Chittagong and Mymensingh. However, relentless persecution resulted in the destruction of a dozen-odd gurdwaras and damage to the others. The ample lands and assets attached to the shrines were taken over by the government, and even squatters. The most historic Sikh shrine, Gurdwara Nanak Shahi, also referred to as Ramna Shahi, had to yield its land for the expansion of Dhaka University. In the mayhem and religious frenzy triggered by Razakars, granthi Bhai Swaran Singh and Mohd-ul-Malik Haq, his Muslim associate, were killed and buried, maryada was suspended and the place walled.The 1971 operations brought hope for the crumbling Sikh shrines. PT-76 tanks of 5 (Independent) Squadron of 63 Cavalry were in the vanguard of a final dash to Dhaka. The search for the gurdwaras was launched by an Army veteran, re-attired as editor of The Sikh Review, Capt Bhag Singh, based in Kolkata. He was assisted by Takht Patna Sahib and SGPC officials. They reached Dhaka on December 27, along with Bhai Hari Singh, who had spent decades in East Pakistan and escaped just before the carnage. Capt Bhag Singh, in his article titled, ‘Liberation of Gurdwaras in Bangladesh’, stated that, ‘It is interesting to note that Baba Pritam Singh Panchi, Granthi of 5 Sqn of 63 Cavalry and an educational havildar had already begun prowling about in search of Ramna Gurdwara.’Once located, the pace of restoration matched that of a lightning strike by the squadron tanks. The crowning moment was when Bangladesh’s acting President Syed Nazrul Islam, PM Tajuddin Ahmed and other ministers joined two days later in a special congregation to restore maryada in the gurdwara.Troops from all units did kar sewa to restore other shrines like Gurdwara Sangat Tola and Nanakshahi Sarovar. Sikh population in Bangladesh, about 23,000, has dwindled and reduced to largely Sehajdharis, Kabeer Panthis and Nanak Naam Lewas. Only five gurdwaras are functional. The 63 Cavalry has maintained its association with the gurdwaras. Capt Bhag Singh states, ‘I salute the Sikh officers and jawans whose pioneering effort always makes it possible to rediscover, retrieve and re-establish our historical gurdwaras.’||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/musings/the-hunt-for-dhaka-gurdwaras-351561
