20-12-2021||I am a movie buff but not the serious type||Surprise lunch with Shyam Benegal||As audacious as I could be, I fancied a one-to-one with him and pulled out all the stops to make it happen. I was in luck as I got the nod. I spent my time swotting up on what to ask him and couldn’t sleep tight as hopes and doubts criss-crossed my mind.Next morning, with butterflies in my stomach, I set out for the venue. I reached Nabha, where the legendary filmmaker was set to wrap up his Punjab schedule.One of his team members told me to make it fast. I waited for two hours before I got to know Benegal would meet me at lunch. Hours became years.Even at lunch, there was no sign that he would make it. My hopes were on the edge of the cliff. I turned to make a sharp exit, knowing that I had a long way to go before I could meet him.On the way back, I ran into Shama Zaidi, screenwriter, costume designer and art director. She was generous enough to talk about cinema and movies. It brought a smile to my face even if it couldn’t make up for what I had missed.I came back confused not knowing how to react. At 5.45 in the evening, I got a call, ‘The director wants to meet you over lunch the next day.’ I was thrilled to bits.The sun rose and so did my hopes. I reached the venue and with new-found confidence, approached Benegal straightaway. ‘Let me get through the shoot young man. I’ll certainly get back to you,’ he said.Finally, there came a moment when he was in front of me, ready to take questions. My hesitation was palpable. I fumbled and made it clumsy in the beginning. He got all of it, made me feel comfortable and talked as if he was just another commoner, answering everything with immense patience.I am neither a film critic, nor a filmmaker. But more than anything else, I admired this unassuming man for his simplicity, modesty and human touch.His Punjab connection also came up. He shares a bond with the state as his wife is half Punjabi and half Bengali, with her mother being a Punjabi from Lahore. I kept wondering what kept this man going even in his 80s.I returned, with a broad smile on my face and hope twinkling in my eyes. It is rightly said that it isn’t over till the fat lady sings.The noted director turned 87 on December 14.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/musings/surprise-lunch-with-shyam-benegal-352261
