23-12-2021||IT has been more than two years since we met our children staying abroad. The last time we||Family reunion on hold||Undeniably, the past two years have been traumatising, trying and testing times for everyone, more so for the families spread across nations. In the wake of the pandemic in 2020, strict lockdowns were imposed all over the world, holing up people within their homes. At a time when movement within the country was restricted, international travel was out of question. It was fait accompli; no option but to reconcile with separation.Somehow, we managed to sail through 2020, welcomed 2021 with optimism and hope in the midst of positive news on the vaccination front. But soon, our hope turned into despair when the country was caught unawares by the Delta variant which brought the devastating second wave.Now, once again, just as normalcy seemed to be getting restored, a new variant of concern has plunged the world into collective uncertainty, sending everyone into a tizzy.The variant has cast a shadow on our hopes for a breezy 2022. Two years of waiting and again a period of uncertainty. Travel plans of many have been grounded including that of our son and daughter-in-law from Australia who were planning to visit us. They had their tickets booked and were thinking of giving us a surprise. But right now, all hopes of meeting in near future seem to have been dashed to the ground. The virus that managed to keep families apart for the past two years is again acting as a spoilsport, coming in the way of a family reunion. For how long will parents like us have to wait for the children to come home?Thankfully, Internet has made it possible for us to talk on the phone and have video chats, but can the virtual be a substitute for the real? Speaking to the family on video is not the same as sitting across each other. Smartphone is not smart enough to give the real feel; the technology, howsoever advanced it may be, can never compensate for the physical presence. Homecoming of the children, family reunion is a different experience altogether. The very thought of reuniting with the children is exciting, starting with the preparation which begins much in advance to the countdown of their arrival. Their homecoming is a celebration, the whole house buzzes with activity as it echoes with their chatter and laughter.Right now, an agonising wait continues in the midst of uncertainty. All we can do is to pray and hope that Covid’s latest avatar is mild and 2022 sees the end of the pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/musings/family-reunion-on-hold-353358
