28-12-2021||I doff my hat to Justice GR Swaminathan of the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court. While quashing a charge of ‘waging war’ related to a Facebook post||Let humour have its run||Fun is harmless pleasure, not meant to be taken seriously. Laughter is also constitutive to good health. Humour relieves the recipients willy-nilly of fatigue, pain, boredom, even the onset of baldness. In the days of yore, a comedian was an essential part of every movie. The late-night film show was patronised mainly by the poor who went to relieve their work stress. Tolerance lies at the root of humour. One should laugh off being laughed at. The Americans are particularly good at it. No one is spared.President Lyndon B Johnson (LBJ) was born at a farmhouse in Stonewall, Texas; he lived and died there too. There in a display hall are exhibited memorabilia from his personal collection. I had visited the place as a tourist some years ago and recall some of the exhibits. A handwritten letter by a schoolteacher reads: “Dear President Johnson, you are my candidate. I think you are fine. But how could you have said, ‘For you and I’ as you did on TV today during a meeting with Governors in the White House? How can I teach my eighth grade the prepositions... if our President uses them... Please get an English Major to steer clear of such errors.” That LBJ himself had taught at a high school before joining politics makes the comments implicitly scathing.They did not even spare the President’s wife, who had gone visiting a State and ceremonially planted some trees. Miffed possibly by the resulting traffic snarl, an irate resident bluntly told LBJ, “What business did Lady Bird have planting trees on a city road?”Politically too, LBJ was not spared. The President had delivered his customary ‘State of the Union’ address to the nation. Like most politicians who have little to speak about their achievements, he too would have been diversionary, including mention of communism. It elicited an interesting response: “I fully agree with you Mr President. These commies need firm handling and must be checkmated.” The writer goes on spewing venom against the superpower rivals. In the end, after assuring LBJ that he is as good a patriot as the President and would not disclose any State secrets, he acerbically asks, “By the way, between you and me, what is the state of the Union?”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/musings/let-humour-have-its-run-355209
