30-12-2021||Have you gone crazy||A bald pate getting re-carpeted||On my insistence to check from close quarters, he said I rather needed a haircut, lamenting at the same time that I had not visited him even once during the past one and half years. Obviously, I had not, as a precaution against the spread of Covid-19.It all started with intense itching on my scalp, especially during night. I could hardly sleep due to frequent scratching. Various types of soaps and shampoos didn’t help. The condition kept worsening. I consulted a dermatologist. He prescribed a steroid cream and an anti-allergic. A fortnight’s use resulted in no improvement. A second consultation elicited the advice for continued treatment. It, however, didn’t work. I decided to give up on the medicines prescribed.In a moment of reflection, I thought of the humble neem (Azadirachta indica ). I had read of its anti-bacterial, anti-viral and anti-fungal properties. My parents used to spread dried neem leaves between layers of woollens while storing these in steel trunks to prevent the clothing from moth attack.I thought of using neem oil for my affliction. I bought a small bottle from a chemist. Instructions required it to be applied for half an hour on the skin before washing it off with soap and water.After coming from morning walk, I would apply it on my scalp. As I read the newspapers and sipped a cup of tea, an hour would pass. Then, I would take a bath and wash the head with soap and water.The result was miraculous. Within a week, the itching reduced substantially, giving me much relief. Within a fortnight, it was gone completely. What, however, surprised me was that when I looked into the mirror, I discovered new shoots of hair where there was none earlier. They were tiny and just coming out. I couldn’t believe my eyes. Hairs on a largely bald pate! I consulted my wife and daughter who confirmed my observation.I happened to visit another dermatologist for a different problem. In passing, I mentioned to her about the new shoots. She looked at the head with a magnifying glass and confirmed that new hairs were indeed growing.I then thought of getting an opinion from my barber too, who, however, didn’t take seriously what I said.It has been about four months since then. The new growth is in hundreds, if not in thousands, having grown by now to about half an inch! No wonder the trees like neem and peepal are venerated in India.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/musings/a-bald-pate-getting-re-carpeted-356131
