31-12-2021||The greeting card in eye-catching patterns and colours used to hold monopoly over the exchange of pleasantries on the advent of the New Year. Thereafter||When New Year was the calling card||Earlier, in any office, on the first day of the New Year, employees would be seen entering the rooms of their seniors with bouquets and cards.There used to be a very popular officer who was flooded with greeting cards on the New Year. He would ensure that he reciprocated each and every greeting by posting back the replies with the postage stamps meant for official purposes only — in line with the old adage, “Maal malkaan da, mashhuri kampany di” (publicity at public expense).In the twilight of his career, he was posted as financial commissioner (revenue), the post on which many years ago, any officer senior to a chief secretary would be posted. Since he was inherently a good person, he would go the extra mile to help any subordinate. Although for many years, this post was considered to be a secretarial job, and the incumbents avoided frequent tours, this officer would regularly visit the districts and tehsils each month.Normally, financial commissioners (revenue) would not go out for an inspection of any tehsil or the deputy commissioner’s office, but this gentleman prepared a roster of such inspections and would also set apart some time to hear the grievances of employees.After the tours, he would feel elated as the employees would profusely laud him for his unique way of helping and guiding them. They would say, “Janab, tuhade ton pehlan ajj takk saadian mushklan kise ne nahin sunian” (nobody listened to our grievances before you, sir).It was in the first week of January, many years ago, when I went to see this officer, who had retired about two months back then.After the usual exchange of pleasantries, he said, “I am very happy that you have come to see me. Normally, people would not go to a retired officer.”These words surprised me as I knew his popularity and his vast social circle. I said, “Sir, you have been generous to one and all. Everyone respects you and would do anything for you.”He cut me short: “Nahin ji, istran nahin hunda (it doesn’t happen like that). People change overnight once you retire. When in service, I used to get more than a thousand New Year greeting cards. After retirement, I have not received even a single one.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/musings/when-new-year-was-the-calling-card-356463
