07-11-2020||Hindustan||The meaning of the American mandate||Elections are complex. Voting choices are dictated by a range of factors. And to read meaning into a mandate when an election throws up a situation where the challenger has won but not won as decisively as he would have hoped, and the incumbent has lost, but neither lost as resoundingly as expected nor acknowledged his loss.Yet, despite the uncertainty, in what was probably the most consequential election in the recent history of the United States (US), key political, social and economic trends have become more apparent. And this matters because what happens within the US has such a profound impact on the rest of the world. There are three takeaways from the polling and the likely result. One, US capitalism is in crisis and inter-class relations are broken. Over the past century and more, the economic model in the country has evolved — from a rather laissez faire climate to, broadly speaking, a system which also took into account the question of welfare. The combination of entrepreneurial energy, a State-backed military-industrial complex, geopolitical dominance, a reasonable degree of employment creation, elements of social security, and a fierce commitment to individual rights and scepticism of the State worked in ensuring a certain kind of class compact. But the weak regulatory environment of the last three decades, trading arrangements which eroded employment in key sectors in the US (while benefiting its industry and consumers in many other ways), the shock of the 2008 financial crisis, the obvious structures of inequality even as basic services became more expensive, and the emergence of a political and economic elite — seen in conjunction with each other and seemingly disconnected from the rest of the country — broke the class compact in the country sharply. It is deeply ironical that it was the Left — both in the US and globally — which alerted us to the dangers of this economic model and its rising inequities, but it has been the Right — once again, both in the US and elsewhere — which has ended up benefiting from the emerging class wars of the 21st century. Despite being at the forefront of precisely the economic model that led to the disenchantment and anger, it is these forces which have become the voice of that disenchantment and anger. Donald Trump has been able to tap this resentment. And while 2016 provided an early indication of this, 2020 has provided evidence that this anger is here to stay. Two, the cultural compact in the US is broken. Make no mistake. The country has been home to one of the most oppressive forms of identity-based discrimination ever witnessed anywhere in the world. Race competes with caste in how an entire people have been systematically humiliated over centuries. But the US, substantively only after the civil rights movement in the last five decades, has made efforts to create a more inclusive society. It has also prided itself on being a nation of immigrants, a melting pot of cultures, where specific and distinct forms of cultural and religious identity of individuals can coexist within a larger framework of constitutional patriotism. But both race relations and broader ethnic relations are turbulent today. For those who believe in racial justice, the continued hegemony of White Americans across spheres, and the embedded discriminatory attitudes within law enforcement, which often result in the victimisation and killing of Blacks, is a matter of distress. But large sections of White America, falsely, associate African-Americans with crime, conjure up the threat to order and peace, and rally around a leader who promises them security publicly but, in effect, dominance. There is also the discomfort with immigrants, with bigots systematically stoking fears about how outsiders steal opportunities, drain resources, and then even control politics. The proliferation of fake news, enabled by big tech platforms, allows this narrative to deepen. This resentment, or to put it bluntly, bigotry has manifested itself in support for Trump — and is a partial explanation for why he has still got the votes he did despite his staggering incompetence. It is, however, a remarkable testament to Trump’s political skills that he still managed to get a larger segment of immigrant and minority vote this time than in 2016. At the same time, an even larger majority of these minority groups — particularly African-Americans — have recognised that this was a battle for their very survival, dignity and rights and turned out in large numbers propelling Biden in key swing states. Like the economic wars, the culture wars are getting more entrenched. Three, while both the class and cultural compact in the US is broken, and despite Trump’s remarkable performance, the fact is that Democrats have won the presidency. And in that lies an insight — US democracy has been in crisis but has deep strengths too, and therefore, this democracy — like any democracy — needs 24/7 work.The Democratic Party learnt lessons from its 2016 defeat. It choose Joe Biden, a moderate white politician who is not high on charisma, but who brought a degree of solidity to the candidacy, given his record. The party knew it needed its loyal voters, including of minority groups, to come out in large numbers — and worked on the ground to prod them on to send mail-in ballots early or vote in person. It did so without adopting rhetoric which could have alienated dominant groups. It focused on the map, retaining the blue states while chipping away at key swing states. And while the result may still be too close for Biden’s comfort, if he does win Georgia, Arizona and Nevada, after his Saturday win in Pennsylvania, he will have more than 300 electoral college votes — which is more than a respectable win. He has also, do remember, won the highest number of votes ever in US presidential history. But Trump’s obstinacy and threat of legal challenges puts at risk the process of transfer of power from one elected government to another — a sacred democratic principle — showing persistent threats to the democratic compact. The fact that the US media has risen strongly against it, states are not allowing for subversion of norms, Biden himself has shown maturity in the face of provocation, and no one quite believes Trump can just take over the White House is a good sign for democracy in the US. While Joe Biden will have a difficult challenge in navigating the competing impulses within his party, managing a Senate where his party does not have a majority, handling the pandemic and the economy and repairing the US’s image globally, his core challenge is healing the broken class, cultural and democratic compact at home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/columns/the-meaning-of-the-american-mandate/story-OZVn5uB7eZnnpOFTioP0zI.html
07-11-2020||Hindustan||In defence of the right to choose one’s love||There are times my country drives me to despair. These tend to be occasions when the gulf between what I believe is right and what the authorities consider acceptable is so huge I feel like an alien in my own land. The recent judgment by the Allahabad High Court on religious conversions and the undisguised threats by Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath against what he calls “love jihad” are perfect examples of what I have in mind.In a recent ruling, the Allahabad court proclaimed that religious conversion solely for the purpose of marriage is legally invalid. Good heavens, why? To my mind, this is a perfectly understandable reason for converting. It’s proof of a commitment to your partner that overcomes differences of culture and faith. What greater sign of love can there be than a willingness to give up my God and embrace yours so I can live my life with you? If I want to make this gesture who are the courts — or the law, for that matter — to claim I cannot? It affects no one but me. It’s, therefore, a decision I alone have the right to make and no one has the power to question.However, I want to go one step further. Most women grow up visualising their marriage in terms of the religious ceremony sanctified by their faith. When I married Nisha, a Goan Catholic, a church wedding was her dream. Falling in love with a Hindu seemed to put it beyond reach. Fortunately, Father Terry did not feel constrained by the excluding conventions of his faith. Regardless of my Hinduism, he married us in church and gave Nisha full communion. But if he had not, I would have gladly become a Catholic so my wife could have the wedding she wanted. Not for a moment would my Hindu gods have felt offended or betrayed. They would recognise Jesus and Mother Mary as incarnations of themselves. And, anyway, making my wife happy is a surer way to God’s heart than hours spent in ostentatious but unfelt prayer.Let me now turn to Yogi Adityanath. In a recent speech, he issued thinly-veiled ultimatums to men who practise “love jihad”, the Uttar Pradesh chief minister’s crude oxymoronic term for Muslim men who marry Hindu girls. “Agar woh sudhre nahin toh Ram naam satya hai ki yatra nikalne wali hai,” he said, threatening to take the lives of those who don’t mend their ways.The chief minister’s position is dumbfounding. First, what has convinced him that young Muslim men are conspiring to lure Hindu girls into Islam with offers of marriage? In February, the central government, in a statement in Parliament, repudiated the concept. “No case of ‘love jihad’ has been reported by any of the central agencies,” said minister of state for home, G Kishan Reddy. So what facts is the chief minister relying on? He has a duty to reveal them. But if he can’t — because they don’t exist — he faces a more compelling duty to keep silent. Once again, I want to go one step further. India is a heterogeneous country. We comprise a perplexing plethora of creeds, castes, cultures, cuisines and complexions. For many, they end up defining our identity — at least until we choose to do so ourselves. But India’s future — and by that, I mean its capacity to realise its potential — depends on our success in forging bonds that dissolve our differences in a new consciousness of being Indian. Marrying across religious divides is perhaps the surest way of doing that. The love that surpasses sectarian dogma is the key to that India. How come a yogi, of all people, cannot understand that? So, now, can you understand my despair? We’re two decades into the 21st century but we’re still in thrall to the thinking of the 19th. The men who should light the path forward seem to hearken to the past. At this rate, it’ll soon be goodbye to tomorrow.Karan Thapar is the author of Devil’s Advocate: The Untold Story The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/columns/in-defence-of-the-right-to-choose-one-s-love/story-hialB4j4ZTbeFDT1UHq7sM.html
07-11-2020||Hindustan||The degeneration of electoral democracy||India and the United States are proud of being the world’s largest democracies. But over the last few weeks, neither has been a good advertisement for that form of government. Democracy is about putting power in the hands of the people. The United States presidential election campaign and the India’s assembly election campaigns have been about battles for personal power. In the United States, the verbal punch-up between Democratic challenger Joe Biden and President Donald Trump descended to the level of a TV bar brawl. It is also now clear that many more voters than expected bought into Trump’s rather ugly narrative of what the United States would be like under Biden. In Bihar, chief minister Nitish Kumar has battled for his personal political survival. The Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD)’s Tejashwi Yadav is fighting to save the Lalu Prasad dynasty. In the Madhya Pradesh (MP) by-elections, almost all the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) candidates originally fought and won on the Congress ticket. Once they realised that the path to greater power may lie in switching ranks, they shifted to the BJP. The late Rajiv Gandhi had hoped that by passing the anti-defection Act, he could end the “aya ram gaya ram” culture which made such a mockery of elections and the party system. But voters willing to tolerate turncoats have undermined the Act. In Bihar, Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal (United) won the last election in alliance with the RJD. Now, they are rivals and Kumar is fighting in alliance with his former foe, the BJP.In both India and the US, the election system throws up results which do not reflect the votes cast. In the last United States election, Hillary Clinton won more votes than Trump, but lost the election. There are different rules in different states for voting and counting. Well before counting, Trump said he would use every legal uncertainty these differences created if he did not win outright. In India, the equation between seats and votes leads to absolute majorities being won without a majority of votes. In last year’s general election, the BJP won an absolute majority of 303 seats with just 37.56% of the votes. Voting is spread over an inordinately long time so the political climate might change when votes have been cast in some parts of the country and are still to be cast in others. The Election Commission, once an institution feared by politicians, has become a paper tiger.Elections in both countries have become focused on personalities, not policies or parties. Watching this Bihar campaign on television, I noticed that when voters were asked who they would vote for, they responded by saying Nitish Kumar or Tejashwi Yadav or even Narendra Modi although he is not in the fray. Very few named a party. In the United States, the whole election coverage revolves around a Trump versus Biden fight. This strengthens the influence of personality cults and populism at the expense of policies and achievements. Personalisation leads to the unhealthy concentration of power in one person’s hands. So, it must be hoped that Indian and American voters will eventually realise they are being taken for a ride and demand electoral reforms which lead to fair democratic elections and a healthy democracy.The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/columns/the-degeneration-of-electoral-democracy/story-YApyhQTRw0PWFKv9ulCzWP.html
