13-11-2020||Hindustan||From Bihar, a message for Indian politics, writes Barkha Dutt||It is tough to say anything with certitude after the Bihar election cliffhanger, considering how much journalists and pollsters got the results wrong. But let me make some attempt at sifting through what we know and still don’t know about Patna’s longest day. First, those of us who travelled to Bihar for the assembly elections reported a groundswell of anger against chief minister Nitish Kumar. We got that part right and were not wrong in arguing that the mud was not sticking to his alliance partner, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). In fact, countless voters spoke about how they would be happy with the same government and a different chief minister. What we got wrong was our estimation that Rashtriya Janata Dal’s (RJD) Tejashwi Yadav would be able to channel this anger towards a win for him. Yes, the election was ferociously contested and the narrow margins of victory are evidence of that. In 11 seats, the margin of victory is under 1,000 votes; in Hilsa, the RJD candidate lost by 12 votes .But if our reading about the anger against Nitish Kumar had been fully accurate this election, it should have been a landslide win for the 31-year-old Yadav who was hoping to be India’s youngest chief minister. So why wasn’t it? Perhaps Yadav started his campaign too late and perhaps he became over-confident and lost the momentum midway. For the BJP, exactly the opposite happened. The phase-wise breakdown of how different parties performed nudges us to draw this conclusion. After a fantastic performance for the RJD in the first phase (31 seats to the BJP’s 12), the party tripped and fell by the third phase of voting. By contrast, the BJP fanned out and spread the word, door-to-door, on the return of what it calls “jungle raj’, creating an effective counter consolidation. Ironically, it was this phase that the mahagathbandhan (grand alliance) expected to ace because of the high number of Muslim voters. For the Congress to blame Asaduddin Owaisi’s All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) that has taken five seats is facile and akin to the Trumpian behaviour of a sore loser. First, the charge that Owaisi was a vote-cutter is not borne out by the numbers. By definition, someone cutting into the grand alliance vote base should have delivered a bigger victory for the National Democratic Alliance (NDA). Of the 20 seats contested by Owaisi’s party, nine were taken by the RJD, making the vote-cutter argument redundant. The five seats where his party won obviously cannot be classified as a consequence of vote-cutting. That leaves the six seats the NDA took; in five of these, the margin of victory of the NDA is large enough for the accusation to simply not hold. Only in one seat has the AIMIM’s vote gone ahead of the NDA’s victory margin.In any case, Owaisi has the right to fashion his politics in the way he chooses. And, by his own telling, he reached out to the RJD ahead of the elections for a partnership and was spurned. His sharp riposte to the Congress is telling. “Their idea of a Muslim is that I should sit in Hyderabad, organise mushairas, biryani feasts and iftar parties,” he told me in an interview. “They are intellectually incompetent and lack the capacity to take on the BJP.” There was so much focus on Yadav in this campaign that no one said much about Rahul Gandhi taking a vacation to his sister’s house in Himachal Pradesh, bang in the middle of the election season. It may have only been a couple of days, but it’s everything when you contrast it with the 24x7 commitment to politics that Narendra Modi-Amit Shah display at all times. Even the Left parties, that have been the other big gainer in this election, are peeved at the number of seats (70) given to the Congress to contest. It is not for the first time (think back to Uttar Pradesh) that the Congress spends all of its energy fighting for prestige in seat-distribution negotiations. None of that similar energy is spent on fighting on the ground.As the BJP delivers Bihar to a weakened and diminished Nitish Kumar, effectively showing him both his place and who is the boss, perhaps the biggest lesson from Bihar assembly elections is the same that every state election reminds us of. The national Opposition does not exist; the Congress’s claim to this role is perfunctory and cosmetic. If there is a bulwark against the BJP juggernaut, it can only be India’s regional parties. But they too falter in the face of the Modi factor and their own lack of commitment to a full time, 365 days a year, 24-hour-a-day political life.Barkha Dutt is an award-winning journalist and author The views expressed are personalThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/columns/from-bihar-a-message-for-indian-politics/story-IF2Rxxoa0MeV8vU9BocBuO.html
13-11-2020||Hindustan||For Joe Biden, from the Jawaharlal Nehru of 1945||The great relief in the shape of the United States (US) Presidential election result has made 2020 a less unbearable year. The White House now looks like reason’s home. The very opposite happened 75 years ago. In the April of 1945, when President Franklin D Roosevelt, respected across the democratic world, died of a protracted illness, the White House suddenly had a question mark settle over it. No one knew what Vice-President HS Truman, who had entered that building, was like. What was India’s reaction? The Congress’s entire leadership was in jail. Mahatma Gandhi, from his Poona prison, sent Eleanor Roosevelt a telegram typically prophetic of him: “My humble condolences and congratulations. Latter because your illustrious husband died in harness and after point where allied victory had become certain. He was spared humiliating spectacle of being party to peace which threatens to be prelude to war bloodier still if possible.” Vallabhbhai Patel, from his Ahmednagar prison, wrote to his daughter, Maniben, on April 14: “Yesterday we had news of President Roosevelt’s death. Much was expected of him in the future. In today’s selfish world he stood out as a strong man interested to some extent in the world’s welfare…No one knows what God wants and where He wants to take this world.” Jawaharlal Nehru, in the same prison, writing what was to become The Discovery of India, described Roosevelt as one whom “many people all over the world looked up to”, as “a man of vision and high statesmanship”. So, there was uncertainty, worry, even fear over the future. Let us, on this anniversary of Nehru’s birth, look at him, in that year, 1945.A prisoner at Ahmednagar, the 56-year-old Jawaharlal had been working on writing what was to become the great book that I have just mentioned. He was to dedicate it: “To my colleagues and co-prisoners in the Ahmednagar Fort Prison Camp from 9 August 1942 to 28 March 1945.” These colleagues included Vallabhbhai Patel (67), Pattabhi Sitaramayya (62), GBPant (55), Maulana Azad (54), JB Kripalani (54), Asaf Ali (54), Syed Mahmud (53), Narendra Deva (53), PC Ghosh (51), Shankerrao Deo (47), HK Mahtab (42). Six of the 12 managed to produce books of moment — Nehru wrote his Discovery; Azad penned his collection of letters, Ghubar-i-Khatir; Mahtab documented the history of Orissa; Kripalani did a study of Gandhi; Deva reconstructed a Sanskrit work from French; and Sitaramayya wrote a valuable diary.An altogether new activity held and bound Nehru with Patel — gardening. Sitaramayya noted in his diary: “In front of his verandah the Sardar has grown … blue flowers interspersed with a few pinks ( which ) present a beauty… of heavenly glory.” And as for Jawaharlal, the diarist wrote that the man was “sowing, digging, planting, pruning, watering and weeding…in the hot sun with his hat on and in pouring rain with his raincoat.” Kripalani said Jawaharlal had turned “a barren and dreary compound without even a blade of grass” into a place of beauty. But we can be sure that behind all this there was great anxiety about the country’s fate and the uncertain, war-weary world. Nehru wrote in the pages that were going to become his famous book: “Mr H G Wells has been telling the world, with all the fire of an old prophet, that…it is the system of nationalistic individualism and un-coordinated enterprise that is the world’s disease…Prophets are ignored and sometimes even stoned by their generation.” Nehru had no idea, at this point, of when he would be released, when India would have its own government. He didn’t know that events would move fast, that he would become India’s prime minister, and his gardening companion, the deputy prime minister, but that the man both of them regarded as India’s path-finder would be assassinated. He did not know that, as Prime Minister of India, he would be addressing Asian and African leaders at Bandung on April 22, 1955, saying: “The leaders of great nations like the President of the United States of America have to carry a world of responsibility…a tremendous burden.”President-elect Joe Biden’s burden is about the world’s safety — from errors and terrors, nuclear, chemical, biological. It is also about the world being made safe from its own globe-warming, globe-infecting ways. He will be helped by an India that speaks not in terms of “nationalist individualism” but of world safety. Writing in his Ahmednagar cell Nehru said: “Unity is always better than disunity but an enforced unity is a sham and dangerous affair, full of explosive possibilities. Unity must be of the head and heart, a sense of belonging together…” Biden is speaking of that belonging together. He knows what he has inherited. On this anniversary, we may ask: “Do we know what we are inheriting?” Are Nehru and Patel gardening India today? Gopalkrishna Gandhi is a former administrator, diplomat and governor The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/columns/for-joe-biden-from-the-jawaharlal-nehru-of-1945/story-UImIIPctpHwJZ9Cf0QviCO.html
