21-11-2020||Hindustan||The three messages from Bihar’s verdict, writes Mark Tully||The Bihar assembly election results have resulted in three humiliations, all indications that opposition to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government’s hardline Hindutva policy is crumbling. Chief minister (CM) Nitish Kumar should be able to take pride on taking office for his fourth term, a record for the state. But he is a much-diminished figure, humiliated by his partner, the BJP, the public and the press.The public humiliated him by their hostile reaction to him at some of his rallies and by their response to his party when it came to voting. The press humiliated him by writing him off as a political force. The BJP humiliated Kumar by not stopping, and some suggest actually encouraging, the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP)’s Chirag Paswan’s entry into the polls as a distinct force. His stated intention was to cut into Kumar’s vote. Paswan’s LJP is a member of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA), small and of limited importance. So, it’s unlikely its leader would have declared open war on Kumar, the NDA’s leader in Bihar, without the BJP’s tacit approval. The approval appears to have been aimed at reducing the CM’s chances of emerging from this election on equal terms with the BJP and, hence, with some room to act independently. As it turned out, this is precisely what has happened.The BJP’s intention to weaken the CM is also clear by the party leadership’s decision to have two deputy CMs. One of them, Renu Devi, is from the Extremely Backward Class (EBC). Not surprisingly, this appointment is being interpreted as an attempt to win over EBCs and women, the two groups Kumar has cultivated during his time in office. He has also not been allowed to retain his deputy for many years, BJP leader, Sushil Kumar Modi. The two worked so closely together that they are sometimes referred to as Siamese twins.For Sushil Kumar Modi, used to dominating the BJP in Bihar, his displacement as deputy CM without, at the time of writing, being offered an alternative post in Bihar or the Centre is a humiliation. The victors are those who regard him as a relic of the Vajpayee-Advani era, too soft for the hardline party of today. He is one of the last prominent members of the old school in today’s BJP, a politician I remember for his sharp sense of humour.And what can be said about the Congress? It has had to face yet another humiliation, winning just 19 out of the 70 seats. As usual, the humiliation has been followed by silence from the high command and sycophancy silencing mild questions from some leaders. This election has made it clear that the Congress does not matter in Bihar any more than it matters in neighbouring Uttar Pradesh. This means the party has lost its foothold in the most-populous and the third-most populous states in India. Yet, Congressmen and women remain paralysed, apparently unable to do anything to stem the rot. They repeat mantra-like that the party will fall apart without the Gandhis at the helm and, at the same time, watch the party withering away under those very same Gandhis.It is generally admitted from the prime minister downwards, that India needs better governance. So it is, to say the least, sad to see a politician like Kumar, once so renowned for effective and honest governance that he was talked about as a potential prime minister, ending his career accepting humiliating subservience as a price for staying on in office. Sushil Modi’s humiliation makes it even less likely that hardline Hindutva will be questioned within the BJP. The continuing humiliation the Congress is suffering means that there is no national party to challenge that hardline or pretty much anything else.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/columns/the-three-messages-from-bihar-s-verdict-writes-mark-tully/story-TojamW9xiCkJC0tlGo92rI.html
21-11-2020||Hindustan||Obama’s intriguing silence on Pakistan, writes Karan Thapar||One of the most riveting chapters in Barack Obama’s autobiography, A Promised Land, is the last one. It’s the story of the Navy SEAL’s operation to eliminate Osama bin Laden in Pakistan’s Abbottabad in 2011. This chapter, number 27, starts on the 673rd page of this 902-page tome, but if you’re reading from the start it won’t be as daunting to get there as that sounds. It’s a very readable book written in a flowing and gripping style.This is how Obama recounts the moment he learnt bin Laden was dead: “With a suddenness I didn’t expect, we heard McRaven’s and Leon’s voices, almost simultaneously, utter the words we’d been waiting to hear … ‘Geronimo ID’d … Geronimo EKIA’. Enemy killed in action … Inside the conference room, there were audible gasps … ‘We got him.’ I said softly.”Several hours later, Obama told his wife Michelle. This time he captures both the charm of the moment and its ordinariness. “I had just finished shaving and putting on a suit and tie when she walked through the door. ‘So?’ she said. I gave a thumbs-up and she smiled, pulling me into a hug. ‘That’s amazing babe,’ she said. ‘Really. How do you feel?’ ‘Right now, just relieved’, I said. ‘But check back with me in a couple of hours.’”However, the one question Obama doesn’t answer — or even address — is about Pakistan’s role. Was Pakistan hiding bin Laden and, therefore, complicit? Or unaware of his presence and, therefore, incompetent? I’m surprised by his silence. He knows it’s an obvious question and one many expect him to answer. As the United States president at the time, he must know.In 2017, when Obama was the star attraction at the Hindustan Times Leadership Summit, I asked him. He said his administration had no evidence Pakistan was aware of bin Laden’s presence. However, he tantalisingly added, “I’ll leave it to you to characterise beyond what I just said.”This was an opportunity I couldn’t let slip. He was tempting me to draw my own conclusion and put it to him. “So it was incompetence?” The former president wouldn’t say. He was determined not to be drawn further. He simply smiled.By coincidence, I had put the same question to former Pakistan president, Pervez Musharraf, at a Hindustan Times Leadership Summit a couple of years earlier. When I asked if Pakistan was either complicit or incompetent, he said — with surprising candour but also not inconsiderable humour — the truth was the Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) had fallen asleep!“That’s neglect, isn’t it?” But Musharraf was determined not to agree. “No, let’s say the ISI fell asleep” and he smiled knowingly. “The ISI has a right to go to sleep occasionally.”I repeated this story to Obama hoping it might prompt him. But he only laughed. I couldn’t get him to say anything more.However, in his book, Obama reveals the reaction of both the Pakistani army chief, Ashfaq Kayani, and president Asif Zardari. Admiral Mullen, then Chairman of the Joint Chiefs, rang Kayani. Obama says the conversation was polite but Kayani “requested that we come clean on the raid and its target as quickly as possible in order to help his people manage the reaction of the Pakistani public.”In contrast, Zardari’s response was almost admirable. “I expected my most difficult call to be with Pakistan’s beleaguered president, Asif Ali Zardari, who would surely face a backlash at home over our violation of Pakistani sovereignty. When I reached him, however, he expressed congratulations and support. ‘Whatever the fall out’, he said, ‘it’s very good news.’”Now political memoirs are not easy to write because you never know how much of the truth to tell.Chapter 27 suggests Obama held back on a lot. No doubt, some secrets must be carried to the grave but why won’t he reveal whether Pakistan was complicit or incompetent?Despite telling his story delightfully, his silence on this issue is audible. His refusal to address it won’t make the question go away.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/columns/obama-s-intriguing-silence-on-pakistan-writes-karan-thapar/story-mk5ETdISknCxoDmwEyPeoN.html
