01-03-2021||Shimla||Congress MLAs suspended from HP Assembly sit on dharna outside House||The five Congress MLAs suspended from the Himachal Pradesh Assembly for the entire Budget session sat on a dharna outside the House on Monday to protest their suspension and the registration of an FIR against them.Leader of Opposition Mukesh Agnihotri and legislators Harsh Vardhan Chauhan, Satpal Raizada, Sunder Singh and Vinay Kumar were suspended from the Assembly on Friday for allegedly manhandling Governor Bandaru Dattatraya.Speaker Vipin Parmar had submitted a formal complaint to DGP Sanjay Kundu for registering the FIR.While the five MLAs sat on a dharna, proceedings of the second day of the Budget session commenced with condolence resolutions for some former MLAs and sitting Congress legislator from Kangra district’s Fatehpur, Sujan Singh Pathania, who died after a prolonged illness on February 13.Speaking to the media, Agnihotri blamed Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur for whatever happened on Friday.He claimed that it was the Congress MLAs who were manhandled, and added that the deputy speaker and the ministers responsible for the act should have been suspended and FIRs registered against them.The alleged incident had taken place outside the Speaker’s office on Friday when the governor was leaving for the Raj Bhavan after he cut short his address in the House following a ruckus on the opening day of the Budget session. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/congress-mlas-suspended-from-hp-assembly-sit-on-dharna-outside-house-219062
01-03-2021||Kartik Aaryan||Kartik Aaryan receives a warm welcome in Manali||A small puja was conducted by the people on the sets to mark the auspicious beginning of the shoot and blessed Kartik for the success of his films and career. The actor clicked pictures with the natives and thanked them for their heart-warming gesture. Meanwhile, making his way into different genres, Kartik will be seen in films like Dhamaka, Bhool Bhulaiyaa 2 and Dostana 2.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kartik-aaryan-receives-a-warm-welcome-in-manali-218955
01-03-2021||---||4-member SIT to probe Himachal House ruckus||Shimla, February 28A four-member special investigation team (SIT) headed by an Additional SP-rank officer has been constituted to probe the incidents of scuffle outside the Vidhan Sabha here on Friday.The SIT will scan the CCTV footage and videos of the incident, besides recording statements of Vidhan Sabha Secretariat staff and other eyewitnesses, sources said.The case has been entrusted to the SIT as the complainants, offenders and witnesses are high-profile persons and allegations and counter-allegations have been levelled by ruling and opposition leaders.Five Congress MLAs, including Leader of Opposition Mukesh Agnihotri, were booked in connection with the incident.Ugly scenes were witnessed outside the Assembly on February 26 when Congress MLAs tried to stop the Governor when he was leaving after delivering his address, which was cut short due to commotion.The ruling party leaders and the police reportedly tried to push Congress legislators who were blocking the Governor’s vehicle from leaving the campus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/4-member-sit-to-probe-himachal-house-ruckus-218845
01-03-2021||Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many||Road in need of repair||The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com Road in need of repairA small patch of the Sukijori-Sanawar road is in need of repair for a long time. The PWD has failed to attend to the issue. As the surface is uneven, motorists have to face hardships. Santosh, KasauliConstruction material dumped on roadsDumping of construction material on the roadside by government and private contractors has become a norm in Kangra district. People carrying out construction dump sand and gravel on roads and it keeps lying there for days. Government contractors also follow the same pattern. The dumped material becomes a hazard for commuters, especially at night. The government should check this practice. Amarjit Sharma, Kangra||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/road-in-need-of-repair-218740
01-03-2021||Members of the NSUI on Sunday staged a dharna at Ambedkar Chowk against the suspension of five Congress MLAs and the registration of FIR against them. Demanding suspension of the Congress MLAs be revoked||NSUI members stage dharna||HPU VC releases bookSikander Kumar, HPU Vice Chancellor, has released a book, "Human Rights: Issues and Challenges". The book has been edited by Prof Sanjay Sindhu and Dr Kusum Chauhan. It provides scholarly articles on human rights issues. Besides theoretical debates, the articles in the peer-reviewed book offers a critical understanding on various human rights issues related to environment, good governance, child labour, women, specially abled persons, manual scavengers, transgender, etc.Virtual national moot court contestHimachal Pradesh National Law University (HPNLU) organised its first virtual moot court competition between February 26 and 28. A total of 28 teams were selected for oral rounds. The inaugural session was initiated by Prof Nishtha Jaswal, Vice Chancellor, who encouraged and motivated the students to participate in such events. She highlighted the importance of such competitions and other innovative activities being conducted by various institutions across the country. The chief guest on the session was Dr S Ravichandran, senior advocate, Supreme Court of India. In his address, Dr Ravichandran highlighted how these competitions groom students for their future endeavours.Science dept to open on MondayAs per the unanimous decision taken at a meeting of deans, chairpersons and directors, HPU will be opened in a phased manner. The science department will be opened first from March 1. The Registrar said hostels for department students would be opened simultaneously. He advised students attending online classes not to visit the campus.Exams from March 15HPU will conduct regular exams for the first and the third semester postgraduate classes from March 15. For the students of the second and the fourth semester, re-appear exams will also start the same day. JS Negi, Controller of Examination, said exams would be conducted at 42 centres across the state and students would be assigned a centre close to their homes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nsui-members-stage-dharna-218741
01-03-2021||---||Central University Himachal Pradesh Vice-Chancellor resigns||Dharamsala, February 28Kuldeep Agnihotri, VC of Central University Himachal Pradesh (CUHP), has resigned.He completed his three-year term this year. He was, however, granted extension by the Union Ministry of HRD. Sources here said Agnihotri submitted his resignation yesterday as he was going to join on assignment in the Union Government.The VC admitted he had submitted his resignation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/central-university-himachal-pradesh-vice-chancellor-resigns-218742
01-03-2021||The incident that happened in Dharamsala circuit house this week involving Union Minister of State for Finance and Corporate Affairs Anurag Thakur (in pic) is abuzz in political circles and the common people. The union minister had to shift out of the circuit house in the middle of the night. The authorities were in a quandary as they were not in a position to act on either side. Many officials were seen trying to disassociate themselves from the incident on one pretext or the other. However||When authorities were in a fix||Little talk of accountabilityKeen to kick-start its civic body poll campaign, the Congress hurriedly convened its state-level Political Affairs and Coordination Committee meeting soon after the BJP held its three-day meet at Dharamsala. The one-day affair was no match for the marathon BJP conclave and the absence of senior Congress leaders hogged more attention. With little talk of accountability on party’s reduced voter share in the civic body polls and cash crunch plaguing the party, the meeting did little to enthuse the leaders. An attempt made by a leader to gain prominence by virtue of money power did irate the seniors who chided him for trying to introduce an adverse trend. Congress it seems has to do more than mere lip service to make a comeback.For sharing info or PR purpose?The police Whatsapp groups aimed at sharing information with media persons have been reduced to PR groups with little actual information being shared. Police and bureaucrats staying tight-lipped on controversial issues has become the order of the day. In the recent scuffle at the Vidhan Sabha where Governor Badaru Dattatreya’s vehicle was stopped by the Congress MLAs on February 26, an FIR was registered against Congress MLAs on the same day but the police refused to divulge the details. Even as media persons kept on asking for the developments the whole evening there was no response. However, one or two districts police groups are exception.Contributed by Lalit Mohan, Ambika Sharma and Bhanu P Lohumi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/when-authorities-were-in-a-fix-218743
01-03-2021||Mandi||3 Delhi tourists killed in Mandi||Three persons were killed after their car fell into a deep gorge in Mandi district today, while they were travelling on the Mandi-Kullu road via Kataula. The incident occurred near Marogi in Mandi. According to the police, all of them were found dead on the spot. The deceased have been identified as Harveen Sandhu (34), Ramesh Chander (49) and Yogesh, son of Ramesh Chander, all residents of Delhi.The bodies were retrieved from the area and shifted to the Zonal Hospital in Mandi for a post-mortem examination. A case has been registered. Superintendent of Police, Mandi, Shalini Agnihotri said the cause of accident was yet to be ascertained. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/3-delhi-tourists-killed-in-mandi-218744
01-03-2021||Kullu||BHEL, NHPC staff held in theft case||The Kullu police have arrested four employees of NHPC and BHEL in a case filed by senior manager of the NHPC at the Banjar police station on September 28, 2018, in which 58 stator bars were reported stolen from the Sainj Bihali powerhouse store worth Rs 1.23 crore. Kullu SP Gaurav Singh said the case was registered under Section 406 and during investigations it was found that NHPC and BHEL employees colluded with each other to embezzle these bars by preparing false documents.The SP said accused Ram Kumar, assistant manager, NHPC Parbati-III of Chhattisgarh, manager, Uttarakhand, Pranab Kumar of Uttar Pradesh, assistant manager, J&K, Nayan Kumar of Allahabad, and duty engineer, BHEL, Rahul Srivastava of UP, were arrested under Sections 420, 467, 468 & 120-B of the IPC. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bhel-nhpc-staff-held-in-theft-case-218729
01-03-2021||Ambika Sharma---||Cash crunch major issue for Cong in MC elections||Tribune News Service Solan, march 1 Facing a severe cash crunch, the Congress leaders at its Political Affairs Committee yesterday suggested that funds should be provided to the candidates contesting the four municipal corporation elections for improving their poll prospects. The issue of lack of resources was deliberated upon at length where a Congress MLA tried to seek prominence in the party by saying that he would contribute a big amount. A senior leader and former Cabinet minister was, however, quick to point out, “Charity begins at home and this MLA should contribute in the party kitty first and then give sermons. Elections are won on the basis of the party ideology and not merely by spending money.” Adding to the discussion, another senior MLA suggested that the first-time Congress MLA should make a beginning and provide adequate funds to each candidate in the ensuing MC polls which was the immediate requirement rather than merely making assertions.   While no resolution was adopted on how to fund the party-supported candidates in the MC polls, it remains to be seen how the party would manage its poll expenditure with each leader being reluctant to spend. The party has appointed conveners for the four MCs of Solan, Mandi, Palampur and Dharamsala. These conveners would be responsible for disbursing tickets as well as ensuring the victory of the candidates. With party’s vote share declining from about 40 per cent to about 27 per cent in the recent panchayat and civic body polls, the members also sought the accountability of those at the helm.  This was especially so as the Congress candidates had also forfeited their security in the Dharamsala by-election besides dismal performance in other polls. Changes in the party could be in the offing after the MC polls, informed party sources.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cash-crunch-major-issue-for-cong-in-mc-elections-218736
01-03-2021||Shimla||Devise way to verify documents: Manav Bharti passouts||Around 110 pass outs of the Manav Bharti University have formed an association under the banner of “Justice for Manav Bharti Students’ Association, which has urged the government and the education regulator to safeguard the interests of genuine students, whose certificates and degrees are not being verified and authenticated due to the ongoing probe into the fake degree case. Association members urged that some interim mechanism be put in place to verify the documents.“Whenever a person applies for any job or for higher education, his/her educational background and documents are verified by the employer or the institution. The pass outs of the Manav Bharti University are facing problems in doing so as their verification is being denied by the university,” said a member of the association.“The university, where an administrator had been appointed, said it cannot verify the credentials of the students as the records of the students had been seized by the SIT investigating the fake degree scam,” he alleged. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/devise-way-to-verify-documents-manav-bharti-passouts-218719
01-03-2021||---||Snow avalanche blocks Triloknath-Udaipur road||Mandi, February 28Snow avalanche blocked the Triloknath-Udaipur link road near Shakoli village in tribal Lahaul-Spiti district today. The snow avalanche was triggered during the day, which brought the traffic movement on this road to a complete halt.Heaps of snow covered the vast stretch of the road though no loss of life and property was reported.Deputy Commissioner Lahaul Spiti Pankaj Rai said workforce and machinery have been deployed in the area to restore this link road for movement of vehicles.As weather is getting warmer in the region, the incidents of snow avalanches were occurring frequently in Lahaul-Spiti. A few days ago snow avalanches were triggered at Karpat and Lobar under Udaipur sub division in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/snow-avalanche-blocks-triloknath-udaipur-road-218725
01-03-2021||---||2 Nihangs held for attacking policemen in Paonta Sahib||Solan, February 28The Paonta Sahib police arrested two Nihangs for misbehaving and attacking traffic police at Badripur Chownk yesterday afternoon.Additional SP, Sirmaur, Babita Rana, said the police had identified the two Nihangs who were carrying swords and metal clubs. A case under Sections 353, 323 and 34 of the IPC has been registered against them.They had entered into an altercation with traffic policemen who had asked them why they were using hooter in the vehicle. One of them had even slapped the policeman and had abused him for being questioned. The duo then went towards Bangran Chownk in their car after brandishing swords and created an atmosphere of fear among residents who had gathered on the spot.The police later arrested them and they were produced before a local court today which has remanded them in two days’ police custody.They have been identified as Ludhiana resident Jasbir Singh (38) and Fatehgarh resident Sandeep Singh (30). Their act has been captured in CCTV cameras installed at the spot.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/2-nihangs-held-for-attacking-policemen-in-paonta-sahib-218728
01-03-2021||Subhash Rajta||Rohru plans three-day IPL of its own||Tribune News ServiceShimla, February 28Rohru will witness a local version of the Indian Premier League (IPL) in mid-March. A local club, Cricket Kranti, has emulated the IPL format to hold a three-day tournament with a locally made cloth ball. As in the IPL, 10 franchisee-owned teams have been formed and they picked their players in a day-long auction held in one of hotels of the town on Sunday.Pradeep Chauhan, Member, Cricket Kranti ClubEngaging local youthThe basic idea to hold the tournament is to engage local youth in sports and keep them away from vices like drugs. The IPL-like format was chosen to make it more attractive and interesting for the players as well as the public.“The basic idea to hold the tournament is to engage local youth in sports and keep them away from vices like drugs. The IPL-like format was chosen to make it more attractive and interesting for the players as well as the public,” Pradeep Chauhan, a member of the Cricket Kranti Club.Given that more than 25 persons showed interest in buying 10 franchisees and over 400 plus players threw their hat in the auction pool, the innovative idea has clearly caught everyone’s imagination.For buying a franchisee, the interested individuals/ groups had to shell out Rs 80,000 to the club management. “The franchisees were given the same amount of purse to buy players from the auction pool,” said Chauhan.For selecting players for the auction pool, the club asked cricketers from the region to submit forms detailing their cricketing achievements. “The forms were scrutinised and eventually we put 412 players in the auction pool today. Each team will have 14 members, with the captain, an icon player and two golden players chosen ahead of the auction,” he said.Incidentally, the auctioned players, who were auctioned for a maximum amount of Rs 15,000, will not get paid, at least in the first edition of the tournament. Why have auction when players will not be paid? “The auction and capping of the team purse was done to ensure level-playing field for all teams. This ensured every team got a chance to pick good players,” said Chauhan.Ashok Sangroli, captain of the Kotkhai team and one of the more famous players of the region, said given the response to the idea, players might get paid from next tournament onwards. “It’s going to be a great platform for youngsters, will bring forth many talented youngsters,” said Sangroli.Barring payments to the players, the club wants to emulate the IPL format to a tee. “We have plans to even have cheerleaders at the games to make the atmosphere livelier,” said Chauhan. “But it won’t be in bad taste or look inappropriate. People will like it,” he assured.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rohru-plans-three-day-ipl-of-its-own-218717
01-03-2021||Our Correspondent||Starting in April, ‘Chalo Chamba Campaign’ to promote tribal culture||Chamba, February 28The ‘Brown Bear Motor Sports Rally’, being the first event of the Chalo Chamba Campaign 2021, will be flagged off from the Chamba district headquarters on April 9.Deputy Commissioner DC Rana released a calendar of events for the campaign here recently. He said a mega tribal festival would be held at Chamba Chowgan on April 15 i.e. Himachal Day.Rana said special focus would be laid on showcasing the tribal culture of Chamba district, including Pangwala, Gaddi and Gujjar and the tribal culture of Lahaul and Spiti and Kinnaur for which seven tribal troupes had been invited.Rana said the Chalo Chamba Campaign had been launched with an objective to promote tourism by exploring the unexplored destinations in the picturesque district.“The calendar consisting of 24 events of the campaign unfolds the activities to be organised in order to boost tourism activities,” said the DC, adding that it included multiple tourism, trekking and adventure sports activities.A special invitation had also been given to the Tibetan Institute of Performing Arts (TIPA), Dharamsala, to perform on April 30, he said. Besides, emphasis was being laid on propagating the cultural heritage of the region by holding heritage walks at Chamba and Dalhousie, he added. Rana said traditional cuisine fest (packages) would be organised at various locations on requirement basis while following the calendar dates’ schedule.A water sports festival would be organised at the Taleru water sports complex on the banks of the Chamera lake near Dalhousie, said the DC, adding that a paragliding mega tournament would be held at the notified take-off and landing sites near Khajjiar which would be another attraction for tourists.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/starting-in-april-chalo-chamba-campaign-to-promote-tribal-culture-218718
01-03-2021||Dipender Manta||Scanty snowfall disappoints Kullu-Manali apple growers||Tribune News ServiceMandi, February 28Scanty snowfall has disappointed hoteliers and apple orchardists in Kullu-Manali and Mandi district this year. A large tract of land is covered under the apple cultivation in Mandi and Kullu districts, which requires adequate snowfall to maintain moisture in the land and complete chilling hours for better production.Rajiv Kimta, an orchardist Conditions adverseGenerally every year, more than 30 cm of snowfall is witnessed in the area at least in two intervals during the winter season, which maintaines moisture in the land. But this time, the climate is quite adverse for apple orchards. According to orchardists of Kullu and Mandi, this year, they witnessed scanty snowfall. They said it would directly affect the production of apple crop because it requires adequate snowfall.Rajiv Kimta, an orchardist at Kais Kothi in Kullu, said, “Compared to the previous year, this year, scanty snowfall was witnessed at Kais Kothi. Generally every year, more than 30 cm of snowfall is witnessed in the area at least in two intervals during the winter season, which maintaines moisture in the land. But this time, the climate is quite adverse for apple orchards.”Nakul Khullar, another orchardist at Raison in Kullu, said, “Scanty snowfall will not only affect the apple crop, it also hit other fruit crops.”Uttam Prashar, a subject matter specialist of the Horticulture Department in Kullu, said, “It is true that this year, snowfall was scanty for apple orchards in Kullu-Manali. However, the climate was chilly enough as per the requirement of apple orchards. It is expected that it may affect the production of apple crop in lower regions if weather will remain dry for a long time in the coming days.”Similarly, people associated with the tourism industry here in Kullu-Manali are also disappointed because of scanty snowfall in the region. Adequate snowfall in Kullu-Manali is considered a boon for the tourism industry here as it attracts a large number of tourists here during the summer season. The tourists can enjoy the snow even in the month of July at Rohtang Pass.Anup Thakur, president of hoteliers’ association of Kullu-Manali, said scanty snowfall had become a cause for concern for the tourism industry because it was a major attraction for tourists here.He said, “Tourists visit here to enjoy the snow. We request the district administration to allow movement of tourists beyond Gulaba in the coming days depending on weather conditions in the region, so that they can enjoy snow.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/scanty-snowfall-disappoints-kullu-manali-apple-growers-218715
01-03-2021||---||Covid-19: 15 nursing hostel students at IGMC test positive in Shimla||Shimla, February 28SNG Nursing Hostel at the Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital (IGMC), Shimla, has been declared a containment zone after 15 nursing students tested positive for the virus.It’s after a long time that Shimla registered so many cases in a single day, ringing alarm bells in the administration as well as general public. No person or vehicle will be allowed to enter the area till further orders.47 new cases, tally reaches 58,645Shimla: With 47 new cases being reported on Sunday, the total tally of Covid cases in the state reached 58,645. There was no death in the state in the last 24 hours, keeping the fatality figure at 982.The highest number of 26 positive cases was reported in Kangra, 12 in Una, seven in Solan and two in Sirmaur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-19-15-nursing-hostel-students-at-igmc-test-positive-in-shimla-218726
01-03-2021||---||Congress should tender apology: BJP leader Rakesh Jamwal||Shimla, February 28Congress leaders are being criticised by public for the disrespect shown to the Governor and their indiscipline, said BJP state general secretary and MLA Rakesh Jamwal.He said the Congress was facing a leadership crisis and the race among Congress leaders to score overeach other had led to the unfortunate incident in which where the Congress MLAs misbehaved with the Governor in the Vidhan Sabha.He said the way Congress leaders roughed up the security people, the Governor’s ADC and staff of Vidhan Sabha speaks volumes about the kind of people they are. He said the act has brought a bad name to the state.He said the Congress should publicly tender an apology for the misbehavior in Vidhan Sabha and should also pledge that nothing like this should happen in the near future.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/congress-should-tender-apology-bjp-leader-rakesh-jamwal-218727
01-03-2021||Our Correspondent||Four-lane hit families worried over rehabilitation||Nurpur, February 28Hundreds of affected families, whose lands are being acquired for the Pathankot-Mandi four-lane project, are a harried a lot. As per official information gathered by The Tribune, 3,781 persons are being affected in 31 revenue mohallas in which 933 private buildings are being acquired in the Nurpur section from Kandwal to Mao.The rehabilitation has become a major cause of concern for the affected families. A large number of affected Pong dam oustees settled alongside the Pathankot-Mandi National Highway-154 are going to face another displacement after five decades.Hari Singh (84), a Pong dam oustee and a resident of Nagni near here, will lose his house in the land acquisition. He lamented that in this age where would he go.Parkash Chand (70), a local, said he had built the house 30 years ago and was earning his livelihood by running a small tea shop. “My house is being acquired by the NHAI and I have no land to make another house,” he said.Madan Mohan (72) of Nagni will also be losing his house. JK Mahajan (71) of Bagni is a retired official of an insurance company and had undergone bypass surgery. He pleaded after losing his house that he would not be in the position to rebuild it. Similarly, Surinder Jamwal (70) of Baghni , an ex-Army man who had been granted disability pension in 1997, had purchased two kanals and built his house in 2015. He said his entire land and house were being acquired by the NHAI.Meanwhile, Darbari Singh, president, Four Lane Sangarsh Samiti, has urged to the Chief Justice of the Himachal Pradesh High Court to intervene and help people out of it . He underlined the need to ensure minimum displacement of people in the four-lane construction and reduce its width from 45 m to 32 m keeping in view the topography and minimum environmental degradation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/four-lane-hit-families-worried-over-rehabilitation-218720
01-03-2021||---||Ensure time-bound completion of development projects: Himachal Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur||Solan, February 28Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur said today that Congress leaders have put to shame the people of the state by their unruly conduct and behaviour in the Vidhan Sabha. He said the Congress leaders even misbehaved with the Governor, which showed that these leaders had little respect for democratic values.The CM who was in the Doon constituency today said this while reacting on the Vidhan Sabha incident. He inaugurated and laid foundation stone of projects worth Rs 29 crore in the Doon area and said Rs 203 crore had been spent on various developmental projects in this Assembly segment in the last three years.He announced upgrade of the Primary Health Centre (PHC) at Patta Malog to Community Health Centre, Rs 1 crore for the expansion of cow sanctuary at Handa Kundi and opening of PWD subdivision at Chandi. He said efforts would be made to open a PHC at Manpura and upgrade the high school at Jharmajri to a senior secondary school.The CM elaborated upon various development initiatives of his government and said programmes like Jan Manch and CM Helpline had helped in redressal of public grievances while HIMCARE had proved a boon to the poor families for providing free treatment up to Rs 5 lakh and the Sahara Yojana had helped those families with chronically ill patients.He directed the officials concerned to ensure time-bound completion of all developmental projects, foundation stones of which were laid by him today.He also honoured five philanthropists contributing towards ensuring better management of cow sanctuary at Handa Kundi.Rural Development and Panchayati Raj and Animal Husbandry Minister Virender Kanwar said this cow sanctuary would ensure that no cow was left abandoned on the roads and it would also protect crops of farmers. He said the state government had decided to establish cow sanctuaries in all districts and expressed hope that the state would have no abandoned cow by June 2022.State BJP president Suresh Kashyap and Doon MLA Paramjit Singh Pammi were also present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ensure-time-bound-completion-of-development-projects-himachal-chief-minister-jai-ram-thakur-218721
01-03-2021||---||One-sided action against Congress unjustified: Sukhwinder Singh Sukhu||Shimla, February 28The Congress leaders today demanded registration of an FIR against Deputy Speaker of Vidhan Sabha and BJP ministers involved in the scuffle with Congress MLAs in Vidhan Sabha premises on February 26 and said that they stand with the expelled MLAs.‘Book deputy speaker’Terming the incident as unfortunate, former Himachal Pradesh president Sukhwinder Singh Sukhu, who is also the sitting Congress MLA from Nadaun, said that it was the failure of the state government to initiate dialogue with the opposition which led to the sordid incident.Addressing the mediapersons here today, Sukhu urged the Vidhan Sabha Speaker to safeguard the sanctity of the legislative Assembly and said that one-way action against Congress MLAs and ignoring the acts of Deputy Speaker and BJP ministers involved in scuffle with Congress legislatures was not right.The Leader of Opposition has the right to be informed if the Governor’s address was to be cut short. The Congress was staging its protest in a democratic way, he said adding that there was no intention of disrespecting the Governor.Sukhu said that the Congress wanted to raise the issues of inflation, corruption during Covid-19 which led to former BJP chief Rajeev Bindal’s resignation, back door entry in recruitment and farmers’ agitation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/one-sided-action-against-congress-unjustified-sukhwinder-singh-sukhu-218722
01-03-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||SIT to probe scuffle, stopping of Governor’s vehicles||Tribune News ServiceShimla, February 28A four-member Special Investigation Team (SIT) headed by Additional SP rank officer has been constituted to probe the incidents of scuffle and stopping the vehicles of the Governor in Vidhan Sabha campus on February 26.The SIT is scanning the evidence like CCTV footage and videos of the incident besides recording statements of staff of the Vidhan Sabha Secretariat and concerned officials of Governor’s house and other eye-witnesses, police sources said.The case has been entrusted to SIT as the complainant and offenders as well as witnesses are high profile persons and allegations and counter-allegations have been leveled by the ruling party and opposition Congress leaders, blaming each other for the sordid incident.Five Congress MLAs including the Leader of the Opposition Mukesh Agnihotri and others were booked in connection with unsavory incident in Vidhan Sabha campus. The police have registered a case under sections 323, 341, 353, 504, 34 and 124 of IPC.These sections pertain to offences like assaulting President, Governor, voluntarily causing hurt, wrongful restraint, assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty, intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace and criminal act with common intention of all which is punishable with imprisonment up to two years and fine.Ugly scenes were witnessed outside the Assembly on February 26 when Congress MLAs tried to stop the Governor when he was leaving after delivering his address, which was cut short following uproarious scenes. The ministers and the police pushed away the Congress legislators even as Agnihotri lay on the bonnet of the Governor’s vehicle and finally, the Governor left.The session on February 26, which was adjourned till 2 pm on Monday (March 1), was reconvened and five Congress MLAs Mukesh Agnihotri, Harsh Vardhan Chauhan, Sunder Singh Thakur, Satpal Raizada and Vinay Kumar were suspended for the entire budget session.When contacted, Mukesh Agnihotri said that the FIRs have been registered at the behest of the Chief Minister and reflects the dictatorial attitude of the government. “We are elected representatives of the people and have the right to know why the Governor did not read the full Address and in case it was decided that he would read a curtailed Address, the fact should have been told at the all-party meeting.“We hold the Governor in high esteem but some BJP MLAs pushed us when we tried to interact with the Governor”, he added.The suspension of five Congress MLAs for entire budget session on the very first day of the session is unprecedented and has set the stage for confrontation between the ruling party and opposition. Ugly scenes witnessed outside assembly on Feb 26||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sit-to-probe-scuffle-stopping-of-governors-vehicles-218723
01-03-2021||Our Correspondent||Congress has disgraced Himachali culture, says Anurag Thakur||Hamirpur, February 28“Congress leaders have disgraced Himachali culture and rich traditions of democracy”, said Anurag Thakur, Minister of State for Finance and Corporate Affairs, here yesterday. He said that the behaviour of Congress leaders with Governor of the state in Vidhan Sabha was highly condemnable.Anurag Thakur, Minister of State for Finance and Corporate AffairsBehaviour condemnableThe behaviour of Congress leaders with Governor of the state in Vidhan Sabha is highly condemnable. Thakur said the BJP would form governments in all five states West Bengal, Assam, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Puducherry where elections are due. He said that the Congress leaders had lost their popularity. It was evident from the fact that Rahul Gandhi had to contest from south to ensure his seat in Parliament.Anurag said that the statement of Rahul Gandhi on leaders of north and south was the outcome of their frustration following poor performance of the Congress in various parts of the country.Anurag said Congress leaders were misleading farmers, adding that the farm bills were in favour of the farmers and these did not affect MSP and fruit and vegetable regulatory markets at all.He said the country was progressing well under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/congress-has-disgraced-himachali-culture-says-anurag-thakur-218724
01-03-2021||Mandi||Three Delhi tourists killed after car falls into gorge in Himachal's Mandi||Three persons were killed after their car fell into a deep gorge in Himachal Pradesh's Mandi district on Sunday, said police.The incident occurred near Marogi in Mandi.The deceased have been identified as Harveen Sandu (34), Ramesh Chander (49) and Yogesh, all residents of Delhi.The bodies were being shifted to ZH Mandi for post-mortem. A case was registered under the relevant sections of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/three-delhi-tourists-killed-after-car-falls-into-gorge-in-himachals-mandi-218627
01-03-2021||Sarika Sharma||Manali sculptor Khimi Ram’s fine craft of devotion||Kullu valley is steeped deep in faith. It isn’t an exaggeration to say that nothing moves in the valley without the consent of the local gods. The many deities from the valleys spread across the length and breadth of the district — from Manali (that shares its border with Lahaul-Spiti district) to Seraj (that meets Mandi and Shimla) — are at the centre of life. The colourful palanquins, or raths as they are called, are the fulcrum of all activity; not just during the world-famous Kullu Dasehra, but also at every major and minor festivity, in times of trouble too.The deities’ faces are depicted by metal masks or mohras, their heads adorned by chattras (umbrellas) and music played by traditional instruments. A recent award by the Himachal Pradesh Lalit Kala Akademi celebrates an artiste who has been painstakingly keeping alive the tradition of mask and instrument-making in a world increasingly threatened by commercialisation. Khimi Ram, the Manali-based artiste, has won this award in the traditional sculpture category for 2018.The 43-year-old was initiated into the craft by his brother. “I don’t remember how old I was when I took to metal craft. As a child, I was fascinated to see metal being moulded into so many things. But I took it up professionally only around 15 years ago,” he says. Same goes for his son, Krishan Kumar, who is 24. He too has taken up the family profession for the love of the craft.Masks are hollow reliefs, the most prominent feature of the raths of the gods and goddesses. They could either be grand or subtle, but never really understated, depending on the deity. From ashtdhatu (made of eight metals) to bronze, silver and even gold, the choice of metal depends on how much a devta can and would like to spend.Like all other artistes, Khimi Ram makes these masks, along with chattras lamps and jewels for the deities, besides local musical instruments such as karnal, dhol, nagara and narsinga.He says each mask takes about a week to make, the most complicated, and time consuming, of his oeuvre being the many jewels adorning the raths. “There is a lot of detailing in jewels and chhatras. Hence, these take more time than the masks or musical instruments,” he says.Sadly though, the craft does not find many takers among the young. “In the area surrounding Manali, one would find hardly any sculptors. The bulk of artistes comes from Seraj and Banjar valley. Most of those who have set up shop in Kullu are also from Banjar,” he says.Most youth, especially in the Kullu-Manali belt, have taken to tourism and allied professions — thanks to the glamour and monetary gains associated with it. The government, Khimi Ram says, has been making efforts to save the craft, with regular exhibitions organised across the state and outside of it. Still, it would be long before metal crafts of Himachal gain popularity nationally.Despite the fact that Khimi Ram and his son’s shop is located right in the heart of Manali, only an odd tourist comes asking for his works. Ready audience is, as of now, found only in the deities. And that will keep it going for long.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/manali-sculptor-khimi-rams-fine-craft-of-devotion-218354
