02-03-2021||Vijay Mohan||Sudden discharge of current from electric pole caused unusual lava-like eruption near Kullu||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 2Electric current seeping into the soil had caused the highly unusual eruption of lava-like substance near Kullu last month, the videos of which shot by locals had gone viral and raised speculations of geological activity in the region.“The cause of uncommon lava like substance is the result of sudden electrification of soil sediments by discharge of current possible due to lightening or leakage in high tension electric wires,” stated a report prepared by the Geological Survey of India (GSI).Grayish magma-like material had erupted near the base of an electric pole in Lafali village in Kullu district that had melted snow around it and burnt grass before solidifying.The GSI had sent a team of geologists to examine the spot and analyse samples of the material. Though Himachal Pradesh is seismically vulnerable and prone to tectonic movements, it does not have a history of volcanic activity.The team reported that the outflow of molten rock material occurred in a span of about five meters through several vents around the base of a metallic pole supporting power cables. Locals had also claimed fire and sounds of explosions.Further, the team observed that the electric pole was bent and smoldering at the top and bottom and the nature of the solidified material was identified as fulgurites, which are vitrified, fused rock and sand masses formed due to rapid melting of silicate rich sand, soil and other sediments due to sudden discharge of lightening or current.Adjoining areas were also observed but no repeated incident was reported.“The eruption at the root of the electric pole thus points towards the sudden discharge of current as the possible cause of melting and eruption of sediments in the form of molten material,” the team concluded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sudden-discharge-of-current-from-electric-pole-caused-unusual-lava-like-eruption-near-kullu-219510
02-03-2021||New Delhi||Alleging threat to life from Shiv Sena leaders, Kangana moves SC seeking transfer of cases from Mumbai to Shimla||Bollywood actress Kangana Ranaut and her sister Rangoli Chandel have moved the Supreme Court seeking transfer of cases pending against them in Mumbai to a court in Shimla, alleging there would be threat to their lives if the trial proceeds there because of “personal vendetta” of Shiv Sena leaders against them.The actress and her sister said they apprehend that if trial in these cases are conducted in Mumbai, there would be a “material threat” to their life and property as the Shiv Sena-led Maharashtra government has been “harassing” them.“The petitioners face a threat unto life if the trials proceed in Mumbai, because of personal vendetta of Shiv Sena leaders against the petitioner herein,” said the plea, filed recently through advocate Neeraj Shekhar.The plea has sought transfer of trial of FIRs and complaints registered against them, including a complaint case filed by veteran lyricist Javed Akhtar against Ranaut alleging defamation, from Mumbai to a competent court in Shimla in Himachal Pradesh.It said that Akhtar had filed a complaint case against Ranaut alleging criminal defamation after the actress had given an interview to a news channel last year in which she had talked about a meeting with the lyricist in 2016.It has further sought transfer of an FIR lodged in Mumbai by one Ali Kashif Khan Deshmukh which relates to Chandel’s tweet in which she had expressed her anguish over an attack on doctors during COVID-19 pandemic.It said subsequently, the Twitter account of Chandel was suspended after which Ranaut had spoken on a social media video against it.The plea said Khan had lodged an FIR against Ranaut and Chandel for the alleged offences under various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), including 295A which deals with deliberate and malicious acts intended to outrage religious feelings of any class.It said that the same complainant had also filed a complaint case before the Metropolitan Magistrate, Andheri, against the petitioners.“Multiple proceedings on the same cause of action clearly demonstrates how the said complainant is just trying to harass the petitioners herein,” the plea has alleged.The plea has also sought transfer of an FIR lodged by one Munawar Ali for the alleged offences of sedition against them.“It is pertinent to mention that all the FIRs and complaints in question are frivolous and have been filed with a malicious intent to harass the petitioners herein and malign their public image,” the plea has alleged.“While, the petitioners have utmost respect for the courts of the country and are ready to face the trial as per law, but they apprehend that if the trials are conducted in Mumbai, there will be a material threat to life and property of the petitioners herein,” it said, adding, “It is pertinent to mention that the Maharashtra government led by Shiv Sena has been harassing the petitioners herein.”   It said that in September last year, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) had illegally demolished a part of the Pali Hill bungalow of Ranaut.The plea said later, the Bombay High Court had declared the BMC’s act as illegal.“These acts of the Maharashtra government clearly shows that the Maharashtra government has malafide intentions against the petitioners herein and that if the petitioners visit Maharashtra to attend the said trials, there will be a constant threat to them from the Shiv Sena and Maharashtra government,” it claimed.The plea has also mentioned that looking at the threat perception of Ranaut, she was granted Y-plus category of CRPF security by the home ministry.“Therefore, it becomes quite evident that the petitioners face serious threat to life and property and if the trial of the cases are not transferred out of Mumbai, the petitioners life will be at risk,” it said while seeking transfer of these cases from Mumbai to Shimla.It alleged that “the Shiv Sena will leave no stone unturned to eliminate the petitioners herein, because of the petitioner No. 1’s (Ranaut) continuous outspokenness against the wrongs done by the Shiv Sena in collusion with big names of the Bollywood”. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/alleging-threat-to-life-from-shiv-sena-leaders-kangana-moves-sc-seeking-transfer-of-cases-from-mumbai-to-shimla-219504
02-03-2021||---||Shimla-Kalka rly track to be realigned to raise train speed||Shimla, March 1The alignment of 116-year-old UNESCO world heritage Shimla-Kalka narrow gauge railway line will be altered to reduce the travelling time by increasing the speed and strengthening the track, said Union Railways Minister Piyush Goyal while talking to mediapersons here today.The long travelling time (about five and half hours) was a major bottleneck and efforts were made to increase the speed of the train from 25 km/h but nothing much could be done due to a steep gradient and sharp curves. Now, the Railway Department would conduct a survey to realign the track, where ever necessary, he said.Goyal added that orders had been issued to replace old coaches running on this track with new designs and Vistadome like coaches with a panoramic view, plush finish, more sitting capacity giving better experience to tourists. Further, two hop in, hop off coaches would be added on the track.Manali-Leh rly line project not feasibleHe said that the budget on infrastructure and other schemes related to Himachal had been increased from average Rs 108 crore from 2009 to 2014 to average Rs 280 crore from 2014 to 2019 and the budget for 2021 was Rs 770 crore.Earlier, during a meeting between Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur and the Railways Minister, it was decided that a fresh survey of the Jagadhari-Paonta Sahib new railway line would be conducted with focus on freight expected from the industrial area of Paonta Sahib.The Chief Minister said that steps must also be taken to expedite the work on Bhanupalli-Beri and Chandigarh railway lines. He thanked the Union minister for allocating Rs 405 crore for the Bhanupalli-Beri railway line and Rs 200 crore for the Chandigarh-Baddi railway line.He said that the Chandigarh-Baddi railway line would go a long way in giving a boost to industrial activities as industrialists would be able to easily transport raw materials as well as manufactured products in various destinations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shimla-kalka-rly-track-to-be-realigned-to-raise-train-speed-219171
02-03-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Principals of 45 private colleges found ineligible||Tribune News ServiceShimla, March 1The principals of 45 of 61 private colleges in the state have been found ineligible for their post, as per the prescribed criteria; this implies that 73.77 per cent of the heads of the private colleges do not qualify for the post of principal.The Himachal Pradesh Private Educational Institutions Regulatory Commission (HPPEIRC) has so far received information from 70 colleges, as per the new format, and 61 of them have been screened while information from over 100 private colleges is still awaited.The principals of eight of 18 private B.Ed and M.Ed colleges, seven of 10 pharmacy colleges, all four Sanskrit colleges, four of five degree colleges, all 14 nursing colleges, two of three law colleges, the two management colleges, the two dental colleges and two of three engineering colleges have been found to be ineligible.“Interestingly, several colleges are either running without the approval of the affiliating university or the Technical Education Board. The other shortcomings pointed out by the commission were - no regular principal (a stopgap arrangement), selection procedure not followed, approval of the affiliating university awaited, submission of incomplete documents and appointments not made as per the university rules,” said Major Gen Atul Kaushik (retd), Chairman of the commission.“We will ask the erring institutes for a clarification, failing which the commission will recommend the state government and Himachal Pradesh University to cancel their affiliation, followed by a stern legal action to ensure quality education in the private sector in the state,” he added.Earlier, the private institutions had submitted sketchy information, compelling the commission to redraft the format with a revised proforma seeking details, including qualification and experiences, permanent residence, bank details, affiliating university, besides the procedure for calculating the eligibility for the post and experience.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/principals-of-45-private-colleges-found-ineligible-219172
02-03-2021||---||Cong MLAs stage protest, blame CM for ugly scenes||Shimla, March 1Suspended Congress MLAs staged a dharna outside Vidhan Sabha as Leader of the Opposition Mukesh Agnihotri blamed Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur for the sordid incident in the Vidhan Sabha complex on February 26 calling him the ‘mastermind’. The house was adjourned for the day after obituary references to former MLAs, who passed away since the last session.Hitting out at the Chief Minister, Agnihotri said that charges had been slapped against the MLAs, who were suspended from the house for an act committed outside the house, bulldozing all norms, traditions and laws and asked whether the elected MLAs are “terrorists”.The Chief Minister was behind the incident as he wanted the attention away from burning issues and avoid debate on the rising prices of LPG, petrol and diesel, mishandling Covid 19 pandemic and related corruption, backdoor appointment and failures of the government, he said.“It is strange that the Assembly session was reconvened after it was adjourned for the day. Five Congress MLAs were suspended for the entire session and an FIR was registered. The police entered the Vidhan Sabha premises for the first time and our MLAs were pushed by ruling party members but at no point of time the Governor, Chief Minister or the Speaker were touched,” said Agnihotri.He added that an FIR should also be registered against the ruling party MLAs, who alleged pushed our members that led to a stampede. The government should have taken the Opposition into confidence regarding short address to be delivered by the Governor but nothing was said in this regard even during the all-party meeting convened by the Speaker, said Congress MLA Harsh Vardhan Chauhan.“We just wanted to know the reason why the Governor’s address was cut shot which is our right”, he said and asked that will the government also register FIR against its ministers and the Deputy Speaker.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cong-mlas-stage-protest-blame-cm-for-ugly-scenes-219173
02-03-2021||Shimla||Obstructing Guv’s vehicle an offence: CM||Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today blamed the Congress MLAs for the February 26 incident on the Vidhan Sabha premises and said they had committed a grave mistake and must admit it.“You all and the people of the state are witness to what happened and everything is recorded. The act of Congress MLAs is being condemned as stopping the vehicle of the President, Vice-President and the Governor, banging it, trying to push the dignitary is not allowed. It is a grave offence as they hold constitutional posts,” he said while talking to mediapersons after the session.“Congress members have nothing to say and they have committed a serious breach of law,” he added. Asked whether these MLAs should apologise to the Governor, Thakur said it was too late as roughing up ministers, CMs, MLAs and damaging their vehicles was not uncommon but in case of the Governor, it was a serious crime.Asked about the sedition charge against the MLAs, Thakur said that SIT was investigating the case and he was not aware of the sections under which case had been registered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/obstructing-guvs-vehicle-an-offence-cm-219174
02-03-2021||Chamba||Man jailed for 10 yrs under NDPS Act||Sessions Judge Rajesh Tomar today sentenced Chamaru Ram resident of Bharada village of Churah tehsil in Chamba district to a rigorous imprisonment for 10 years and imposed a fine of Rs 1 lakh for possessing 1.240 kg of charas.  In case of non-payment of fine, the convict’s imprisonment will be increased by one and a half year.   Chamaru Ram was apprehended by police on February 1, 2018, while checking vehicles near the Koti bridge in the district. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/man-jailed-for-10-yrs-under-ndps-act-219175
02-03-2021||---||Manali-Keylong bus via Atal Tunnel from today||Mandi, March 1The BRO today restored the Manali-Leh highway for traffic after a massive landslide near Mooling bridge on Sunday night had blocked the highway to tribal district of Lahaul Spiti. Big boulders from the hillside rolled down on the road but no loss of life or property was reported.The Border Roads Organisation engaged its workforce and machinery and managed to restore the highway for traffic movement today.The Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) has decided to resume bus service between Manali and Keylong via Atal Tunnel on the Manali-Leh highway from March 2.The bus service was suspended from February 26 due to heavy snowfall near the Atal Tunnel.Mangal Menepa, Regional Manager, HRTC Depot at Keylong in Lahaul Spiti, said, “We conducted bus trial today on the Manali-Leh highway via Atal Tunnel between Manali and Keylong and found the road fit for the movement of bus. So, we have decided to resume bus service from March 2 to facilitate the people of tribal district Lahaul Spiti with better transportation facilities.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/manali-keylong-bus-via-atal-tunnel-from-today-219176
02-03-2021||Our Correspondent||Land acquisition awards for Nurpur announced||NURPUR, MARCH 1The Competent Authority for Land Acquisition (CALA)-cum-SDM Nurpur Surinder Thakur announced much-awaited awards for NHAI’s Package-1 from Kandwal to Bhedkhud in Nurpur sub division for acquiring private lands for the construction of Pathankot- Mandi four lane project on Monday.The awards were issued for rendering land acquisition compensation to 3,218 affected persons in 31 revenue mohals for which the NHAI had issued 3A notification on March 9, 2018. The maximum compensation rate is Rs 7,559 per square meter for Jassur upmohal followed by Rs 6,299 for Niazpur and Chogan upmohals whereas the minimum Rs 55 per sq meter rate is being given in Kalera upmohal.As per the official information, 21-86-38 hectares of private land is being acquired by the NHAI for which Rs 79 crore has been earmarked for disbursal among the affected persons. The CALA has also announced that supplementary awards would be issued under second 3A notification issued on October 20 last year on March 14 and invited objections from the four-lane affected persons up to March 13.The supplementary awards will be announced for acquiring additional 7-42-78 hectares of private land for the project. The CALA has appealed to the affected persons to provide their bank account details and ID proofs so that their sanctioned compensation could be transferred to their accounts.The aggrieved four-lane affected people have the option to file petitions against the awards announced by the CALA before the designated arbitrator. SDM Thakur, while talking to the media persons, asserted that the CALA had followed the provisions of section 26 of the Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement (LARR) act-2013 while evaluating the circle rates for land acquisition requisite for the construction of the Pathankot-Mandi four-lane project. He said Factor-1 compensation rates were being given to the affected people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/land-acquisition-awards-for-nurpur-announced-219177
02-03-2021||bika Sharma||Admn starts drive to teach BBN slum kids||Tribune News ServiceSolan, March 1Children residing in the slums of the Baddi-Barotiwala-Nalagarh (BBN) industrial area can look ahead for a better future with the local administration starting a project called “Nayee Disha” to provide them basic education.Brainchild of Nalagarh SDM Mahinder Pal Gurjar, the project involves ridding this industrial belt of child labour by providing them basic education. “The project focuses on identifying slum children who have dropped out of school, especially during the pandemic, and are experiencing hardships. Since they hail from families with few resources, most of them are forced to share responsibility with adults in the domestic arena.”Magic Bus India Foundation is among four NGOs which have been roped in to provide education to the slum children. An assessment made by the administration into their literacy level revealed that a large number of them have dropped-out of class I despite being 10 years old. A majority of the children have dropped out before Class V while a few have managed to study uptill Class IX. As many as 216 households were surveyed by the district administration in the BBN area for this project.A large number of slum clusters are located in the BBN in places like Swaraj Majra, Malkhu Majra, Kalyanpur, Thana, Chhatipura, Chakka, Bhatoli Kalan, Kujhal, Kishenpura, Juddi Kalan etc.A household screening of the children residing in the slums revealed that the school dropouts fell in the age group of 5 to 16 years. Most of these migrant labourers had no ration cards while a few had below poverty level ration cards. They had large families with seven to 12 members in some cases.SDM Gurjar said five NGOs had been roped in whose volunteers visited these slums and imparted basic primary-level education to the children who have dropped out of primary level while others are being motivated to enroll themselves in government schools where books and uniforms are being provided to them. “A Class VIII dropout, Mira, was motivated to re-join school in Class IX. She had dropped out after class VIII as her family had migrated back to their native village in Uttar Pradesh. She will be provided support to pursue a polytechnic course later,” added Gurjar.A school run by a pharmaceutical company near Peerstan has also been re-started now. It had closed during the pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/admn-starts-drive-to-teach-bbn-slum-kids-219178
02-03-2021||Shimla||2nd phase of vaccination begins||Himachal has rolled out the second phase of vaccination that will cover the people above 60 and individuals having comorbidities in the 45- 59 age group.To begin with, the vaccination will be done in medical colleges and district hospitals in the first week. In the second week, it will be done in civil hospitals and community health centres and by the third week, people could get vaccinated in Primary Health Centres and Health Sub-Centres too, provided these centres fulfil the required norms.“As per the plan, beneficiaries will be vaccinated in medical colleges and district hospitals on Tuesday, Thursday, Friday and alternate Sundays,” said CMO, Shimla, Surekha Chopra.“In civil hospitals, vaccination will be done twice a week on Tuesday and Friday, and on alternate Sundays. And in the PHCs and HSCs, it will be done once a week,” she said.For a person with comorbidity, a certification of the disease he’s suffering from by a registered medical practitioner will be mandatory to make him eligible for vaccination. The government has identified 20 conditions that will prioritize the individual for vaccination.“People could self-register on CoWin or they could come to the vaccination site with a document establishing their identity. In the case of people with comorbidity, they will need a certification from a registered medical practitioner for both online registration and walk-in registration,” said Chopra. — TNSSurge in Covid cases, 132 found infectedShimla: In a sudden surge, 132 new cases were reported on Monday taking the total tally of Covid cases in the state to 58,777. With one Covid death in the last 24 hours, the fatality figure has increased to 983. The highest number of 108 cases was reported in Kangra, six in Shimla, five in Una, four in Chamba, three in Kullu, two each in Solan and Bilaspur and one each in Mandi and Sirmaur. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/2nd-phase-of-vaccination-begins-219179
02-03-2021||Our Correspondent||Jawali woman falls prey to online fraud||Nurpur, March 1Priya Kaundal, a resident of Kardial village in Jawali subdivision of Kangra district has fallen prey to online fraud and lost her bank deposit twice in two days. She lodged a complaint with the local police today.According to information, Priya got an SMS on her mobile phone from an unknown source on February 23 stating that Rs 800 had been blocked in her bank account. She called the phone number and the fraudster introduced himself as an employee of Punjab National Bank (PNB) and told her that a link had been forwarded to her to restore her bank account. He asked Priya to link her Aadhaar card number to that address. After linking her Aadhaar card, she got another SMS that Rs 4,989 had been debited to her bank account at Labh (Jawali).She approached the bank authorities but they expressed their inability to help her. On February 24, Rs 66,362 was debited to her bank FDR account. She lodged a complaint with the Jawali police.The police and the bank authorities revealed that she had shared her Aadhaar card number and the OTP with a fraudster. An inquiry had been initiated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/jawali-woman-falls-prey-to-online-fraud-219180
02-03-2021||Our Correspondent---||Events held at Khurik, Beeling, Keylong during snow festival||KULLU, MARCH 1 Cultural programmes were presented by local artistes during the snow festival at Khurik village in Spiti valley of Lahaul and Spiti district today.  Kaza SDM Jeewan Singh Negi said the aim of this ‘festival of festivals’ was to conserve tribal culture and connect it with tourism to boost the economy of the region. Traditional stone utensils were exhibited. A large number of traditional dishes were put on display. In the episode of snow festival, archery, tug-of-war, chholo, musical chair etc. were organized in Beeling. Traditional tools used in making traditional dresses for females were exhibited. An exhibition of antiques was also arranged. The antique Buddhist Thangka paintings on silk depicting life of Buddha and various deities or mandalas were also displayed.  ‘Gamcha’ utsav was celebrated in lower Keylong. A resident Rahul Rohel said that utsav was being celebrated after a span of 40 years. He said that the move of the administration to launch the snow festival had motivated the residents to revive age old and extinct traditions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/events-held-at-khurik-beeling-keylong-during-snow-festival-219181
02-03-2021||Subhash Rajta||Una man buried in S. Arabia; kin wanted body repatriated||Tribune News ServiceShimla, March 1A Una-based family is in a state of utter shock, anger and helplessness. On January 24, the family received the news of the death of its breadwinner, Sanjeev Sharma (50), in Saudi Arabia where he was working for the past many years. The family had barely come to terms with the tragedy and was waiting for the body when, on February 18, they received another shocking news from Saudi Arabia – Sanjeev’s employer informed them that the local Saudi authorities had buried the body.“How could they bury my father there, especially when we had initiated the process to get the body back to India,” asks Nancy Sharma, one of Sanjeev’s three daughters. Neeraj Sharma, younger brother of the deceased, is equally shocked by this unwarranted action of the Saudi authorities. “We want the body to be exhumed and sent back to India so that we can cremate it as per our faith,” said Neeraj. “We initiated the proceedings for the repatriation of the body within three days of receiving the news of his death. We wrote to the Consulate General of India in Jeddah that we want the body back and, on its advice, authorised the employer to complete all formalities on our behalf. Yet, the local authorities buried the body,” he adds.Besides, the family had approached Union Minister of State for Finance Anurag Thakur for assistance in the matter. Anurag had promptly forwarded the request to the External Affairs Minister on January 27. “Injustice has been done to the family. We have raised the issue with our External Affairs Ministry and our Embassy and urged them to take appropriate action,” he said during a visit to Una on Sunday.The family, however, is running out of patience. “The body was buried as unclaimed. How could the body be called unclaimed when we have been reaching out to all concerned to claim it and get it repatriated?” asks Neeraj. “We don’t know if it’s the fault of our consulate, the employer or the local authorities. It must be investigated and the guilty should be given appropriate punishment. Meanwhile, the body should be exhumed and sent back to the family at the earliest,” he adds.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/una-man-buried-in-s-arabia-kin-wanted-body-repatriated-219182
02-03-2021||Solan||Cache of liquor seized in Solan||The Renuka Ji police in Sirmaur district seized 11 boxes of Imperial Blue liquor and nine boxes of beer, which were meant for sale in Haryana, from a Bolero vehicle on the Nahan road last night. Sirmaur ASP Babita Rana said the accused stopped his vehicle on seeing the police and fled. A search of the vehicle led to the recovery of a large cache of liquor. A case has been registered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cache-of-liquor-seized-in-solan-219183
02-03-2021||Shimla||Homage paid to one sitting, 7 ex-MLAs||The Himachal Assembly today paid homage to sitting Congress MLA, Sujan Singh Pathania and seven former MLAs, who passed away during the intervening period between the monsoon session and the budget session. The former MLAs included Mela Ram Saver, Ranjit Singh Bakshi, Raghu Raj and Onkar Chand (all Congress) and Chander Sen Thakur, Tulsi Ram and Shyama Sharma (BJP). Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur moved the motion paying homage to the departed souls and recalled their contributions. He also paid homage to Santosh Shailja, wife of former Chief Minister Shanta Kumar, and 10 persons from Himachal who died in the calamity at Chamoli in Uttarakhand. Health Minister Rajiv Saizal, Education Minister Gobind Thakur, Rajiv Bindal, Asha Kumari, Sukhwinder Singh Sukhu, Ram Lal Thakur, Romesh Dhawala, Ashish Butail, Lakhvinder Singh Rana and Vikramaditya Singh, all MLAs, also joined in paying homage. Congress MLA Asha Kumari paid homage to over 200 farmers who died during farmers’ agitation. Vidhan Sabha Speaker Vipin Singh Parmar remembered the services rendered by them to the state. He said a new tradition had been started to apprise the families of the deceased members of feelings of the house by sending the written copy and video CDs and a pen drive. The House also observed two minutes’ silence and adjourned for the day. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/homage-paid-to-one-sitting-7-ex-mlas-219184
02-03-2021||---||Rs 130 cr medicines bought in 3 years||Shimla, March 1The state Health Department purchased medicines worth Rs 130.73 crore for government hospitals, besides medical equipments costing Rs 17.44 crore for premier health institutions.Giving this information in reply to a question of Ram Lal Thakur and Lakhvinder Singh Rana (Congress) and Ramesh Dhawala (BJP), Health Minister Rajiv Saizal said that the government hospitals had been barred from purchasing medicines from local companies and the companies whose samples have failed have been barred from participating in the tendering process for three years.A policy had been framed for purchase of medicines and equipment for government hospitals and all the medicines and equipments were being purchased on rate contract at fixed rates.Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur told Vikram Jaryal (BJP) in a written reply that nine per cent of annual plan for 2021-22 was earmarked for tribal sub-plan while 25 per cent of plan was set apart for the Scheduled Castes.Transport Minister Bikram Thakur informed Asha Kumari (Congress) that the site for construction of a bus stand at Dalhousie was yet to be selected and construction would be done after identifying proper site and clearance from the Forest Department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rs-130-cr-medicines-bought-in-3-years-219185
02-03-2021||---||Haryana House panel calls on Governor||Shimla, March 1A high-level House committee for the National e-Vidhan Application (NeVA) of the Haryana Vidhan Sabha, led by Speaker Gian Chand Gupta, called on Governor Bandaru Dattatreya at Raj Bhavan here today. The committee is on a visit to study the digital transaction of legislative business of the Himachal Legislative Assembly. The Governor honoured the members of the committee by presenting Himachali caps and shawls.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/haryana-house-panel-calls-on-governor-219186
02-03-2021||Shimla||Udaan appointed State Nodal Agency Centre||The National Trust under the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment has appointed Udaan as the State Nodal Agency Centre for Himachal Pradesh for the next three years. The State Nodal Agency Centre provides assistance and coordinates with the National Trust for implementing schemes and activities in the state.  Udaan president Madhuri Sood said to make Himachal an inclusive state, a state-level awareness campaign would be launched soon for the welfare of Divyangjan. “The State Nodal Agency Centre is planning to organise state-level seminars and other related programmes. Divyangjans are the worst affected during the pandemic and there is an urgent need to take care of various issues of mentally challenged children,” said Sood. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/udaan-appointed-state-nodal-agency-centre-219187
02-03-2021||Our Correspondent||Living in water tank, Anni family to be enlisted in BPL||Kullu, March 1The district administration today swung into action after the plight of Jia Lal, a resident of Ranired village of Kuthed panchayat in Anni subdivision of the district, was highlighted in the media. He resides with his wife and two children in an abandoned water tank that has been covered with a temporary roof for the past 15 years. Kullu Deputy Commissioner Richa Verma ordered Anni SDM Chet Singh to investigate the matter thoroughly.The SDM said that instructions had been issued to the panchayat concerned and officials to include Jia Lal’s family in the BPL category, if he fulfils necessary conditions.He said that the Welfare Department had sanctioned a grant of Rs 75,000 to Jia Lal for the construction of a house in 2016. He added that the first installment of Rs 37,500 was released with which the beneficiary was to complete the work, including a toilet and a bathroom. He added that Jia Lal did not complete the construction work due to which the second installment could not be released to him.The SDM said that Jia Lal’s father was on the IRDP list till 10 years ago and he was provided assistance by the government for the construction of a house. He added that later the house building grant was approved for Jia Lal and his brother Bittu Ram in 2016. While Bittu completed the construction of the house, Jia Lal did not complete the work.The SDM said that the administration would provide all possible help to Jia Lal. He added that feedback had been taken from the authorities concerned on the matter and efforts would be made to provide the benefit of the government scheme to the beneficiary’s family.Meanwhile, Anni BDO GC Pathak visited Jia Lal’s house today. He said that the panchayat had repeatedly appealed to the beneficiary for cooperation but the latter did not oblige it. He added that Jia Lal had once again been appealed to cooperate with the panchayat and the administration. The panchayat had been instructed to include Jia Lal’s family in the BPL category.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/living-in-water-tank-anni-family-to-be-enlisted-in-bpl-219188
02-03-2021||Shimla||Committed to traders’ welfare: CM||The government is committed to welfare of traders and would consider their demand to constitute a ‘Trader Welfare Fund’ for providing them relief at the time of distress and exigency, said CM Jai Ram Thakur here today.  He presided over a meeting with the HP Traders Welfare Board. He said the traders were making a sizable contribution to the state exchequer through taxes.  “The government is committed to simplifying the procedure of GST and making it trader-friendly. Steps will be taken to do away with outdated rules,” said Thakur. He said regular camps would be organised by the Department of Food and Civil Supplies to verify weighing machines, electronic weighing machines etc.  Beopar Mandal president Sumesh Kumar urged the Chief Minister to charge market fee only at the market yard, not at the entry point or other parts of the state. He said that traders should also be provided Covid vaccine on a priority basis. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/committed-to-traders-welfare-cm-219189
02-03-2021||Palampur||Anurag visits CSIR-IHBT||Union Minister of State for Finance and Corporate Affairs Anurag Thakur today visited the CSIR-Himalayan Institute of Biotechnology. Anurag arrived in the institute in the  afternoon and spent time with scientists, students and others. He held meetings  with scientists of different departments  who apprised him of various research, teaching  and education activities being carried out by the CSIR-IHBT.   Dr Sanjay Kumar, Director, IHBT,  took the minister to different farms and labs. Then, he presented a brief account of major activities and achievements of the institute. He said during the pandemic, the CSIR-IHBT had contributed by establishing a testing facility and also initiated genome sequencing of Covid-19 strains.  — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/anurag-visits-csir-ihbt-219190
02-03-2021||The parking of vehicles along the last stretch of the Chaura Maidan-Summer Hill road has become a nuisance. As these vehicles are parked along the narrow road||Roadside Parking nuisance||Shortage of potable waterResidents of the Bhanera panchayat under the Karsog Assembly segment are facing an acute shortage of potable water. The pipeline leading to this panchayat is damaged at several places. The Irrigation and Public Health Department should fix the problem and ensure regular water supply to residents. — Gopal, KarsogWHAT OUR READERS SAYIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?THE TRIBUNEinvites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/roadside-parking-nuisance-219191
02-03-2021||Ambika Sharma||Cash crunch major issue for Cong in MC elections||Tribune News ServiceSolan, march 1Facing a severe cash crunch, the Congress leaders at its Political Affairs Committee yesterday suggested that funds should be provided to the candidates contesting the four municipal corporation elections for improving their poll prospects.The issue of lack of resources was deliberated upon at length where a Congress MLA tried to seek prominence in the party by saying that he would contribute a big amount. A senior leader and former Cabinet minister was, however, quick to point out, “Charity begins at home and this MLA should contribute in the party kitty first and then give sermons. Elections are won on the basis of the party ideology and not merely by spending money.”Adding to the discussion, another senior MLA suggested that the first-time Congress MLA should make a beginning and provide adequate funds to each candidate in the ensuing MC polls which was the immediate requirement rather than merely making assertions.Voter share dipsWhile no resolution was adopted on how to fund the party-supported candidates in the MC polls, it remains to be seen how the party would manage its poll expenditure with each leader being reluctant to spend.The party has appointed conveners for the four MCs of Solan, Mandi, Palampur and Dharamsala. These conveners would be responsible for disbursing tickets as well as ensuring the victory of the candidates.With party’s vote share declining from about 40 per cent to about 27 per cent in the recent panchayat and civic body polls, the members also sought the accountability of those at the helm.This was especially so as the Congress candidates had also forfeited their security in the Dharamsala by-election besides dismal performance in other polls. Changes in the party could be in the offing after the MC polls, informed party sources.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cash-crunch-major-issue-for-cong-in-mc-elections-219193
02-03-2021||The Govt College||Webinar on budget at Jawali college||Shoolini varsity to host national meetA delegation of eight members from Shiksha Sanskriti Utthan Nayas (SSUN), Himachal Pradesh, met Prof P K Khosla, Chancellor of Shoolini University, for hosting a national level three-day meeting scheduled in June. Prof Khosla gave his consent to host the meet, in which approximately 300 members from all over India are expected to participate. Prof DD Verma, patron, Shiksha Sanskriti Uthan Nayas, Himachal Pradesh, and Prof Pawan Kumar Sharma, convener, SSUN, HP, shared the agenda for the scheduled meeting and thanked Prof Rajesh Kumar Sharma, co-convener of SSUN, for arranging the meeting with the Chancellor of the Shoolini University.ICAR-DMR celebrates Science DayIndian Council of Agricultural Research's (ICAR) Directorate of Mushroom Research, Solan, celebrated the National Science Day to commemorate the discovery of the "Raman effect" by Nobel Prize awardee Dr CV Raman. Dr Shwet Kamal explained the importance of this day. Dr VP Sharma, Director of the institute, deliberated upon the theme "Future of STI: Impact on education, skill and work." He also dwelt upon the Raman effect and explained the impact of science in everyday life. He explained the scientific achievements of ICAR and their impact on food and nutritional security of the country due to which the country has not only attained self-sufficiency in cereals, horticulture produce, animal products, fish, eggs, milk, spices, etc. but also exporting it to other countries.2 foreign language students fetedThe School of Foreign Language (SOFL), Shimla, organised a function to felicitate two of its students, Kartik Chauhan and Tanishk Sood, both engineers, for getting admission in German universities to pursue Masters programme. Speaking on the occasion, SOFL president Seema Sharma talked about the benefits of the German language, also known as the language of technology, in shaping careers of the young children and various opportunities that were available after learning this language.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/webinar-on-budget-at-jawali-college-219195
