03-03-2021||New Delhi||Javed Akhtar files caveat in SC in Kangana’s plea seeking transfer of cases from Mumbai to Shimla||Writer-lyricist Javed Akhtar has filed a caveat in the Supreme Court saying that he be heard in connection with Bollywood actress Kangana Ranaut and her sister Rangoli Chandel’s plea seeking transfer of cases pending against them in Mumbai to a court in Shimla.A caveat is filed by a litigant in high courts and in the Supreme Court to ensure that no adverse order is passed against the party without it being heard.Alleging there would be a threat to their lives if the trial proceeds in Mumbai, the actress and her sister had said they apprehend that if trial in these cases are conducted in Mumbai, there would be a “material threat” to their life and property as the Shiv Sena-led Maharashtra government has been “harassing” them.Akhtar had filed a criminal complaint against Ranaut before the Andheri Metropolitan Magistrate, for allegedly making defamatory and baseless comments against him in television interviews.He had sought action against the actor under relevant sections of the IPC.The complaint said that Ranaut had made baseless comments against Akhtar, which caused damage to his reputation.Ranaut’s plea in the apex court has sought transfer of trial of FIRs and complaints registered against her, including a complaint case filed by Akhtar.It said that Akhtar had filed a complaint case against Ranaut alleging criminal defamation after the actress had given an interview to a news channel last year in which she had talked about a meeting with the lyricist in 2016. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/javed-akhtar-files-caveat-in-sc-in-kanganas-plea-seeking-transfer-of-cases-from-mumbai-to-shimla-220089
03-03-2021||Shimla||Stalemate in HP Assembly continues as Congress stages walkout||Congress on Wednesday staged a walkout from the Himachal Pradesh Assembly, demanding the revocation of the suspension of its five legislators, as the stalemate continued for the fourth day of the budget session.Congress MLA Jagat Singh Negi raised the issue in the Assembly through a point of order. He termed the suspension of CLP Leader Mukesh Agnihotri and four other MLAs “illegal”.Negi sought a ruling of suspension from Speaker Vipin Parmar, who said he would provide it after the question hour. Negi said the procedure adopted for recall of the house at 12.50 pm after the Governor’s address was wrong as the message was sent to the Congress MLAs at 12.56 pm.He added that when the MLAs had been suspended from the house for the remaining period of the budget session, there was no justification for the FIR.The Congress legislators resorted to sloganeering and later staged a walkout.The five suspense MLAs—Agnihotri, Harshvardhan Chauhan, Vinay Kumar, Satpal Raizada and Sunder Thakur—sat on a dharna at the entry of the Vidhan Sabha complex.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/stalemate-in-hp-assembly-continues-as-congress-stages-walkout-219964
03-03-2021||Ravinder Sood||Narrow bridges on NH pose threat||Palampur, March 2In the absence of four-laning of the Pathankot-Mandi highway, over 15 small and major bridges have become mishap-prone. Several fatal accidents have taken place in the past six months. The NHAI is yet to repair or reconstruct these bridges.Traffic jams are common here as the bridges are single lane. These bridges were built during the British rule. The traffic has increased manifold as thousands of vehicles from Mandi, Kulu, Manali, Leh and Shimla ply on this road.Earlier, it was expected that the highway would be four-laned before 2023 and bridges would also be replaced. But the state government has failed to acquire land. Now, there appears no plan to widen or reconstruct the bridges. All of them have outlived their lives. The foundations of many bridges have been damaged in the recent floods.A single bridge having a narrow curve near Mattor (Kangra) and Kalu Di Hatti, opposite to a petrol pump on the highway, has become a major mishap point.Recently two persons lost their lives when their car rolled down the gorge.Since the highway falls under the NHAI’s medium priority, the project is likely to be delayed by years as the state government has already discontinued the land acquisition process. Some say the project might be placed on the back burner.Traffic woes||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/narrow-bridges-on-nh-pose-threat-219665
03-03-2021||---||Rs 9,125 crore supplementary budget passed in Himachal Assembly||Shimla, March 2  The Vidhan Sabha on Tuesday passed the supplementary demands for grant of Rs 9,125.12 crore for the financial year 2020-21. Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, who holds the finance portfolio, presented the supplementary demands for grant in the Vidhan Sabha. Of the total amount, Rs 8,448.17 crore falls under the non-plan category while Rs 280.84 crore is under the plan portion and Rs 396.11 crore under Centrally-sponsored schemes. Under the non-plan expenditure, Rs 7,999.57 crore has been provided and means advance, which is a short-term facility on which the interest rate is much lower than the market borrowings. This amount gets paid during the year itself and its net effect on borrowings is zero. This year, the Central Government has enhanced this amount from Rs 550 crore to Rs 880 crore due to the Covid pandemic. The Chief Minister said that as this year the revenue was affected due to Covid, the state government took the benefit of this enhancement so as to not add to the existing debt burden. “It was necessary to ensure that the committed obligations of the government are fully met. The relief was provided to every section of society and the state is coming out of the economic recession,” he added. Thakur said that due to Covid, the sources of income such as the Himachal Roadways Transport Corporation (HRTC) and the HP Tourism Development Corporation (HPTDC) had been badly affected, making the payment of salaries and pension to the employees difficult. “Despite these constraints, the government ensured the payment of its committed liabilities to the employees of these two undertakings,” he added. He said that Rs 258.76 crore had been provided as grant-in-aid to the HRTC. Besides, Rs 57.64 crore had been provided for the construction of bridges and plugging black spots, Rs 34.20 crore as tariff roll back subsidy, Rs 17.01 crore to the Animal Husbandry Department for Govansh, Rs 14.19 crore to provide honorarium to anganwari workers and helpers, and Rs 14.05 crore to the Election Department. The Chief Minister said that the major expenditure proposed under the plan schemes included Rs 108 crore for the Health and Family Welfare Department, Rs 86.74 crore for World Bank-aided horticulture development projects, Rs 45.84 crore for the Bhanupali-Bilaspur-Beri railway line, Rs 17.36 crore for the Education Department and Rs 11.93 crore for the Public Works Department.  Thakur informed the House that under the Centrally-sponsored schemes, a supplementary demand was proposed for funding ongoing or new schemes, the money for which had been received from the Central Government. He said that Rs 153.66 crore had been received for the Pradhan Mantri Gramin Sadak Yojana, Rs 77.15 crore for the Central Road Fund, Rs 67 crore for the Smart City Mission, Rs 58.55 crore for advancing loan to cooperatives, Rs 9.76 crore for social security pensions and Rs 9.57 crore for the World-Bank assisted project for skill strengthening for industrial value enhancement programme.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rs-9-125-crore-supplementary-budget-passed-in-himachal-assembly-219666
03-03-2021||Solan||Licence of liquor trader cancelled in Rajgarh||A trader’s wholesale liquor licence has been cancelled in Rajgarh tehsil of Sirmaur district for causing a loss of Rs 1,63,31,243 to the state exchequer. An inquiry revealed that the said stock was not found in the wholesale vend during an inspection conducted on December 25 last year. Stocks were sent to two units of retail vends without any pass and payment of licence fee, which is a violation of the norms. Licence and additional licence fee, development fund besides Covid cess on the stock were not paid. The said licensee had paid no excise/countervailing duty or other fee on the country-made liquor stock of 9,994 quart cases, 396 pint cases and 129 nip cases while removing this stock from the wholesale godown in December last year.  This caused a loss of Rs 1,63,31,243 to the exchequer. A show-cause notice was issued to the licensee on December 29.  PP Singh, Deputy Commissioner, State Taxes and Excise, Sirmaur, said irregularities were found in the said wholesale vend following which its licence was cancelled. The department will now re-auction these vends of Jamta-Haripurdhar and Sarahan in Sirmaur district on March 5 for the remaining financial year. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/licence-of-liquor-trader-cancelled-in-rajgarh-219667
03-03-2021||---||Target to inoculate 10 lakh in phase 2||Shimla, March 2The state will vaccinate 10 to 11 lakh people during phase 2 of the Covid vaccination drive, which will cater to citizens aged 60 years and above and those in the 45-59 age bracket having comorbidities.The Union Ministry of Family and Health Welfare has identified 20 conditions that will make people eligible for vaccination in phase 2, subject to certification by a registered medical practitioner.During a state steering committee meeting held on Tuesday, Secretary, Health, Amitabh Awasthi said all beneficiaries in these categories could get themselves registered and schedule their vaccination in any nearby centre through www.selfregistration.cowin.gov.in or IT applications such as Arogya Setu. He said the state planned to cover the target population for the first dose by April 16.Awasthi said to facilitate the registration of specific age groups, help desks would be created in all panchayat offices across the state on every Monday. The target population could walk into their nearby panchayat office on every Monday from March 15 to April 12.While sessions will be held thrice weekly on Tuesday, Thursday and Friday in medical colleges, district hospitals and district ayurveda hospitals, civil hospitals will be given slots twice on Tuesday and Friday. In addition, all these sites will run sessions on the first and third Sunday of March to cater to those beneficiaries who cannot get themselves vaccinated on week days.From the second week of March, vaccination sessions will be started in all community health centres on Tuesday and Friday. Vaccination sessions will be held in all primary health centres on Tuesdays from the third week of March.Chief Secretary Anil Khachi said the beneficiaries must carry their photo identity cards to the vaccination site. 23 Covid casesIGyuto monastery becomes hot spotThe Gyuto Tantric Monastery, the establishment of the Central Tibetan Administration, has become a Covid hotspot in Kangra district. In the past few days, 154 out of 330 monks staying in the monastery have tested positive for the virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/target-to-inoculate-10-lakh-in-phase-2-219668
03-03-2021||---||Rani Khairgarhi’s statue unveiled||Mandi, March 2 Mandi MP Ramswaroop Sharma unveiled a statue of freedom fighter Queen Khairgarhi at the Sakodi bridge Chowk in Mandi town on Tuesday. He said Queen Lalita Kumari of Mandi, also known as Rani Khairgarhi, was a great freedom fighter and people of Mandi were proud of her. The purpose of installing her statue here is to make the new generation aware of her contribution to the freedom of the country. “Queen Lalita Kumari of Mandi is known as Rani Khairgarhi because her paternal house was in Khairgarh in Uttar Pradesh,” he added. The statue of Rani Khairgarhi was made by Assistant Professor Nivedita Gautam, who works at the Sculpture Department in Government Vallabh Degree College, Mandi. She, along with her brother Yash Gautam, worked together to make the statue in bronze.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rani-khairgarhis-statue-unveiled-219669
03-03-2021||Shimla||Training camps to prepare BJP workers for elections: Kashyap||Training camps for BJP workers being organised in the state would impart them knowledge on various issues and prepare them for the upcoming elections, said BJP state president Suresh Kashyap while speaking at a camp in the Kasumpti Assembly constituency in the district on Tuesday. He said that the Jai Ram Thakur government was working for all sections of society and as a result, people gave their full mandate to the party in the recent panchayat elections.  With the Central and state governments and the BJP organisation working in unison, Himachal was in a triple-engine mode, he said. He exhorted the party workers to work together for the mission 2022 so that the BJP once again forms the government. He gave the slogan “Kasumpti mei bhi Kamal khilega”. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/training-camps-to-prepare-bjp-workers-for-elections-kashyap-219670
03-03-2021||atibha Chauhan||Ruckus in Vidhan Sabha, Cong MLAs stage walkout||Tribune News ServiceShimla, March 2The Congress today remained adamant on the revocation of the suspension of its five MLAs and staged a walk out from the Vidhan Sabha after heated exchanges and sloganeering between the treasury benches and the Opposition.The Congress raised the issue of the suspension of the five MLAs through a point of order. Asha Kumari, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Suresh Bhardwaj and Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur also participated in the discussion.However, the situation became tense as soon as Speaker Vipin Parmar gave Deputy Speaker Hans Raj an opportunity to speak. All Opposition members were on their feet, and they objected that how could Hans Raj be given an opportunity to speak when he was responsible for jostling. The Congress MLAs raised slogans, which were met with counter sloganeering by the BJP MLAs. There was complete pandemonium in the House, as the Congress did not allow Hans Raj to speak. Later, they staged a walk out from the House.Sukhwinder Singh Sukhu raised the issue of the suspension of the five Congress MLAs even before the proceedings for the day began. He blamed the government for the ugly situation on the opening day of the Budget session. “The government has adopted a pick and choose policy in targeting MLAs. If the suspension of the MLAs is not revoked, we will not let the House to run,” he said.Asha Kumari termed the suspension of Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Mukesh Agnihotri and four other MLAs as illegal. She said that the government was responsible for the showdown and the Chief Minister made no efforts to defuse the situation. “Videos clearly show that no Congress MLA pushed the Governor, or the Chief Minister or any minister and it was the Deputy Speaker who pushed opposition MLAs,” she alleged.Asha Kumari also questioned the move to recall the session within five minutes. “We were not invited for tea with the Governor, which is a tradition, and then the intimation to reconvene the House at 12.50 pm was received at 12.46 pm, which was an extremely short notice,” she said. She added that the rule under which the House was recalled was wrong, so the proceedings where the suspension of the MLAs was ordered were illegal.Bhardwaj said that it was not for the first time that the entire Governor’s Address was not read. “However, if you people indulge in a physical assault, it will not be accepted,” he added. He asked all Congress MLAs to apologise to the Governor, as even Virbhadra Singh and his colleagues had done so when they had raised slogans during the Address of Governor Vishnu Kant Shastri.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ruckus-in-vidhan-sabha-cong-mlas-stage-walkout-219671
03-03-2021||---||Bindal: No let-up in progress even during Covid||Shimla, March 2During the debate on the Motion of Thanks on Governor’s Address today, BJP legislators condemned the Congress behaviour with Governor Bandaru Dattatreya, even as the opposition legislators were absent.While initiating the debate, Rajeev Bindal said that Himachal had been shamed all over the country due to the behaviour of the Congress MLAs. “Despite the Covid pandemic, the achievements of the Jai Ram Thakur government are numerous and all of them cannot be summed up in the Governor’s Address,” he said. He added that the BJP government did not let the pace of development slow down and Rs 717 crore was spent during the year under the Pradhan Mantri Gramin Sadak Yojana.The Chief Whip in the Vidhan Sabha, Narinder Bragta, said that before seeking the revocation of the suspension of its MLAs, the Congress must apologise to the Governor for its misbehaviour.Subhash Thakur credited the Chief Minister with ensuring that the pace of development did not slow down during the pandemic. Paramjit Singh Pammi said that the Governor’s Address could be a bundle of lies for the Congress but people appreciated the achievements listed in the document.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bindal-no-let-up-in-progress-even-during-covid-219672
03-03-2021||Shimla||Deputy Speaker’s security beefed up||The government today beefed up the security of Deputy Speaker Hans Raj, who alleged that he was  receiving threatening calls from NSUI activists. “There is a threat to my life, especially after seeing Congress MLA Vikramaditya Singh’s behaviour in the Vidhan Sabha today,” he added.  He said a privilege motion be moved against Vikramaditya for his behaviour in the Vidhan Sabha. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/deputy-speakers-security-beefed-up-219673
03-03-2021||---||Himachal Deputy Speaker, MLA Vikramaditya engage in verbal spat||Shimla, March 2There were acrimonious exchanges between Deputy Speaker Hans Raj and Shimla (Rural) MLA Vikramaditya Singh in the Vidhan Sabha today even as some MLAs intervened to prevent the situation from turning ugly.Everyone was taken by surprise when Vikramaditya, son of former Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh, walked towards the well of the House while the opposition MLAs were raising slogans when the Speaker allowed the Deputy Speaker to speak. As he reached where Hans Raj was sitting, the two got engaged in heated exchanges.As the duo hurled derogatory remarks at each other, nothing could be heard in the din. Some Congress MLAs, including Sukhu, intervened and took Vikramaditya back before the situation could turn ugly. An agitated Chief Minister condemned Vikramaditya’s behaviour. “Your behaviour is highly objectionable and raising your voice will not hide your wrongdoing,” he said. He added that when the Congress had been given an opportunity to raise the point of order, even the Deputy Speaker had the right to speak.Thakur said it was the prerogative of the Governor to read whatever number of pages of his Address he wished to. “What could the Deputy Speaker do when the Congress did not spare even the Governor. Even Sukhu had admitted that what happened with the Governor was wrong, so the Congress must apologise for its shameful beahviour,” he added.“It appears that it is a Congress culture to indulge in violence, as they had thrown stones outside the Vidhan Sabha and the BJP office,” he said. He asked the Congress to apologise to the Governor as his entire Cabinet had already done.Thakur said that it appeared that the Congress MLAs were perturbed at the manner in which their party was being wiped out in the entire country. “I feel the Congress does not believe in democracy as its MLAs’ actions are highly condemnable and against the high traditions of this august House,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-deputy-speaker-mla-vikramaditya-engage-in-verbal-spat-219674
03-03-2021||Lalit Mohan||Spurt in Covid cases casts a shadow on tourist season in Dharamsala||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, March 2A sudden spurt in coronavirus cases in different parts of the country has cast a shadow on the forthcoming summer tourist season in Dharamsala. Hoteliers are reporting cancellation of room bookings by tourists for the past 10 days. They say that after the recent spurt in Covid cases very few bookings are being received for the summer season.Ashwani Bamba, president of the Hotel and Restaurant Association of Dharamsala, says, “The summer season (April to June) is the bread and butter of the tourism industry of the region. In April and May, tourists from Gujarat and Maharashtra visit Dharamsala. However, due to the spurt in Covid cases in some states, tourists are cancelling their room bookings. We are trying to convince the tourists but those from Maharashtra, where a lockdown is being reimposed, are expressing their helplessness”.Bamba says that last year, the tourism industry suffered huge losses. If this season also gets affected for any reason, most of the properties of the hotel owners raised through loans are likely to become non-performing assets (NPAs).The hoteliers say that states such as Uttarakhand, Rajasthan and Goa have done well to attract tourists. However, in Himachal, despite the fact that the tourism industry provides huge direct and indirect investment, no effort is being made to attract tourists in a safe manner.They add that even subsidised credit to the hoteliers announced by the state government has not reached small and medium sized hotels.The tourism industry in Dharamsala has also been affected adversely as establishments of the Tibetan government in-exile and the Dalai Lama, which are the major attractions for national and international tourists, have also been lying closed due to Covid.The hoteliers are now hoping that tourists from Punjab, Haryana and Delhi will flock to the state during the summer. Some hoteliers say that the Atal Tunnel has become a major attraction for tourists, who prefer to go there, thus affecting tourism business in other parts of the state, including Dharamsala.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/spurt-in-covid-cases-casts-a-shadow-on-tourist-season-in-dharamsala-219675
03-03-2021||Rajiv Mahajan ---||Work begins to remove water pipes from drains in Nurpur||Nurpur, March 2  The Jal Shakti Department has started removing drinking water supply pipes passing through filthy street drains in Nurpur town after a story headlined “Drinking water pipes run through sewage in Nurpur, locals worried” appeared in these columns on February 26. The department has launched a special drive to lift all water supply pipes submerged under flowing or stagnated sewage in streets. According to Devinder Rana, Assistant Engineer, Jal Shakti division, Nurpur, the department has deployed four teams to remove  all drinking water supply pipes from street drains in all nine municipal council wards of the town. He says that while releasing new water connections to consumers in future, the department will ensure that no pipeline is laid in drains. As per the norm, consumers have to lay the supply pipes on their own.  In the past, the department had released water connections to domestic consumers from main supply lines. But these pipelines of half an inch diameter were laid in the civic body drains in streets and markets. A leakage in these pipes could have led to the outbreak a waterborne disease in the town.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/work-begins-to-remove-water-pipes-from-drains-in-nurpur-219676
03-03-2021||---||ABVP activists protest at CUHP||Dharamsala, March 2Students of Central University of Himachal Pradesh (CUHP), affiliated with the ABVP, today sat on a dharna outside the administrative complex of the CUHP in Dharamsala. They did not allow the university authorities to function from their offices. The ABVP is demanding the removal of the Registrar of the university.The Registrar of CUHP, Hem Raj, termed the protest as pressure tactics and a conspiracy against him. He said, “I am functioning as per the rules. However, some vested interests are provoking students against me. I shall do whatever is right, according to law”.The Registrar said that his office had no direct contact with the students. All decision regarding academics were taken by the heads of the departments or the offices of the Vice-Chancellor and the Pro-Vice-Chancellor. “Still, I do not know why the students are protesting against me and demanding my removal,” he added.The students are blaming the Registrar for not allowing classes on the campus. They allege that classes are not being conducted on the university campus while all other government colleges have started functioning. The students are also protesting against the delay in the construction of the CUHP campus.The Registrar said that the classes on the campus were not being allowed for the time being as the standard operating procedures (SOPs) for Covid were not in place in many departments. Online classes for students were being conducted regularly, he added.He said that he had written to the SP and the Kangra Deputy Commissioner to provide him security to ensure smooth functioning of his office.Sources said that some appointments in the university might be the reason behind the current controversy. Many complainants had alleged that candidates affiliated with right wing organisations were given undue favour in recent recruitment in the university. The sources said that the Union HRD Ministry had initiated an inquiry into recent recruitment. CUHP Vice-Chancellor Kuldeep Agnihotri had resigned two days ago and relinquished charge.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/abvp-activists-protest-at-cuhp-219677
03-03-2021||Nurpur||Nurpur residents unhappy over land acquisition rates||The Four Lane Sangharsh Samiti, Nurpur, has “rejected” the land acquisition awards for the National Highways Authority of India’s package-1 from Kandwal to Bhedkhud announced by the Competent Authority for Land Acquisition (CALA)-cum-SDM on Monday.Samiti’s senior vice-president Sudarshan Sharma and general secretary Vijay Heer, in a statement issued here today, said that they would meet the Kangra Deputy Commissioner tomorrow to seek fair rates for all people affected by the Pathankot-Mandi road widening project and request him to revoke these awards with immediate effect. They also threatened that the affected families would gherao the CALA office and resort to a token fast on Friday if they were not given justice.The samiti members alleged that the CALA had defied provisions of Section 26 of the Right to Fair Compensation Act-2013 while evaluating the awards for acquiring private land for the four-lane road widening project. They said that there was a big difference in land acquisition rates announced under 3A notification of March 9, 2018, and the supplementary 3A notification of October 20, 2020. “The CALA had invited objections from the affected people for supplementary awards to be announced on March 14 but didn’t give the opportunity to them for filing their objections to the awards of the previous 3A notification announced on Monday,” they lamented.The samiti members said the state government had not even constituted a coordination committee required to address the grievances of the affected people.Ajay Mahajan, Kangra district Congress president and former MLA, alleged that the state government had betrayed the affected families of the highway widening project, especially in lower Kangra areas. He said these people had been agitating for the past over two years to seek a fair compensation. The local BJP leadership had given hollow assurances to these people, he added. — OCProvisions floutedMembers of the Four Lane Sangharsh Samiti, Nurpur, alleged the Competent Authority for Land Acquisition had defied provisions of Section 26 of the Right to Fair Compensation Act-2013 while evaluating the awards for acquiring private land for the four-lane road widening project.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nurpur-residents-unhappy-over-land-acquisition-rates-219678
03-03-2021||Shimla||Panel set up for law varsity||Chief Justice L. Narayana Swami has constituted a two-member National Law University Advisory Committee to look after all matters pertaining to Himachal Pradesh National Law University. The committee comprises two judges of the HP High Court, namely Justice Tarlok Singh Chauhan and Justice Jyotsna Rewal Dua. The Chief Justice will be the ex-officio Chairman of the committee and all its recommendations will be placed before him. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/panel-set-up-for-law-varsity-219679
03-03-2021||Shimla||Five HPAS officers shifted||In a minor administrative reshuffle, the state government on Tuesday shifted five officers of the Himachal Pradesh Administrative Services (HPAS). Deepti  Mandhotra, Additional Director, Pt Jawahar Lal Nehru , Medical College, Chamba has been posted as Assistant Settlement Officer, Kullu, with additional charge of Land Acquisition Officer, Parvati Project (Kullu). SDO,  Chamba, Shivam Pratap Singh will hold additional charge of Additional Director, Pt JLN  Medical College. Dr Suresh Chand Chandel has been posted as Additional Director, Language, Art and Culture, in place of Vikas Sood, who goes as SDO (Civil) Kandaghat (Solan). He will also hold additional charge of Executive Officer, Himachal Pradesh Building and other Construction Workers Welfare Board, Shimla. Laiq Ram Verma, SDO (Civil), Paonta Sahib, goes as Commissioner, Solan Municipal Corporation, while Dr Sanjeev Sharma, SDO (Civil), Kandaghat, will be SDO (Civil), Kasauli (Solan). — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/five-hpas-officers-shifted-219681
03-03-2021||Shimla||Shorts TV acquires short film by Shimla lad||‘The Bus Stop’, a short film produced and directed by Shimla lad Vivek Mohan, who is now based in Mumbai,  has been acquired by Shorts TV.  The five-minute and 21-second film without a single dialogue  is based on the true story of a 87-year-old widow living alone at Manjhgaon village, Shahpur, in Kangra district. The film shows how an elderly woman used to place a piece of paper on her gate every evening and remove the same the next morning. The paper read – “I am an old widow, if I don’t pick up this chit, consider me dead”.  Vivek Mohan said, “The story of this woman touched me and it took me six months to finalise the crew, select a location and assess potential lighting or sound issues. The film was shot in three hours and edited in three hours.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shorts-tv-acquires-short-film-by-shimla-lad-219682
03-03-2021||---||Revoke suspension of 5 Cong MLAs or face stir, says Kuldeep Rathore||Solan,March 2Himachal Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) president Kuldeep Rathore on Tuesday threatened to launch an agitation if the suspension of five Congress MLAs was not revoked in the Vidhan Sabha.He said these MLAs were merely trying to pose some questions before the Governor, but they were first pushed and then suspended from the House, which was unfair.Addressing a farmers’ rally at Baddi, he alleged that the Union Government had failed to safeguard the interests of growers.He added that the violence during the tractor parade in New Delhi on January 26 was a ploy to defame the farmers’ movement. He said the Congress would firmly stand with the agrarian community till the three farm laws were repealed.Rathore said if the laws were implemented, corporate houses would first buy agrarian produce at higher cost, leading to the closure of mandis, and then exploit farmers by offering lower prices.AICC Adivasi Cell vice-president Bellaiah Naik alleged that, “Apart from exploiting the poor, the Union Government has done nothing. It is only concerned about corporate houses.”Former Cabinet minister Thakur Sing Bharmouri also lashed out at the Centre. Former Doon MLA Ramkumar Chawdhary said all development works had come to a standstill in his segment and only works initiated by him during the Congress tenure were being inaugurated. He alleged that industrial workers were made to attend the Chief Minister’s rally on Saturday as the general public stayed away. District party in-charge Kewal Singh Pathania also addressed the gathering.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/revoke-suspension-of-5-cong-mlas-or-face-stir-says-kuldeep-rathore-219683
03-03-2021||---||Horticulture varsity projects reviewed||Solan, March 2  A committee headed by RS Rawal, Director, GB Pant National Institute of Himalayan Environment (GBPNIHE), Almora,  visited Dr YS Parmar University of Horticulture and Forestry, Nauni, to review the progress of two ongoing projects  funded by it under the  National Mission on Himalayan Studies.  The team held meetings with scientists and authorities where presentations were made by KD Sharma and Nivedita Sharma, who are Principal Investigators of the project on Establishment of Functional Foods Research and Development and Dissemination Centre and Bioconversion of pine needles, respectively.   Dr Rawal also visited the Functional Foods Centre  and Microbiology Laboratory of Basic Sciences where he interacted with research scholars and scientists. He stressed on  long-term collaborations while appreciating the   research work which focused on  clean and green technology for alternative fuels and the development of a variety of processed functional food products.   He  also met Vice Chancellor Parvinder Kaushal and the two agreed on collaborating in  research and academics. Kaushal said they would empanel scientists of GBPNIHE and utilise their expertise in curricular research of the students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/horticulture-varsity-projects-reviewed-219684
03-03-2021||Shimla||Now, Tehsildar, SDO (Civil) can issue bona fide certificate||Henceforth, Sub-Divisional Officers (Civil), or Tehsildars, or Naib Tehsildars will issue the bona fide Himachali certificate on the basis of the certificates issued by the designated elected representatives of the Panchayati Raj Institutions or the urban local bodies, besides patwaris and the executive officers of municipal corporations and councils.Only a citizen of India having a permanent home in Himachal or residing in the state for more than 20 years or having a permanent house in Himachal but living outside on account of occupation will be eligible for the bona fide Himachali certificate.In rural areas, the president of the gram sabha and the patwari will be competent to issue the certificate for getting the bona fide Himachali certificate while the president of a notified area committee has been authorised to issue the eligibility certificate.However, in the case of municipal corporations, or councils, the executive officers and the councillors will be competent to issue the eligibility certificate. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/now-tehsildar-sdo-civil-can-issue-bona-fide-certificate-219688
03-03-2021||SFI's state president Anil Thakur||Govt, HPU misguiding students: SFI||Action sought against BJP MLAsThe NSUI and the Himachal Pradesh Youth Congress staged a protest against the suspension of Congress MLAs from the Vidhan Sabha and submitted a memorandum to the Governor through the DC, Shimla, on Monday. They alleged that the Speaker misused his constitutional post to suspend the Congress MLAs but took no action against BJP MLAs and Vidhan Sabha vice-chairman. The protesters urged the Governor to issue orders to take strict action against the vice-chairman and the BJP Ministers and MLAs involved in the ruckus.Open library's 24-hour section: SFIThe SFI submitted a memorandum detailing demands of the students to the HPU librarian. The SFI demanded that the library's 24-hour section be opened for general students with immediate effect as the university had decided to hold the final exams next month. The students needed the facility open for 24 hours to prepare for the exams.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/govt-hpu-misguiding-students-sfi-219711
03-03-2021||The road between the Housing Board Colony and Chinva in ward number 2 in Nurpur town has turned into a roadside dumping site. Debris and waste building material dot this stretch from the colony to the Industrial Training Institute. People carrying out construction work in the town and surrounding areas dump waste along the road. Heaps of waste material have become a nuisance for passersby as this stretch is used by the morning and evening walkers. The concerned government authorities should check this growing menace and identify some isolated place for dumping waste material.||Road turned into a dumping site||— Surinder Kumar, NurpurArrange separate counters for elderly in banksThere is a pressing need for making a provision of separate counters at all banks based in Chamba for the convenience of senior citizens. Senior citizens here have requested bank officials to comply with the guidelines issued by the government with regard to provision of facilities to senior citizens.— Ashwani Kumar, ChambaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/road-turned-into-a-dumping-site-219715
03-03-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||150 monks test COVID-19 positive at Gyuto monastery in Himachal's Dharamsala||A sudden surge of COVID cases in Kangra district has left the administration worried. After 24 monks tested positive on February 23, about 330 more monks were tested for the deadly disease, reported ANI.Out of 330 monks, 154 tested positive at Gyuto Tantric Monastery, Sidhbari, confirmed ANI.Kangra CMO GD Gupta said that one monk is in a critical condition, and has been shifted to Tanda Medical College while others remain in isolation in the monastery itself.He added that monks who have been home-isolated had travelled from Karnataka and Delhi during new year celebrations, and that the monastery has been closed for visitors since March 5, 2020.Following initial cases on Feb 23rd, 330 monks tested so far for #COVID19 & 154 of them tested positive at Gyuto Tantric Monastery, Sidhbari. One monk in critical condition shifted to Tanda Medical College, others in isolation in the monastery itself: CMO Kangra, Himachal Pradesh pic.twitter.com/7fruVXjMtv  Since the coronavirus outbreak most of the Tibetan monasteries were lying closed as the authorities governing these institutions were observing extra caution to prevent spread of the virus.Earlier, the Kangra CMO, GD Gupta said that the 24 new cases of coronavirus infection were reported in the district, including 20 from Gyuto Tantric Monastery in Sidhpur.The CMO when contacted said there were about 400 monks staying in Gyuto monastery. Out of them, 70 were tested and 20 had tested positive.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/150-monks-test-covid-19-positive-at-gyuto-monastery-in-himachals-dharamsala-219517
