04-03-2021||---||ED files chargesheet under PMLA against Himachal firm, its MD||New Delhi, March 4The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Thursday said it had filed Prosecution Complaint (equivalent to a police chargesheet) before a special court in Shimla against Indian Technomac Company Limited, its Managing Director Rakesh Kumar Sharma, Director Vinay Kumar Sharma and 12 other accused under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA).ED officials said that investigation was initiated following the registration of FIR by the CID of Himachal Pradesh Police.In the complaint, the ED has alleged that the company by way of criminal activity related to scheduled offences had acquired funds to the tune of Rs 407.13 crore in the form of equity infused by promoter companies. The fund was allegedly sourced through illegal means by diverting loans taken by the company from various banks.Directors of the company were allegedly involved in money laundering, as they benefitted by way of receiving equity shares of the company and also purchased properties in individual names, the ED said, adding that the agency had attached assets worth Rs 288.91 crore of the company and its promoters in September 2019.“Money laundering investigation revealed that the accused persons devised the modus operandi of diverting bank loan funds to the tune of Rs 407.13 crore from the company to the multiple layers of shell companies, which was subsequently placed back in the accused company by way of allocation of its equities to the promoter companies controlled by accused Rakesh Kumar Sharma,” said ED officials.It was also revealed during the course of investigation that fictitious huge rise in revenue from operations was shown in the balance sheets of the Indian Technomac Company Limited whereas a number of shell firms were used for showing bogus sales and corresponding purchases, the officials said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ed-files-chargesheet-under-pmla-against-himachal-firm-its-md-220513
04-03-2021||Solan||Body of 21-year-old woman found in box at home in Himachal’s Sirmaur; husband arrested||In a bizarre case, the body of a 21-year-old woman was recovered from a box in her house at Puruwala Kanshipur area of Paonta Sahib in Sirmaur district on Thursday.The deceased, Mamta, who hails from Bijnour in Uttar Pradesh had a love marriage six months ago and she worked at a tailor’s shop.The tailor got suspicious after Mamta did not turn up for work since the last two days and when he went to her house to enquire he noticed an abhorrent smell which raised his suspicion.When he asked her husband Suneel, he dismissed the query and said Mamta had left for her parental home two days ago.This claim, however, proved wrong when the neighbours called up her father and they informed the police.The couple had a fight two days ago informed the neighbours as the husband suspected the woman of having an affair.DSP Paonta Sahib, Bir Bahadur, who visited the spot said 21-year-old Mamta’s body was found from a locked box in the first floor of the house and her husband had been sleeping on the first floor since the last two days owing to the abhorrent smell.A case under Section 302 of the IPC has been registered and the post-mortem of the body was being conducted.Mamta’s husband Suneel Kumar, a resident of Lakhimpur Kheri, has been arrested and further probe was underway.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/body-of-21-year-old-woman-found-in-box-at-home-in-himachals-sirmaur-husband-arrested-220504
04-03-2021||---||Congress boycotts Himachal Vidhan Sabha over suspension of MLAs||Shimla, March 4The Congress legislature party on Thursday boycotted the ongoing Vidhan Sabha session and sat on dharna outside the Assembly to protest the suspension of five MLAs.The protesting Congress MLAs were joined by former chief minister Virbhadra Singh.The Congress has been locking horns with the Himachal government from day one of the budget session, which began on February 26, following the suspension of five MLAs for the entire session till March 20.Also read: Opposition MLAs showed disrespect to national flag while banging on bonnet of Guv’s car: Jai Ram ThakurFive Congress legislators, including CLP Leader Mukesh Agnihotri, were suspended for the current session following a ruckus after the Governor’s address. An FIR has also been registered against all five for raising slogans and obstructing the vehicle of the Governor.Congress is demanding the revocation of the suspension of its MLAs.State Congress president Kuldeep Rathore also joined the protesting CLP as all legislators, including Virbhadra, along with Mukesh Agnihotri sat outside the gate of the Vidhan Sabha.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/congress-boycotts-himachal-vidhan-sabha-over-suspension-of-mlas-220426
04-03-2021||Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many||Steep approach road||The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com Steep approach roadThe approach road to the DDU Hospital from the Cart Road is very steep. For people on wheelchairs or those having trouble walking, the steepness of the road poses a big challenge. For a person on a wheelchair, a few attendants are required to push up the wheelchair. Some solution should be found to this problem. — Gulwant Thakur, ShimlaStop burning garbage, Chamba residents toldTHE burning of garbage at the parking site of Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru Government Medical College, functioning in Akhandchandi Palace, is causing a lot of inconvenience to the residents of Chamba town. The smoke generated from burning the garbage pollutes the environment and poses health hazard to residents. The medical college authorities should direct safai karamcharis to stop this wrong practice. — Suresh Kashmiri, Chamba||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/steep-approach-road-220156
04-03-2021||The Student-Parent Forum will protest at the Vidhan Sabha on March 5 with regard to demands like framing laws and forming regulatory commission to regulate fee||Student-parent forum to protest||SFI submits memorandumThe SFI on Wednesday submitted a memorandum to HPU, Registrar, reminding the university that it had sought application for Class III employees a year ago, but had not held any exam for the same until now. It appears, the SFI alleged, the university wants to collect money through application forms but doesn't want to give employment. It also raised the issue of opening a fee counter at Pink Petals Chowk.Marathon on Women’s DayThe ABVP is organising a marathon for women aged 17 to 24 on Women's Day from The Ridge to Ambedkar Chowk. The marathon will start from 7 am. Those interested can call at 8219013461 and 9816807127 for registration. Medical facilities will be made available for the participants.SOFL felicitates two studentsThe School of Foreign Languages (SOFL) felicitated two of its students, Kartik Chauhan and Tanishk Sood, for getting admission in German Universities for master programme. SOFL president Seema Sharma termed German the language of technology and dwelt upon the opportunities the language opens up for the students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/student-parent-forum-to-protest-220159
04-03-2021||Our Correspondent||Himachal Govt effigy burnt at Kullu||Kullu, March 3Youth Congress activists led by their state president Nigam Bhandari held a rally against the state government from Dhalpur Chowk to the Deputy Commissioner’s office here today. The protesters raised slogans against the government, and also burnt its effigy. They also got involved in a minor incident with the police.Bhandari said that the Congress was protesting statewide against the government on rising inflation, corruption, unemployment and the suspension of five Congress MLAs. He alleged that Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur was using the police to drive away the protesters. A heavy police force tried to prevent the Youth Congress activists from burning the effigy of the government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-govt-effigy-burnt-at-kullu-220161
04-03-2021||Subhash Rajta||Virbhadra Singh takes Covid jab||Tribune News ServiceShimla, March 3“Have I turned 60? I still feel young,” quipped former Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh after taking the coronavirus vaccine shot at the Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital in Shimla today. The 86-year-old, who was vaccinated in the above-60 category, was at his humourous best during the entire process of the vaccination even though he had some allergic cough.Even as he joked with the doctors, he was serious about the fact that everyone should go for vaccination. “I had no hesitation whatsoever in getting vaccinated and everyone should go for it. It’s for the good of us all,” he said.The first thing he asked after getting vaccination from Medical Superintendant Dr Ramesh Chauhan was which vaccine he was administered. And as Dr Chauhan told him the name of the vaccine and the difference between Covishield and Covaxin, he was all ears.Despite his advanced age and not being in the best of health, he recalled his old memories associated with the hospital, leaving everyone surprised. “He even noticed that the tiles on the floor were new; the building earlier had wooden flooring,” said Dr Chauhan. “The wooden floor was changed more than a decade ago, but he still noticed it”.Virbhadra Singh told the doctors about his long association with the hospital, going back to his childhood. “He enquired a lot about the hospital and told us how he visited here for treatment during his school days,” said Dr Chauhan.Virbhadra Singh was accompanied by his wife Pratibha Singh, who also took the jab. “It’s a preventive step and we all know prevention is better than cure,” she said.And just before leaving, when a doctor, well above 6 feet, was summoned to check his cough, the former Chief Minster looked at him and said, “Itna lamba doctor,” leaving everyone in splits.77 fresh cases, tally rises to 58,877Shimla: As many as 77 Covid cases were reported in the state on Wednesday, taking the tally to 58,877. However, no fatality due to the virus occurred in the past 24 hours. The highest number of 18 cases was reported in Bilaspur, followed by 14 each in Solan and Sirmaur, nine in Kangra, eight in Shimla, five in Kullu and three each in Chamba and Una. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/virbhadra-singh-takes-covid-jab-220099
04-03-2021||---||Youth Congress activists show black flags to CM Jai Ram Thakur||Dharamsala, March 3Youth Congress activists today showed black flags to Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur during his visit to Bharwain village on the Kangra-Una border.The activists were not allowed by the police to block the passage of the CM but they managed to show black flags to the passing caravan. The leaders, most were from Una district, protested the expulsion of five Congress MLAs from the Assembly for the budget session. They had blocked the passage of the Governor on the first day of the session. The activists also raised ‘CM go back’ slogans.The CM, addressing workers of the BJP Mahila Morcha, flayed the behaviour of the Congress leaders in the Assembly. He said they were frustrated as their party was collapsing across the country from top to bottom. In Himachal also, the people had rejected the party in all elections.The Chief Minister said that the behaviour of the congress MLAs was a blot in the history of Himachal. Law was same for everyone and the action against the MLAs had been taken as per rules of the Vidhan Sabha.He lauded the role of the BJP Mahila Morcha. Himachal was the first state to give 50 per cent reservation to women in panchayat polls. The CM also paid obeisance at the Chintpurni Mata temple during his visit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/youth-congress-activists-show-black-flags-to-cm-jai-ram-thakur-220100
04-03-2021||Our Correspondent||Himachal CM lauds Mahila Morcha for fighting pandemic||Una, March 3Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today said that the BJP is a party with a strong organisational base and women were playing an important role in strengthening it as well as in its day-to-day working. He was speaking at the concluding function of the two-day conclave of the Himachal Pradesh Mahila Morcha Working Committee at Bharwain in the Chintpurni Assembly segment.Thakur said that the Mahila Morcha leaders and workers had been working with dedication and served society during the Covid pandemic. He added that the morcha activists made face masks and distributed them free of cost to people. The women members of the organisation also distributed food and other relief items to underprivileged sections.The Chief Minister said that in 2009, Himachal Pradesh became the second state in the country to give 50 per cent reservation to women in the panchayati raj institutions. He added that the representation of elected women members in the recent panchayati raj body elections had increased to 62 per cent, which was a clear indication of their active participation and involvement in social service.He called upon the Mahila Morcha to work towards the ‘Mission Repeat in 2022’ so that the party retains power in the next Assembly elections and the welfare schemes initiated by the state government continue.He sought an apology from the suspended Congress MLAs for ‘insulting’ the Governor. He said that it should be clear to the Opposition that nobody, including elected public representatives, was above law.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-cm-lauds-mahila-morcha-for-fighting-pandemic-220101
04-03-2021||---||Camp held for shepherds at Dehra||Dharamsala, March 3The wool federation of the state today organised a camp for shepherds moving downhill these days with their flock of sheep and goats in the Dehra area. During the camp medicines were provided to shepherds and veterinary doctors checked the health of animals of shepherds.Trilok Kapoor, chairman, Wool Federation of Himachal, said the government would be regularly conducting such camps in various parts of the state to help shepherds. The traditional Gaddi shepherds were important part of the economy of the state and Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur was concerned about their welfare.Since Gaddi shepherds keep on migrating with flocks across the state, they face problems from the local administration, forest authorities and various other government departments. In today’s camp, officials of all the said departments were called so that the problems of migratory shepherds were redressed, Kapoor said.He said such camps were held earlier also during the stint of the previous BJP government. However, the last Congress government had discontinued the practice of holding camps for migratory shepherds.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/camp-held-for-shepherds-at-dehra-220102
04-03-2021||UNA||Satpal Singh Satti leads march against Congress in Una||The Una BJP today staged a protest against the ‘insult’ of the Governor by Congress MLAs after his Address at the Vidhan Sabha. The protest was led by Chairman of the State Finance Commission Satpal Singh Satti, while Vice-Chairman of the HPSIDC Ram Kumar was also present.The protesters marched through the city, raising slogans against the Opposition. They also burnt the effigies of two Congress MLAs from Una district Leader of the Opposition Mukesh Agnihotri and Satpal Raizada.Addressing a gathering outside the municipal park, Satti said the Congress was perturbed over its poor performance in the recent local bodies elections. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/satpal-singh-satti-leads-march-against-congress-in-una-220107
04-03-2021||Our Correspondent||Snow festival reviving traditions in Lahaul: Deputy Commissioner||Kullu, March 3Various events were held during the snow festival at Beeling in Lahaul and Spiti district yesterday. Archery, tug of war, Chholo, musical chair etc. were organised. Chhomo won the knitting competition. Traditional folk dances were presented by local artistes and traditional ‘Ghure’ songs captivated the audience.Lahaul and Spiti Deputy Commissioner Pankaj Rai lauded the performances. An exhibition of local cuisine, handicraft and Thangka paintings, along with ancient heritage items and artifacts, was also organised. The Deputy Commissioner presided over the meeting of the snow festival core committee. The schedule of programmes to be held in March were discussed.Rai said that many cultural traditions no more popular were being revived because of the snow festival and it was an auspicious sign for boosting cultural tourism. He added that ‘Shang Jatar’ was held after about 90 years while ‘Raink Jatar’ was held after about 50 years. He added that the resumption of ‘Selu’ dance in the Darcha area was the result of this effort.The Deputy Commissioner said that a small community museum of antiques and artifacts would be built in every village where visitors could get information about the antiquities and artistic objects of the place.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/snow-festival-reviving-traditions-in-lahaul-deputy-commissioner-220109
04-03-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||BUDGET SESSION: Deadlock continues, Congress again walks out of Assembly||Tribune News ServiceShimla, March 3The stalemate over the suspension of five Congress MLAs continued for the fourth day of the Vidhan Sabha session today, as the Opposition staged a walkout.Kinnaur MLA Jagat Singh Negi through a point of order raised the issue of the suspension of the five MLAs, including CLP leader Mukesh Agnihotri. “The decision to suspend the five MLAs was arbitrary and dictatorial, and it must be revoked immediately,” he said.He questioned the manner in which the Assembly was recalled after it was adjourned and asked the Speaker to give his ruling. “How is it possible for us to arrive here within four minutes when the information to reconvene the session at 12.50 pm was given to us at 12.46 pm,” he said. He added that it was the prerogative of the Speaker to adjourn or recall the House but the members had to be given at least 48 hours to do so. To suspend the five MLAs was a one-sided decision.Negi said that after an FIR was registered against the five MLAs on the complaint of the marshall, the sedition charge was added to it.Speaker Vipin Parmar said that he would give his ruling regarding the suspension of the five MLAs after the Question Hour. Following this, the Congress MLAs started raising slogans and later walked out of the House for the fourth consecutive day since the start of the Budget session on February 26.Later after the Question Hour, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur justified the Speaker’s decision to suspend the five legislators. “You have taken the decision on the basis of the rules and we fully support and justify your action,” he said. He added that the intentions of the Congress MLAs were doubtful, as they could have joined the House proceedings after the recall, and the decision to suspend the MLAs was taken after a one-hour discussion.Thakur said that the FIR against the MLAs, too, was fully justified, as they had raised slogans and obstructed the Governor while he was discharging his constitutional duty. “Such an irresponsible behaviour seems to have become the habit and culture of the Congress, which I condemn,” he added.Meanwhile, Mukesh Agnihotri, Harshwardhan Chauhan, Vinay Kumar, Satpal Raizada and Sunder Thakur continued their dharna outside the Vidhan Sabha complex. They were joined by the Congress MLAs before the start of the Assembly and later after they walked out of the House.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/budget-session-deadlock-continues-congress-again-walks-out-of-assembly-220111
04-03-2021||---||Jai Ram Thakur, Anil Sharma spar over sports complex delay||Shimla, March 3Though there had been a little snow this winter, Rs 12.05 crore was spent on snow-clearance work by various government agencies.Replying to a query on the expenditure raised by Rakesh Singha during Question Hour, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur said the money had been spent by the Shimla Municipal Corporation, the PWD and the NHAI.Jai Ram, Chief MinisterCM passes buckif the MLA has a suitable site in mind, he can discuss it with the DC as there should be no more delay in the project.“A sum of Rs 2.85 crore has been spent on the purchase of 76 attachments so that the snow-clearance work is not outsourced,” he said. The CM admitted that the stretch between Narkanda and Batnal was the snow-bound area and hence there was the need for a retaining wall.Intervening during a query by Anil Sharma over the site selection and delay in construction of a sports complex with an indoor hall and hockey astroturf ground in Mandi, Thakur said there had been a considerable delay of three years. “There is no extra land available with Nerchowk medical college, so a site has been selected by the DC and the forest clearance was sought for it,” he said.He said if the MLA had a suitable site in mind, he could discuss it with the DC as there should be no more delay in the project.Earlier, replying to a query, Forest Minister Rakesh Pathania said Rs 4.75 lakh had been deposited for obtaining the forest clearance and the maps had also been prepared. Since no other land was available, 80 bighas had been identified at Jola, eight km from Mandi.Replying to a query by Ramesh Dhwala on the steps taken to encourage farmers to take to commercial cultivation of medicinal herbs and plants, Health and Ayurveda Minister Rajiv Saizal said the Uttarakhand policy was being examined.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/jai-ram-thakur-anil-sharma-spar-over-sports-complex-delay-220113
04-03-2021||---||Rakesh Singha attacks government over price rise, hefty private school fee||Shimla, March 3In the absence of Congress MLAs in the Assembly, lone CPM legislator Rakesh Singha initiated a debate on behalf of the Opposition on the Motion of Thanks to the Governor’s Address in the Vidhan Sabha today.The Congress has refused to take part in the debate until the suspension of its five MLAs is revoked.Rakesh Singha, CPM MLA‘Guv skips imp issues’The Governor’s Address is a half-baked and incomplete document, which has no mention of some very important issues“The Governor’s Address is a half-baked and incomplete document, which has no mention of some very important issues,” he said. He raised the issue of irregularities in purchases by the Health Department during Covid.Singha refuted the government’s claims of providing online education during Covid and said those whose details had been given did not have access to online education as they did not have smart phones. He also condemned the loot by private schools in charging hefty fees for holding online classes even though schools did not function.“There is no mention of the double-engine governments at the Central government and in Himachal by any BJP leader as the regimes had failed in checking price rise,” he said.Launching a counter-attack, BJP MLA Arun Kumar condemned the Congress for its behaviour with the Governor on the opening day of the session. “It appears that it is the Congress culture to misbehave,” he said.Others who participated in the debate included Col Inder Singh, Narender Thakur, Vinod Kumar, JR Katwal, Hira Lal, Surinder Shourie and Kamlesh Kumari. The Chief Minister will reply to the debate on the Motion of Thanks to the Governor’s Address tomorrow.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rakesh-singha-attacks-government-over-price-rise-hefty-private-school-fee-220116
04-03-2021||Palampur||Hurt by MLAs’ behaviour: Shanta Kumar||Shanta Kumar, BJP veteran and former Chief Minister, said he was hurt by the “unruly behaviour” of some Congress MLAs with the Governor of the state in the Vidhan Sabha last Friday.Talking to The Tribune at his residence here today, Shanta said such incidents were uncalled for in a peaceful states like Himachal Pradesh where the ruling and the Opposition remained in good equations. He was elected to the Assembly 50 years ago when Dr YS Parmar was the Chief Minister.He also worked with Virbhadra Singh and Ram Lal Thakur and remained the leader of the Opposition many times but always extended cooperation to the Speaker and the government in carrying out business in the House. He said he also spoke to former Chief Minister Virbadhra Singh and requested him to end the stalemate in the Assembly and advise Congress MLAs to apologise to the Governor. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hurt-by-mlas-behaviour-shanta-kumar-220118
04-03-2021||Lalit Mohan||Una-born Jay Chaudhary among top 10 billionaires in US||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, March 3Jay Chaudhry, a native of Panoh village in Himachal Pradesh’s Una district, was on Wednesday named among the top-10 Indian billionaires in the USA.Jay Chaudhary, now a US citizen, is the CEO and founder of Zscaler, a cyber-security company.Born as Jagtar Singh Chaudhary to Bhagat Singh and Surjeet Kaur in 1959, Jay was the youngest among three brothers.He passed his Class X from a village school before topping the Prep under Himachal Pradesh University.Chaudhary used to walk 4 km every day to his school and his teachers remember him as brilliant student and a class topper.He did his graduation from BHU, Varanasi, and later acquired master's and MBA degrees from the University of Cincinnati.Jay Chaudhary’s elder brother Daljeet, who retired as Principal from a government school in Una, is proud of his brother’s achievements. Talking to the mediapersons, Daljeet said Jay was a hard worker and even though he faced many problems in life, he never gave up. His hard work has been paid off, he said.In 1997, Jay founded Secure IT and Cipher Trust. He is also a board member of Air 2 Web.After Zscaler's March 2018 IPO, Chaudhry was reckoned to be a billionaire. In the same year he made it to the finals of the EY Entrepreneur of the Year Award program in Northern California.With a net worth of 6.9 billion US dollars, Chaudhry was included in the 2020 Forbes 400 list of richest people in America, positioned 85th in the list. He was one among the seven Indian-Americans who made the list.Jay is married to Jyoti and the couple have three children. They live in Saratoga, California.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/una-born-jay-chaudhary-among-top-10-billionaires-in-us-220096
