05-03-2021||---||Sirmaur reports 19 new COVID cases||Sirmaur reports 19 new COVID cases Private university reports 16 new casesTribune News ServiceTribune News ServiceSolan, March 5Sirmaur accounted for 19 of Himachal Pradesh’s 24 new coronavirus cases on Friday—16 coming from one educational institution alone—officials said, setting off alarm bells in the district.Sixteen students tested positive at Eternal University in Baru Sahib. The university reopened recently and has since received several students from other states. Three people tested positive in Dolanji monastery. Sirmaur Deputy Commissioner RK Pruthi said the university’s administration has told to make sure social distancing rules are followed. They’ve also been asked to ensure RT-PCR tests are conducted on people coming to the institution from other states. The monastery has also been asked to conduct tests on people coming from outside, officials said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sirmaur-reports-19-new-covid-cases-221038
05-03-2021||Chandigarh||ITBP provides special winter equipment to Himachal police||The Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) on Friday presented more than 60 sets of various categories of Special Clothing and Mountaineering Equipment (SCME) to Himachal Pradesh Police personnel deployed for security of the Atal Tunnel near Manali.Prem Singh, ITBP's Deputy Inspector General (DIG) at Shimla handed over the sets to Madhusudan Sharma, DIG Central Range, Himachal Pradesh Police, at the tunnel's south portal, according to a statement issued by the ITBP.The equipment will be used by Himachal police personnel in extreme cold conditions. Atal Tunnel is located at altitudes of more than 10,000 feet where winter temperature remains sub-zero in snow conditions around.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/itbp-provides-special-winter-equipment-to-himachal-police-221025
05-03-2021||Shimla||Suspension of 5 Congress MLAs from Himachal Assembly revoked||The suspension of five Congress legislators from the Himachal Pradesh Assembly was revoked unanimously on Friday, Speaker Vipin Parmar said.Leader of Opposition Mukesh Agnihotri and MLAs Harsh Vardhan Chauhan, Satpal Raizada, Sunder Singh and Vinay Kumar.  Also read: Congress boycotts HP Vidhan Sabha proceedings as stalemate continues for sixth dayA resolution moved by Parliamentary Affairs Minister Suresh Bhardwaj for the revocation of their suspension was passed unanimously in the House.The suspension of the five lawmakers was revoked just a day before the presentation of the state budget for 2021-22 on Saturday.—PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/suspension-of-5-congress-mlas-from-himachal-assembly-revoked-220961
05-03-2021||Shimla||Himachal reports negative growth of 6.2 per cent  in FY21 due to Covid, tourism sector contracts by 81 per cent||Himachal Pradesh registered a negative growth of 6.2 per cent in the current financial year 2020-21 with the tourism sector contracting by over 81 per cent, severely hit by the coronavirus pandemic.Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, who also holds the finance portfolio, laid down the Economic Survey report for the year 2020-2021 in the Vidhan Sabha on Friday. The growth rate in the state has plummeted from 8.9 per cent in 2019-20 to minus 6.2 per cent this year. The Per Capita Income (PCI) at the current price is estimated to drop by 3.7 per cent to Rs 1,83,286 from the previous year’s PCI of Rs 1,90,407.While almost all the revenue-generating sectors have witnessed a sharp decline, it is the tourism sector that was worst hit with a contraction of 81.33 per cent.Besides this, the hotels and restaurants sector showed a contraction of 9.2 per cent during 2020-21. Transport, mining and quarrying, forestry and construction sectors were also badly hit.The transport sector registered a negative growth of 28 per cent, which includes road, rail, water and air transport. This is in sharp contrast to the 5.6 per cent growth in the previous financial year. The trends in the industrial sector during the pandemic too indicate a grim scenario with a contraction of 14.2 per cent in manufacturing. The mining and quarrying sector registered a negative growth of 18.4 per cent as against a growth of 4.3 per cent in 2019-20.The setback on account of covid was relatively less in the Agriculture and Allied sectors. This sector registered a contraction of 3.1 per cent which due to a decrease of 43 per cent in horticulture production. The agriculture sector, which sustains 60 per cent of the population, in gross value added at the current price declined to 13.62 per cent in 2020-21.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-reports-negative-growth-of-6-2-per-cent-in-fy21-due-to-covid-tourism-sector-contracts-by-81-per-cent-220942
05-03-2021||Shimla||Congress boycotts HP Vidhan Sabha proceedings as stalemate continues for sixth day||Congress on Friday boycotted the Himachal Pradesh Vidhan Sabha proceedings with the entire legislature party sitting outside the Assembly as the impasse continued for the sixth day.Congress MLAs, including the five suspended legislators, sat on a dharna outside the entrance of the Vidhan Sabha. Efforts are being made to resolve the stalemate as Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur will be presenting the budget for the year 2021-2022 in the house on Saturday. Efforts are on to end the deadlock even though Chief Minster remains adamant on Congress tendering an apology to the Governor for their “misbehaviour” on the opening day of the budget session after the Governor’s address.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/congress-boycotts-hp-vidhan-sabha-proceedings-as-stalemate-continues-for-sixth-day-220934
05-03-2021||Chamba||Chamba ranked 4th in development in nationwide rankings announced by NITI Aayog||In the Central government’s Aspirational Districts Programme, Chamba district has secured the fourth position in the nationwide rankings announced by NITI Aayog for the best performance achieved in various sectors of development.Disclosing this to the media here today, Deputy Commissioner DC Rana said the NITI Aayog had identified 112 districts, including Chamba, across the country on the basis of indicators of health, nutrition, education, agriculture, water resources, financial inclusion, skill development and basic infrastructural development.For better implementation of development schemes, Chamba district had received a grant of Rs 3 crore as an award from the Centre, Rana said.“NITI Aayog releases the ranking for the best performance in various sectors and the sector which comes out with good results, the Centre provides special grant to further strengthen and augment these sectors,” the DC stated.Almost Rs 1.16 crore would be spent on infrastructure development and other facilities in the health sector in the district which included digital hemoglobin meters in addition to electronic weighing machines for children and six X-ray machines to be made available, he said. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/chamba-ranked-4th-in-development-in-nationwide-rankings-announced-by-niti-aayog-220578
05-03-2021||Chamba||Timetable of buses plying in Chamba updated||The regional transport office has updated the timetable for buses plying on various routes in Chamba district, said Regional Transport Officer (RTO) Onkar Singh here yesterday. In an official note issued here, the RTO said that besides Chamba, Koti, Sundla, Sanghani, Salooni and Himgiri routes, the timetable for buses plying on Chamba, Bhanjraru, Sanwal, and Bairagarh routes had also been updated.“If there is any error in the timings of buses plying on different routes in the district, the bus owner after verifying the timetable from the ‘stage carriage section’ can get the entry made in the office record with facts in writing from March 18 to 20,” he said. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/timetable-of-buses-plying-in-chamba-updated-220579
05-03-2021||Vijay Arora||HC: Maternity benefits for child through surrogacy||Shimla, March 4A woman cannot be discriminated as far as maternity benefits are concerned on the ground that she has got the baby through surrogacy.This was held by the HP High Court while dealing with a issue involving the question whether a woman employee is entitled to avail maternity leave even in case where she gets the child through arrangement by surrogate parents.Answering the question in affirmative, the court directed the state government to sanction/grant maternity leave to the petitioner as per the rules.While allowing the petition, a Division Bench comprising Justice Tarlok Singh Chauhan and Justice Sandeep Sharma further held that “to distinguish between a mother who begets a child through surrogacy and a natural mother, who gives birth to a child, would result in insulting womanhood and the intention of a woman to bring up a child begotten through surrogacy.”The Bench further said, “A newborn child cannot be left at the mercy of others as it needs rearing and that is the most crucial period during which the child requires care and attention of his mother. A bond of affection has also to be developed.”The court passed this judgment on a petition filed by a woman employee working as a language teacher on contract basis with the government. The petitioner was blessed with a baby on September 10, 2020, through surrogacy. She had applied for maternity leave, but the same was not approved by the authority concerned.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hc-maternity-benefits-for-child-through-surrogacy-220580
05-03-2021||Lalit Mohan||Una man among top 10 Indian billionaires in US||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, March 4Jay Chaudhry, a native of Panoh village located about 12 km from Una on the Amb road, has been named among the top 10 Indian billionaires in the USA. Jay, born in 1959, is the CEO and founder of Zscaler, a cyber-security company.In his village, people remember him by his original name Jagtar Singh Chaudhary. He did matriculation from Government School in his village. He used to walk 4 km to his school. Born to Bhagat Singh and Surjeet Kaur, Jay was the youngest among his three brothers. His teachers remember him as a brilliant student, who used to top in his class. He topped in prep class of Himachal Pradesh University.Thereafter, he did bachelor’s degree from the Indian Institute of Technology (BHU), Varanasi, and masters and MBA from the University of Cincinnati. Daljeet Chaudhary, elder brother of Jay, who retired as the principal of a government school in Una, is feels proud and happy at the success of his brother. He says that Jay was always hard working. He faced many problems in life but never gave up and his hard work had paid off, he adds.Earlier, Jay had founded an air defence company (acquired by Motorola), Cipher Trust (acquired by Secure Computing), Core Harbor (acquired by AT&T) and Secure IT (acquired by Verisign). In 1997, Jay founded Secure IT and Cipher Trust. He is also a board member of Air2Web. After Zscaler’s IPO in March 2018, Jay was reckoned to be a billionaire. In 2018, he was selected as a finalist for the EY Entrepreneur of the Year Award programme in Northern California.With a net worth of 6.9 billion US dollars, Jay was included in the 2020 Forbes 400 list of richest people in America, ranked 85th. He is among seven Indian-Americans to have made to the list. He is married to Jyoti.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/una-man-among-top-10-indian-billionaires-in-us-220581
05-03-2021||Abhinav Vashisht---||Manali girl wins 2 golds in national Winter Games||Kullu, March 4 Girls of Himachal have bagged various medals in the 2nd Khelo India National Winter Games being held at Gulmarg in Kashmir. Anchal Thakur of Manali has won gold medals in Giant Slalom and Slalom events while Varsha has bagged a silver medal in Giant Slalom and a bronze medal in Slalom. Sandhya has won a silver medal in Slalom while Tanuja has won a bronze medal in Giant Slalom, said  Himachal Pradesh Winter Games Association (HPWGA) president Luder Thakur. Anchal’s father Roshan Thakur is a former secretary-general of the erstwhile Winter Games Federation of India and had led several Indian contingents in international and Olympics winter games. He was happy with the excellent performance of his daughter. He said that Anchal deserved a big applause for her commendable achievement in skiing. Anchal had participated in International Ski Federation (FIS) competitions in Europe, Japan, New Zealand and Russia. She had participated in the Youth Winter Olympics held in Austria in 2012 and the Asian Winter Games in Japan in 2017. She had participated in four World Championships in Schladming, Austria, in 2013; Beaver Creek, USA, in 2015; St Mortis, Switzerland, in 2017; and Cortina, Italy, in 2021. Anchal won her first medal in Slalom in the FIS International Alpine Ski competition in 2018 in Turkey. She had won a number of medals in the national championships. She has been honoured with the Himachal Gaurav award, Himachal top sports award Parshuram and many other honours. Roshan said Anchal was now looking to qualify for the next Winter Olympics to be held in 2022. He appealed to the government to sponsor her Olympics programme to encourage and motivate other youths to excel in winter sports.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/manali-girl-wins-2-golds-in-national-winter-games-220582
05-03-2021||NURPUR||Re-evaluation of land award demanded||A delegation of the Four-Lane Lok Body (FLLB), led by its president Rajesh Pathania, met CM Jai Ram Thakur yesterday at Bharwain in Una and submitted a memorandum to him, demanding the revocation of land acquisition awards announced by the Competent Authority of Land Acquisition-cum-SDM, Nurpur, on March 1. The FLLB is an organisation of the Pathankot-Mandi fourlane project affected people. It demanded the re-evaluation of the relief. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/re-evaluation-of-land-award-demanded-220583
05-03-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||Cong showed disrespect to National Flag, says Himachal CM||Tribune News ServiceShimla, March 4Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today accused the Congress MLAs of showing disrespect to the National Flag while banging on the bonnet of the Governor’s car on the first day of the ongoing Budget Session. He said that the Congress MLAs should apologise to the Governor for their misbehaviour in the Vidhan Sabha on the opening day of the Budget session. He was speaking while participating in the debate on the Motion of Thanks on the Governor’s Address in the absence of the Congress MLAs in the Vidhan Sabha.The Chief Minister said that the irresponsible behaviour of the Congress had shamed Himachal all over the country. “They must realise that it is not the culture and tradition of Himachal to behave in this fashion. People of the state have humility and sobriety,” he added. Thirteen BJP legislators and CPM MLA Rakesh Singha participated in the debate, which lasted three days.Thakur said that the least the Congress could do was to apologise to Governor Bandaru Dattatreya for the bad beahviour of its MLAs after the Governor’s Address on February 26. “I am an eyewitness to the entire sequence of events on that unfortunate day when the Congress Legislature Party (CLP) Leader pushed the Governor’s ADC. If the rules permit, the entire video footage of the unruly behaviour of the Congress MLAs must be shown in the Assembly as well as all over the state so that people could know the culture the Congress believes in,” he said.Thakur added that the BJP believed in democracy and was open to healthy criticism but the Congress seemed to have crossed all limits of indecency. “Though it is already very late, the Congress can still repent its behaviour by apologising to the Governor,” he said.He listed the steps initiated by his government in tackling Covid-19 and alleged that had the Congress been in power there would have been a total loot. “What can people expect from a party that did not hesitate from raising a false bill of Rs 12 crore with the Congress top leadership for having extended help to people during the pandemic while in reality nothing had been done on ground,” he alleged.Thakur said that despite Covid, which has affected the whole world, his government ensured that the pace of development was not affected. “Irrespective of what people say, I inaugurated and laid the foundation stones of projects worth Rs 3,500 crore, both virtually and physically,” he claimed.Thakur blamed the previous Congress government for the grim financial health of the state. “Though we have raised loans to the tune of Rs 6,000 crore this year, it is far less than what the Congress had done,” he said. He added that his government had to foot a bill of Rs 72 lakh of a rally at Mandi organised by the previous Congress government, which Rahul Gandhi had also attended. The Congress was yet to pay Rs 12 lakh to the Himachal Roadways Transport Corporation for the buses it hired for the elections and the Rs one lakh cheque the party had issued had bounced,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cong-showed-disrespect-to-national-flag-says-himachal-cm-220584
05-03-2021||---||Jai Ram Thakur should end impasse: Ex-CM Virbhadra||Shimla, March 4Former Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh today justified the Congress protest on the day of the Governor’s Address and said had he been the Chief Minister, he would have resolved the issue within an hour.The Congress Legislature Party (CLP) boycotted the Vidhan Sabha and sat on a dharna outside the Assembly where they were joined by Virbhadra for the first time since the standoff on the opening day of the Budget session.“In a democracy, such protests are justified. The Opposition is not wrong in expressing resentment as that is its role in a democracy,” he said. His presence had strengthened the protest held by the Congress MLAs who did not enter the Assembly while the Chief Minister was replying to a debate on the Motion of Thanks to the Governor’s Address.“The Assembly is like a family where the presence of both ruling and Opposition is important, and the government must be tolerant and sensitive. That is the tradition of the Vidhan Sabha,” he said.Asked if he would approach the CM to resolve the logjam, he said he was six-time CM and had presented 21 Budgets while Jai Ram Thakur was only one-time Chief Minister.“Such harsh steps have never been taken by the government before the Assembly. Whatever had to happen has happened and now the CM must talk to them so that the Budget is presented by the House,” said Virbhadra. State Congress president Kuldeep Rathore also joined the protesting MLAs.The Congress has been on a warpath with the government from day one of the Budget session on February 26 following the suspension of five MLAs till March 20. The five suspended Congress MLAs are CLP Leader Mukesh Agnihotri, Harshwardhan Chauhan, Vinay Kumar, Satpal Raizada and Sunder Thakur.CM: Can’t respond to Virbhadra’s comments||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/jai-ram-thakur-should-end-impasse-ex-cm-virbhadra-220586
05-03-2021||---||Himuda invites applications for sale of properties||Shimla, March 4The Himachal Pradesh Housing and Urban Development Authority (Himuda) has invited applications from general public for its newly-constructed houses, flats and plots of different categories at various places in the state. The properties are located at Jarja (Nahan), Hamirpur, Nalagarh, Parwanoo, Dehra, Chamba, Basal (Solan), Bajaura (Kullu), Una and Rampur. The last date for the receipt of applications along with the earnest money is March 31. A draw of lots will be held at the head office of Himuda at Nigam Vihar in Shimla on April 8.Himuda Chief Executive Officer Akshay Sood said that anyone could apply to buy these properties. He added that the advertisement for the sale of these properties had been uploaded on www.himuda.hp.gov.in with full details and terms and conditions.Sood said that the applicants, who are already registered with Himuda through a demand survey, shall be given 25 per cent preference in allotments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himuda-invites-applications-for-sale-of-properties-220588
05-03-2021||Shimla||BJP legislator deposits part of service tax||BJP MLA Balbir Singh Verma has deposited a part of service tax levied on the properties that he had sold in Shimla after the authorities seized his bank accounts. Verma, who is also a realtor, said here today that the remaining tax would be deposited with the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIT) shortly. On February 24, the CBIT had seized Verma’s bank accounts for his failure to deposit tax against several flats sold in Shimla. However, Verma said he had tried to deposit the tax online but the required form number 3 could not be downloaded. “As a result, I could not pay the entire tax,” he said.  He said he had received a notice from the CBIT in 2016 for depositing service tax of Rs 9.50 crore against several flats sold in 2010, he added. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bjp-legislator-deposits-part-of-service-tax-220589
05-03-2021||---||ED files chargesheet against Paonta firm, MD in fraud case||New Delhi, March 4 The Enforcement Directorate (ED) today said that it had filed a prosecution complaint (equivalent to a police chargesheet) before a special court in Shimla against Paonta Sahib-based Indian Technomac Company Limited, its Managing Director Rakesh Kumar Sharma, Director Vinay Kumar Sharma and 12 other accused under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). ED officials said that an investigation was initiated following the registration of an FIR by the CID wing of the Himachal Pradesh Police. In the complaint, the ED alleged that the company by way of criminal activity related to scheduled offences had acquired Rs 407.13 crore in the form of equity infused by promoter companies. The funds were allegedly sourced through illegal means by diverting loans taken by the company from various banks. The directors of the companies were allegedly involved in money laundering, as they benefited by way of receiving equity shares of the company and also purchased properties in individual names, the ED said. It added that the agency had attached assets worth Rs 288.91 crore of the company and its promoters in September 2019. “Money laundering investigation has revealed that the accused persons devised the modus operandi of diverting bank loan funds to the tune of Rs 407.13 crore from the company to the multiple layers of shell companies, which was subsequently placed back in the accused company by way of allocation of its equities to the promoter companies controlled by accused Rakesh Kumar Sharma,” the ED officials said. It was also revealed during the course of investigation that a fictitious huge rise in revenue from operations was shown in the balance sheets of Indian Technomac Company Limited whereas a number of shell firms were used for showing bogus sales and corresponding purchases, the officials said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ed-files-chargesheet-against-paonta-firm-md-in-fraud-case-220590
05-03-2021||---||No Bill, MC elections on party symbol a far cry, says Sukhu||Dharamsala, March 4The government is neither serious about conducting the municipal corporation elections on party symbol, nor about providing reservation to OBC community in the elections.Former HPCC president and Congress MLA from Nadaun Sukhwinder Sukhu levelled these allegations while addressing a press conference here today.Sukhu said the government had notified that the elections to four corporations, Dharamsala, Solan, Palampur and Mandi, would be held before April 8. To conduct elections on party symbol, as decided by the Cabinet, a Bill to amend the Municipal Council Act had to be brought to the Assembly.After the Act was passed, the people had to be given a month to file objections. It was March 4 and no Bill for amending the Act had been introduced. This illustrated that the government was not serious about holding MC elections on party symbol, Sukhu said.He also said no Bill had been brought to the Assembly for providing reservations to the OBC categories in the MC elections.Sukhu, who has been made in-charge of the committee that will oversee the Congress campaign for MC elections in Dharamsala, held a meeting with party leaders, including former ministers Sudhir Sharma, Chander Kumar and Kuldeep Kumar, former MLA Rajesh Dharmani and Mayor Davinder Jaggi.Sukhu said the Congress had appointed observers for all 17 wards of Dharamsala. They would submit their report to the district president Ajay Mahajan till March 10.Winnability would be only criterion for deciding the candidates.Sukhu said development during the Congress stint from 2012 to 2017 and funds spent by the present government on the city in three years would be the Congress agenda.Winnability must||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/no-bill-mc-elections-on-party-symbol-a-far-cry-says-sukhu-220591
05-03-2021||Dharamsala||Vijay Karan skips  meeting||With the Congress gearing up for the Dharamsala MC poll, fissures have appeared in the party.  Vijay Inder Karan, Congress leader, who had contested the Dharamsala Assembly bypoll in 2019, skipped a meeting convened by former HPCC president Sukhwinder Sukhu to devise a strategy for the coming MC polls today. Vijay said he was not invited.  He had lost the bypoll from Dharamsala and has been blaming former minister Sudhir Sharma and his supporters for his defeat. Vijay and supporters of Sudhir have levelled allegations against each others on the social media. Sukhu said the party had regained its lost ground to some extent in panchayat polls. This time party would be very strict against any kind of dissension. Once the party decided its candidates, anyone going against them would be dealt with strictly. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/vijay-karan-skips-meeting-220592
05-03-2021||---||CM Jai Ram Thakur takes Covid jab in Shimla||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cm-jai-ram-thakur-takes-covid-jab-in-shimla-220593
05-03-2021||Palampur||Wild animals perish in forest fire||With the rise in mercury, forest fires have been reported in Palampur. A pine forest adjoining the Neugal river, 3 km from Palampur, has been on fire since morning. A number of wild animals were killed in the fire. The Forest Department is making all efforts to control the fire.In the absence of adequate financial support from the government, the department has been looking towards rain for dousing the fires.The raging fires are extinguished only when the monsoon breaks over the region. This year it could take longer time as forest fires have been reported as early as March.Information gathered by The Tribune revealed that the Forest Department this year had not been able to take even minimum required preventive measures like controlled burning of forests and maintenance of fire lines. This year it carried out controlled burning over a limited forest area in the state. Official sources said over 20 per cent of the total forest area of the state was prone to fire. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/wild-animals-perish-in-forest-fire-220594
05-03-2021||Mandi||Vendors seek designated place in Mandi||Roadside vendors have urged the state government to set up a designated place for them in Mandi town at suitable place. Due to the absence of a suitable place, they are forced to set up their stalls alongside roads to make livelihood. Surender Kumar, the newly elected president of the roadside vendors’ union in Mandi, said, “Sometimes vendors face action from the Municipal Corporation or the police. Vendors are slapped with challans. Sometimes their products are destroyed by the law enforcing authorities. Also, the installation of stalls alongside roads creates traffic chaos.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/vendors-seek-designated-place-in-mandi-220595
05-03-2021||NURPUR||Sacking of outsourcing staff opposed||The Himachal Pradesh State Electricity Board Ltd (HPSEBL) Union has flayed the board management for sacking 1,244 outsourced field employees in service for the past many years.  Kuldeep Kharwara, president of the union, said here today that the board management, issuing appointment orders of 1,219 field junior T-mates and 333 junior helpers of power substations, had terminated the services of the outsourced employees. It protested the decision as it was against the interests of the HPSEBL. He appealed to Chief Minister to intervene and get their termination orders revoked. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sacking-of-outsourcing-staff-opposed-220596
05-03-2021||The SFI on Thursday submitted a memorandum to the Head of Department||SFI submits memo over LLM seats||ABVP for centres close to students’ homeThe ABVP on Thursday submitted a memorandum to the HPU Controller of Examination demanding that the examination centres for the upcoming exams be set up close to homes of students in view of the growing Covid cases. The ABVP said the Controller of Examination appreciated their concern and idea and had issued the necessary notification.World Wildlife Day celebratedStudents of BLCP School, Solan, celebrated World Wildlife Day under the theme 'Forests and Livelihoods: Sustaining People and Planet' on the school campus following all protocols of Covid-19. It aimed at educating children about preserving the flora and fauna. School manager Veena Bakshi and Principal Ruchika encouraged the children to participate in such activities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sfi-submits-memo-over-llm-seats-220671
05-03-2021||Outside DAV School in New Shimla||Low hanging cables||— Ramit Thakur, New ShimlaTraffic woes a regular affairTheRE is an everyday traffic jam these days from the Regional Transport Office to the Vidhan Sabha road. The stretch anyway is quite busy all the time, but because of the ongoing Budget Session of the Vidhan Sabha, the situation has worsened in the last few days.— Roop Lal, SummerhillIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/low-hanging-cables-220672
05-03-2021||Shimla||Opposition MLAs showed disrespect to national flag while banging on bonnet of Guv’s car: Jai Ram Thakur||Opposition Congress MLAs showed disrespect to the national flag while banging on the bonnet of the Governor’s car on the first day of the ongoing Budget Session, Himachal Pradesh Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur said on Thursday.Replying to the discussion on Governor Bandaru Dattatraya’s address to the Assembly, Thakur said the Tricolour was affixed to the Governor’s car and the Congress members showed disrespect to it.Leader of the Opposition Mukesh Agnihotri and four other Congress MLAs — Harsh Vardhan Chauhan, Satpal Raizada, Sunder Singh and Vinay Kumar — were on Friday suspended for the Budget Session after they allegedly manhandled the Governor.Also read: Congress boycotts Himachal Vidhan Sabha over suspension of MLAsThe alleged incident had taken place outside the Speaker’s office when the Governor was leaving for the Raj Bhavan after he cut short his address to the House following a ruckus. Speaker Vipin Parmar had also lodged a complaint with police in this regard.Members of the Congress did not attend the proceedings on Thursday as well to press their demand for revoking suspension of the five party legislators, who continued their dharna outside the House.Former chief minister Virbhadra Singh and state Congress president Kuldeep Singh Rathore are also on dharna with the suspended MLAs.The lone CPI(M) MLA, Rakesh Singha, was present in the House on Thursday.Chief Minister Thakur said Agnihotri hit the bonnet of the Governor’s car when he was leaving for Raj Bhawan.“I am a witness when Agnihotri pushed the Governor’s ADC (aide-de-camp),” he said.Urging the Speaker to retrieve footage from CCTV cameras installed in the House complex, Thakur said the recording should be shown in the House itself and the Congress members should also be present in the House to witness what they had done.And the people of the state should also see what the opposition members had done, he added.Hitting out at Agnihotri, the Chief Minister said the Leader of Opposition interrupted the Governor’s address and termed it “a bundle of lies” even before it was fully read.Thakur said “Devbhoomi Himachal” was ashamed over the act of the opposition members.They were surprised and shocked to see when the opposition members blocked the way of the Governor when he was going towards his car from the Speaker’s office after addressing the House, he added.The Congress is doing all this out of frustration of their continuous defeat in elections, be it Lok Sabha or panchayat polls, he added.Had the Congress members apologised to the governor on Friday itself, the circumstances would have been different, the chief minister said.The Congress had already delayed an apology but it should consider apologising even now for what its leaders had done on Friday, he added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/opposition-mlas-showed-disrespect-to-national-flag-while-banging-on-bonnet-of-guvs-car-jai-ram-thakur-220458
