06-03-2021||---||Union minister Anurag Thakur welcomed at Parwanoo||Solan, March 6Union Minister of State for Finance and Corporate Affairs, Anurag Thakur, received a rousing welcome on his arrival at Parwanoo, Kumarhatti and Solan on Saturday by the party workers.Large number of activists of Bharatiya Janata Morcha, local BJP mandal, newly-elected Zila Parishad members as well as other party workers greeted him at various places while he was on his way to Shimla.Thakur is coming to address the party’s youth at Shimla tomorrow.Thakur is on a day’s visit to the state where he will attend the Jan Aushadi Diwas Programme at Shimla and will also preside over the closing ceremony of BJP’s mandal-level training programme tomorrow. Thakur said such programmes help the especially provide information about the developmental works carried out by the Union and State government for further dissemination in the masses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/union-minister-anurag-thakur-welcomed-at-parwanoo-221546
06-03-2021||Shimla||Himachal Budget: State MLAs to get full salary from April, MLALAD fund fully restored||The shadow of COVID was more than evident on the budget proposals for the financial year 2021-22 as Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur  presented a tax-free budget of Rs 50,192 crore on Saturday, with only marginal relief to various sections even as he termed it as women welfare and social security-oriented budget.While admitting that COVID had resulted in an extremely difficult fiscal situation, Thakur who also holds the finance portfolio said an attempt had been made to create employment opportunities and strengthen the health and education sectors. “Our financial position remains a cause of concern with the debt trap touching Rs 60,500 crores and as such several steps have been initiated for the revival of the economy, which is beginning to gradually look up,” said Thakur.There has been a mere increase of a little over two per cent in this year’s budget over last year’s budget of Rs 49,131. With huge liability on account of salaries, pensions and loan repayment, a mere Rs 43.94 out of every Rs 100 would be spent on development works. The revenue receipts are estimated at Rs 37,028 crore while revenue expenditure has been pegged at Rs 38,491 crores.The total revenue deficit has been estimated to be Rs 1,463 crore while the fiscal deficit is projected at Rs 7,789 crore, which is 4.5 per cent of the Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP). “As of now there is no proposal to reduce VAT on petrol-diesel to provide relief to people,” CM said in response to a query.The budgetary allocation for the core health sector has witnessed an increase of 11 per cent to Rs 3,016 crore to meet the new challenges thrown up by coronavirus pandemic. The government has decided to not deduct 30 per salary of CM, ministers and MLA, which was a COVID cut, and the MLA Area development Fund has been restored and enhanced from RS 1.75 crore to Rs 1.80 crore. As far as employment generation is concerned, 30,000 functional posts in various departments including Health, Education, Public Works and Police will be filled up, besides 7,000 jobs in the private sector.The highlight of the budget was Swaran Jayanti Naari Sambhal Yojna where 60,000 women above the age of 65 years will be provided Rs 1,000 per month, Shagun scheme for girls child belonging to BPL category among SC, ST and OBC where Rs 31,000 will be given at the time of marriage. Two girls from BPL category were getting Rs 12,000 as post-birth grant, which has been enhanced to Rs 21,000. There will be 256 per cent reservation for women in recruitment for constables and sub-inspectors.The social security pension cover will be extended to another 40,000 beneficiaries during this year which will incur an expenditure of Rs 60 crores. Honorarium of Anganwari workers has been enhanced by Rs 500 per month, mini Anganwari helpers by Rs 300, and Anganwari workers by Rs 300.  In the Education sector, there is a proposal to start Top 100 scholarship scheme, set up 100 Maths labs, provide coaching and career counselling in all government schools and start Him Darpan Shiksha Ekikrit Portal for making the education system more effective.An outlay of Rs 4,520 crore has been made for the public works department to facilitate road expansion. In order to give a fillip to the tourism sector, it has been proposed to undertake 14 projects at a cost of Rs 218 crore besides promoting Lahaul Spiti as a major eco-tourism destination with activities like ice hockey, skiing, and skating.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-budget-state-mlas-to-get-full-salary-from-april-mlalad-fund-fully-restored-221454
06-03-2021||Dharamsala||Dalai Lama takes first dose of coronavirus vaccine||Tibetan spiritual leader the Dalai Lama, who is revered as a 'living god', on Saturday took his first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine in a state-run hospital near his residence here in Himachal Pradesh, doctors said.After getting the jab, the 85-year-old Nobel Peace Laureate thanked the Central and the state governments for facilitating him to get the jab at the Zonal Hospital in Dharamsala.The 14th Dalai Lama was born on July 6, 1935, in a small village in the remote Amdo region of Tibet.The Tibetan administration in exile is based in the north Indian hill town of Dharamsala in Himachal Pradesh.IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/dalai-lama-takes-first-dose-of-coronavirus-vaccine-221435
06-03-2021||Mandi||Charge sheet against 5 for cheating Himachal govt||The HP State Vigilance & Anti-Corruption Bureau (SV&ACB) has filed a charge sheet against a purchaser of land, seller of land, stamp vendor, former Senior Assistant and former Tehsildar, Sadar Mandi, before the court of Special Judge, Mandi, for conspiring to cheat the state government in the payment of due stamp fees/registration fees by cheating, falsification of records and abuse of office.Bureau ASP, Mandi, Kulbhushan Verma said, “The case was registered in 2017 on the basis of an inquiry which revealed that the accused purchaser of land who was closely related to the Tehsildar had conspired with the seller and made a false affidavit that the land was 50 m away from the road so that it would attract less stamp duty and registration fees whereas it was actually only 5 m away from the road.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/charge-sheet-against-5-for-cheating-himachal-govt-221210
06-03-2021||Solan||June new deadline for Shamti bypass||The 5.4-km-long Shamti bypass, where the work had begun in December 2016, is slated to be completed by June, if the fresh deadline announced by the Public Works Department (PWD) is to be believed.Though several deadlines have been announced by the PWD officials for its completion, none has been adhered to till now. Being a key road to decongest the traffic-ridden Solan town, its early completion is eagerly awaited by residents. Local MLA DR Shandil has been repeatedly seeking information about its completion in the Vidhan Sabha sessions.In the recent reply, the PWD officials had claimed that it would be completed by June 2021 as out of the 5.4 km, work like formation cutting of double lane for 4 km and cross-drainage, had been completed and the remaining work was in progress.In December 2019, PWD officials had said formation cutting to double-lane road, including cross-drainage, was completed over 3.5 km in response to a Vidhan Sabha question posed by the MLA.The tardy pace of construction has put a question mark on officials who were monitoring its progress.The project, conceived in 2015, has met several roadblocks. The project cost is initially pegged at Rs 26 crore.A sum of Rs 11.98 crore was spent on acquiring a major portion of land initially. More than two years were spent on finalising the land as the initial survey was diverted to favour a few land owners, which sizeably pushed up its cost of acquisition.The project also includes carving out a link road to connect villages like Shayothal, Mananjhi, Bhagrol, Dharanjhanti Kalan, Dharanjhanti Khurd, Bharkhor, Chilla Khurd, Chilla Kalan,Chilari, Badlayana, Shamlech and also a bridge. It will help decongest Solan town, where the influx of vehicles is leading to traffic jams on a daily basis. The project was being funded by NABARD. Some delay was also caused in paying compensation to private land holders. The funds were received in bits and pieces and this too added to the delay in its execution.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/june-new-deadline-for-shamti-bypass-221211
06-03-2021||Dharamsala||Road to McLeodganj blocked to raze structure, hoteliers worried||An illegal building raised at the entrance of McLeodganj on forestland was being demolished on the Supreme Court orders. Due to the demolition process, the district administration has blocked the main road to McLeodganj for traffic.The tardy pace at which the demolition process is going on has the tourism industry of the area worried.Mukesh Kumar, a hotelier of McLeodganj, said the tourism season in the region was going to start from April. However, the demolition process had been going on at a tardy pace, he said, adding that if the process remained the same, the main road to McLeodganj would remain blocked for months. This would destroy tourism work in the area, he said.Kangra Deputy Commissioner Rakesh Prajapati, “The contractor, who had raised the building, was given time till February 27 to demolish it as per the court orders. However, he could not do so within the stipulated time. Now, the work has been handed over to the Conservator Forests, Dharamsala. The Conservator has floated a tender for the demolition work. The work will be allotted soon with the condition that it should be completed at the earliest.”The president of the Hotel and Restaurant Association of upper Dharamsala, Ashwani Bamba, said hoteliers in the region were suffering losses incurred last year due to Covid. This year, they were looking forward to a summer season that extends from April to June. “However, the blockage of the main road is likely to complicate traffic problems in the region. The district administration should hire services of a professional company for the demolition,” he said.The Supreme Court, in an order issued on January 12, upheld the NGT order issued in 2016 and ordered demolition of the hotel and the restaurant constructed on forestland at the entrance of McLeodganj by a private entrepreneur on a Build Operate and Transfer (BOT) basis for the Himachal Pradesh Bus Stand Management and Development Authority.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/road-to-mcleodganj-blocked-to-raze-structure-hoteliers-worried-221161
06-03-2021||Our CorrespondentPalampur||Sacking of HPSEBL staff to be reviewed: Minister||Hundreds of employees of Himachal Pradesh State Electricity Board Limited (HPSEBL) today threatened to resort to “direct action” if the board did not withdraw the retrenchment orders issued to 1,244 outsourced employees. The HPSEBL had terminated the services of these employees two days ago.Today, Kuldip Singh Kharwara, state president of the HPSEBL Employees Union, along with other union members assembled at the Jia Rest House near Palampur where Power Minister Sukh Ram Chaudhary was camping and staged a protest against the uncalled for action of the government. They raised slogans against the government and urged the minister to restore the services of the sacked employees. The minister assured them of taking up the issue with Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur and reviewing the retrenchment decision.Kharwara said most of the sacked employees had been serving the HPSEBL for the past 10 to 15 years. The HPSEBL should have regularised their services instead of making fresh appointments. He added that six employees were electrocuted while on duty or killed in other mishaps.The protesters told the minister that at present the HPSEBL was totally dependent on the outsourced employees and there would be a severe power crisis in the state if their services were not restored. Kharwara said that in Palampur division alone, 34 field employees were sacked and the situation in other divisions of the HPSEBL was also the same.He said 5,500 posts were vacant in the HPSEBL and the government should fill these posts by retaining the sacked employees. The minister assured the agitating employees that the retrenchment decision would be reviewed. He would personally look into the issue and apprise the Chief Minister of the facts so that the outsourced employees could be retained.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sacking-of-hpsebl-staff-to-be-reviewed-minister-221162
06-03-2021||Mandi||After long, 2 Mandi deities to take  part in Shivratri fair||Two deities of Mandi district will take part in the weeklong Shivratri fair this year after a gap of 99 and 57 years. It is stated that deity Devi Vayla of Gussain was not attending the Shivratri fair for the last 99 years, while another deity Khamradha Markandey of Aut was not attending the fair for the last 57 years despite repeated invitation by the district administration.This year, these deities have decided to ensure their presence in the weeklong fair on the invitation of the district administration that organises this event every year to promote the rich tradition and culture of the district.The Sarv Devta Seva Samiti, Mandi, welcomed the decision of these deities and urged the district administration to ensure proper arrangement for their stay in the town during the weeklong fair. The event will kick-start officially on March 12 and conclude on March 18.Shivpal Sharma, president, Sarv Devta Seva Samiti, Mandi, told The Tribune, “It is a matter of happiness that two ancient deities of Mandi district will join the weeklong Shivratri fair after such a long period. One deity will arrive here in the town after a gap of 99 years, while the other one after 57 years.”“These deities had discontinued their presence in this mega event due to some reasons, but now they have accepted the invitation,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/after-long-2-mandi-deities-to-take-part-in-shivratri-fair-221163
06-03-2021||Ravinder SoodPalampur||No rate charts, contractors ‘fleecing’ vehicle owners at parking lots||In gross violation of rules and specific directions of the Deputy Commissioner, Kangra, most of the private and state government-auctioned parking contractors in Jwalamukhi and Kangra do not display rate charts. Overcharging from vehicle owners, particularly pilgrims, is going on unabated.Both Jwalamukhi and Kangra SDMs have also directed the contractors to display the rates in the parking lots and warned them that anyone found violating the norms would be fined and their contract would be cancelled.During a visit The Tribune found that most of the contractors did not display the rate lists. Private contractors in Kangra charge Rs 50 to Rs 100 for light vehicles in the absence of any check from the authorities. Similar is the situation at Jwalamukhi. Parking contractor at the official parking of the Nagar Parishad, Jwalamukhi, is charging Rs 50 to Rs 100 plus GST. The state governed had fixed Rs 30 to Rs 50 for light vehicles and Rs 100 for heavy vehicles or according to hours with directions to display this list on various locations of the parking lots.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/no-rate-charts-contractors-fleecing-vehicle-owners-at-parking-lots-221165
06-03-2021||Solan||Aggarwal new chairman of CII HP council||Shailesh Aggarwal and Subodh Gupta were elected chairman and vice-chairman of the Himachal Pradesh State Council of the Confederation of Indian Industry ( CII), respectively, for 2021–22 here today.Aggarwal is the managing director of JB Conductors and Cables, Nalagarh, and has been associated with the CII for the past several years. He has also served on the CII HP Panel on Power earlier. Gupta is the chairman and managing director of Microtek Group having global footprints in power solutions and healthcare. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/aggarwal-new-chairman-of-cii-hp-council-221166
06-03-2021||Our CorrespondentKullu||Folk dances mark Lahaul snow fest||The ‘Yor’ utsav was celebrated in Triloknath while ‘Lamoi’ was celebrated in Gondhla during the snow festival at Lahaul and Spiti district today.Deputy Commissioner Pankaj Rai said many cultural traditions here were very old. He referred to the revival of ‘Yor’ tradition celebrated in different areas and said in addition to rituals of worship, traditional folk dances were also organised during the utsav.The specialty of ‘Yor’ festival is that 8-ft-high ‘Shivling’ is made of snow and nature is worshiped for good harvest and prosperity in the area by wearing a mask and traditional dress. ‘Yor’ celebration is related to the worship of Lord Shiva. The locals say that the ‘Yor’ utsav has been celebrated every year for centuries to get rid of natural disasters. ‘Yor’ of Triloknath signifies the departure of winter and the arrival of spring.Rai said efforts were being made to revive the rich tribal culture through the ‘festival of festivals’. He said cultural genres of the district would be linked with tourism. He said locals were being motivated for the homestay scheme to promote tourism. He added that a workshop on homestay operations by experts would be held on March 23.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/folk-dances-mark-lahaul-snow-fest-221167
06-03-2021||Shimla||Thakur: Govt creating conducive environment for industries in Himachal||Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur yesterday said that the state government was committed to creating better environment for industries. He was presiding over the Himachal Pradesh State Annual Session 2020-21 of the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) here.Thakur said that Himachal had taken a big leap in the ease of doing business ranking of the Union Government from 16th to seventh rank, which would improve in the times to come. He added that the Covid pandemic had adversely affected the world economy and India and Himachal were not an exception.He said that the industrialists of the state rose to the occasion and cooperated with the government as well as society. He added that the industry made a sizable contribution towards the PM CAREs and the CM COVID Fund and also provided free ration, masks and hand sanitisers to the needy.The Chief Minister said that the theme “Regaining the Growth Momentum” for this annual conference was indeed timely and appropriate. The government had sent a proposal of a Rs 1,190 crore bulk drug park to come up on 1,405 acres in Una district to the Central Government for approval. He added the park was expected to attract investment to the tune of Rs 8,000 crore and generate a turnover of over Rs 50,000 crore and 15,000 jobs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/thakur-govt-creating-conducive-environment-for-industries-in-himachal-221168
06-03-2021||Shimla||IGMC conferred Skoch Awards||The Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital (IGMC) has been conferred the Skoch Awards for its services to patients during the pandemic. “The hospital has received the recognition at the national level for the services it provided during the pandemic. All IGMC officers and employees deserve credit for this achievement,” said IGMC Medical Superintendent Dr Janak Raj.He said that the hospital administration would dedicate this award to all those who worked day in and day out and helped the institution to figure among the few chosen hospitals.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/igmc-conferred-skoch-awards-221169
06-03-2021||Dharamsala||Changar residents protest lack of health facilities||The residents of Changar in the Nagrota Bagwan Assembly constituency today protested against poor health facilities in the area. The residents carried out a protest march carrying placards and raising slogans against the state government.They alleged that Changar was a remote area that did not have hospital. They said those who do not have their modes of transport have no option but to wait for public transport to take patients facing medical emergencies.The protesters alleged that since the pandemic, the HRTC had not restored all transport services to the area. The public transport modes in the area have become scarce due to which students are facing problems in reaching schools and patients in reaching hospitals. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/changar-residents-protest-lack-of-health-facilities-221170
06-03-2021||The Student-Parent Forum on Friday staged a protest at the Vidha Sabha demanding that laws be framed to regulate fee||Student-Parent Forum protests||World Wildlife Day celebratedThe Scouts and Guides unit of DAV Public School, Gohju, on Friday celebrated World Wildlife Day. The unit organised a poster-making competition under the guidance of captain Seema Choudhary and scout captain Rakesh Dogra on the theme "Forest and Livelihood: Sustaining People and Planet". Principal Jaidev Sharma congratulated the students and also highlighted the significance of this year's theme. He highlighted the role of forests, forest species and ecosystems services in sustaining the livelihood of millions of people at a global level.Open hostels for all students: NSUIThe NSUI has demanded that HPU hostels be opened up for all students. The NSUI said the HPU had released the date sheet for exams for PG courses and LLB exams from March 15 but hadn't opened hostels for students. The HPU has allotted hostels to the students of science stream only so far. Accusing the HPU of giving a step-motherly treatment to non-science students, the NSUI demanded that hostels be opened for all students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/student-parent-forum-protests-221171
06-03-2021||The narrow road stretch between Koot and Jot on the Chuwari-Jot-Chamba link road is causing a lot of inconvenience to commuters. The stretch is full of blind curves and hence is accident prone. The traffic on this road has increased manifold during the past decade as it is the shortest route for commuters to visit Dalhousie||Blind curves on narrow stretch||Need for bus serviceKeeping in view the requirement of local residents to go to the Chamba medical college and hospital, the HRTC should ply a bus from the old bus stand to Karian. This bus service, if started, will go a long way in benefiting residents of Mugla, Hardaspura and Julakari vicinities of the town. — Vishwanath, ChambaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/blind-curves-on-narrow-stretch-221189
06-03-2021||Shimla||Stalemate broken, 5 Cong MLAs’ suspension revoked||The impasse in the Vidhan Sabha was finally resolved today, as the House passed a resolution revoking the suspension of the five Congress MLAs for creating a ruckus after the Governor’s Address.Parliamentary Affairs Minister Suresh Bhardwaj moved the resolution in the House under Rule 319 (2) Para 2. It was after day-long parleys between the ruling party and senior Congress MLAs such as Asha Kumari, Ram Lal Thakur, Sukhwinder Singh Sukhu, Dhani Ram Shandil and Jagat Singh Negi that the deadlock was broken. It was CPM legislator Rakesh Singha who had taken upon himself the task of mediation between the BJP and the Congress to break the stalemate.Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur said that any difference of opinion between political opponents should be resolved through dialogue. He added that everyone must uphold the high traditions of the House in future. “We missed your presence in the House and it actually feels very nice to see you seated here,” he said in a lighter vein.Asha Kumari supported the resolution to revoke the suspension of CLP leader Mukesh Agnihotri, Harshwardhan Chauhan, Vinay Kumar, Sunder Thakur and Satpal Raizada unconditionally. She thanked the Chief Minister and CPM legislator Singha for breaking the deadlock. She said that it was appropriate for both ruling and opposition parties to work together in the House for the betterment of the state and its people by raising relevant issues.Sukhu thanked the government for taking a positive decision. He said that what happened was unintentional, as the situation suddenly became volatile. It wouldn’t be appropriate if the Chief Minister presents the Budget in the absence of the Opposition. “The Speaker telephoned me yesterday to break the deadlock and finally we managed to resolve the issue in a very cordial atmosphere today,” he added.Ram Lal Thakur and Dhani Ram Shandil also supported the resolution. Later, the suspended MLAs entered the House after the resolution was passed unanimously.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/stalemate-broken-5-cong-mlas-suspension-revoked-221191
06-03-2021||Shimla||Bill tabled for MC poll on party symbol||The Himachal Pradesh Municipal Corporation (Amendment) Bill, 2021, was introduced in the Vidhan Sabha today to pave the way for holding the MC elections on party symbols and having a provision for the disqualification of members in case of defection.The Bill was introduced in the House by Urban Development Minister Suresh Bhardwaj and it aims to amend the Himachal Pradesh Municipal Corporation Act, 119 (Act No 12 of 1994). The Municipal Corporation polls in Mandi, Palampur, Dharamsala and Solan are scheduled to be held in April for which the amendment to the Bill is being made. Presently, the elections to the Municipal Corporations in the state are held on the basis of free symbols and the contesting candidates set up by the political parties are not allotted the reserved symbols. Therefore, the Himachal Pradesh Municipal Corporation Act, 1994, is proposed to be amended so that the candidates of the political parties may be allotted symbols reserved for them.The other objective of this amendment is to provide stability in the Municipal Corporations and insert a provision for disqualification of members in case of defections. Further, the quorum for considering a “no confidence motion” against the Mayor or Deputy Mayor is also being enhanced to three-forth from the present limit of one-half.Keeping in view the spirit of the Article 243T of the Constitution of India, an enabling provision is being incorporated to provide for reservation in the office of Mayor of the Municipal Corporations to the Other Backward Classes (OBCs). Presently, there is no bar to the defaulter(s) of the Cooperative Societies to contest elections. Therefore, a provision is being made that such defaulter(s) will be disqualified from contesting the elections of the Municipal Corporations.Bhardwaj said that some amendments were being introduced so as to make it more compatible with the need of the hour.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bill-tabled-for-mc-poll-on-party-symbol-221192
06-03-2021||Shimla||Himachal Govt to consider controlled cannabis cultivation, says CM||Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today said that the state government would consider legalising the controlled cultivation of cannabis after studying its various aspects.He said that this during a debate under Rule 101 in the Vidhan Sabha on a motion moved by Jwalamukhi MLA Ramesh Dhawala on legalising the cultivation of cannabis. Dhawala urged the government to legalise the cultivation of cannabis, as it has many uses, including in manufacturing medicines, ropes, slippers and hemp fabric and Uttarakhand had already done so.Thakur, while relying to the motion, said that many states had already allowed the cultivation of cannabis, considering its manifold benefits. “I am sure these states have taken the decision after thorough research and weighing all the pros and cons. Our government, too, will consider it,” he added.Thakur said, “The cannabis produced in Himachal has been found to be of very high quality and therefore there is potential to undertake its controlled cultivation”.The Chief Minister also listed various uses of cannabis for religious purposes and in traditional Himachali cuisine from times immemorial.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-govt-to-consider-controlled-cannabis-cultivation-says-cm-221193
06-03-2021||Shimla||Use social media to inform people of govt policies: CM||Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today urged BJYM workers to ensure effective use of modern technology and social media to disseminate information about the policies and programmes of the state government to people. He addressed the state working committee meeting of the state BJYM here.The Chief Minister lauded the services rendered by the BJYM members during the pandemic. Sanjay Tandon, co-incharge of BJP affairs in Himachal, also addressed the participants in the morning session.Thakur said that he himself had been the BJYM state president. “The youth are the future of the nation, therefore, it is their responsibility to work with commitment and dedication towards making India a strong and vibrant country,” he added.He said that the state was ashamed at the misconduct of the Congress leaders with the Governor on the first day of the Budget session of the Assembly. “The Congress is a leaderless party where everyone is fighting to prove his leadership. On the other hand, the BJP in the state is united and ready to ensure the Mission Repeat in the next Assembly elections,” he added.Thakur said that even during the pandemic the BJP ensured that the organisational activities go on uninterrupted for which the effective use of social media was done to reach out to every section of society.Chief Minister’s Political Adviser Trilok Jamwal, and Shimla district office-bearers were present on the occasion. President of the state BJYM Amit Thakur said that the morcha had contributed over Rs 1 crore towards the CM Covid-19 Fund and also provided lakhs of face masks and hand sanitisers to the needy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/use-social-media-to-inform-people-of-govt-policies-cm-221194
06-03-2021||Nurpur||Mountain terrain biking camp begins||A seven-day mountain terrain biking training camp started at the Regional Water Sports Centre (RWSC) at the Pong Dam lake today. As many as 125 boys and girls from Haryana are taking part in the camp being organised to promote adventure tourism in Kangra district. The RWSC of Atal Bihari Vajpayee Institute of Mountaineering, Manali, has purchased 20 mountain bikes for imparting training to youths.Rakesh Ahlwalia, in-charge of the RWSC, said the participants would undertake an biking expedition of 130 km to 170 km in a day to hone their skills. “The expedition route has been planned from the Pong reservoir to Nurpur, Kathgarh Temple and Rock Cut Temple,” he added.He said that at the end of training, the participants would be given certificates by the state government. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mountain-terrain-biking-camp-begins-221196
06-03-2021||Shimla||Police trace 90 pc missing persons under special drive||The Himachal Police have succeeded in tracing 90 per cent of persons reported to be missing over the past 10 years. This achievement has been possible due to a special campaign launched by DGP Sanjay Kundu — the police have managed to trace 15,154 of total 16,914 persons who had been missing over the past decade.The police managed to trace and rescue 531 persons (158 men, 317 women and 56 children) within a month under a special drive launched in February. The police along with the CID searched bus stands, platforms, and shelter homes. The highest number of traced persons were from Baddi (97), followed by Shimla (90), Kangra (78), Mandi (55) and Kullu (45). In 2020, 414 persons were rescued under the campaign.The main reasons cited for these people leaving their homes include domestic violence, unemployment, economic hardships or love-related matters. Sometimes, children are abducted or allured and pushed into human trafficking while some leave their homes due to poor performance in studies.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/police-trace-90-pc-missing-persons-under-special-drive-221197
06-03-2021||Solan||16 of Baru Sahib Eternal University test +ve||Alarm bells have rung at the Baru Sahib-based Eternal University after 16 persons tested positive for Covid-19 today. The university recently resumed classes and students are coming from other states too.Meanwhile, Sirmaur district today registered as many as 24 cases, including three from the Dolanji monastery, two from Rajgarh and three from Paonta Sahib.Sirmaur DC RK Pruthi said the university authorities had been directed to ensure that students and staff were staggered during lunch, classes and other occasions. Those coming from outside should undergo an RT-PCR test and all Covid safety norms should be adhered to. He said the monastry authorities had also been directed to ensure testing of those coming from outside. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/16-of-baru-sahib-eternal-university-test-ve-221198
06-03-2021||Shimla||72 new cases, 1 death in Himachal||As many as 72 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the total number of cases to 59,104.Meanwhile, one fatality was reported in the state from Kangra in the last 24 hours. With this, the total number of active Covid cases in Himachal reached 589 and the fatality figure rose to 984.The highest number of cases (24) were reported in Sirmaur, followed by 20 in Kangra, 11 each in Una and Solan, three in Mandi, two in Hamirpur and one in Shimla. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/72-new-cases-1-death-in-himachal-221200
06-03-2021||Solan||Teachers told not to leave station without prior intimation||Fearing another wave of Covid-19 in the industrial belt of Baddi-Barotiwala-Nalagarh (BBN), Nalagarh SDM Mahinder Pal has issued directions to the heads of educational institutes to ensure that no staff member leaves the station without prior intimation and discourage the practice of daily to and fro from neighbouring states.A primary schoolteacher at a Barotiwala school, who was commuting from outside the state, had tested Covid positive three days ago.Nalagarh SDM's instructions The health authorities yesterday conducted random sampling of the school staff and if they tested positive, sampling of all staffers and students could be conducted, health officials said.The BBN area had witnessed a huge surge in Covid cases last year and the administration has sounded a caution with a sudden spike in casesin the state.A team supervised by the Principal, Industrial Training Institute, Nalagarh, had been constituted to inspect educational institutes for Covid-19 appropriate behaviour, including the use of masks, sanitisers and social distancing, said the Sub Divisional Magistrate.He also instructed that staff members or students having influenza-like symptoms were not permitted to attend school. The head of institutes would have to intimate about such patients to the health authorities and they would be permitted to resume attendance only after Covid-19 negative test report.As industrial workers come to the Baddi-Barotiwala-Nalagarh area from places outside the state, the regional manager, Himachal Roadways Transport Corporation (HRTC), has also been told to direct bus drivers to ensure passengers wear masks and if mass violations were found, buses could be impounded.The police would ensure the use of masks in places frequented by people while the Deputy Director, Industries, would ensure that those resuming work after more than a five-day leave furnish their Covid test reports.The block medical officers of Nalagarh and Chandi had been directed to ramp up sampling and initiate a ‘no mask, no entry’ campaign.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/teachers-told-not-to-leave-station-without-prior-intimation-221201
06-03-2021||Dharamsala||Staff shortage mars functioning of Dharamsala Municipal Corporation||The Dharamsala Municipal Corporation (MC), which was formed in 2015, has been reeling under acute staff shortage. Though it was upgraded from a council five years ago, the government has failed to provide additional staff.Mayor Davinder Jaggi said 17 posts were lying vacant in the local body. It includes town planner (1), junior office assistants (2), patwari (2), driver (1), naib tehsildar (1) and kannugo (1), accountant (1), junior accountants (2), accounts officer (1), personal officer (1) and others. “We have been repeatedly writing to the government to fill the vacant posts, but nothing has been done,” he said.More work, less officialsSources said besides the said vacancies, the Dharamsala MC had written to the government for additional 30 posts. However, the state Finance Department has failed to sanction these additional posts.The Dharamsala municipal council was upgraded to an MC in 2015. With its upgrade, eight villages were merged in the corporation area, taking the population from 22,000 to 50,000.Dharamsala was upgraded with an aim to get selected under the Smart City scheme. However, more than five years after the upgrade, the local body continues to work with the same staff. The MC had demanded 30 additional posts from the state government.Sources say at present, there is only one executive engineer and SDO as municipal engineers. The two have to ensure the implementation of the Municipal Act, approve maps of new buildings and deviations in old buildings. They also have to ensure construction work in the corporation area.Despite the fact that the area of corporation has increased, there is not even a single sanitary supervisor to look after sanitation. In new panchayat areas, people have been complaining about lack of sanitation.A doctor from the Zonal Hospital has been given an additional charge of food safety officer in corporation. He is generally not available to the corporation owing to his duty in the hospital.The sources said work pressure in the corporation had increased to such an extent that certain employees on deputation were seeking transfer to their parent departments.The sources said staff in the Shimla MC was six times more than the Dharamsala local body, even when the area of both the corporations was almost the same.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/staff-shortage-mars-functioning-of-dharamsala-municipal-corporation-221203
06-03-2021||Chandigarh||ITBP gives spl winter equipment to police||The Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) today presented more than 60 sets of various categories of special clothing and mountaineering equipment (SCME) to the Himachal Pradesh Police personnel deployed for security of the Atal Tunnel near Manali.Prem Singh, ITBP’s Deputy Inspector-General (DIG) at Shimla handed over the sets to Madhusudan Sharma, DIG, Central Range, Himachal Pradesh Police, at the tunnel’s south portal, according to a statement issued by the ITBP. The equipment will be used by HP police personnel in extreme cold conditions.The Atal Tunnel is located at altitudes of more than 10,000 ft where winter temperatures remain sub-zero in snow conditions around.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/itbp-gives-spl-winter-equipment-to-police-221205
06-03-2021||Kullu||Kullu Cong protests rising prices||The office-bearers and workers of the Kullu District Congress Committee today took out a funeral procession of the state government and staged a dharna at Dhalpur against the suspension of the five MLAs from the Assembly session and the rising inflation. They lit the dummy pyre as police personnel tried to extinguish it.Kullu DCC president Budhi Singh Thakur said that inflation was constantly rising and the life of the common man was becoming more and more difficult. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kullu-cong-protests-rising-prices-221206
06-03-2021||Our CorrespondentPalampur||3 new engines to run on Kangra valley railway line||The Indian Railways will introduce three latest engines on the 120 km narrow gauge Kangra valley rail line to improve its services. A trial run of these engines has already been conducted and these will start running in the next few days.A Railways spokesman said here that 11 most modern engines had been sanctioned for this track and four engines had already reached Pathankot. After the commissioning of these engines, a remarkable improvement in the train services in the valley would be witnessed.He said that most of the rail engines being run on this narrow gauge line were 30 years old and needed to be replaced. Therefore, the Railways had introduced new engines.“The Kangra valley rail line will complete 100 years soon. Though there is a plan to declare this track as a heritage, the Railways is yet to get the nod from UNESCO. There is a big scope of creating a religious tourism circuit through the Kangra valley rail line, as it is connected with religious shrines such as Jwalamukhi, Kangra, Chamunda, Chintpurni and the ancient Shiva temple at Baijnath. The state Tourism Department should work on these lines and the Railways would extend it full support,” he added.He said that on the directions of Union Railways Minister Piyush Goel, the authorities had taken up a new project for the face-lifting and overhauling of the Kangra valley rail line. He added that there was also a proposal to add new transparent coaches in seven trains running between Pathankot and Joginder Nagar, which covers 120 km in nine hours.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/3-new-engines-to-run-on-kangra-valley-railway-line-221207
06-03-2021||Shimla||Himachal Pradesh economy to shrink 6.2%, tourism 81%||Himachal Pradesh is likely to register a negative growth of 6.2 per cent in the current financial year (2020-21) due to the adverse impact of Covid-19 pandemic, with the tourism sector contracting by over 81 per cent.Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, who also holds the Finance portfolio, tabled the Economic Survey for 2020-21 in the Vidhan Sahba today. The growth rate this year is expected to plummet from 8.9 per cent in 2019-20 to minus 6.2 per cent. The per capita income at the current price is estimated to drop by 3.7 per cent to Rs 1,83,286 from previous year’s Rs 1,90,407.While almost all revenue-generating sectors have witnessed a sharp decline, tourism sector is the worst-hit with a contraction of 81.33 per cent. The hotels and restaurants sector is likely to register a contraction of 9.2 per cent in 2020-21. The other badly hit sectors include transport, mining and quarrying, forestry and construction. The agriculture sector is set to register a contraction of 3.1 per cent due to a decrease of 43 per cent in horticulture production. Fiscal deficit is estimated to be 4.65 per cent of the GSDP in 2020-21. — TNSCovid impact3.7% drop expected in per capita income9.2% contraction likely in hotel/ restaurant sector3.1% decrease expected in agriculture sector4.65% of the GSDP will be the state’s fiscal deficit||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-pradesh-economy-to-shrink-6-2-tourism-81-221209
