08-03-2021||Shimla||HP Assembly passes Bill enabling candidates to contest MC polls on party symbols||The Himachal Pradesh Municipal Corporation (Amendment) Bill, which will allow candidates to contest on party symbols, has been passed in the Assembly on Monday amid a walkout by the Opposition.Tabled in the Assembly on March 5, the Bill was passed despite strong objections raised by Congress legislator Jagat Singh Negi and the lone CPI(M) legislator Rakesh Singha.Objecting the amendments, Singha said if the Bill is passed, he would reserve the right to go to court against it.The Opposition Congress said the Bill should have been passed after a proper discussion.Urban Development Minister Suresh Bhardwaj stated that the HP MC Act, 1994 is proposed to be amended so that the candidates of the political parties may be allotted symbols reserved for them.   Later, the Opposition walked out from the House. Subsequently, the Bill was passed.Tabling the Bill on Friday, the minister stated that the elections to municipal corporations in the state are currently held on the basis of free symbols and the contesting candidates put up by the political parties are not allotted the reserved symbols.  Therefore, the Himachal Pradesh Municipal Corporation Act, 1994 is proposed to be amended so that the candidates of the political parties may be allotted symbols reserved to them, he added.   In order to provide stability in the municipal corporations, the provisions are also being inserted to provide for disqualification of members in case of defections, he added.Further, the quorum for considering a no-confidence motion against the Mayor or Deputy Mayor is also being enhanced to three-fourths from the present limit of one-half.Keeping in view the spirit of the article 243T of the Constitution of India, an enabling provision is being incorporated to provide for reservation in the Office of Mayor of the Municipal Corporations to the Other Backward Classes (OBCs), he added.  Presently there is no bar on the defaulters of cooperative societies to contest elections, he said, adding that therefore, a provision is being made that such defaulters will be disqualified from contesting municipal corporation elections.  Besides, certain other amendments are also required to be carried out in the Act so as to make it more compatible with the needs of the hour, he added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hp-assembly-passes-bill-enabling-candidates-to-contest-mc-polls-on-party-symbols-222425
08-03-2021||Shimla||Himachal Police holds all-women parade at historic Ridge in Shimla||The Himachal Pradesh Police on Monday held an all-women parade at the historic Ridge in Shimla, an example Governor Bandaru Dattareya said other states should follow to increase their strength in the force.Policewomen also performed a motorbike stunt and combat drill at the event held to mark International Women's Day.The Governor on the occasion said the state police is the first force in the country to hold an all-women parade and opined that other states should hold such events to increase the strength of women in the force. The governor also released a souvenir, “Veerangna”, and honoured several former and current policeowmen. Adressing the gathering, Director General of Police (DGP) Sanjay Kundu said not even a single crèche exists for policewomen's children while they are on duty despite their significant strength in the force.A number of policewomen perform traffic duties but they face inconvenience due to a lack of toilet facilities nearby. “As the head of the force, I will try to address such gender issues,” he added.    On this occasion, the Kullu women police station was adjudged as the best among such 11 police stations in the state. Dharamshala DIG Sumedha Dwevedi, who led a team for making the function a success, said three women had joined the state police on compassionate grounds in 1973 followed by the recruitment of the first regular batch of 28 policewomen in 1975.Currently, over 2,300 women are part of the state police, she added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-police-holds-all-women-parade-at-historic-ridge-in-shimla-222377
08-03-2021||Shimla||Himachal Pradesh: 2 moderate intensity quakes hit Chamba||Two moderate intensity earthquakes of magnitude 3.6 and 3.5 shook Himachal Pradesh’s Chamba on Monday morning, the Meteorological Department said.There was no report of any casualty or damage to property.The quake’s epicentre was at a depth of 5 km in Chamba district, the department said.The two quakes of magnitude 3.6 and 3.5 were felt in and around the district at 10.20 am and 10.38 am respectively, it said. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-pradesh-2-moderate-intensity-quakes-hit-chamba-222362
08-03-2021||Lalit Mohan||Cong, BJP gear up for Dharamsala, Palampur MC elections||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, March 7Both the Congress and ruling BJP are gearing up for Dharamsala and Palampur municipal corporation elections scheduled by the end of March.The BJP has appointed Minister for Forest Rakesh Pathania as in charge for elections to Dharamsala municipal corporation and Minister for Industry and Transport Bikram Thakur in charge for Palampur municipal corporation elections.Tough for BJP in DharamsalaPeople are finding it hard to get their regular works done in the corporation office as the body was acutely short of staff. This is one of the reasons for the delay in regular works such as approval of maps.The Congress has appointed former HPCC president Sukhwinder Sukhu as in charge for Dharamsala and former minister Kaul Singh Thakur for elections to Palampur. The elections hold great significance for both the key parties as the state Cabinet has decided to hold these on party symbol.While the Dharamsala MC would go in for elections for the second term, for Palampur these will the first elections. Palampur MC was notified recently by the present BJP government.In the last elections for Dharamsala MC Congress had won 16 out of 17 wards, dominating the house. The BJP would now aim to get majority in the house.Sources here said that Rakesh Pathania has convened a meeting for the elections in Dharamsala.The BJP would be facing an uphill task in winning the Dharamsala municipal corporation where the absence of any notable development in the city in the last three years would be the key issue the ruling party will face.The people are finding it hard to get their regular works done in the corporation office as the body was acutely short of staff. This is one of the reasons for delay in regular works such as approval of maps.In a large number of cases, people are waiting for completion certificates of their buildings for months together. Corruption allegations were levelled against officials of the corporation but the government has failed to transfer the accused officials.Besides, eight villages, which were included in Dharamsala municipal corporation, are bereft of development. These villages have been kept out of the Smart City project. The people of the villages are alleging that they are being forced to pay urban taxes but hardly any urban facility has been provided to them. The ruling party would have to go to people with a justification and the work they have done in the last three years to win them over.The BJP would claim all the credit saying that their government gave corporation status to Palampur city. The urban limits of the town were not increased since 1955 despite the fact that city had grown manifold in the last few decades.The BJP is claiming that giving corporation status to Palampur was a long-pending demand of the residents of the town.However, there were many living on the fringes of city who were against inclusion into the corporation for the fear that they would lose the privileges given to rural areas while urban taxes would be levied on them.On its part, the Congress would target the government for its failure to initiate any major development projects in the Palampur region.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cong-bjp-gear-up-for-dharamsala-palampur-mc-elections-222155
08-03-2021||Our Correspondent---||Naik Ayub honoured for killing terrorists||Dalhousie, March 7  Naik Ayub Sheikh, who was awarded the Army medal for killing terrorists in Kulgam district of Kashmir, was honoured by Vidhan Sabha Deputy Speaker Dr Hans Raj with a shawl, cap and memento at a function held at Kehla village in Chamba district.  Dr Hans Raj announced an award of Rs 1,01,111 to Naik Ayub Sheikh on the behalf of the state government. He also congratulated Ayub Sheikh’s family members.  Dr Hans Raj said though the Assembly session was going on at the moment, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur sent him to wish and honour Ayub Sheikh, especially on behalf of the government.  He said in the last 4-5 years, about 400 youths had been recruited in the Army and paramilitary forces from the Churah region.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/naik-ayub-honoured-for-killing-terrorists-222156
08-03-2021||Shimla||Thakur: Will give more sops under Central scheme||Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur said at a function here today that Jan Aushadhi Pariyojna had become “sanjeevani for the poor”.Thakur said the scheme had become popular and incentives would be given to popularise it further.“There are 54 centres in the state of which 14 have been set up in government hospitals. The scheme is also a source of self-employment for the youth,” the CM said.Union Minister of State for Finance and Corporate Affairs Anurag Thakur was also present in the function. Anurag Thakur said the rates of the medicines being provided under Pradhan Mantri Jan Aushadhi Pariyojna were up to 90 per cent cheaper.Urban Development Minister Suresh Bhardwaj, Health and Family Welfare Minister Dr Rajiv Saizal, and BJP state president Suresh Kashyap were also present. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/thakur-will-give-more-sops-under-central-scheme-222157
08-03-2021||---||Private bus operators accuse govt of double standards||Shimla, March 7  Private bus operators have accused the state government of double standards in its approach towards the Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) and private bus operators. “While the HRTC is being provided all facilities and relief despite it owing Rs 220 crore in taxes, the government was showing private operators the rule book,” said Private Bus Operators Association general secretary Ramesh Kamal. “We have been demanding exemption from paying special road tax from August 2020 to March 2021. The total tax will come to be around Rs 32 crore,” he said. Kamal said private bus operators make a significant contribution to the state’s economy. What with several spare part shops, tyre puncture and mechanics being dependent on private buses for their livelihood. “Yet the government is not providing them even the promised relief to help them come out of Covid setback,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/private-bus-operators-accuse-govt-of-double-standards-222158
08-03-2021||---||Wishes pour in for women in khaki||Shimla, March 7An all-woman police parade on The Ridge ground here would mark the International Women’s Day on March 8 as Himachal celebrates 50 years of statehood. It will be followed by a display of bike stunts by women police, unarmed combat, musketry and weapon drill, besides a cultural programme.“I strongly believe one should never doubt that a small group or committed individuals can change the world. Indeed, it’s the only thing that ever has,” said DGP Sanju Kundu. He said, “We want to change the notion of the women in the state — from the one who is weak and meek to the one who is strong, empowered and with her head held high.”Bollywood praiseI congratulate the women in the HP Police for 50 relentless years of service and DGP Sanjay Kundu for conceptualising the event. — Hema Malini, actressMeanwhile, good wishes are pouring in from Bollywood celebrities for Himachal women police on the eve of the International Women’s Day as the state is celebrating its 50 years of statehood.In her message, actress Hema Malini said, “I want to congratulate the women in the Himachal Pradesh Police for 50 relentless years of service in the state and DGP Sanjay Kundu for conceptualizing this event. I am delighted to know that the women in khakhi of the HP Police are going to celebrate their journey on the Women’s Day.”Actor Aamir Khan stated, “Congratulations on International Women’s Day, especially to the women cadre of Himachal Pradesh. This year, Himachal is celebrating 50 years of statehood and I wish everyone all the very best.”Born and brought up in Shimla, actor Anupam Kher said, “I have seen the working of police in Shimla but today on the eve of Women’s Day, I would especially congratulate the women of Himachal Police. When a woman is empowered, the society is empowered.”Actors, including Aruna Irani, producer and director Prakash Jha and singer Hans Raj Hans also congratulated the women police of the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/wishes-pour-in-for-women-in-khaki-222159
08-03-2021||Subhash Rajta||How did you get diabetes in Theog? PM asks Jan Aushadhi beneficiary||Tribune News ServiceShimla, March 7Krishna Verma is unlikely to forget this Sunday for the rest of her life. As a beneficiary of the PM Bharatiya Jan Aushadhi programme, she got an opportunity to speak with Prime Minister Narendra Modi through video-conferencing in Shimla today.“I still can’t believe I spoke to the Prime Minister,” the 50-year-old said while returning to her village, Sarog in Theog sub-division of Shimla district, after attending the programme. Even as she said speaking to the PM was a surreal experience, she showed no sign of any nervousness while talking to the PM. “I had rehearsed a few points, but mostly I spoke what came to my mind then and there,” she said.The PM, however, managed to surprise her when he said he had been to Theog many times during his time in Himachal Pradesh. “I did not know he had been to Theog,” she said. The Prime Minister, too, expressed surprise on learning that she was suffering from diabetes.“Theog is a place where people have to a walk a lot. So, how did you get diabetes,” asked Modi. The Prime Minister would be more surprised to know that the incidence of diabetes is higher than national average in the state. The shocking revelation had come to the fore in recent all-India ICMR study – IGMC’s Dr Jitender Mokta was the principal investigator of the study in Himachal.Krishna Verma, who has been taking medicines for diabetes for the last 20 years, expressed gratitude for PM’s Jan Aushadhi programme. “Earlier I had to shell out nearly Rs 6,000 on medicines, but now I spend just Rs 800 to 1,000. It’s a huge relief,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/how-did-you-get-diabetes-in-theog-pm-asks-jan-aushadhi-beneficiary-222160
08-03-2021||Our Correspondent ---||Water-level warning system for Chamba soon||Chamba, March 7 To mitigate the threats of Glacier Lake Outburst Flood (GLOF), Chamba district will now have an integrated mechanism for early warning of the increasing water level in the Ravi due to heavy rain.  In addition to dams constructed on rivers, the web-based system can be operated from the district and state-level disaster management centres.  Presiding over a meeting with regard to GLOF here to review the steps to be taken for preparing an accurate and effective system for prevention of flood damage caused by the eruption of glacial lakes, Deputy Commissioner DC Rana said for setting up the system on the Ravi basin, the NHPC management had started the work.  “The modern system will be designed in collaboration with IIT-Roorkee. Apart from hydropower project constructed by the NHPC on the Ravi, private hydroelectric projects will also be linked with this system,” the Deputy Commissioner said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/water-level-warning-system-for-chamba-soon-222161
08-03-2021||---||Sirmaur pvt varsity sees 20 Covid cases||Solan, March 7Baru Sahib-based Eternal University witnessed 20 new cases today, taking the total number of cases to 49 in the last four days.Deputy Commissioner, Sirmaur, Dr RK Pruthi, said the Chief Medical Officer had visited Eternal University to take stock of the situation.59 infected in stateThe total number of active cases reached 614 and the fatality being at 984.The highest number of 22 cases were reported in Sirmaur, 11 in Una, seven in Kangra, six each in Hamirpur and Shimla and one in KulluThe Sirmaur administration would be directed to ensure that health and safety norms were adhered to and the spread of the pandemic was curtailed.The place would be declared a containment zone after the receipt of the report of health officials and violation be dealt with strictly.He said the rising cases in the university were worrisome. Sirmaur district reported 22 cases today, including 20 from the university and one from Shillai.Chief Medical Officer, Dr KK Prashar, who visited the university, said 49 Covid cases had been reported in the last four days with five being reported on the first day. They were all students of nursing and stayed in hostel. There were around 200 nursing students and all were being tested now. Those found positive had been isolated on the campus where all safety norms were being adhered to.The university has resumed its classes, leading to an ingress of students and staff from other states. Though those coming from outside were supposed to undergo RT-PCR testing, it remains to be seen if the norm is being adhered to.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sirmaur-pvt-varsity-sees-20-covid-cases-222163
08-03-2021||Mandi||Sukhu targets govt over inflation, rising unemployment||Former HPCC president Sukhwinder Sukhu targeted Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur over inflation and rising unemployment at Balh in Mandi district today.He was here to preside over a function organised to honour newly elected young representatives of gram panchayats organised by Sukhu’s supporters.Addressing a gathering, Sukhu said the increasing inflation had become a cause for concern for the common man.The prices of essential commodities like LPG gas cylinder, petrol, diesel and food products have increased manifold.“The unemployment is rising but the government is paying no heed to generate jobs. The BJP is focusing on providing jobs to their near and dear ones,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sukhu-targets-govt-over-inflation-rising-unemployment-222164
08-03-2021||---||Thakur announces funds for transport nagar, parking lots in Solan||Solan, March 7In a bid to woo public ahead of the Municipal Corporation polls, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur made a slew of announcements for development projects during his visit to Solan today.Rs 34 cr for SolanCT Scan and Digital X-ray plant will be established in regional hospitalHe also inaugurated and laid foundation stone of development projects worth Rs 34 cr in SolanAddressing the ‘Abhinandan Samaroh’ at Thodo Ground, he said the upgrade of the Solan Municipal Committee to a corporation would ensure proper planning and systematic development of the town.“The government has constituted 412 new gram panchayats, seven Nagar Panchayats and three Municipal Corporations to ensure participation of people at the grassroots levels.”The CM announced Rs 2 crore each for transport nagar, three new parkings, planned development of 17 wards and said the CT Scan and Digital X-Ray plant would be established in the regional hospital.He also inaugurated and laid foundation stone of projects worth Rs 34 crore in Solan Vidhan Sabha. He inaugurated the augmentation of the Lift Water Supply Scheme, Badron, Gram Panchayat, Satrol, Kandaghat tehsil and a Covid ICU at the Regional Hospital in Solan.The CM also inaugurated the Sai Sanjivini Super Specialty Hospital, Solan, under ‘Swasthya Main Sahbhagita’ scheme.Health Minister Dr Rajeev Saizal said during the last 20 years, Solan had emerged as the fastest growing town of the region, thereby putting a strain on the civic amenities. He said the long-pending demand of upgrading the town to the MC had been fulfilled by the present government.He also inaugurated a private ward at the Integrated Muscular Dystrophy Rehabilitation Centre at ‘Manav Mandir Kothon’near Solan. His wife and chairperson of Red Cross Society Hospital Welfare Section Dr Sadhna Thakur and state BJP president Suresh Kashyap were among others present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/thakur-announces-funds-for-transport-nagar-parking-lots-in-solan-222165
08-03-2021||Our Correspondent||Heli-taxi sought for Shimla, Chandigarh||Chamba, March 7The Chamba Welfare Association, an NGO, has demanded heli-taxi service at least once a week from Chamba to Shimla, Chandigarh and Amritsar.Association president AK Bhardwaj and general secretary SK Kashmiri in a statement to the media apprised the government that Chamba was the farthest place from Shimla, Chandigarh and Amritsar and the journey to these faraway cities was an arduous task.They said people of this far-flung terrain had to visit Shimla, Chandigarh and Amritsar frequently, especially for the purpose of medical treatment of referred emergency patients at the IGMC and PGI.The association office-bearers requested Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur to concede to their demand.Moreover, the heli-taxi service would be a much-needed fillip to “Chalo Chamba” campaign of the government promoting tourism activities in the region, they said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/heli-taxi-sought-for-shimla-chandigarh-222166
08-03-2021||r Correspondent---||Snow festival about saving tribal culture, says minister||KULLU, MARCH 7 Tribal Development Minister Ram Lal Markanda participated in the ‘Yor’ utsav during the snow festival in Lahaul and Spiti district today. He was welcomed by the locals in a traditional way. He offered prayers in the Triloknath temple and participated in religious rituals during the utsav. The minister also participated in the traditional folk dance. Various cultural programmes were presented by the local artistes. He said that the snow festival is about reviving and saving the tribal cultural heritage that is disappearing. He said that various programmes were being held under the ‘festival of festivals’ in different parts of the district.  He said that information about these festivals would be collected by the Tribal Development Department and published in the form of a book so that this cultural history can be preserved for the rest of the world and for the future. Markanda said that efforts would be made to promote cultural and winter tourism through the snow festival. He said that residents were being encouraged to opt for the homestay scheme to promote tourism to boost the economy of the region.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/snow-festival-about-saving-tribal-culture-says-minister-222167
08-03-2021||---||Govt ready to discuss fuel price hike: Anurag Thakur||Solan, March 7Union Minister for State for Finance and Corporate Affairs Anurag Thakur stated that the issue of fuel hike can be discussed in the ensuing meeting of the GST council if all states are willing to do so.Interacting with mediapersons at Solan where he made a brief halt last evening, Thakur said, “The Government of India was ready to talk on the issue of fuel hike in the GST council but it depends on the state governments which are also part of this council. Representatives of various political parties like the communists, Trinamul Congress, etc., are also part of the GST council and if all are willing to bring the fuel prices under the purview of the GST, a decision can be taken in the council.”In response of the unsavoury Vidhan Sabha episode where Congress MLAs misbehaved with the Governor, Thakur said, “Their behaviour has besmirched the image of the state as well as of the Congress before the nation. The Opposition Congress is bereft of leadership as well as issues. They indulge in such unruly behaviour as they have been left with no issue to corner the BJP government. The Congress is unnerved by the developmental works being executed by the state and the Centre governments.”Thakur, who received a rousing welcome at Parwanoo, Kumarhatti and Solan, said he was overwhelmed by the love and affection shown by the youth besides other senior leaders who had turned up in large numbers to welcome him besides other senior leaders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/govt-ready-to-discuss-fuel-price-hike-anurag-thakur-222168
08-03-2021||RPUR||Farmers given guidance in beekeeping||A five-day special training camp to hone skills of farmers in remunerative beekeeping concluded at the state Horticulture Department’s Progeny-cum-Demonstration Orchard at Jachh near here last evening. As many as 40 progressive farmers from Nurpur, Indora and Fatehpur horticulture blocks participated in the camp. The state Horticulture Department organised this camp to give technical guidance to farmers in honey beekeeping. They were also apprised of the central and state governments’ schemes for promoting beekeeping. The Subject Matter Specialist, Hatinder Patial, said farmers were educated about the role of honeybees in pollination and fruit setting in orchards and scientific honey processing techniques. Dr Vishav Gourav, a scientist of the Regional Horticulture Research Station, Jachh,  apprised the farmers of four honeybee species found in Himachal.    Kamal Sheel Negi, Deputy Director, Horticulture, Kangra, advised farmers to work in clusters in the beekeeping avocation. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/farmers-given-guidance-in-beekeeping-222169
08-03-2021||Vijay Mohan---||Electric current seeping into soil caused lava-like eruption||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, March 7 Electric current seeping into the soil had caused the highly unusual eruption of lava-like substance near Kullu last month, the videos of which shot by locals had gone viral and raised speculation of geological activity in the region. “The cause of uncommon lava-like substance is the result of sudden electrification of soil sediments by the discharge of current possibly due to lightning or leakage in high tension electric wires,” a report prepared by the Geological Survey of India (GSI) states. Grayish magma-like material had erupted near the base of an electric pole at Lafali village in Kullu district that had melted snow around it and burnt grass before solidifying.  The GSI had sent a team of geologists to examine the spot and analyse samples of the material. Though Himachal Pradesh is seismically vulnerable and prone to tectonic movements, it does not have a history of volcanic activity. The team reported that the outflow of molten rock material occurred in a span of about five metres through several vents around the base of a metallic pole supporting power cables. Locals had also claimed fire and sounds of explosions.  Further, the team observed that the electric pole was bent and smoldering at the top and bottom and the nature of the solidified material was identified as fulgurites, which are vitrified, fused rock and sand masses formed due to rapid melting of silicate rich sand, soil and other sediments due to a sudden discharge of lightning or current.  Adjoining areas were also observed but no repeated incident was reported. “The eruption at the root of the electric pole thus points towards the sudden discharge of current as the possible cause of melting and the eruption of sediments in the form of molten material,” the team concluded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/electric-current-seeping-into-soil-caused-lava-like-eruption-222170
08-03-2021||Mandi||Central team inspects heliport projects in Mandi||A team of the Union Civil Aviation Ministry inspected heliport projects in Mandi district yesterday.Pradeep Kumar Kharola, Secretary, Union Civil Aviation Ministry, and Joint Secretary Usha Padhi reviewed the status of the expansion and development of the Kangnidhar project in Mandi.Devesh Kumar, Secretary, Department of State Tourism and Civil Aviation, and Rugved Thakur, Deputy Commissioner, accompanied the team. Rugved said the officials were on a tour to take stock of various projects for the development and expansion of airstrips and heliports. They inspected the expansion work on the Kangnidhar project in Mandi.“They took stock of the work on the terminal building and issued guidelines to Pawan Hans and departmental officials,” he added.“The officials took feedback on the Balh airport project. An aerial survey was also conducted. They asked officials to decide the location of the terminal buildings and prepare a DPR,” said the DC. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/central-team-inspects-heliport-projects-in-mandi-222171
08-03-2021||The widening work being undertaken on the Chotta Shimla-Kasumpti road has become a major bottleneck during peak traffic hours. Work being done with the help of a JCB even at peak hours like 10 am and 5 pm results in long queues on both sides. Work should be stopped during the heavy rush hours when office people commute. — Amit Verma||Stop road work during peak traffic hours||Dustbins removedThe Dharamsala Municipal Corporation has removed open dustbins from most of the areas of the city on the plea that door-to-door collection of garbage had been introduced. However, this system has not been introduced in most internal areas of the city. People residing in inner areas are now left with no proper way to dispose of their garbage. — Rakesh Kumar, DharamsalaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/stop-road-work-during-peak-traffic-hours-222172
08-03-2021||Osheen Rana||Palampur girl third in olympiad||ABVP Sunni submits memorandumThe Sunni unit of the ABVP on Sunday submitted a memorandum to Agriculture Minister Virender Kanwar regarding various demands of the students. The demands include the inauguration of the newly-constructed college auditorium, filling up of vacancies in the college, construction of hostels for girl students at the earliest and starting vocational courses likes BCA, PGDCA and BBA in the college.Teachers can’t leave stationTo discourage teachers from visiting Directorate of Education frequently in connection with their transfers, the Director, Education, has directed school principals to not allow teachers to leave their station unless required. The Director said because of this practice among teachers, students were suffering, especially considering that schools had reopened after a long time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/palampur-girl-third-in-olympiad-222174
08-03-2021||---||Shimla tops Ease of Living Index||Shimla, March 4Shimla is most liveable among the cities having less than 10-lakh population across the country. The Queen of Hills has been bestowed this distinction in the Ease of Living Index (EoLI) survey, the results of which were announced today by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs. Out of the 114 competing cities in this category, Shimla has been placed at the top. “It’s a huge achievement and a matter of pride for the citizens as well as the state government,” said Urban Development Minister Suresh Bhardwaj.What makes the achievement even more spectacular is that fact that Shimla was ranked 92nd in the Ease of Living Index in 2018. The city jumped 92 places to top the table this year. “It’s indeed a fantastic achievement. Jumping 92 places to top the list is really impressive. The Smart City team and the Municipal Corporation deserve a lot of credit and praise for this huge improvement in the rankings,” said Smart City Managing Director Abid Hussian.To assess the progress being made in the cities, the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs had launched two assessment frameworks in 2019 - Ease of Living Index (EoLI) and Municipal Performance Index (MPI). Both these indices were designed to assess quality of life of the citizens in 100 Smart Cities and 14 other cities having population less than 10 lakh. The Ease of Living Index ranking is based on the assessment of four parameters - Quality of Life, Economic Ability, Sustainability and Citizen Perception. Out of 100 marks, Shimla logged a total of 60.90 to top the EoLI rankings. The MPI was assessed on five parameters – services, finance, technology, planning and governance. In Municipal Performance Index, Shimla has been placed 24, with a total of 43.71.“The No. 1 ranking is the reflection of the development that has taken place in recent years in the state. Unprecedented development in the field of education, health, public works, and decline in the crime rate has added to the liveability of Shimla City,” said the UD Minister.While the achievement is indeed remarkable, the authorities as well as citizens can’t lose sight of the teething problems the city continues to face, the most notable being traffic and parking issues. Once these problems are sorted, it will add immensely to the liveability index of the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shimla-tops-ease-of-living-index-220577
