09-03-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||Independent India’s first voter Shyam Saran Negi gets Covid vaccine||Tribune News ServiceShimla, March 9The first voter of independent India, Shyam Saran Negi (104) on Tuesday took Covid vaccine at Kalpa in Kinnaur district.Negi, who has the honour of being the first voter of independent India as elections to the tribal areas were held before anywhere else in the country took the vaccine at the Primary Health Centre (PHC) in Kalpa. Negi said he did not feel any discomfort while getting the vaccine and he felt that everyone should take it to remain protected against the Covid.Chief Medical Officer, Kinnaur, Dr Sonam Negi said in the first phase 1,010 health workers and 2,032 frontline workers had been vaccinated in the tribal district.The CMO said so far 890 people above the age of 60 years had been given the vaccine which included 104-year-old Shyam Saran Negi. He added that besides this 62 people in the 45 to 59 age bracket had been vaccinated. The CMO added that the Covid vaccine was being administered at 16 places in Kinnaur district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/independent-indias-first-voter-shyam-saran-negi-gets-covid-vaccine-222868
09-03-2021||Shimla||Magnitude 3.6 quake hits Himachal’s Chamba||An earthquake of magnitude 3.5 hit Himachal Pradesh’s Chamba on Tuesday afternoon, the Meteorological Department said.There is no report of any casualty or damage to property.Tremors were felt in and around the district at 12.34 pm, it said. Earlier on Monday, two moderate intensity earthquakes of magnitude 3.6 and 3.5 had shook Chamba.Tremors were felt in and around the district at 10.20 am and 10.38 am, respectively. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/magnitude-3-6-quake-hits-himachals-chamba-222827
09-03-2021||Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many||Traffic jam a perennial problem||The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com Traffic jam a perennial problemTraffic jam in lower Totu has become a perennial problem. People park their vehicles on both sides of the road, leaving little space for vehicles to move. The situation becomes really bad during peak traffic hours. Some solution should be found for the problem. — Raman Sharma, TotuFill vacant postsMany posts in the local government postgraduate degree college are lying vacant. About 15 posts of various subjects at present are vacant, which includes three posts of English and two of Hindi. At the end of the day, students suffer the most. The state government should fill up these posts at the earliest. — Kartar, Chamba||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/traffic-jam-a-perennial-problem-222489
09-03-2021||The CMO||Competitions at nursing College||UIT celebrates Women's DayThe University Institute of Technology, Himachal Pradesh University, celebrated the International Women's Day online. Chief guest Rakhil Kehlon, IAS, Special Secretary Education, Health and Housing, highlighted the achievements of women and the ways they were working on constitutional, political and administrative positions. Keeping in view the theme of International Women's Day for 2021 - Choose to Challenge - Kehlon said women should participate and lead the society for the betterment and progress of the country.‘NEED FOR WOMEN-CENTRIC POLICIES'The Centre for Women Studies and Development, Himachal Pradesh University, in collaboration with Indian Science Congress Association, Shimla Chapter, organised a webinar to commemorate International Women's Day. The theme of the webinar is 'Choose to Challenge'. The webinar was attended by a large number of university and college teachers, students, scholars and women self-help groups of nearby villages. Vice Chancellor, HPU, Prof Sikander Kumar inaugurated the webinar. Speaking on the occasion, the chief guest highlighted the need to frame and implement effective women-centric policies. Prof Mamta Mokta touched upon the issue of "women in governance". She said women were breaking the glass ceiling in non-traditional organisations.Heena wins marathonThe ABVP organised a marathon in Shimla to celebrate the Women's Day. Out of 75 participants who participated, Heena bagged the first prize while Shilja and Sanya took the second and third spots, respectively. Dr Sadhna Thakur, HP State Red Cross Society vice-president, said women empowerment meant improvement in women's social and financial condition.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/competitions-at-nursing-college-222490
09-03-2021||Mandi||Class IV women staff honoured at Sundernagar||Vivek Chandel, state Director of Technical Education, honoured the class-IV women employees of the directorate at Sundernagar, Mandi district, today.To mark International Women’s Day, a programme was held to honour the employees. The celebrations were held in 136 ITIs, 15 polytechnic, four pharmacy and five engineering colleges. The Director said it was the first time that the event was held at a large scale across the state. The contribution of women to the development of the country and the state was tremendous. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/class-iv-women-staff-honoured-at-sundernagar-222491
09-03-2021||Shimla||Padma Shri awardee speaks to SJVN staff||The Satluj Jal Vidyut Nigam (SJVN) celebrated the increasing visibility of women on global stage and acknowledged their struggle in overcoming gender stereotypes and inequality on the occasion of Women’s Day. On this occasion, a motivational talk by Padma Shri awardee, renowned motivational speaker and mountaineer Dr Arunima Sinha (World’s first female amputee to climb Mt Everest) was organised for women employees and members of Satluj Shree (SJVN Officers Ladies Club). Dr Sinha shared her experiences and her life story of being pushed from a running train by robbers while she was resisting them and doctors amputating her leg to save her life. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/padma-shri-awardee-speaks-to-sjvn-staff-222492
09-03-2021||Solan||Shoolini University holds webinar on communication||Effective communication is the key to success. Both verbal and written communication are equally important to be mastered.This was stated by motivational speaker, writer and former IAS officer Vivek Atray, while addressing a webinar organised by Shoolini University’s Young Communicators Club on the theme ‘Communication in the era of Social Media’. He said, “With changing mediums, we need to adapt and develop the necessary skills to be effective communicators”. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shoolini-university-holds-webinar-on-communication-222493
09-03-2021||Our Correspondent||Chamba-Delhi deluxe bus service resumes||Chamba, March 8The Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) resumed its AC deluxe bus service from Chamba to Delhi today. The luxury bus service remained closed for almost a year due to corona virus.HRTC Regional Manager (RM) Rajan Singh informed here that the Chamba-Delhi bus will pass via Dalhousie, Pathankot and Chandigarh. With the resumption of this bus service, the passengers of the district have breathed a sigh of relief.Instructions had also been issued to the staff concerned to open online booking facility for the benefit of passengers with immediate effect, the RM stated.HRTC, Chamba region, has a fleet of about 150 buses running on 135 routes, the RM said; adding that several long-route interstate bus services had started plying after rectifying technical problems.The RM claimed that the management was committed to resume all the bus routes by the end of this month.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/chamba-delhi-deluxe-bus-service-resumes-222494
09-03-2021||KULLU||Three-day ‘Yor’ utsav concludes in Lahaul and Spiti district||Tribal Development Minister Ram Lal Markanda participated in the closing ceremony of the three-day ‘Yor’ utsav at Madgran village during the snow festival in Lahaul and Spiti district today. He was welcomed by the locals in a traditional way.He traditionally worshipped the 15-feet-high Shivlingam made of snow. The villagers prayed to Mother Nature for good harvest and prosperity by wearing a mask and traditional dress. They performed traditional dance by orbiting around the Shivlingam.The residents performed group dances to the beat of the ancient musical instruments. The ‘Yor’ utsav signifies farewell to winter.The minister said that distinctive culture of tribal region was being showcased through ‘festival of festivals’. He said that every village had its own specialties and unique cultural and traditional rituals. The tourists will be able to witness tribal culture of different villages in the upcoming summer season. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/three-day-yor-utsav-concludes-in-lahaul-and-spiti-district-222496
09-03-2021||---||Toll-free helpline launched for mental wellness in Mandi||Mandi, March 8The Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities in the Union Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment has launched a toll-free mental health rehabilitation helpline ‘Kiran’ (1800-599-0019) in Mandi today to provide relief and assistance to people suffering from mental illness.Mandi Deputy Commissioner Rugved Thakur said the helpline would work round the clock to serve public. The objective of this helpline is to provide help to people suffering from mental issues. “Its purpose is to help people who have stress, anxiety, depression, panic attacks, psychotic disorders, post-traumatic mental stress, substance abuse, suicidal thoughts, epidemic-induced psychological issues, and mental health emergencies,” he added.The DC stated that the helpline would include services such as early detection of mental illness, first aid, psychological support, stress management, mental health uplift, corrective behaviours, psychological disaster management and referral to mental health specialists.“The people can contact on toll-free number from any mobile or landline number. Health experts will help people in solving the problem or connecting them to external psychiatrists. This helpline will be very helpful for those who are undergoing severe mental stress, epidemic psychological problems and mental health emergency situations,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/toll-free-helpline-launched-for-mental-wellness-in-mandi-222498
09-03-2021||Shimla||79 Covid cases, 3 deaths in Himachal||With 79 cases being reported today, the tally of Covid cases reached 59,197. It is after many days that there have been three deaths, one each in Kangra, Bilaspur and Una in the last 24 hours, taking the fatality figure to 987.The highest number of 25 cases was reported in Solan, 16 each in Bilaspur and Kangra, seven in Una, five in Kullu, four in Mandi, three in Shimla, two in Sirmaur and one in Kinnaur. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/79-covid-cases-3-deaths-in-himachal-222501
09-03-2021||---||Himachal CM meets Union FM, seeks funds for Mandi airport||Shimla, March 8Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today met Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in New Delhi today and requested her to release Rs 1,420 crore for creation of new greenfield airport in Mandi district and expansion of the existing airport at Kangra and upgrade of civic amenities.Thakur said that air connectivity had acquired added importance in the state keeping in view limited rail network. He said that tourism was the main sector for development and expansion of this sector was significant for boosting income as well as livelihood opportunities in the state.The Chief Minister said that he had presented the case before the Finance Commission which had recommended the amount of Rs 1,420 crore. Sitharaman assured him of all possible support. Minister of State for Finance and Corporate Affairs Anurag Thakur was also present in the meeting.He also apprised Defence Minister Rajnath Singh of the long-pending demand of the people of Yol Cantonment in Kangra district and requested for de-notification of some area of Yol Cantonment.He requested Singh for early issuance of an NOC for construction of road from Banog to Dharkyaari under PMGSY near Nahan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-cm-meets-union-fm-seeks-funds-for-mandi-airport-222503
09-03-2021||---||Prime Minister Narendra Modi invited for Himachal Day Rath Yatra||Shimla, March 8Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today called on Prime Minister Narendra Modi at New Delhi and invited him to visit Himachal on April 15 on the occasion of Himachal Day to inaugurate the Rath Yatra showcasing the 50 years glorious journey of development of Himachal Pradesh.He apprised the Prime Minister that the state was celebrating golden jubilee of statehood by organising various programmes and said that a state-level function would be organised in Mandi district on April 15 along with a rath yatra to showcase the 50 years developmental journey of the state. The achievements of the state government during the last three years will also be taken to people.The Chief Minister thanked the Prime Minister for his support to the state, especially for the milestone like Atal Tunnel.Thakur also requested the Prime Minister to inaugurate the 111 MW Sawda Kuddu Hydel Project constructed at a cost of Rs 1,796 crore, besides laying the foundation stones of the 210 MW Luhri Stage- I Hydel Project and 66 MW Dhaulasidh Hydel Project.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/prime-minister-narendra-modi-invited-for-himachal-day-rath-yatra-222505
09-03-2021||---||Book rooms in Himachal Bhawan in New Delhi and Chandigarh online||Shimla, March 8People can now reserve rooms in the Himachal Bhawan and the Himachal Sadan in New Delhi, Himachal Bhawan in Chandigarh and the Circuit House Willy’s Park in Shimla online at a website developed by the General Administrative Department with the assistance of the NIC, a spokesperson for the state government said here today.He said that the applicants could reserve rooms at https://himatithi.nic.in website and they would receive SMS regarding reservation on their mobile phones.In case, a government employee does not get room reservation, the non-availability certificate can also be availed of online.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/book-rooms-in-himachal-bhawan-in-new-delhi-and-chandigarh-online-222508
09-03-2021||Palampur||2 held in vehicle registration scam in Palampur||The police have arrested two persons in connection with the registration of banned BS-IV vehicles on the basis of fake documents with the local licensing authority. They have impounded a few cars, including a BMW, in Delhi. These vehicles were banned by the Supreme Court after April 1, 2020.One person was arrested in Delhi while the other was nabbed in Chandigarh. The impounded BMW car valued at over Rs 1 crore was being used in Delhi. The police are expected to recover more vehicles registered with fake documents.A scam had come to light last month. Over 110 were registered on the basis of fake documents.It had also directed the Union Government and all states that after April 1, only BS-VI standard vehicles be registered. However, sources reveal that over 110 BS-IV vehicles were registered.Later, on the complaint of Palampur SDM Dharmesh Ramotra, an FIR was registered. The SDM told the police that these vehicles were purchased from different dealers based in UP, Punjab and Haryana and later fake documents were prepared to show these as BS-VI vehicles to get registration papers. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/2-held-in-vehicle-registration-scam-in-palampur-222509
09-03-2021||Mandi||Himachal Govt has failed on all fronts, says Kuldeep Singh Rathore||HPCC president Kuldeep Singh Rathore said that the Congress would win Municipal Corporation (MC) elections. The elections will be held in Mandi, Dharamsala, Palampur and Solan.Addressing a press conference here today, Rathore said, “The Jai Ram government has failed on all fronts. During Covid outbreak, the state government failed to provide financial assistance to the affected people. The tourism industry was hit badly as a majority of hotels in the state remained shut down for months. Despite that, the government charged commercial bill of water and power supply from hoteliers.”“A number of youth lost their jobs. The government has failed to generate employment for them”, he said.“The people were disappointed with the working style of the BJP as the state had failed to make any progress. The CM was focusing on installing hoardings for publicity, which is only misuse of funds. Some government officials are working as BJP agents for MC elections,” he added.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-govt-has-failed-on-all-fronts-says-kuldeep-singh-rathore-222511
09-03-2021||---||Portal to be designed for quality education||Shimla, March 8As the Budget thrust was on quality education, “Him Darpan Shiksha Ekikrit Portal’ will be developed. The portal will enable uploading of information on teaching-learning practices and personal matters through a mobile application.The highest Budget of Rs 8,024 crore (16 per cent) has been earmarked for the sector and several new schemes, including “Swaran Jayanti Super-100” under which 100 best students will be selected by the SCERT after Class V, and special courses in science, maths and spoken English will be started on a pilot basis to prepare students for competitive exams.During 2021-22, 100 maths labs will be set up in government middle schools, chess be promoted to develop mental faculties of children and diet money of the participants be doubled from Rs 50 to Rs100 at the block level, from Rs 60 to Rs120 at the zonal/district level and from Rs 75 to Rs150 at the state level.Three schemes – the Swaran Jayanti Gyanodaya Cluster Shrestha Vidyalaya Yojana, the Swaran Jayanti Utkrisht Vidyalaya Yojana and the Utkrisht Yojana for the colleges — will be launched during the financial year covering 100 cluster schools, 68 senior secondary schools and nine colleges. These will be equipped with modern facilities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/portal-to-be-designed-for-quality-education-222514
09-03-2021||Our Correspondent||Only 67-km railway track laid in 47 years in Una||Una, March 8Northern Railway General Manager Ashutosh Gangal today visited the Una and Amb Andaura railway stations to review the progress of the ongoing works on the 90-km Nangal Dam to Talwara via Una broad gauge section.The foundation stone of the railway line was laid in 1974 by then Railways Minister Lalit Narayan Mishra at Amb but over 23 km of the track beyond the Daulatpur Chowk in Una district to Talwara in Punjab is still to be laid.The progress of the work has been very tardy and the people of the state have been largely bereft of train services. Sumit Sharma, an Una resident and member of the North Zone Railways Users Consultative Committee, interacted with Gangal along with some other local leaders to put forward their demands for the expansion of rail services in the region.Sharma said that they submitted a memorandum to Gangal, seeking the extension of new trains to Una district, besides improvement in the existing services. He added that the demands included the extension of the Delhi-Una Janshatabdi train to the Daulatpur Chowk with additional coaches and the extension of the Kolkata-Nangal Gurmukhi Express to Una or Amb Andaura.He said that they had also demanded the extension of the Saharanpur to Nangal Dam passenger train and the Amritsar to Nangal Dam Express trains to Amb Andaura, providing additional coaches in the Himachal Express train, and finding the possibility to link Una with trains to Mumbai, Meerut and Haridwar.The demand for a coach washing line at Amb Andaura was also raised again, as all trains coming to Una district have to go to Nangal for washing and then come back to Una for the journey forward.Union Minister of State for Finance Anurag Thakur has also proposed the setting up of a washing line at the Amb Andaura station since it has adequate land for the purpose, said Sharma.The completion of civil works at the second platform at the Una station and initiating work at the second platform at the Daulatpur Chowk station was also raised with the General Manager.They also sought the completion of the process of land acquisition for the Bhanupali-Bilaspur rail line by 2024. The General Manager said that all issues would be discussed at appropriate forums.23-km track leftThe stone of the 90-km Nangal Dam to Talwara via Una broad gauge section was laid in 1974 by then Railways Minister Lalit Narayan Mishra at Amb. The track (23 km) beyond the Daulatpur Chowk in Una district to Talwara in Punjab is still to be laid.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/only-67-km-railway-track-laid-in-47-years-in-una-222516
09-03-2021||Our Correspondent||GST fraud: Damtal firm fined Rs 9.86 cr||Nurpur, March 8The state Excise and Taxation Department has unearthed a Goods and Services Tax (GST) fraud at Damtal in Kangra district and imposed a penalty of Rs 9.86 crore on a company that manufactures aluminium sheets and foils.The company allegedly claimed input tax credit though it had never deposited the GST with the state exchequer. This is the first such GST fraud detected by the department in the north zone in the state.According to Babu Ram Negi, Assistant Commissioner, State Tax and Excise, the company had allegedly raised fake bills to show raw material procured from a Delhi-based company. He added that following a communiqué from the Director General of GST, Intelligence, Delhi, a thorough investigation was started against the company that had availed of input tax credit in a forged manner.“A special investigation team seized all purchased bills of the company after inspecting its premises at Damtal. The company had raised purchase bills of over Rs 19.10 crore for procuring raw material during 2017-18 and claimed input tax credit of over Rs 2.91 crore though it had received no raw material,” he said. He added that the company had also formed a fake company at Damtal and claimed input tax credit of Rs 44.35 lakh from April 2018 to December 2020.Negi said that the department had issued a show-cause notice to the company after investigation but it blocked its credit ledger and deposited Rs 43.07 lakh tax with the state exchequer in February. It also got cancelled the GST number of the other fake company. He added that the department had directed the company to deposit the penalty amount till April 5.First in north zoneThe firm allegedly claimed input tax credit though it had never deposited GST with the exchequer. This is the first such GST fraud detected by the department in the north zone||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/gst-fraud-damtal-firm-fined-rs-9-86-cr-222519
09-03-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Fund misuse: Regulator for audit of private universities||Tribune News ServiceShimla, March 8The Himachal Pradesh Private Educational Institutions Regulatory Commission (HPPEIRC) has recommended an audit of private universities and colleges following complaints that some of these institutions are misusing funds for commercial purposes.In a letter to the Chief Secretary, the commission has said that it has been observed that the funds of some private universities and colleges are being siphoned off, as the Trusts running these institutions are located outside Himachal. Moreover, the money earned by these institutions are allegedly being spent on commercial activities other than education.“We have received complaints that some private educational institutions (universities and colleges) are using their money for non-educational purposes such as the construction of hotels and hospitals and other commercial activities,” said Major Gen Atul Kaushik (retd), Chairman, HPPEIRC. He added that these universities and colleges are ‘not for profit organisations’ and were supposed to utilise the funds on infrastructure development and delivering quality education.Besides, the perusal of their balance sheets indicated that there was no transparency and clarity in maintaining accounts. If required, they would also approach the Enforcement Directorate to curb the use of funds for non-educational purposes, he told The Tribune.The regulatory commission has also taken note of the fact that the trusts running some of these educational institutions are not paying salaries to the faculty members according to the University Grants Commission (UGC) norms but using the money for commercial gains. There are 17 private universities and over 270 private colleges in the state.A committee is being constituted to screen the eligibility and qualification of the faculty recruited by the private educational institutions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/fund-misuse-regulator-for-audit-of-private-universities-222521
09-03-2021||shimla||Mukesh Agnihotri: Himachal on verge of bankruptcy||Launching a scathing attack on the government for trying to conceal the gap funding and loan figures, Leader of Opposition Mukesh Agnihotri today termed the budget proposals for the year 2021-22 as a perfect example of bankruptcy.Initiating a debate on the budget proposals for the year 2021-22 presented by Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur in the Vidhan Sabha today, Agnihotri said the budget clearly indicated that the government was going way beyond in spending when the earnings were far less.“I am surprised that a government which talks big about upholding the high traditions of this house is itself hiding all the important facts in the budget which has certainly not been the custom of this house,” he remarked. He added that the budget is completely silent on making budgetary provision for giving the enhanced salaries to government employees as per the recommendations of the pay commission.Agnihotri said total debt burden on the government has reached Rs 61,567 crore and by the time the term of this government gets over, the figure will fast gallop to Rs 85,000 crores. “The financial health of the state is going from bad to worse and when the term of this regime ends, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur would have raised loans to the tune of Rs 35,000 crore,” he said.“The budget has disappointed the employees the most as there is no announcement for reducing the contract period not budgetary provision to meet the enhanced pay recommendations,” he said.Agnihotri hit out at the Chief Minister for trying to create a divide among girls on the basis of caste. “The Shagun scheme should have been for all girl children and not just for girls from the SC, ST and OBC category,” he said.Vinod Kumar of the BJP lauded the Chief Minister for presenting a budget which took care of all sections of society. “The removal of 50 year age bar for job on compassionate ground has been very well received and I see no reason why the BJP will not repeat in the 2022 Assembly polls,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mukesh-agnihotri-himachal-on-verge-of-bankruptcy-222499
09-03-2021||---||Himachal Governor: Women’s contribution big, must get equal opportunities||Shimla, March 8Governor Bandaru Dattatreya today said women are contributing in every area of development and should be provided with equal opportunities. He was presiding over a function organised by the Himachal Pradesh Police on the International Women’s Day at The Ridge ground here today.Bandaru Dattatreya, Governor‘DISPARITY STILL EXISTS’The Constitution has given equal rights to women and efforts have been made to improve their condition by enacting many Acts... But, disparity still exists in many forms“In Indian culture, women have a special place in society. However, the status declined more during the medieval period due to foreign invaders,” he said. He said as per the census of 2011, female literacy rate was 74 per cent and 972 was the sex ratio in the state, which was a big achievement.He said 2,344 women were serving in the Himachal Police on various posts and levels. He said Indian Women Reserve Battalion was established in Himachal Pradesh in 2008 with the creation of 1,007 posts.He appreciated the important services rendered by the police, particularly women police, as frontline Covid warriors.Earlier, the Governor took the salute from the march past led by Parade Commander Srishti Pandey and contingents of the women police.Sanjay Kundu, DGP said the HP Police Women Force was serving the state and nation dedicatedly since the last 50 years and had always shown their best of ability while performing their duties.He said during the Indo-China dispute, five police officers sent to the border area included two women police officers. On this occasion, UAC demonstrations, bike stunts, musketry drills were presented by women police personnel. The Governor also felicitated police personnel on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-governor-womens-contribution-big-must-get-equal-opportunities-222478
09-03-2021||---||Congress, CPM stage walkout over changes in MC Act||Shimla, March 8The Congress today staged a walkout in the Vidhan Sabha in protest against the changes being made in the Himachal Pradesh Municipal Corporation (Amendment) Bill 2021.The Bill had been introduced in the Vidhan Sabha on March 5 by Urban Development Minister Suresh Bhardwaj. The amendments are aimed at making provisions for holding MC elections on party symbol, disqualification under anti-defection law, reservation for the OBCs for the post of Mayor and bringing no-confidence motion by three-fourth MLAs and not half the members.The Congress and the CPM walked out as the government refused to accede to their demand for either referring it to the Select Committee or incorporate the suggestions made by them. CPM legislator Rakesh Singha, too, opposed the amendments and said if the government was adamant on passing the Bill in its present form, he would challenge it in court. The Bill was passed by voice vote.Jagat Singh Negi of the Congress said it appeared that the Bill was not well thought out and brought in a haste. “The voting should be on the pattern of the Rajya Sabha or else it will be difficult to find if there is cross-voting. Moreover, when there is a provision for disqualification under the anti-defection law, there was no need for no-confidence motion,” he said.“The power to disqualify a member under the anti-defection law must be with the State Election Commission, and not with a DC,” Negi said.Singha demanded that the Bill must be referred to the Select Committee as it could not be passed in its present form. He said he would move court if the government passes the Bill.The Urban Development Minister, defending the amendments, said in the earlier Act, there was no provision for reservation for the OBCs in the post of Mayor. “I feel that the Opposition must support the proposed amendments to the Bill,” said Bhardwaj.ProvisionsThe amendments are aimed at making provisions for holding MC elections on the party symbol, disqualification under the anti-defection law, reservation for OBCs for the post of Mayor and bringing no-confidence motion by three-fourth MLAs and not half the number of members||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/congress-cpm-stage-walkout-over-changes-in-mc-act-222485
