10-03-2021||Dharamsala||Rs 334 crore worth of projects being implemented to develop Dharamsala as smart city: Minister||Himachal Pradesh Forest Minister Rakesh Pathania on Wednesday said that projects worth Rs 334 crore are being implemented to develop Dharamsala as a smart city.In addition, plans are being prepared for projects worth Rs 296 crore, he said.Pathania said that special efforts are being made for the planned development and beautification of important cities and towns in the state and added that priority is being given to developing parking lots so that better facilities can be provided to tourists.The minister said that work on 28 projects worth Rs 181 crore is in progress in Dharamsala, while tenders for six projects worth Rs 41 crore have been invited.He said that work has already been completed on 10 projects by convergence with other departments at a cost of Rs 74 crore.He said that to make Dharamsala a smart city, 7,000 LED street lights will be installed at a cost of Rs 24.92 crore, for which tenders have been invited. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rs-334-crore-worth-of-projects-being-implemented-to-develop-dharamsala-as-smart-city-minister-223344
10-03-2021||Shimla||9 dead, as many injured as bus falls into gorge in Himachal’s Chamba; CM orders probe||Nine people were killed and as many injured as a private bus fell into a deep gorge in Himachal Pradesh’s Chamba district on Wednesday, Deputy Commissioner D C Rana said.The DC said the accident occurred at Colony Morh in Bhanjraru of Churrah tehsil in the morning when the private bus bearing registration number HP73A 1316 and operated by Happy Bus Service fell into the gorge while going from Bondedi to Chamba.During the ongoing budget session of the state assembly, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur told the House in the afternoon that he has ordered an inquiry to ascertain the exact cause of the accident.Expressing grief over the deaths in the accident, the chief minister informed the House that the bus fell into about a 200-metre-deep gorge near Colony Morh at 10.15 am.The injured have been rushed to Chamba Medical College, Thakur said.The DC said an inquiry into the causes of the accident would be carried out by the SDM Tissa.A total of 18 people were on the ill-fated bus. Of them, nine died while as many were injured, he said adding three of them are critical.Revenue, Police, Health and Fire Department teams carried out the rescue operation.Immediate relief of Rs 20,000 and Rs. 5,000 has been given to family members of the deceased and injured persons respectively, he added. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/9-dead-as-many-injured-as-bus-falls-into-gorge-in-himachals-chamba-cm-orders-probe-223241
10-03-2021||Washington||Chinese govt should have no role in succession process of Dalai Lama: US||The Chinese government should have no role in the succession process of Tibetan spiritual leader the Dalai Lama, the Biden Administration said on Tuesday.“We believe that the Chinese government should have no role in the succession process of the Dalai Lama,” State Department Spokesperson Ned Price told reporters at his daily news conference.“Beijing’s interference in the succession of the Panchen Lama more than 25 years ago, including by ‘disappearing’ the Panchen Lama as a child and attempting to replace him with a PRC (People’s Republic of China) government-chosen successor, it remains an outrageous abuse of religious freedom,” Price said.Previous president Donald Trump in December had signed into law a bill which called for establishing a US consulate in Tibet and building an international coalition to ensure that the next Dalai Lama is appointed solely by the Tibetan Buddhist community without China’s interference.It is the policy of the United States to take all appropriate measures to hold accountable senior officials of the Chinese government or the Chinese Communist Party who directly interfere with the identification and installation of the future 15th Dalai Lama of Tibetan Buddhism, successor to the 14th Dalai Lama, the act said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/chinese-govt-should-have-no-role-in-succession-process-of-dalai-lama-us-223228
10-03-2021||The silence of state Congress president Kuldeep Rathore on the issue of suspension of five Congress legislators||Rathore’s silence surprises all||Rally without a purposeIn a bid to cash in on the farmer’s protest, the Opposition Congress convened a state level rally in the industrial belt of Baddi. The event, it seems, did little to help the Congress as neither farmer leaders nor farmers were present. Interestingly, the tribal leaders did make their presence felt. A former Cabinet minister from a tribal district made the most of the occasion. He interspersed his speech with a Chambiali folk song much to the chagrin of the other leaders who kept sending him written notes to cut short his address. Not only was the seriousness of the cause lost but one wondered what the party gained by convening such events. Clearly lacking leadership, the party is a rudderless boat facing its worst crisis in decades in the state.Hans Raj vs VikramadityaThe suspension of the five Congress MLA s from the Vidhan Sabha has been revoked but it is Deputy Speaker Hans Raj and Shimla (Rural) MLA Vikramaditya Singh whose supporters have virtually waged a war against each other on social media. Vikramaditya Singh, son of former Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh, has himself interacted with his supporters on the issue. His supporters are pointing out the brash behaviour of Hans Raj and to drive home their point, they shared the videos of the Deputy Speaker where he is seen rebuking officials at a Jan Manch held earlier.Elections push businessmen to edgeThe elections for Municipal Corporations are round the corner. The elections have multiplied the problems of a few businessmen. Sources here said that these businessmen had to shell out funds during the recently concluded panchayat and municipal council polls. Now once again demand was being raised for them to generate funds for corporation elections. With trade being down due to the corona pandemic the demands have taken certain businessmen to the edge who are threatening to expose the nexus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rathores-silence-surprises-all-223223
10-03-2021||Leakage in the Dhalli-Sanjauli tunnel is causing a lot of inconvenience to commuters. Not only do people on two-wheelers get wet but speeding cars||Leakage in dhalli-sanjauli tunnel||Roadside garbage an eyesoreThe residents of Ward No. 1 of Una city and adjoining Arniala village along the Una-Takka road are forced to dump garbage on the roadside. While foul smell engulfs the area, the garbage also attracts stray cattle and scavengers. The Municipal garbage collection vehicle, which comes to the site only once a week, needs to increase the visits per week. — Rakesh Kapila, UNAWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/leakage-in-dhalli-sanjauli-tunnel-223222
10-03-2021||The ABVP||New hostel demanded||Education scams unabated: ABVPEven as the ABVP welcomed the provisions made for education in the recently-announced Budget, the students' body claimed that scams in the name of education were still continuing in the state. ABVP's Vikrant Chauhan said the recent scholarship scam and MBU degree were shameful. He further said the scholarship scam was discussed in the Vidhan Sabha two days back and the Education Minister said that such cases have been noticed in 27 universities. He demanded that such institutions should be derecognised and action should be taken against the offenders.Will gherao Parliament: NSUINSUI members said they would gherao Parliament to protest the growing unemployment and Centre's education policy on March 12. State NSUI president Chatar Singh said unemployment had touched its peak in the last seven years. Saying that the PM had cheated the youth of the country, he said the government had failed to keep its promise of providing two crore jobs every year and every section of society was worried.Girls top BDS examsThe top three positions in the 4th year of BDS results have been clinched by girls, all students of Government Dental College. While Monika Kumari secured the first position, Shreya Bhardwaj and Poonam Dhiman took the second and third spot, respectively. Principal Ashu Gupta congratulated the toppers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/new-hostel-demanded-223220
10-03-2021||Dipender Manta||Mandi hoteliers eye good business during Shivratri fair||Tribune News ServiceMandi, March 9Hoteliers of the town and its nearby areas are expecting good business during the week-long Shivaratri fair in the district. The event will kickstart on March 12. After the Covid outbreak, it will be the first mega function in the state. The tourism industry had been hit due to Covid and hoteliers had also suffered losses due to a sharp decline in the arrival of tourists.Since there is a sharp decline in the cases, the government has taken a decision to organise the fair in a grand way to give impetus to economic activities.Anshul, a hotelier in Mandi, said: “It is expected that a large number of people will visit here to enjoy the event, which will give a fillip to the sluggish tourism industry.”Munish Sood, president of the Mandi Hoteliers Association, said, “We welcome the decision of the government to organise the festival in a grand way, which will benefit the tourism industry. We are expecting around 90 per cent room occupancy.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mandi-hoteliers-eye-good-business-during-shivratri-fair-223142
10-03-2021||r Correspondent---||Guv confers 162 degrees, 43 medals at HPTU convocation||Hamirpur, March 9 Governor Bandaru Dattatreya conferred 162 degrees and 43 medals during the third convocation of the Himachal Pradesh Technical University here on Tuesday. As many as 22 students were conferred with gold medals and 21 with silver medals.  Addressing the gathering, the Governor said developments in various fields such as artificial intelligence, block chain technology, big data analytics, machine learning, bio-technology and robotics had challenged traditional engineering and young engineers had golden opportunity to take the country to higher levels. He said universities should work on innovation and encourage students for entrepreneurship. He said the HPTU could play a leading role in the new competitive technology, working knowledge and skills for national self-reliance.  He said that quality, affordability and accessibility should be main elements of the higher education system.  The Governor said Higher Education Policy-2020 would help in accomplishing new goals. Appreciating efforts of the HPTU, he said the credit of implementation of the National Education Policy-2020 also goes to the technical university of Hamirpur as it was the first to take initiatives in this direction. Ram Lal Markandey, Technical Education Minister, said the university was the highest institute of learning. He hoped that the pass-outs of the university would set up an example of excellence in the country.  Vice-chancellor, HPTU, Prof SP Bansal said it was the first technical university in India that would provide bilingual study facility, both in English and Hindi, from the next session. He said we were working on shifting to multiple disciplinary with holistic approach. Earlier, the Governor laid the foundation stone of girls hostel to be constructed at a cost of Rs 9.78 crore. Narender Thakur, MLA, Dr HK Chaudhary, Vice-chancellor, Agriculture University of Palampur, Debasweta Banik, Deputy Commissioner, Karthikeyan Gokulchandran, Superintendent of Police, were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/guv-confers-162-degrees-43-medals-at-hptu-convocation-223143
10-03-2021||---||Cultural event, expo mark Women’s Day||Shimla, March 9 The Himachal Police Department organised a cultural programme at the Gaiety Theatre on Monday evening, celebrating the women in HP Police.  Chief Secretary Anil Khachi, who was present as the chief guest, appreciated the efforts of the state police officers and jawans in maintaining the law and order situation in an effective manner in the state.  He especially lauded the role of women police employees in performing their duties with utmost dedication and devotion. He also congratulated the women police employees for presenting a colourful cultural programme and announced, on behalf of Chief Minister, Rs 1.51 lakh for Police Welfare Fund. Earlier, the Chief Secretary inaugurated the exhibition organised by the state Police Department to mark 50 years of women in HP Police. DGP Sanjay Kundu said the message of women empowerment was sent out through cultural programmes. HP Real Estate Regulatory Authority chairperson Shrikant Baldi and senior officers of the state Police Department were also present on this occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cultural-event-expo-mark-womens-day-223144
10-03-2021||---||Jan Aushadhi Kendra inaugurated at Chail||Shimla, March 9 Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur inaugurated Jan Aushadhi Kendra at Chail in Solan district under the Pradhan Mantri Jan Aushadhi Yojana from Shimla today. Speaking on the occasion, Thakur said the Centre would provide generic medicines to the people at a reasonable price.  He said the Jan Aushadhi Scheme had been implemented in the Pharmaceutical Department of the Government of India with an objective of making qualitative generic medicines available at affordable rates to all. Stating that 7,500 such centres were functioning throughout the country and 58 were operational in all district hospitals of the state, he said medicines and other equipment were procured from reputed pharmaceutical companies for the Jan Aushadhi stores.  “Generic medicines, surgical and other medical treatment related consumables were being made available under this scheme through these centres. The rates of all these medicines and medical devices were much less than the medicines and consumables available in the market. This has provided much-needed relief to the poor and weaker sections of the society,” the CM said. The Chief Minister said the state government was providing 402 drugs free of cost to the people under its Free Drug Policy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/jan-aushadhi-kendra-inaugurated-at-chail-223145
10-03-2021||---||ABVP activists burn effigy of CUHP authorities||Dharamsala, March 9 Students of Central University Himachal Pradesh (CUHP) have intensified agitation, demanding better infrastructure. Students belonging to the ABVP faction burned the effigy of the university administration today.  They were demanding that the construction work on the permanent campus should start soon. They were blaming the administration for the delay in the construction of campus. The ABVP activists alleged that students had been suffering in the absence of proper facilities. Due to protests by the ABVP, the administrative office of the university had been closed. Offline classes had also not been started. Vice-Chancellor of the CUHP Kuldeep Agnihotri had resigned on February 28 and joined as Adviser in the Union Ministry of Culture. The new VC is yet to be appointed. The Congress has been alleging that the ABVP is vitiating the academic atmosphere.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/abvp-activists-burn-effigy-of-cuhp-authorities-223146
10-03-2021||Solan||Teenager found dead in Paonta Sahib||The unidentified body of a boy was found in the bushes on an open plot at Himachal Housing and Urban Development Authority (HIMUDA) colony at Paonta Sahib in Sirmaur district on Tuesday morning. DSP, Paonta Sahib, Bir Bahadur said the post-mortem examination would be conducted after identification. Since two empty bottles of Rexcof cough syrup were recovered from his pockets, it seems that he was an addict and could have died due to drug overdose.  The body was first spotted by a rickshaw puller. The police have circulated the boy’s picture for identifying the body. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/teenager-found-dead-in-paonta-sahib-223147
10-03-2021||---||Independent India’s 1st voter gets Covid vaccine||Shimla, March 9  The first voter of independent India, Shyam Saran Negi (104), today took the Covid vaccine at Kalpa in Kinnaur district. Negi, who has the honour of being the first voter of independent India as elections to the tribal areas were held before anywhere else in the country, took the vaccine at the Primary Health Centre (PHC) in Kalpa.  Negi said he did not feel any discomfort while getting the vaccine and he felt that everyone should take it to remain protected against the Covid virus. Chief Medical Officer (CMO) Kinnaur, Dr Sonam Negi said that in the first phase, 1,010 health workers and 2,032 frontline workers had been vaccinated in the tribal district. The CMO said so far, 890 people above the age of 60 years had been given the vaccine which included 104-year-old Shyam Saran Negi. He added that besides them, 62 people in the 45 to 59 age bracket had been vaccinated. He said the Covid vaccine was being administered at 16 places in Kinnaur district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/independent-indias-1st-voter-gets-covid-vaccine-223148
10-03-2021||---||Kamrunag deity to arrive in Mandi today||Mandi, March 9 Kamrunag deity, known as Badadev, will arrive here in Mandi town on Wednesday to take part in the weeklong Shivratri fair.  However, the event will kickstart officially on March 12. Apart from this, six other deities of Mandi district will arrive here in the town on Wednesday to take part in the weeklong festival. The town has been decorated for the celebration of festival. The stage has been set up at Padal ground in Mandi town to organise cultural night programmes to entertain the audience. Business stalls have been set up at Padal ground for business activities. The temples have been decorated with colorful lights.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kamrunag-deity-to-arrive-in-mandi-today-223149
10-03-2021||Pratibha Chauhan---||Govt misusing funds, resorting to discrimination: Cong||Tribune News Service Shimla, March 9 The Congress today accused the BJP regime of misutilisation of funds and discriminating with other Assembly segments as projects were being concentrated in select constituencies, including that of Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur and Irrigation and Public Health Minister (IPH) Mahender Singh. Participating in the debate on the budget proposals for the year 2021-22, presented by Chief Minister in the Vidhan Sabha on March 6, Congress legislator Asha Kumari today said it was unfair to concentrate development funds in select constituencies.  “This is nothing short of a scam as injustice is being meted out to the people of the state as 47 per cent of the total tenders floated by the IPH department are only for Seraj, CM’s Assembly segment and Dharampur, IPH Minister’s assembly segment,” she remarked. She said on the other the status of most of the project under MLA schemes was dismal. “Out of a total of 673 proposed schemes, DPR was yet to be prepared in case of 466 schemes. Work had been sanctioned in 98 and the work finished in mere one scheme,” she revealed. She said in the long term, the budget will only prove disastrous for the state. “It hurts to see that the Shagun scheme discriminates with girls as it is meant for BPL category in only SC, ST and OBC segments and not for girls of all BPL families,” she stated. She said the social security pension cover extended to women between 65 and 69 years should have also been given to men in the same age bracket. “No provision has been made to meet the additional burden that is imminent on account of recommendations of the Pay Commission as Punjab had announced it and we will have to give it to our employees,” she said. She sought relief for the worst hit tourism industry, especially the taxi owners and bus operators. Narinder Bragta of the BJP said the Congress was criticising the Budget without any reason as there were several schemes for the women and farmers. “Daily wages have been enhanced, 40,000 new social security pensions announced and several schemes for augmenting the income of farmers made available,” he said. He suggested that the government must consider setting up a separate horticulture university in the apple belt, which was the backbone of Himachal’s economy. CPM MLA Rakesh Singha said the government had tried to woo people with the Budget which makes no mention of resource mobilisation as the state’s financial health was grim. Singha said Himachal can earn revenue from forests.The BBMB arrears were still pending and issue was not being raised effectively, he said. He warned that Covid was far from over and a second wave would come and government needs to be prepared for it. Rajinder Rana and Balbir Singh also participated in the debate.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/govt-misusing-funds-resorting-to-discrimination-cong-223150
10-03-2021||---||Boards, corpns won’t be wound up: Himachal Govt||Shimla, March 9Despite being in huge losses, 12 boards and corporation of the Himachal Government will neither be wound up nor appointments of their chairmen and vice chairmen be stopped.This was stated by Irrigation and Public Health Minister Mahender Singh in reply to a query by Jagat Singh Negi during question hour in the Vidhan Sabha today. He was replying on behalf of the Chief Minister who had till then not returned from Delhi.“The practice of appointing chairmen and vice chairmen in these boards and corporations is not a new one and our regime has no intention of winding them up,” he informed the house. He said while the previous Congress regime had appointed six chairmen and vice chairmen of boards and corporations, the BJP regime had only made five appointments.“There are 11 corporation and one board which are in losses but there was no proposal to wind them up,” he stated. Divulging details of the expenditure made on the chairmen and vice chairmen of some of the boards and corporations in the last three years, he said a sum of Rs 56.75 lakh had been spent in case of HP Forest Corporation, Rs 30.16 lakh in the case of HP Forest Corporation, Rs 28.57 lakh in the case of HP Sate Handloom and Handicraft Corporation, Rs 13.42 lakh in the case of HPMC, Rs 13.33 lakh in the case of HP Minorities Finance and Development Commission and Rs 13.33 lakh in case of HP SC, ST Development Corporation, Rs 5.45 lakh in the case of HP Power Corporation and Rs 2.67 crore in the case of HP Tourism Development Corporation.These loss-making Public-Sector Undertaking (PSUs) include HP State Electricity Board with a loss of Rs 1,520.59 crore, Himachal Roadways Transport Corporation with a loss of Rs 1,533.70 crore, HP Forest Corporation with a loss of Rs 110.42 crore, HP Power Corporation with a loss Rs 361.99 crore, Rs 262.37 crore, HP Forest Corporation with a loss of Rs 153.48 crore, besides others.Replying to a query by Lakhwinder Rana, Health Minister Rajiv Saizal said permission had been received from the Centre for opening Level-III trauma centres at Kotkhai, Nalagarh and Una for which a sum of Rs 8.29 crore had been released. He said the Covid makeshift hospital made at Nalagarh would be converted into a trauma centre.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/boards-corpns-wont-be-wound-up-himachal-govt-223151
10-03-2021||---||Anganwari workers hold protest||Shimla, March 9 The Anganwari Workers and Helpers Union, affiliated to CITU, held a demonstration at Vidhan Sabha demanding their appointment in pre-primary classes. A delegation of the union, headed by its national president Usha Rani, met Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur and submitted a memorandum regarding their demands. Usha Rani and other union leaders urged the anganwari workers to stay on strike and keep the anganwari centres closed. They said the agitation will be intensified if the orders for their appointment in pre-primary classes were not issued. They also demanded the withdrawal of the new education policy, which they alleged was not only anti-student but also against the Integrated Child Development Services.  The union demanded that anganwari workers be regularised and given salary and other benefits on the lines of their counterparts in Haryana.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/anganwari-workers-hold-protest-223152
10-03-2021||Ambika Sharma||Baru Sahib: Covid cases at Akal Academy rise to 76||Tribune News ServiceSolan, March 9Baru Sahib-based Akal Academy and two buildings in its precincts at Lana Bhalta village in Sirmaur district have been declared containment zones after 76 nursing students tested positive this week. As many as 32 females in the age group of 17 to 23 tested positive today.Deputy Commissioner (DC), Sirmaur, Dr RK Pruthi, said the ACN hostel, isolation ward in Akal Charitable Hospital as well as the hospital and two adjoining buildings in Lana Bhalta village were declared containment zones today.“Violations in social distancing norms have been observed in the institute and those who had come with RAT-negative test reports tested positive here in RT-PCR. All students are being tested to ensure that the infection is contained,” informed the DC.The adjoining labour colony and two more adjoining buildings have been declared buffer zones in a bid to contain the further spread of the virus in Baru Sahib. These zones would be cordoned off and no person residing in these areas would be permitted to assemble or congregate and would have to remain indoors expect for emergencies.The administration has also banned the organisation of all functions, meetings, workshops, community events etc. All shops, expect chemist shops and those providing essential services, have been permitted to operate with door-to-door provision of essential commodities being made available.Regular sanitisation will be undertaken and the Chief Medical Officer will station health teams to monitor the health of the people in the said area.Violations will be dealt with legally and the Disaster Management Act has also been invoked.The sudden surge in Covid cases has once again rung alarm bells among the authorities and they were once again in a state of high alert. There were 86 active cases in the district till last evening which was the second highest in the state after Kangra district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/baru-sahib-covid-cases-at-akal-academy-rise-to-76-223153
10-03-2021||Our Correspondent---||Policy likely for legal plantation of cannabis||Hamirpur, March 9 The cannabis production will be a boon for patients suffering from diseases like cancer and AIDS. This was stated by Ram Lal Markanda, Technical Education Minister, here today.  The minister said the government was in the process of formulating a policy for starting legal cultivation of cannabis in the state. He said that he had been to European countries to study cannabis cultivation and had suggested the government to consider its legal cultivation. He said that medicines produced using cannabinoids had miraculous properties to provide relief to cancer and AIDS patients. Markanda said the cannabis produced for the medicinal purpose was different from the wild cannabis. Medicinal produce of cannabis would enable the country to produce lifesaving drugs that were otherwise imported at a very high cost and were out of reach of the common man. He said the country was importing over 1,000 tonnes of cannabis from China while medicines were imported from European countries. He said that Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur was himself monitoring every aspect of the policy for cannabis cultivation and wanted to plug every loophole before finalizing the policy. He said that legalised cultivation of cannabis would not only improve economy of the state but it would enable state to clear all debts in a few years. The policy would attract investment worth crores in pharma industry. He dismissed suggestions that this could encourage illegal production.  “Why would anyone go for illegal production when one would get better cost for legal production”, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/policy-likely-for-legal-plantation-of-cannabis-223154
10-03-2021||Chamba||4 kg charas seized||A Special Investigation Team of the police last evening nabbed a person with 4.12 kg charas. The person was travelling in a bus near Udaipur in the district. The police laid a ‘naka’ near Udaipur on the Chamba-Pathankot national highway and stopped a bus. On inspection, charas was seized from a passenger.   The accused, Taj Mohammad, was arrested and a case was registered against him under Section 20 of the NDPS Act. During investigation, it was found that the accused was to give it to Daman Sharma, who was waiting for him near the Nainikhud bus stop. The team also arrested Daman.   Meanwhile, Sessions Judge Rajesh Tomar today sentenced Kishan Chand, a resident of Naghei village, Churah tehsil of Chamba district, to a rigorous imprisonment for 10 years with a fine of Rs 1 lakh under Section 20 of the NDPS Act for possessing 1.55 kg of charas (cannabis). In case of default in the payment of fine, the convict shall further suffer imprisonment for one year.  — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/4-kg-charas-seized-223155
10-03-2021||Lalit Mohan||NGT panel led by ex-judge to probe illegal mining in Swan||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, March 9The National Green Tribunal has constituted an independent five-member committee headed by Justice Jasbir Singh, former Punjab and Haryana High Court judge, to probe alleged illegal mining in the Swan riverbed in Himachal Pradesh’s Una.'Illegal’ quarryingThe panel will also comprise regional officers of the Central Pollution Control Board, Ministry of Environment and Forests (MoEF), Central Soil and Water Conversation Research Institute (Dehradun) and the Himalayan Forest Research Institute, Shimla.A three-member NGT Bench comprising Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel, Justice Sheo Kumar Singh and expert member Nagin Nanda issued the order on a complaint filed by an Una resident, Amandeep.The NGT has directed the committee to visit the site to prepare an independent report on “illegal” mining.In his petition, Amandeep stated that the Centre had sanctioned Rs 922 crore for channelisation of the river. Seventythree ‘khuds’ (mini water channels) too were channelised as part of the project to save agricultural land from flooding in rainy season.“The sand mafia, enjoying political patronage, under the garb of mining licence has been lifting sand and gravel from the riverbed in an unscientific manner, thus defeating the purpose of channelisation. Overloaded trucks are damaging link roads, causing pollution and putting the locals at inconvenience,” he claimed. The mining, he alleged, may even cause damage to bridges over the Swan.The NGT has also directed the state environment secretary, pollution control board and the Una District Magistrate to take remedial steps to control the menace of sand mining after verifying the facts stated in the application.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ngt-panel-led-by-ex-judge-to-probe-illegal-mining-in-swan-223047
10-03-2021||Shimla||Illegal sand mining in HP: NGT sets up panel headed by retired judge||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has constituted an independent five-member committee headed by a former judge of Punjab and Haryana High Court, Justice Jasbir Singh, to give an independent report regarding alleged illegal mining at Swan river in Himachal Pradesh’s Una district.The other members of the committee comprises regional officers of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEF&CC), the Central Soil and Water Conservation Research Institute, Dehradun and the Himalayan Forest Research Institute, Shimla with the Regional Officer, MoEF&CC, Chandigarh being nodal agency.The NGT’s three-member principal bench headed by its chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel and members Justice Sheo Kumar Singh and Dr. Nagin Nanda issued the order on March two for setting up the five-member committee while hearing an application filed by one Amandeep.In his application filed on February 20, the applicant alleged that the sand mafia having political shelter under the garb of a mining licence, are lifting sand and other material from the bed of the Swan river in an unscientific manner by using excavators, in utter violation of the norms and rules framed for the purpose under the nose and eyes of the local district administration and government, causing constant danger to the river and its channelisation.The application further stated that the overloaded trucks-tippers carrying sand are damaging roads, polluting air, and causing inconvenience to the public.There is every possibility that the illegal mining may not only cause loss, damage and destruction to the channelisation work of the Swan river but also damage the bridges, leading to loss of public funds already spent for this purpose.Besides, it may cause loss to the water-level and pose a threat to the pollution-free atmosphere of Himachal Pradesh, it added.Meanwhile, adjourning the hearing for May 10, the NGT stated that the committee may visit the site and give an independent report of facts found and remedial action required.In its four-page order, the NGT directed the state Pollution Control Board (PCB) and Una district magistrate to provide logistic support to the committee.The committee will be at liberty to take assistance from such other institutions, experts or individuals as necessary, the order added.Apart from constituting the five-member committee, the NGT also directed the state environment secretary, the state PCB and Una district magistrate to take remedial action to control the menace of sand mining after verifying the facts stated in the application.The PCB will be the nodal agency for compliance and coordination, it added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/illegal-sand-mining-in-hp-ngt-sets-up-panel-headed-by-retired-judge-222873
