12-03-2021||Shimla||Himachal minister calls PM Modi incarnation of Lord Shiva||Himachal Pradesh Urban Development Minister Suresh Bhardwaj has described Prime Minister Narendra Modi as an incarnation of Lord Shiva, saying only a great person like him could have tackled coronavirus in a populous country like India.The minister who had given the statement on the occasion of Shivratri while attending a religious function at a temple, said he made no mistake and justified the remarks on Friday.Meanwhile, the Congress took a swipe at the minister for the statement with its Shimla (Rural) MLA Vikramaditya Singh saying Bhardwaj might have said it to flatter the PM and secure the CM’s post for himself.Justifying his statement, the Himachal minister on Friday said Modi successfully tackled coronavirus in India, a country populated by 137 crore people.Only a great man (mahapurush) and an incarnation (avtar) can do this, he said. “I made no mistake while stating that he is an incarnation of Lord Shiva,” he reiterated. Stressing that PM Modi had spent two days in a Kedarnath cave after voting in the Lok Sabha polls in 2019, the 69-year-old minister had said Thursday, “He has blessings of Lord Shiva. He has taken birth as an incarnation of Lord Shiva.”  “The entire world is looking at him like a world leader,” he had said, adding that India has manufactured two vaccinations with the highest number of people being vaccinated in the country. Terming Bhardwaj’s statement as unfortunate, former Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh’s son and Congress MLA Vikramaditya Singh said the minister might have given the statement to flatter the PM and get the state chief minister’s post. Mentioning recent developments in Uttarakhand where the BJP changed its chief minister, the Congress leader said several Himachal ministers have started dreaming of becoming the CM of the state thinking that Jai Ram Thakur may also resign from his post. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-minister-calls-pm-modi-incarnation-of-lord-shiva-224227
12-03-2021||Mandi||Weeklong Mahashivratri begins in Himachal||Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur on Friday inaugurated the weeklong Mahashivratri in this Himachal town, popularly known as ‘Chhoti Kashi’, amid the congregation of over 200 deities from hundreds of temples.Though the Mahashivratri was celebrated by the country on Thursday. It is a tradition to start the celebrations a day later.The celebrations date back to 1526 when Mandi was founded during the rule of Ajbar Sen (1499-1534). He had ‘invited’ all the local deities to mark the founding of the new town.The local administration has been inviting the deities to participate in the festivity.On the first day of the festival, a procession led by Lord Madho Rai, an incarnate of Lord Vishnu and the chief deity, was taken out.The assembled deities followed him in beautifully decorated palanquins, as per protocol, and later congregated at the Bhutnath temple, dedicated to Lord Shiva, which was constructed in 1526.Two such processions, locally called ‘Jaleb’, would be taken out on the middle and concluding days of the fair, said an organiser.A day earlier, Deity Kamrunag, the main guest, reached the town along with hundreds of his devotees in a colourful procession amid beating of drums.Mandi, located on the Chandigarh-Manali National Highway-21, is dotted with more than 80 temples built in typical hill architecture. The prominent temples are those of Bhutnath, Triloki Nath, Jagannath, Tarna Devi and Jalpa Devi.The rulers of Mandi were devotees of Lord Shiva.It is believed that ruler Ajbar Sen saw in his dreams a cow offering milk to the image of Lord Shiva. His dream turned into reality when he himself saw the cow offering its milk to the idol.He then constructed a temple there in 1526—the Bhutnath temple.Simultaneously, the foundation of Mandi town was also laid, and he shifted his capital here.Ever since the rule of princely states came to an end, the district administration has been following the practice and inviting deities to the Shivratri festivities here.The administration also offers an honorarium to the “kardars”—the attendants of deities—for participating in the festival. — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/weeklong-mahashivratri-begins-in-himachal-224204
12-03-2021||Solan||28-year-old man kills 56-year-old mother in Parwanoo village; arrested||A 56-year-old woman was killed on Thursday evening after her son allegedly shot at her with a loaded gun at Naryal village near Parwanoo.The victim Nirmala Devi was allegedly shot by her son Harish Kumar around 9:00 pm. The reports stated that the bullet pierced through her chest and flung out from the shoulder.According to the police, the father of the deceased— Shyam Singh— his wife, Tara and his mother, Nirmala were at home when an altercation took place between Nirmal and Tara in the kitchen. This infuriated Harish. He fetched his father’s muzzle-loaded gun from the bedroom and allegedly shot his mother.She received fatal injuries to the chest, shoulder, and chin. Nirmala was rushed to the ESI hospital where the doctors declared her dead.  DSP Parwanoo, Yogesh Rolta, said the accused Harish Kumar was arrested last night, and the weapon used in the incident has been seized. The 28-year-old accused works in a pharmaceutical industry at Parwanoo.A case under section 302 of the IPC, and under the Arms Act has been registered and further probe was underway.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/28-year-old-man-kills-56-year-old-mother-in-parwanoo-village-arrested-224193
12-03-2021||---||Cold wave revives in tribal areas, higher hills of Himachal||Shimla, March 11Cold wave conditions revived in tribal areas and higher hills of Himachal following fresh snowfall and scattered rain today while day temperatures rose by a few notches in mid and lower hills.Gondla received 8 cm of fresh snowfall, followed by Hansa 7 cm, and Keylong 6 cm. Bajura was the wettest in the region with 19 mm of rain, followed by Bhuntar 17 mm, Manali 9 mm, Theog 8 mm, Seobagh 7 mm and Bharmaur and Tinder 4 mm each.The local MeT office has issued a yellow warning of a thunderstorm, lightning and a hailstorm at isolated places in Bilaspur, Kangra, Mandi and Shimla districts on March 12 and 14 and in Hamirpur, Chamba and Kullu on March 12. The MeT office also predicted rain and snowfall in mid and higher hills over the next four days and a thunderstorm and rain at isolated places on March 12 and 14.An induced cyclonic circulation lies over central Pakistan and adjoining West Rajasthan while another fresh Western Disturbance is likely to affect the Western Himalayan Region and adjoining plains of Northwest India from March 13, it said.However, the day temperatures rose by a few notches in lower and mid hills and Una with a high of 34.4°C was the hottest in the region, followed by Solan and Sundernagar (29.8°C), 6 to7°C above normal, followed by Shimla 20.8°C, Manali 17.8°C, Kalpa 15.3°C and Keylong 4°C.The minimum temperatures dropped marginally and Keylong was the coldest with a low of minus 5.4°C while Kalpa and Manali recorded a minimum of 0.3°C and 1.6°C, followed by Kufri 5.2°C, Shimla and Palampur 10°C, Una 10.4°C and Nahan 17.1°C.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cold-wave-revives-in-tribal-areas-higher-hills-of-himachal-224025
12-03-2021||Kullu||Traditional archery held in Todh valley on Shivratri||The Ringo Utsav was celebrated in Keylong while the traditional Muskun archery was organised in the Todh valley during the snow festival in Lahaul and Spiti district today. The traditional archery was also held in Upper Keylong. The event commences on the Shivratri festival and all men play archery and aim at a target made of flour. Deputy Commissioner Pankaj Rai said a Food Festival would be held in Sissu next week to introduce tourists to the traditional cuisines of Lahaul and Spiti. He added that the tourists would get to taste the vegetarian and non-vegetarian dishes of Lahaul. ‘Charmachai’ and ‘Namkeen Chai’ stalls would also be set up. Rai said a state-level traditional archery competition would be organised in Keylong during the snow festival on March 26 and said it would be one of a kind event in which players from various districts would showcase their talents in traditional archery. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/traditional-archery-held-in-todh-valley-on-shivratri-224026
12-03-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Centre approves cultivation of sea buckthorn on 250 hectares||Tribune News ServiceShimla, March 11The cold desert areas of five Himalayan states, including Himachal, are on the threshold of a new era of prosperity, following the approval of Rs 1,260 crore for the cultivation of sea buckthorn, a wonder plant with multiple qualities, by the Union Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change.Wonder plant with multiple qualitiesFruit and leaves of sea buckthorn are rich in vitamins (C, E, A, B, K), carotenoids, sterols, polyphones and omega fatty acids, which have a great demand in food, cosmetic and drug industries.Rs1,260 crore projectThe project was submitted to the Union ministry by the Sea buckthorn Association of India based at CSK Himachal Pradesh Agricultural University, Palampur, in February last year. Under the project, sea buckthorn plantation will be raised on 2,500 hectares in Himachal, Uttarakhand and Jammu and Kashmir and 500 hectares in Sikkim and Arunachal over 10 years.The plantation of sea buckthorns also known as “chharma” will be undertaken on 250 hectares in Lahaul & Spiti and Kinnaur districts in five years. ‘Chharma’ would be planted on 50 hectares in 2021-22, said Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur during his Budget speech.Secretary, Sea buckthorn Association of India, Prof Virendra Singh, said grown at 2,500-4,500 metre, its fruit and leaves were rich in vitamins (C, E, A, B, K), carotenoids, sterols, polyphones and omega fatty acids, which have a great demand in food, cosmetic and drug industries, he said.On the recommendations of the Ministry of Finance, Anand Kumar Prabhakar, Deputy Inspector General of Forest, had asked Principal Chief Conservators of Forest of the five states to prepare project proposals on sea buckthorn.The university has also imported 14 mild thorny and high-yielding Russian sea buckthorn varieties, including table variety, which will be introduced on small-scale under a scheme of the Horticulture Department on experimental basis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/centre-approves-cultivation-of-sea-buckthorn-on-250-hectares-224029
12-03-2021||---||Sangay dedicates park to Dharamsala residents||Dharamsala, March 11President of the Central Tibetan Administration (CTA)-in exile (Sikyong) Lobsang Sangay inaugurated the Vikas Children’s Park at the State War Memorial here today.Sikyong was accompanied by Finance Minister of the Tibetan government-in exile Karma Yeshi and the governing council members of the War Memorial Society led by Col KKS Dadwal (retd).Sangay told mediapersons after inaugurating the park that it was a gratitude initiative dedicated to local Indians in the name of the Dalai Lama and the 85 glorious years he had spent and still continues to devote to the wellbeing of all sentient beings.Karma Yeshi said that the park was an initiative of the Department of Finance as part of the CTA’s year-long campaign to express gratitude to the Dalai Lama and thank the people of Dharamsala.“Dharamsala being the abode of His Holiness the Dalai Lama and a popular tourist attraction, both locals and tourists can enjoy and avail of the benefits of the park”, he added.The CTA dedicated the year from July 1, 2020, to June 30, 2021, as the Year of Gratitude to the Dalai Lama and so through its various departments, it had launched various projects in observance of the event.Col Dadwal thanked the leadership of the CTA for building the facility and offered his good wishes and prayers for the swift resolution of the Tibet issue. The CTA has spent Rs 16 lakh on the expansion of the park in the war memorial in Dharamsala.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sangay-dedicates-park-to-dharamsala-residents-224031
12-03-2021||Our Correspondent---||Despite ban, poaching rampant in Nurpur forests||Nurpur, March 11 Despite prohibition, the poaching of wild animals is going on unabated in forests under the Nurpur forest division. During pre-dawn or post-dawn hours, hunters enter forests, dressed in khakis or Army uniform, and kill wild animals with their crop protection guns.  Poaching is being reported from different forests in Kopra, Ondh, Suliali, Ganhi-Lagor, Lambanal, Bhadroya, Fatehpur, Sthana, Makrollli, Jawali and Mastgarh forests in Nurpur forest division.  The wildlife lovers have appealed to the Forest Department authorities to make arrangements to keep a check over the menace as department’s field staff had been entrusted with the task to check poaching.  Nurpur Divisional Forest Officer Viklap Yadav said strict directions had been given to the field staff to keep a close vigil on the offenders so that action could be taken against them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/despite-ban-poaching-rampant-in-nurpur-forests-224033
12-03-2021||Palampur||Heaps of garbage an eyesore for residents||Despite being merged with the Palampur Municipal Corporation, garbage collection and clearance have not improved in areas such as Maranda, Palampur bypass, Differpatt, SSB Chowk, Khilroo and Bindravan. Sources said the problem had aggravated in the absence of any mechanism for garbage collection and repeated requests by residents to the MC have fallen on deaf years.  A large-scale dumping of garbage in forests, roadside and water bodies   has contaminated a water channel.  It is learnt that the MC has invited a tender to hire manpower for the removal of garbage in the newly merged areas  and  appropriate arrangements will be made by the next week.  Besides, the MC has not started the installation of streetlights in new areas  despite a commitment made by the Urban Development Minister during his visit to Palampur in December. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/heaps-of-garbage-an-eyesore-for-residents-224035
12-03-2021||---||41 more Covid cases at Baru Sahib Eternal University||Solan, March 11As many as 41 fresh Covid cases were reported in Eternal University at Baru Sahib in Sirmaur district today, taking the tally in the institute to 117.Students asymptomaticDeputy Commissioner, Sirmaur, RK Pruthi, said the sampling of all nursing students was completed on Thursday. The fresh cases comprise students aged 17 to 22 years. Meanwhile, nine students have recovered after the completion of their 10-day isolation period.The health authorities are keeping a strict watch on Covid cases on the campus with sanitisation being undertaken thrice a day. All students were served food in hostel rooms in a bid to contain the spread of virus.Chief Medical Officer, Sirmaur, Dr KK Prashar, said as many as 50 samples were taken today and the reports of 30 taken on Wednesday would be received on Friday. Most of the patients were asymptomatic and very few girls reported minor symptoms like cough and cold. The infection was also confined to a particular pocket in the hostel which had spread after the arrival of a girl from outside.The district reported the highest number of cases in the state and it also has the highest number of 164 active cases now. This sudden surge in the Covid cases has alerted the district administration which has deputed medical teams to ensure that all safety and health norms were adhered to strictly.92 found +ve in stateWith 92 positive cases being reported today, the total number of Covid cases in the state reached 59,439. However, no fatality was reported in the last 24 hours.The highest number of cases was reported in Solan (41), followed by Una (15), Kangra (13), Solan (12), Shimla (4), Hamirpur (3), Mandi (2) and Bilaspur and Kullu one case each.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/41-more-covid-cases-at-baru-sahib-eternal-university-224037
12-03-2021||---||Covid-19: Random sampling in Solan schools, colleges||Solan, March 11Officials of the Health Department will conduct random sampling in schools, colleges and universities in a bid to curtail the increase in Covid cases in Solan district. It reported the highest number of 25 cases yesterday.Most boarding schools have resumed classroom teaching of higher classes where the strict compliance of Covid norms was being adhered to. Covid cases were, however, emerging from day-boarding schools in Parwanoo, Dharampur and Barotiwala and this has become a cause for concern.Deputy Commissioner KC Chaman has issued the directions. “All principals have been directed to discourage the movement of the staff from the neighbouring states on a daily basis as those commuting from outside have been found to spread Covid in the Baddi-Barotiwala-Nalagarh belt,” said SDM, Nalagarh, Mahinder Pal.A minimum of 20 contacts would be tested after tracing them in 48 hours and their quarantine would be ensured. In case five or more cases emerge in an industrial unit, it would be closed for 24 hours.All SDMs had been directed to notify containment zones (CZ). The Covid vaccination would also be undertaken where clustering of Covid cases would be found soon after notifying a CZ.The dedicated Covid Care Centre at the labour hostel in Nalagarh is also being made operational to meet any eventuality.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-19-random-sampling-in-solan-schools-colleges-224039
12-03-2021||Ambika Sharma---||Solan MC poll turns into a battle of wits||Tribune News Service Solan, March 11 The municipal corporation poll for  the recently elevated Solan civic body has become a battle of wits for the  ruling  BJP and the  Opposition Congress, which are sparing no effort to condemn each other.  The BJP wants to capitalise on its achievement of upgrading the civic body which the Congress had failed to do during its tenure. A slew of announcements made by Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur have set the ball rolling for the poll campaign. While BJP leaders are taking credit for the announcements, the Congress has termed these as a poll gimmick.  Pawan Gupta, former president, Solan civic body, said, “Development will gather pace with the CM announcing crores for the town. A provision for more doctors for the Regional Hospital and a grant of Rs 2 crore each  for transport nagar, three new parkings, development of 17 wards, etc, will benefit the locals.” He asked local MLA DR Shandil to tell people what he had done for the town.  Congress poll convener Rajinder Rana, however, raised questions on why Nahan MLA Rajiv Bindal had been appointed  as the poll in-charge for Solan,  ignoring local Health and Family Welfare Minister Dr Rajiv Saizal. He demanded a White Paper on the development works in Solan in the past three years. He said despite laying the foundation stone of the transport nagar in 2018, the work could not begin.  The projects, inaugurated by the CM recently, were those listed in the MLA priority scheme.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/solan-mc-poll-turns-into-a-battle-of-wits-224041
12-03-2021||Chamba||2 Nakodar, Chamba residents awarded 11-yr jail||Sessions Judge Rajesh Tomar yesterday sentenced Ram Singh, a resident of Madali village in Nakodar tehsil of Jalandhar district, and Sanju, a resident of Simmi village in Salooni tehsil of Chamba district, to a rigorous imprisonment of 11 years and also imposed a fine of Rs 1.10 lakh each under Section 20 of the NDPS Act for carrying 3.18 kg of charas.In case of default in the payment of fine, the convicts shall further undergo an imprisonment of one year each.On November 21, 2017, the police while managing traffic at the Tunnuhatti checkpoint on the Chamba-Pathankot national highway arrested Ram Singh and Sanju with 3.18 kg of charas. — OC0||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/2-nakodar-chamba-residents-awarded-11-yr-jail-224042
12-03-2021||---||Himachal CM Jai Ram Thakur to inaugurate Shivratri fest today||Mandi, March 11The week-long Shivratri celebrations is a glimpse of the deity culture in Himachal Pradesh, which will begin on March 12 in the district. Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur will inaugurate the event.Deities from across the district have started arriving in Mandi to take part in the festivity. Around 120 deities arrived in Mandi town till this evening along with their followers. Many deities are on their way to Mandi, and will arrive here by tomorrow. It is expected that over 200 deities will come to take part in the week-long festival.The deities were welcomed by the district administration of Mandi. All deities first visited the temple of Madho Rai deity in the town to pay him obeisance. A procession of the deities will be the major attraction for visitors here.Mandi Superintendent of Police Shalini Agnihotri said adequate force has been deployed to maintain law and order during the fair. She appealed to the public to wear face masks properly during the fair.Historian KK Nutan said, “The specific observance of this festival as a fair, starting with Shivratri, is linked to ruler Ishwari Sen. Ishawri Sen was held a prisoner for 12 years after he lost his kingdom in the war waged by Sansar Chand of Punjab, in 1792. He was released by the Gurkha invaders who had invaded the Kangra and Mandi states. Afterwards, the Gurkhas’ restored the Mandi state to Ishwari Sen.”“Ishwari Sen was given a reception on the occasion of his return to Mandi, his state capital. On this occasion, the king invited all hill deities of the kingdom and held a grand celebration, and this day happened to be Shivratri. Since then, this festival is being celebrated every year in Mandi town with great fervour,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-cm-jai-ram-thakur-to-inaugurate-shivratri-fest-today-224043
12-03-2021||Our Correspondent ---||Early forest fires keep dept officials on toes||Palampur, March 11 The early summers and a long spell of dry weather in the state have sparked forest fires in March in the largest biosphere reserves of the country.   Earlier fire incidents were witnessed in mid-April, May or June. However, early fires have put forest officials on tenterhooks and they are a worried lot since longer summer is expected this year as per weather forecast.  A senior official of the state Forest Department said the only consolation was that the situation was under control till date and the department had succeeded in controlling the fires.  “Besides, there was virtually no rainfall in January and February in the lower hills of the state. This, coinciding with shedding of pine leaves, which are highly inflammable, triggered fires with the rise in temperature,” he added.  Information gathered by The Tribune revealed that in the absence of adequate financial support from the government for taking preventive measures, the fire incidents have gone up not only in Palampur but all over the state. For the past 10 years the Forest Department had not been able to take even the minimum required preventive measures to check the fire. It could not take up measures like controlled burning and maintenance of fire lines in most of the forests in the lower hills of the state where 60 per cent of fire incidents are reported.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/early-forest-fires-keep-dept-officials-on-toes-224044
12-03-2021||lan||Crows found dead in Jadla gram panchayat||The recovery of three dead crows in Jadla gram panchayat near Subathu Cantonment created panic among villagers last evening. They  said that several dead crows had been found in the forest area as well as water bodies such as Naya Nagar, Arla and Bhali in the past few days. They feared that the crows might have died of avian flu.  Dr BB Gupta,  Deputy Director, Animal Husbandry Department, however,  said that the field staff visited Jadla gram panchayat yesterday and found three dead crows.  He added that there was a bleak chance of avian flu being the cause of the death of the crows. Samples are sent for lab analysis  only if the mortality of five or more birds occur. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/crows-found-dead-in-jadla-gram-panchayat-224045
12-03-2021||imla||Himachal Guv, CM greet people on the occasion of Shivratri||Himachal Pradesh Governor Bandaru Dattatreya and Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today felicitated the people on the auspicious occasion of Shivratri.The Governor hoped this auspicious occasion would bring peace and prosperity into the lives of people.Chief Minister Thakur said Himachal Pradesh was known as abode of Lord Shiva and Shivratri festival celebrated at various places in the state have their own importance.He hoped the festival would go a long way in strengthening the bonds of brotherhood. —IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-guv-cm-greet-people-on-the-occasion-of-shivratri-224046
12-03-2021||Heaps of garbage along a road leading to the lower Dhalli area cause a lot of inconvenience to commuters. Apart from being an eyesore||Heaps of garbage in Dhalli area irk commuters||Need to follow Covid protocol strictlyWITH the signs of the resurgence of the pandemic evident from gradual increase in daily cases, the administration must ensure strict implementation of Covid protocol. The administration also needs to keep a check on school cabs plying in Shimla. These cabs can be seen running at full capacity, flouting social distancing norms. The drivers also need to be sensitised about the dangers of not abiding by the government issued guidelines.— Roshan Thakur, ShimlaWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you?Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/heaps-of-garbage-in-dhalli-area%C2%A0irk-commuters-224060
12-03-2021||The Raising Day ceremony of NCC unit 7 HP (I) COY NCC Shimla was celebrated at St Bede’s College on Wednesday. NCC Group Commander Brig Rajeev Thakur was the chief guest at the occasion. Col Suneet Shankta||Raising Day ceremony at Shimla's St Bede’s College||Sanjauli girl bags award for poetryAanchal Bhandari, a student of Government College, Sanjauli, was conferred an award for for doing consistently well in the field of poetry on the International Women’s Day. The award was presented by MP Indu Goswami. Aanchal represented Himachal in a poetry competition and helped the state bag the title. She gave the credit for her success to her teachers, parents and friends. College Principal CB Mehta congratulated her for the achievement.Personality development conclaveThe Ultimate Mentors (TUM) Group, a charitable organisation comprising professional achievers, is organising a TUM Personality Development Conclave on March 12 and 13 in collaboration with Indus International University, Una. The group aims to help the state youth to identify and achieve their goals through seasoned mentoring for employability and their economic self reliance.HPPSC result declaredThe Himachal Pradesh Public Service Commission has declared the result of the objective-type examination for recruitment to the posts of Assistant Manager, Class-II in HP Cooperative Bank Limited under the Department of Cooperation, HP, held on October 11 for filling up 28 vacancies. The personality test for this is scheduled to be held from March 15 to 20. The call letters for personality test will be uploaded shortly on the website of the commission.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/raising-day-ceremony-at-shimlas-st-bedes-college-224061
12-03-2021||---||Parallel tunnel planned to ease traffic congestion in Shimla dist||Shimla, March 11Shimla Smart City Limited has set its sights on constructing a parallel tunnel to the old Sanjauli-Dhalli tunnel to ease the flow of traffic in the city.“The Himachal Pradesh Road Infrastructure Development Corporation (HPRIDC) has already hired a consultant to check the feasibility of the project. The consultant has started the work and will soon submit the report,” said Smart City General Manager (Technical) Nitin Garg. The Smart City BoD has given in principle approval to the project and has allocated a tentative budget of Rs 48 crore.The tunnel is a massive traffic bottleneck in the city that’s struggling to handle the growing vehicular traffic. “Many junctions and roads are being widened for smoother flow of traffic, including on the Dhalli junction. But unless we build a parallel tunnel for a two-way traffic, the tunnel will continue to be a traffic bottleneck.Incidentally, a detailed project report (DPR) was made for constructing a parallel tunnel in 2008 as well. “The project could not take off for some reasons at that time. Subject to the report of the consultant, the HPRIDC will try to float the tender by this August and aim to construct the tunnel within a year after the work is allotted,” said Garg.Besides, the Shimla Smart City is focusing on making as many parks and open air gyms as possible in the city. “We have given an administrative approval of Rs 2.09 crore for 12 parks within the city. Also, installing open air gyms wherever possible is also high on our priority,” said Garg.Big traffic bottleneck||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/parallel-tunnel-planned-to-ease-traffic-congestion-in-shimla-dist-223995
12-03-2021||Urvashi Rautela is currently in Manali shooting for her upcoming project. She has not revealed the details of the project but a few pictures from the sets have made their way to social media. In one of the pictures||Urvashi Rautela spotted shooting at Manali||Meanwhile, Urvashi will next be seen in the web series Inspector Avinash, in which she has been paired along with Randeep Hooda. Inspector Avinash is a real-life story of police officer Avinash Mishra, directed by Neeraj Pathak. According to the sources, Urvashi Rautela has signed a three-film deal with Jio Studios. She also has an international project with the Egyptian superstar Mohamad Ramadan in her kitty.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/urvashi-rautela-spotted-shooting-at-manali-223417
