13-03-2021||Shimla||Himachal to hold six Nagar Panchayat elections on April 7||The Himachal State Election Commission announced on Saturday elections to the six local bodies---nagar panchayats of Ani and Nirmand in Kullu, Kandaghat in Solan, Chirgaon and Nerwa in Shimla and Kandaghat in Solan on April 7. Nominations should be filed from March 22 to March 24, they will be scrutinised on March 25. These can be withdrawn until March 27.Election schedule is the same as elections for four municipal corporations—Dharamsala, Mani, Palampur and Solan—announced earlier in the day. Votes will be counted immediately after polling closes on April 7.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-to-hold-six-nagar-panchayat-elections-on-april-7-224703
13-03-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||Assembly poll  nearing, Congress keen to forge unity||Tribune News ServiceShimla, March 12Sensing that the 2022 Assembly elections will not be an easy task for the party considering the fact that Himachal happens to be home state of BJP national chief JP Nadda, Congress high command is keen to forge unity among its state leadership.Party’s worriesRealising that winning the next Assembly elections will prove an enormous task, Congress Working Committee (CWC) member and AICC in-charge for Himachal Rajeev Shukla is keen that the entire state leadership works unitedly to defeat the BJP.The fact that its tallest leader Virbhadra Singh, who has dominated state politics for almost half a century, would be in no position to criss-cross the state to lead the campaign in 2022 is adding to the worries of the Congress.In the absence of Virbhadra’s availability 24X7, there is no state leader who has a statewide appeal. Senior leaders could hold sway on voters in their districts but there is no such leader who enjoys the kind of acceptability and personal following that Virbhadra enjoyed. The absence of coordination between the Congress Legislature Party (CLP) and the HPCC, too, is more than obvious.The Congress has almost half a dozen senior leaders like Mukesh Agnihotri, Kaul Singh Thakur, GS Bali, Asha Kumari, Sukhwinder Singh Sukhu, Ram Lal Thakur and Harshwardhan Chauhan, most of whom have been MLAs for three to six terms and are very senior.“The problem is that there are too many senior leaders, with most being claimants for the post of chief minister which is adding to the woes of the party,” admitted a senior leader. This has resulted in each one of them lobbying and working for achieving his personal ambitions.In the meeting held with the top brass of the state leadership at Kasauli last week, Shukla stressed the need for putting up a united fight and chalking out the election strategy. The issue of fixing a criterion for allotment of ticket for the Assembly elections was also discussed so that the candidates could be groomed and given time to prepare for the elections rather than late decisions harming party’s prospects.Another major handicap that the Congress faces is acute paucity of funds and election material. “Even in the 2017 Assembly elections, the party hardly had any elections funds at its disposal despite Congress being in power. So you can well imagine how difficult the going will be this time,” admitted an MLA.Congress leaders admitted that had it been for better fund and election material availability, the Congress could have exceeded the 21 seats it won. On the other hand, the BJP was flush with resources, publicity material and election strategy being managed by the Central leadership.Though people seem to be quite disenchanted with the BJP on account of unbridled price rise and unemployment Congress faces an uphill task in wresting power back from the BJP unless all leaders do not sink their egos and work unitedly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/assembly-poll-nearing-congress-keen-to-forge-unity-224481
13-03-2021||---||Vaccination drive picking up, monasteries to open: Sangay||Dharamsala, March 12 Tibetan monasteries and temples in Dharamsala that have been lying closed since March last year due to Covid pandemic would be opened as the vaccination campaign has picked up in India. The president of Central Tibetan Administration (CTA) Lobsang Sangay said this while talking to The Tribune here today. Sangay said that tourists coming to Dharamsala have been asking when the Tibetan monasteries and temples would be opened. “There was demand from tourists to open the monasteries and temple. We expect to open the temples and monasteries in Dharamsala for tourists as the vaccination campaign picks up in India”, he said. The Tibetan monasteries and temples were major tourist attraction in Dharamsala. However, they have been lying closed since March last year after the lockdown was announced in the country. Sangay said that Indians in general have realized the importance of an independent Tibet after 20 soldiers of Indian Army were killed by Chinese in Galwan valley. When Tibet was an independent state just 75 soldiers used to guard the 2,500-mile international border between India and China. However, now China has posted 30,000 soldiers on India border just in Galwan valley.  Lakhs of Indian and Chinese soldiers are posted along the borders of Tibet and there are occasional clashes between two forces. In case Tibet was a buffer state India would have lasting peace at its borders, he said. Sangay, whose term as president of CTA will end in May this year, remembered his school days. “As school children we used to wait for one ‘ladoo’ that we used to get on Indian Independence Day celebrations. We came and settled in Himachal Pradesh that was known as Dev Bhoomi. We came from one Dev Bhoomi, Lhasa to another Dev Bhoomi in Himachal”, he said. Sangay expressed the hope that Tibetans in exile would once again return to their home in Tibet through the same mountain passes in Himalayas through which they had come out in exile. “When that happens we would invite you to Lhasa and become your gracious hosts there,” he said. Sangay considered the passage of US policy on Tibet 2020 as one of the major achievements of his stint as president of CTA. He is also credited with efforts to bridge chasm between the Indian community and Tibetans over the issue Tibet and initiating various welfare measures for Tibetan community in exile. When asked if he would remain active in Tibetan politics after completion of his stint, he said, “In case you want me to be active I will be.” As per the constitution of Tibetan government in exile any person can have just two stints as president of CTA. Sangay would be completing his two consecutive stints as president of CTA in May this year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/vaccination-drive-picking-up-monasteries-to-open-sangay-224482
13-03-2021||---||Uprising Day: Tibetan women hold march||Dharamsala, March 12  Members of the Tibetan women organisations today took out a protest march in Dharamsala to mark the 62nd anniversary of Tibetan Women Uprising Day. They carried Tibetan flags and raised slogans against China while marching from McLeodganj to the Kachehri crossing.   On March 10, 1959, the 14th Dalai Lama was invited to a theatrical performance at the Chinese army headquarters in Lhasa. A day before the event, the Dalai Lama was asked to attend the event unaccompanied by his guards. When this information reached the people, thousands of Tibetans formed a human chain around the Norbulingka palace to protect him. Seven days later, shells of the two mortars fired from a nearby Chinese army camp fell outside the palace’s northern gate and the Dalai Lama was forced to leave that very night. In the early hours of March 20, mortars and gunfire rained down on Tibetans and in the following days, thousands were massacred. The organisation commemorates the contribution of Tibetan women in the uprising by organising a march every year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/uprising-day-tibetan-women-hold-march-224483
13-03-2021||Solan||Man kills mother||Nirmala Devi (56) was shot dead by her son Harish Kumar (28) in Naryal village near Parwanoo on Thursday. The police said following an altercation among the accused, his mother and his wife, Harish fetched his father’s gun and fired at his mother. He has been arrested. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/man-kills-mother-224484
13-03-2021||Our Correspondent---||Revoke land acquisition awards, Congress asks CM||Nurpur, March 12 Kangra district Congress president Ajay Mahajan today appealed to Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur to revoke the land compensation awards for package one of Kandwal to Bherkhud road widening announced by the Competent Authority Land Acquisition on March 1. The Chief Minister is to visit Kangra district tomorrow. In a statement issued here, Mahajan said that the compensation awards announced recently had hugely disappointed 3,781 people in Nurpur, who would be affected by the Pathankot-Mandi highway widening project. They were worried about their rehabilitation and had been struggling for a fair compensation for the past over two years.   He said that the BJP in its vision document had promised factor two compensation for the acquisition of private land but now its government had announced factor one compensation for the affected people in Kangra district. He alleged that the BJP leadership in Kangra district as well as the government had failed to protect the interests of the affected people.   He said the government should take up the issue of factor two compensation with Union Minister for Road Transport Nitin Gadkari. “Forest Minister and Nurpur MLA Rakesh Pathania instead of threatening to resign from the state Cabinet should immediately resolve the issue of the area,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/revoke-land-acquisition-awards-congress-asks-cm-224485
13-03-2021||---||Indian scientists deserve praise for Covid vaccines, says Himachal BJP president||Shimla, March 12The biggest Covid vaccination drive is in progress and more than two crore people have been vaccinated in the country till now, said state BJP president Suresh Kashyap during a virtual meeting here today. All office-bearers of the state BJP, MPs, MLAs, party in-charge for Himachal Avinash Rai Khanna , co-incharge Sanjay Tandon, former Chief Minister Prem Kumar Dhumal and Rajya Sabha MP and national convener for vaccination drive Dr Anil Jain attended the meeting.Kashyap said, “Following the spirit of ‘Vasudhaiv Kutumbakam’, we have exported Covid vaccines to 47 countries. Our scientists have been involved in developing vaccines against the virus for the past several months and they deserve praise”.“It usually takes years to develop a vaccine but India has developed two Covid vaccines in such a short time. This is a shining proof of India’s strength, India’s scientific proficiency and India’s talent,” he said.Jain said that the state BJP would launch a door-to-door contact campaign to sensitise people about the importance of vaccination. “People above 60 years of age and between 45 and 60 years with comorbidities are being vaccinated in the ongoing phase,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/indian-scientists-deserve-praise-for-covid-vaccines-says-himachal-bjp-president-224486
13-03-2021||Our Correspondent---||Bhootnath bridge repair work progresses at snail’s pace||Kullu, March 12 The repair work of the Bhootnath bridge is going on at a snail’s pace in Kullu. The double-lane bridge near the bus stand at the Sarwari area of the town developed cracks at the centre within five years of its inauguration. The bridge was closed for traffic on January 6, 2019. The tender for the repair was given to a  French company in December 2019 and the repair work was expected to be completed by May 2020. A budget of Rs 2.68 crore was sanctioned for the repair work. The design for the repair prepared by the company was approved by consultants and the chief engineer. However, the engineers and skilled labourers of the company were unable to come here due to Covid outbreak and the repair work could not be started. The repair work resumed on August 28, 2020, and the Public Works Department (PWD) authorities had stated that the job would be completed within four months. Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur during his visit to Kullu on January 22 had directed the PWD to restore the bridge for traffic by March. He had directed the department to fix the responsibility and take action against erring contractor and engineers who were responsible for substandard construction of the bridge. The bridge connects the Kullu-Manali right bank road with the left bank road near the bus stand at Sarwari.  There was resentment among the people since the bridge was closed for vehicles for over two years. Orchardists of the left bank area had to face hassles to bring their produce to the marketing yard at Akhara Bazar. The administration had to erect a bailey bridge in Akhara Bazar to manage the traffic. The closure of the bridge led to the problem of traffic congestion in the town.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bhootnath-bridge-repair-work-progresses-at-snails-pace-224487
13-03-2021||Mandi||Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur lays stones of SP office, parking||Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today inaugurated and laid the foundation stones of developmental projects worth Rs 17.43 crore in the Mandi Sadar Assembly segment of Mandi district. He inaugurated projects including Rs 25 lakh Integrated Command and Control Centre at the Police Lines, Mandi. He laid the foundation stones of Rs 5.66 crore office of Superintendent of Police building, Rs 3.11 crore multipurpose hall of IRBN, Pandoh, and Rs 2.07 crore 33 KV sub station at Talyahar.Thakur also laid the stone of a parking lot at Government Middle School, Purani Mandi, to be completed by spending Rs 2.87 crore and of a DNA new block at Regional Forensic Science Laboratory, Central Range, Mandi.He also inaugurated a DNA analysis facility at Regional Forensic Science Laboratory, Central Range, Mandi.At Talyar, the Chief Minister said that the urban poor, including those working in newly constituted municipal corporations, could avail of the benefits of assured employment under the Mukhiya Mantri Shahari Ajeevika Yojana.Thakur said that a few people were trying to mislead local residents by claiming that the municipal corporation would burden them with additional taxes. He added that no tax would be levied on the residents of the merged areas of the town. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/chief-minister-jai-ram-thakur-lays-stones-of-sp-office-parking-224488
13-03-2021||Chamba||10-year jail for carrying charas||Sessions Judge Rajesh Tomar has sentenced Kishan Chand, a resident of Kuwaruin village in Churah tehsil of Chamba district, to undergo rigorous imprisonment for 10 years and also imposed a fine of Rs 1 lakh under Section 20 of the NDPS Act for possessing 5.50 kg of charas. In the case of default in the payment of fine, the convict shall further undergo imprisonment for one year.  On March 11, 2018, Kishan Chand was arrested by the police on the Koti-Tissa road and 5.506 kg of charas was seized from him. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/10-year-jail-for-carrying-charas-224489
13-03-2021||Shimla||88 Covid cases in Himachal||As many as 88 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 59,527. However, no death occurred due to the virus.The highest 16 cases were reported in Sirmaur, 15 in Una, 14 in Shimla, 12 in Solan, and 11 in Kangra. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/88-covid-cases-in-himachal-224490
13-03-2021||Dipender Manta||7-day Shivratri fest begins in Himachal's Mandi with procession of deities||Tribune News ServiceMandi, March 12The famous Swarnim International Shivratri festival of Mandi began today with Shobha Yatra, a procession of the deities. Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur formally announced the opening of this festival at the historic Paddal Ground in Mandi.Projects coming up in MandiThousands of people dressed in their traditional attire participated in the procession, carrying their local deities in palanquins, dancing all the way up to the Paddal Ground. Over 150 deities participated in the traditional Shobha Yatra from almost all parts of the district.The CM, after paying obeisance at the temple of the principal deity Madho Rai, participated in the Shobha Yatra, which started from the temple and culminated at the Paddal Ground.The CM congratulated the people of the state on the auspicious occasion of the festival, which was being celebrated this year as a “swarnim” fair to mark the glorious 50 years of statehood.He said, “The world is yet to come out of the pandemic and we all need to be cautious as the crisis is not over yet.”He said this year, the fest had gained more importance as it was being celebrated when the Municipal Council, Mandi, had been upgraded to a Municipal Corporation.The CM said the work of the sewerage scheme for Mandi town had been expedited and all nallahs in the town would be channelised. He said the Rs 500-crore project for the channelisation of Suketi Khud had been proposed for the Union Government’s approval and funding.He said a multi-purpose stadium would also be constructed in Mandi at a cost of Rs 50 crore. He said the Rs 150-crore Shiv Dham Project was also coming up at Kangnidhar in Mandi. He said Mandi was known as Chhoti Kashi and Shiv Dham would emerge as a tourist attraction in the area. He said a multipurpose parking would also be constructed in Mandi city and would be completed by next Shivratri.He announced an increase of five per cent in the honorarium of ‘Bajantries’ accompanying the deities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/7-day-shivratri-fest-begins-in-himachals-mandi-with-procession-of-deities-224491
13-03-2021||Ambika Sharma||Transport nagar yet to come up at Solan||Tribune News ServiceSolan, March 12A ray of hope has come for the construction of the much-awaited Transport Nagar on the Kather bypass in Solan with Chief Minister announcing Rs 2 crore for the project during his visit to Solan recently.Foundation Stone laid in 2018Its foundation stone was laid by the Chief Minister in April 2018 and it was supposed to rehabilitate motor showrooms located at Chambaghat that were displaced due to the widening of the national highway.Initially, the Urban Development Department was supposed to construct it and bear its cost pegged at Rs 21.22 crore. Even a detailed project report was prepared where it was decided that 135 showrooms and 140 workshops would be constructed on 15,417 sq m area at the Kather bypass in Solan. However, officials refused to execute it for lack of funds and other reasons. It was then referred to the state government which decided that the Transport Department would execute it.With unavailability of adequate budget acting as a major handicap, the project made a little headway. At a recent meeting of senior officials at Shimla, it was decided that the Urban Development would execute the project, a senior official said.Ramkumar Gautam, former Director, Urban Development, who relinquished charge recently, said earlier the department had transferred the project to the Transport Department as per a Cabinet decision as they had the expertise to set up such a project. The requisite NOC was also granted by the Urban Development to the Transport Department to facilitate the transfer of land.The delay has not been only giving anxious moments to the displaced motor mechanics, many of whom had lost their jobs, but it has exposed poor planning and hasty foundation stone laying by the CM. Though workshop owners did receive compensation, the workers, who lost their jobs, have been worst-hit.The issue of rehabilitation was taken up with the district administration by the stakeholders in 2014 soon after the receipt of the first notice from the land acquisition officer, but it has not helped in providing any alternative solution till now.As per the initial design finalised, pre-fabricated structures were supposed to be constructed and each beneficiary was supposed to pay about Rs 5 lakh. Though the idea of setting up a transport nagar was conceived way back in 2010 and a detailed project report had also been prepared, it had failed to take shape till now. An amount of Rs 8 lakh had also been received for site development by the Municipal Committee in 2010.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/transport-nagar-yet-to-come-up-at-solan-224492
13-03-2021||Shimla||Most projects will be completed by year-end, says  minister||Urban Development Minister Suresh Bhardwaj said today that works worth Rs 23 crore had been completed under the Shimla Smart City Mission. “Besides, projects worth Rs 209 crore were under construction while tenders for projects worth Rs 62 crore have been floated,” said Bhardwaj.  He assured people that most projects will be completed by the end of this year. He directed the officials to ensure speedy implementation and coordination between different departments involved. The minister directed the officials to ensure speedy clearances from the Forest Department wherever required. Bhardwaj hoped that the parking complex near the IGMC, smart path from Sanjauli to the IGMC and elevators and a foot over-bridge at Lakkar Bazaar and Vikas Nagar would be ready by the year end, while other projects like Book Caffe and widening of roads would be done by June. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/most-projects-will-be-completed-by-year-end-says-minister-224493
13-03-2021||ibune News Service ---||Strong winds, showers lash mid hills, mercury dips||Shimla, March 12 Stormy conditions prevailed in Shimla and the surrounding areas and strong velocity winds accompanied by intermittent showers lashed the region and mercury dropped by a few notches. The local MeT office has issued a yellow warning of thunderstorm, hailstorm and lightning in mid and lower hills on March 14 and predicted rains or snow at isolated places in higher and mid hills from March 13 to 18 as two fresh western disturbances are very likely to affect the Western Himalayan Region and the adjoining plains of Northwest India from night of March 13 and March 15. Light rains occurred at a few places. Dalhousie received 11 mm rains, followed by Shimla 3 mm and Kufri and Jubbarhatti 2 mm Maximum temperatures dropped by few notches in lower hills. Una, which was the hottest in the region, recorded a high of 27.4 degree against 34.4 degree yesterday while Nahan and Solan recorded a high of 25.3 and 25.0 degree, followed by Dharamsala 19.4 degree, Shimla 14.4 degree,, Manali 13.8 degree, Kalpa 11.1 degree and Keylong 7.0 degree The minimum temperatures fluctuated marginally. Keylong was the coldest in the region with a low of minus 2.9 degree, followed by Kalpa 1.4 degree, Manali and Kufri 5.5 degree, Shimla 8.6 degree, Dharamsala 9.0 degree, Una 12.8 degree and Nahan 15.1 degree, a drop of two to three degrees since yesterday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/strong-winds-showers-lash-mid-hills-mercury-dips-224494
13-03-2021||Shimla||Governor inaugurates photo exhibition||Governor Bandaru Dattatreya inaugurated a photo exhibition being organised under the aegis of the Regional Outreach Bureau, Chandigarh, Union Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, and the Himachal Department of Language and Culture, at the historic Ridge Maidan here today.The exhibition is being organised as part of the Amrut Mahotsav of Independence on the 75th anniversary of the Independence of India. Suresh Bhardwaj, Urban Development Minister, and Satya Kaundal, Mayor of Municipal Corporation Shimla, were also present.The Governor paid floral tribute at the statue of Mahatma Gandhi on The Ridge and inaugurated the festival. He said that the Amrut Mahotsav was being organised to inform the younger generation about the freedom struggle between 1857 and 1947, and the development of the country in 75 years of Independence and present the picture of ‘Vishwaguru India’ till the 100 years of Independence. It would be celebrated at 75 places in the country to make people understand the importance of the freedom struggle.He said that many freedom movements also took shape in Himachal Pradesh. Praja Mandals formed in different parts of the state created a wave of revolution among people. The Amrut Mahotsav would be organised at a wider scale, he added.Deputy Commissioner Aditya Negi, Director of Information and Public Relations Harbans Singh Brascon, Director of Language, Art and Culture Sunil Sharma, and councillors were also present on the occasion. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/governor-inaugurates-photo-exhibition-224495
13-03-2021||Shimla||Himachal Governor administered Covid vaccine||Governor Bandaru Dattatreya was administered the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine at the Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital in Shimla today.He appealed to people to get themselves vaccinated and follow all health protocols like wearing a mask, observing social distancing and sanitising to stop the spread of the virus.He thanked the state government, Covid-19 warriors and health workers for contributing to the fight against the virus. He said efforts had been made to spread awareness among people and hoped that they would come forward and make the vaccination drive a success. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-governor-administered-covid-vaccine-224496
13-03-2021||Solan||Library for students opens at Rajgarh||In a bid to facilitate students preparing for competitive exams and promote the habit of reading, a group of youngsters have opened a library at Rajgarh town in Sirmaur district.  “With little help from the government, we decided to run it through The Yuvaan Foundation on  our own and by collecting funds. These  were used to buy furniture and books for competitive exams were ordered online,” said Vikalp  Thakur, who is a founding member.  In order to create a good stock of books, people were requested to donate old books. An overwhelming response was received in this regard.  Buoyed by the collection, the youth rented a small room in the Nagar Panchayat Building to start the library, which was inaugurated by a local resident, Justice (retd) Surender Thakur. “Rajgarh sub-division of Sirmaur district is known as ‘the Peach Bowl of Asia’. Despite having national recognisation  in horticulture, this area lags  behind in intellectual and academic development,” said Thakur.  The effort has yielded good results. “About 35 to 40 people of varying age groups  have been visiting  the library on a daily basis in the first month of its inception and it is  encouraging to see that students themselves operate it and ensure its cleanliness as there are no funds to appoint any staff.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/library-for-students-opens-at-rajgarh-224497
13-03-2021||A heritage walk was organised by the Institute of Hotel Management||IHM organises heritage walk||Law varsity VC conferred awardHimachal Pradesh National Law University Vice-Chancellor Prof Nishtha Jaswal has been conferred with the “Women Role Model 2021” award by the Vii Media Group, New Delhi. The award was conferred by the Chief Executive Officer of the group, Bhalinder Singh Vermani, in New Delhi on Thursday. Earlier, Prof Jaswal had been conferred the International Extraordinary Women Award-2020 by the International Women's Club, Switzerland Chapter. The Registrar of the university and faculty members congratulated Prof Jaswal for the achievement.Workshop by Shoolini UniversityA two-day workshop on “Insights into research” was organised by Shoolini University, in which 200 faculty members, PhD research scholars and students participated. Chancellor Prof PK Khosla laid stress upon punctuality and dedication for doing research work, while Vice-Chancellor Prof Atul Khosla focused upon high-quality communication and presentation. The inaugural session was coordinated by Assistant Prof Dr Ankita Verma. Prof Saurabh Kulshreshtha, Dean Research, highlighted the research activities and achievements at the workshop. Prof Anil Sehrawat, Deputy Director, Amity Institute of Corporate Communications, Amity University, gave an insight into the selection of a research problem||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ihm-organises-heritage-walk-224554
13-03-2021||GARBAGE littering is on the rise in Hamirpur town. Unhygienic conditions at the Nadaun Chowk||Littering on the rise in Hamirpur town||— Raman Kumar, HamirpurGovt medical colleges sans CT scan, MRI facilityTHE facilities of CT scan and MRI are not available at local government medical colleges. As a result, poor and needy patients have to pay exorbitant prices for the facility at private centres. There is also a scarcity of doctors and paramedical staff at government hospitals which should be filled by the government at the earliest. Also, arrangements should be made for providing CT scan and MRI facilities at local government medical colleges.— Chain Lal Sharma, ChambaWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you?Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune  invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/littering-on-the-rise-in-hamirpur-town-224555
13-03-2021||Subhash Rajta||Shimla Municipal Corporation seeks govt nod for tax on outside vehicles||Tribune News ServiceShimla, March 12With the Municipal Corporation passing a proposal to impose tax on vehicles from other states entering the city, tourists may have to pay green tax in near future. The MC will soon send the proposal to the state government for approval.“We will send a detailed note to the government as the issue involves the tourism industry as well. If the government approves it, we will go ahead with it,” said MC Commissioner Ashish Kohli.The MC brought the proposal in its Budget this year and hopes to earn a revenue of around Rs 15 crore annually from it. “The amount collected as tax will be spent on the development and beautification of the city,” said Mayor Satya Kaundal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shimla-municipal-corporation-seeks-govt-nod-for-tax-on-outside-vehicles-224390
