14-03-2021||Raaja Bhasin||Shimla’s Ease of Living index ranking has surprised its own denizens||When Shimla leapfrogged over 91 other cities in a single year to emerge as the ‘most liveable city’ according to the Government of India’s Ease of Living Index (EoLI), many were surprised. Among those, somewhat nonplussed, were also the people and authorities concerned in the town. A journalist friend from Delhi sent a message, “How did this happen? What are the great changes that have taken place in a single year?” Somewhat airily, I replied, “All the other places slipped.” On a serious note, how did Shimla leap and clamber past a host of the 111 participating cities?As Minister of State for Housing and Urban Affairs Hardeep Singh Puri’s statement sent some into a tizzy and others into a state of euphoria, a couple of incidents came to mind. A few years ago, I met a young couple from Mauritius whose ancestors had gone to that island as indentured labourers from Bihar. They had heard stories, obviously passed down a few generations, of what a wonderful place Shimla was. It had been the dream of their elders to one day visit that almost-fabled town and now, these two were here to examine first-hand what they had heard. Disappointment was written across their faces as they waded past touts, traffic jams and water shortages; they left carrying a less than complimentary impression of the town.The one incident that truly stood out was of the time when a good friend was looking for a bride. The prospective in-laws arrived when Shimla was at its most beautiful and yet, at its most vulnerable, for a blanket of snow had just covered it. Walking through snow was a new experience for them, as were frozen water pipes and chilled finger-tips. They left with the parting shot that they did not want their daughter to live in such a place and in such discomfort. Concerned parties consoled themselves in the knowledge that this was subjective and did not reflect a wider opinion.Much to look back atHistorically, that Shimla should take its place in the municipal sun has ample justification. Its municipality dates back to the mid-19th century, making it one of the oldest in the country. Preceding this, some sort of civic regulations, mainly pertaining to water that was drawn from various springs and streams, had appeared in the 1830s. These early enactments preceded the visit of the British Governor General, William Bentinck, and were designed for the comfort of his person and entourage. The arrival of piped water in the 1880s, electricity in 1911, and water closets and sewage systems in the 1920s ensured a better life for the cream of the town’s society. Dalits still lived in abysmal conditions and even Gandhiji was deeply saddened when he learnt that ‘night soil’ was still carried by head-load in most places.By the dawn of the 20th century, Shimla had captured the popular imagination in India and overseas. This was a town that had a magnificent natural setting which was enhanced by its architecture — and by ironclad civic governance. This situation remained well into the post-colonial years and perhaps, for the average Indian living in Shimla, the period from the 1950s to the late 1970s was the best time to be there. The snobbishness and racial divide of the Raj had gone, but the old-world charm and grace was still there at a heftily discounted price. If a similar index had existed in those years, and had placed Shimla at the top of the class, it would have come as no surprise.Then it began changing. From the 1980s, the town witnessed rapid and often unregulated growth. Structures of exemplary ugliness began filling the hills and slopes, and halos of garbage surrounded them. To arrest and reverse this decline would be, to put it mildly, a challenge.Transformative changeWhile building works have continued without fear of authority, or of subterranean tremor and consequent catastrophe, a couple of seemingly small local measures have proven significant — like the ban on plastic and door-to-door garbage collection. These have been followed by national programmes like the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) and the Smart Cities. While the change may not be consciously apparent to those who live there and see things on a day-to-day basis, it has been pointed out that the Shimla of today is cleaner, and far better than what it was a decade or so back.Rajneesh, Himachal’s Principal Secretary (Urban Development), feels that the decisive moment that led to Shimla gaining the preeminent position of EoLI stemmed from the jaundice outbreak of 2015-16. This led to major rethinking within the government. The chronically-ill water supply system was revamped and today, both quantity and quality have been positively impacted. Disparate funding has been channelled optimally. Through the Covid months, there was no slackness of civic services and if anything, this was taken as an opportunity for all-round improvement — and services were enhanced all across Himachal. At the same time, provision was made to provide a level of minimal employment in the Shimla urban area on a pattern similar to the rural MNREGA scheme. He says, “While the parameters have altered between the surveys of 2018 and 2020 which have given Shimla an edge, this position, as the Number One city with a population of less than a million, is perfectly valid.”Emergence of ‘New Shimla’The original reason for Shimla’s creation is gone. This is no longer a colonial retreat or the preserve of an exclusive few. A considerable chunk of the town’s population has moved to what were once suburbs — New Shimla, Tutu, Bharari, Bhatta Kuffer and numerous others. When you take the ‘toy train’ from Kalka to Shimla and as the town swings into view, the vast expanse of New Shimla is what seems to be the actual settlement. When the older section comes into sight, and both are placed side by side, it seems almost like an afterthought.The result is of two sizeable towns, both substantially different in character, architecture and priority that inhabit the same geographic space. New Shimla and the suburbs of yesteryears are vehicle-driven and engine-dependant; the older Shimla — the ‘real’ Shimla, if you will — fortunately, remains pedestrian. Numerous informal conversations with the residents also reveal other matrices. For good reason, ‘Old Shimla’ sets great store by its heritage; New Shimla looks at opportunity and change.As an example, the Mall has recently been scarred by a series of paintings done along the age-old retaining walls which, with altering seasons, held mosses, fleabane, sorrel and a host of other plants. These paintings, which reflect elements of life and monuments from the district, would have been appropriate and could have enhanced a section of New Shimla. Here, they are completely out of context and serve only to mar a distinctive heritage precinct. It is only a matter of time before these paintings will become even greater eyesores as cracks will appear, as will weather-induced botches.Over the coming three decades, half of India’s population is expected to be urban-based. This is going to require multiple layers of innovation, management and resilience. Many of these cities will trail existing urban clusters that are expected to expand, and others will be brand new ones. Read in the context of Shimla, several will also have characteristics that are unique to them and will not fall into a box of readymade matrices. Heritage, sensitive eco-systems, religious, social and historical factors compel them to be shifted out of pre-mixed benchmarks.Reading through rankings & surveysWhile as delightful as a windfall by way of an inheritance from an unknown relative, there is a more than meets the eye at how Shimla arrived at this position. Surveys, indices and rankings depend on the weightage given to variables. Or to a change of template. Both have happened in the EoLI. A separate Municipal Performance Index has also been introduced.Held about a decade ago, it was a comparison test between three sports cars conducted by the influential American magazine Car and Driver that impacted the methodology of almost every subsequent survey conducted across the world for just about anything. The three contending cars were the Lotus Evora, the Chevrolet Corvette Grand Sport, and the Porsche Cayman S. The magazine noted, “The range of these three cars’ driving personalities is as various as the pyjama sizes of Papa Bear, Mama Bear, and Baby Bear, but a clear winner emerged nonetheless.”Subsequently, tearing into this survey, The New Yorker noted that appearance matters considerably in the sale and appreciation of sports cars. Car and Driver had given only 4 per cent to exterior looks. The New Yorker noted, “In other words, in trying to come up with a ranking that is heterogeneous — a methodology that is broad enough to cover all vehicles — Car and Driver ended up with a system that is absurdly ill-suited to some vehicles.” Much the same could be said of countries, holiday resorts or of cities.The EoLI is expected to provide ‘a comprehensive understanding of participating cities across India based on quality of life, economic ability of a city, and its sustainability and resilience. The assessment also incorporates the residents’ views on the services provided by the city administration through a Citizen Perception Survey’.What seems to have swung in Shimla’s favour is the survey, introduced for the first time and carrying a substantial weightage of 30 per cent. The remainder is taken by outcomes connected with living conditions through ‘pillars of quality of life, economic ability and sustainability’. These span the categories of education, health, housing, water, sanitation and hygiene, solid waste management, mobility, safety and security, recreation, level of economic development, economic opportunities, environment, green spaces, and buildings, energy consumption and city resilience.The present index is no guarantee that this position shall hold good indefinitely. In the coming years, if the variables of the EoLI are changed, Shimla’s position can also alter. One way or another, smoke cannot replace substance and the cosmetic will always have to be backed by the substantial.— The writer is a Shimla-based author||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shimlas-ease-of-living-index-ranking-has-surprised-its-own-denizens-224920
14-03-2021||---||Polls to 4 Himachal municipal corporations on April 7||Shimla, March 13The elections to the four municipal corporations of Dharamsala, Solan, Mandi and Palampur and six nagar panchayats in Himachal Pradesh will take place on April 7, the State Election Commission announced today.The four municipal corporations except Dharamsala and the six nagar panchayats — Anni and Nirmand in Kullu, Chirgaon and Nerwa in Shimla, Kandaghat in Solan and Amb in Una — are newly created and will go to the polls for the first time.According to the poll notification, the nomination will be filed from March 22 to 24 between 11 am and 3 pm.The scrutiny of the nomination papers will be held on March 25 and the withdrawal of papers may be done on March 27, it said.The polling will take place on April 7 from 8 am to 4 pm. The counting of votes will be conducted at the municipal headquarters immediately after polling.Significantly, it’s for the first time that the MC elections will be held on party symbol with a provision for disqualification in case of defection. The Bill, making provision for polls on party symbol and anti-defection, was passed by the Vidhan Sabha earlier this week.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/polls-to-4-himachal-municipal-corporations-on-april-7-224890
14-03-2021||---||SJVN holds chess, bridge tourney in Shimla||Shimla, March 13The SJVN is organising the 26th Inter-CPSU Chess and Bridge Tournament under the aegis of the Power Sports Control Board, Ministry of Power. AK Singh, Director (Finance), SJVN, today inaugurated the tournament at Hotel Holiday Home, Shimla. The event will conclude on March 15.During the opening ceremony of the event, Singh said the SJVN had always endeavoured to promote sports and this tournament would help players to develop competitive spirit and analytical mind. As many as 18 teams from various PSUs, including Ministry of Power, CEA, REC, Powergrid, NHPC, THDC, DVC, BBMB, PFC and SJVN, are participating in the tournament.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sjvn-holds-chess-bridge-tourney-in-shimla-224753
14-03-2021||Our Correspondent||Shimla-Matour road to be 2-lane highway||Hamirpur, March 13The Shimla to Matour four-lane highway may have bottlenecks as it will be constructed as a two-lane highway on some of the stretches by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI).According to sources, the NHAI has directed its executing division here to plan the construction.The four-lane highway was announced by then Minister of Surface Transport Nitin Gadkari in 2016. The new proposal would defeat the basic plan to have an express highway between the two capitals of the state Shimla and Dharamsala.The proposed highway would reduce the distance between Shimla and Matour by 45km and travelling time by two hours. But the proposed bottlenecks would not only make it more accident prone but also affect smooth flow of traffic. Sources also revealedthat it was yet to be decided that how much land would be acquired for the narrow portions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shimla-matour-road-to-be-2-lane-highway-224755
14-03-2021||Our Correspondent||Speed up work on Bharmour road: Kishan Kapoor||Chamba, March 13Kangra Lok Sabha MP Kishan Kapoor said as the Pathankot-Chamba- Bharmour National Highway No. 154-A is the lifeline of the district, the National Highway Division should accelerate the pace of its widening and upgrade.Kapoor gave these instructions to national highways officials while presiding over a meeting of the District Development Coordination and Monitoring Committee (Disha) here.The Executive Engineer of the National Highway Division said that a detailed project report (DPR) of Rs 80 crore had been prepared for the widening of the national highway from Chehli to Baloo. He added that consultancy tenders had been invited for the flyover bridge to be constructed from Mehta Petrol Pump to Satyam Hospital in Chamba town.Kapoor said that a separate DPR should be prepared for the construction of concrete walls on the banks of the Ravi vulnerable to subsidence.He directed the officials to conduct a preliminary survey for the construction of a bypass to resolve the problem of frequent traffic jams in Banikhet town on the Pathankot-Bharmour national highway.The MP said that the Public Works Department (PWD) should ensure quality in the construction of roads and bridges. He added that action would be taken against the contractors who delay the work unnecessarily.Bhattiyat MLA Vikram Jaryal, Deputy Commissioner DC Rana and other district officials attended the meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/speed-up-work-on-bharmour-road-kishan-kapoor-224758
14-03-2021||Our Correspondent||Bizmen: Make tax submission simple||Hamirpur, March 13The Goods and Services Tax (GST) imposed by the Centre had seen over 1,000 amendments ever since it was imposed.This was stated by Avinash Dhawan, state president, Distributers Alliance of Himachal Pradesh, while addressing a state executive meeting at Basant Resort here today.Avinash Dhawan, State President, Distributers Alliance of Himachal PradeshNo system in placeThere is no system in place to inform small and marginal business houses about the changes being done by the government.He said businessmen were not only confused by the repeated amendments but also the government had imposed multiple penalties on them. He alleged that there was no system in place to address and inform small and marginal business houses about the changes being done by the government. Terming GST a “draconian Act”, he said the government should have studied its implications and implemented it as per the business structure of the country.Dhawan claimed that many businessmen were denied their returns as input tax following delay in filing tax returns. He claimed that 90 per cent businessmen did have access to professional tax consultants and that was the major reason for the delay. He said the tax submission process should be made easy so that people could file their returns with ease.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bizmen-make-tax-submission-simple-224759
14-03-2021||KULLU||Rituals during snow festival performed||The three-day ‘Ghustor Utsav’ concluded at Barbog village during the snow festival in Lahaul and Spiti district today.Traditional and religious ‘Chhoks’ and ‘Kurim’ rituals were performed by the lamas. The idol of the village deity ‘Hishe Gonbo’ was displayed to allow the public to pay obeisance.The 59th day of the snow festival witnessed various events. Many other festivals, including the ‘Namlangs’ of Yurnath village, the ‘ringos’ of Keylong and the ‘Muskun’ of the Todh valley, were being held during the festivities in Lahaul Spiti. The ‘Dachhang’ utsav was also being celebrated in which traditional archery was held amid the tunes of traditional musical instruments.Auditions for snow prince and princess were being conducted in which the participants were showcasing traditional costumes. A photo competition of the tribal culture was being organised, the results of which will be declared on closing ceremony on March 29.The elderly persons said the snow festival had helped in reviving and conserving the tribal traditions and culture and encourage the future generations to keep these alive. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rituals-during-snow-festival-performed-224760
14-03-2021||Our Correspondent||Three-day Shivratri fair ends in Indora||Nurpur, March 13The three-day district-level Shivratri fair concluded at the historical Lord Shiva temple, Kathgarh, in Indora on Friday evening.The fair was celebrated with religious fervour in which thousands of devotees from far-off places and neighbouring states thronged the temple topay obeisance.Local MLA Reeta Dhiman who presided over the closing ceremony led a colourful ‘shobha yatra’ from Kathgarh to the temple and paid obeisance to Lord Shiva.The MLA said traditional fairs and festivals enriched heritage and strengthened social bonds. She assured the temple management trust of all help for the development of the temple and announced Rs 1 lakh for this purpose.She exhorted the devotees to maintain the sanctity of the temple and not litter. While greeting the people on Mahashivratri, Dhiman lauded the administration, temple management committee and local gram panchayat for organising the fair successfully.The chief guest also appealed to the temple committee to set up a ‘gausadan’ so thatstray animals could be given shelter.Welcoming the chief guest, chairman of the temple management committee Om Parkash Katoch enumerated steps taken by the committee for the development of the temple.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/three-day-shivratri-fair-ends-in-indora-224761
14-03-2021||---||Himachali singers wow audience||Mandi, March 13Himachali singers enthralled the audience during the first cultural night of the international Shivaratri fair at the historical Paddal ground in Mandi on last evening.Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, who was accompanied by Deputy Commissioner Rugved Thakur on the stage, inaugurated the event by lighting a lamp.AC Bhardwaj and Sunil Masti were the main singers. Sunil Masti sang Punjabi and Pahari songs to entertain the audience. Bhardwaj also entertained the audience, who sang Pahari and Hindi film songs.Apart from this, local artistes of Mandi district also performed a folk dance on the stage.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachali-singers-wow-audience-224762
14-03-2021||Ambika Sharma||Hattee samiti pushes Himachal govt for ST status||Tribune News ServiceSolan, March 13With the Office of the Registrar General of India (ORGI) rejecting the claim of the state government to declare the Hattee community of the trans-Giri area of Sirmaur a Scheduled Tribe (ST), the Kendriya Hattee Samiti (KHS) submitted a fresh representation to the state government to press for its demand.The ORGI, in a communique to the samiti in January, had stated as per the extant modalities, the proposal had been examined thrice since 1995. It was not supported by the ORGI in 2006 or in 2017. Since the third proposal sent in 2018 was based on the same ethnographic study report sent by the state government in 2016, which was examined by the ORGI in 2017, it can’t be examined again. The ORGI also pointed out that the proposal did not have a recommendation of the department concerned, hence it couldn’t be examined.This has come as a big blow to the community, as the state government had been pursuing the case since 2016. The tran-Giri area was part of the erstwhile Jaunsar Bawar area of Uttarakhand, where the Hatti community has been granted the ST status. Both areas were part of the royal Sirmaur state. Only Kinnaur enjoys the ST status in Himachal. Since granting tribal status to an area requires a constitutional amendment, the issue required an in-depth analysis of the community, which is spread across 133 panchayats. The KHS has submitted a fresh representation to the state government over the non-implementation of the Tribal Commission recommendations of 1979-80 for granting the ST status to the Hattee community.Dr Ami Chand Kamal, president of the KHS, pointed out that the information provided in the ethnographic study was sufficient and the officials had not gone through the study conducted by the Director General Anthropological Survey of India, 1996; Anthropology Department of Panjab University, 2018; and Institute of Tribal Studies,1996. The report of the SC/ST commission of 1979 supported the demand, he claimed.Kamal said people residing in the trans-Giri area should be given the STs status on the basis of their likeness to those living in the Jaunsar Bawar area of Uttarakhand. Hattee community leaders cite various reports in support of their claim and rue that Sirmaur has been discriminated against by successive governments in violation of Article 342(2) of the Constitution.The committee has urged the government to look into the matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hattee-samiti-pushes-himachal-govt-for-st-status-224763
14-03-2021||---||Jai Ram Thakur to be known as hoarding CM: HPCC chief||Solan,March 13Himachal Pradesh Congress Committee president Kuldeep Rathore today said Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur would be known as a hoarding CM as apart from the hoardings, little development was visible on the ground.Addressing mediapersons here ahead of the April 7 municipal corporation poll, Rathore said, “The state has plunged into a debt trap but one can’t see where crores taken as loans had been spent. One could see luxury vehicles bought for the senior bureaucrats amid the grim financial scenario.”He alleged that the government had grossly mismanaged the pandemic and Covid care centres were in a pitiable state, forcing the BJP senior leader Shanta Kumar to shift to a private hospital in another state.He also touched upon the issues of fuel price hike and said this had unnerved the common man. He also alleged that unlike the BJP, which forces anganwadi workers and labourers to attend its rallies, party activists had spent from their pocket to attend the March 10 Shimla rally.While Rathore asserted that there will be no favourtism in ticket distribution, out of the 17 wards, barely two names were received for the maximum wards and three names for a few others while for two other wards, the party was finding it difficult to secure strong candidates. The names will be scrutinised by the HPCC election committee to finalise the party candidate. The committee of observers today received about 35 applications of candidates desirous of contesting the municipal corporation poll here.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/jai-ram-thakur-to-be-known-as-hoarding-cm-hpcc-chief-224764
14-03-2021||---||Himachal CM loosens purse strings for poll-bound Fatehpur||Dharamsala, March 13With bypoll for the Fatehpur Assembly due, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today loosened the purse strings for the area.The CM announced Rs 20 lakh each for the creation of sports facilities at the Rahan Stadium and Ex-Servicemen Bhawan in the first phase.He also announced Rs 10 lakh each for the Ghaneti-Thaththar and Badi Batrahan roads under Prime Minister Gram Sadak Yojana, Deeni-Larath-Samlehat road, Kandor-Patta-Mukhtyal road, Deeni-Kumbh-Tanahara Hatali road, Narnu-Kukhnallah-Samana, Jagnauli-Malhanta and Palakhu-Churudi road. He said eight rooms would be provided as per demand in the CRC Modern Senior Secondary School, Rehan. He assured that the bus stand at Fatehpur and grain market at Riyali would come up soon.The CM announced upgrade of Government Senior High School, Tatwali, to Government Senior Secondary School. He said the academic building at Woman Polytechnic College, Rehan, would soon be completed. An ultrasound technician would soon be posted at the Civil Hospital, Rehan. Vocational classes at Girls High school, Fatehpur Badiyali, and Samlet would be started as per proposals sent to the Education Directorate, he said.The CM made these announcements while addressing a public gathering at the Rehan stadium after inaugurating Himachal Pradesh Block Level Swarna Jayanti Gram Sammelan under the auspices of the State Rural Development and the Panchayati Raj Department.The CM said the state government got only two years of the period for effective working due to Covid-19. A complete year was lost in fight against this pandemic.Earlier, the CM laid foundation stones of nine developmental works of the Public Works Department and Jal Shakti Vibhag at a collective cost of Rs 2.9 crore in the Fatehpur sub-division. He inaugurated augmentation and improvement of lift irrigation scheme, Beli, constructed at a cost of Rs 1.02 crore, lift water supply scheme to villages Talara, Kutlahar, Balla and Sohar etc worth Rs 1.94 crore and a bridge over Khawaji Khud on the Badukhar-Riyali-Bela-Ludhiarchan road constructed at a cost of Rs 5.12 crore.State BJP president and MP Suresh Kashyap while addressing the gathering thanked the people for supporting BJP candidates in the Panchayati Raj elections held recently.Rural Development and Panchayati Raj Minister Virender Kanwar said the state government was committed for the uplift of the common man in the state.Announces sub-tehsil for Raja Ka Talab||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-cm-loosens-purse-strings-for-poll-bound-fatehpur-224765
14-03-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Goals for 2022: No poverty, good health & education||Tribune News ServiceShimla, March 13The government has set ambitious sustainable development goals (SDG) like zero hunger, no poverty, good health and well-being, quality education, gender equality and increasing tax collection ratio to be achieved by 2022.The state government had been working on institutionalisation of goals in their planning since 2017-18 and took several steps for their integration in policy and planning.As per the goals elaborated in the Economic Survey 2020-21, there are 17 aspiration goals with 169 targets to be implemented by departments and indicators have been defined under each goal. The state government shortlisted 138 key indicators and targets for monitoring the progress of goals of which 12 have been achieved, 38 are to be achieved by 2022 and remaining 83 are planned to be achieved by 2030.Under “no poverty”, targets have been fixed to bring the percentage of population living under poverty line from 8.1 per cent to 2 per cent, covering 100 per cent households under health insurance, providing drinking water to 100 per cent population in rural areas, sewerage services for 90 per cent population, all senior citizens to have institutional assistance funded by the government and telephone facility — mobile/landline toall with the improvedNet connectivity.The reduction of stunting and wasting among children below five years of age to 15.78 per cent and 8 per cent and reduction of anaemia among women in age group of 15 to 49 years to 30.12 per cent is on the agenda.Enhancing productivity of foodgrains and vegetables to 2.4 MT per hectare and 15 MT per hectare, bringing 22,000 hectare area under organic farming, enlisting of 100 per cent mandis under e-market and Soil Health Card to all farmers are parameters for the zero hunger target.The indicators under good health and well-being included 100 per cent institutional deliveries, bringing maternal deaths and infant mortality rate to below 40 and 23 per 1,000, zero transmission of HIV from mother to child and reduction in use of tobacco among the youth above 15 years of age from 22 per cent to 15 per cent.The target of 100 per cent enrolment in primary and upper primary, the enhanced use of computer at primary level and upper primary level to 25 per cent and 30 per cent and 100 per cent at secondary and senior secondary level, enhancing the ratio of female-male enrolment in vocational institutions from 40 per cent to 100 per cent and increasing the gross enrolment ratio to 37 per cent at the tertiary level are parameters fixed under quality education goal.To achieve the goal of gender equality, the key indicators included the increasing sex ratio in 0-6 year age group to 915 per 1,000 males, 190-day maternity leave to all women and 90 days paternity leave to men in organised and unorganised sectors, women police stations in all districts, amendments to customary laws to ensure property rights to women and girls and 100 per cent enrolment and retention of girls at elementary level.A target of increasing the tax and non-tax revenue collections from 21.21 per cent to 25 per cent has been fixed for increasing revenue.Sustainable development goalsNo povertyFood for allEducationMore Revenue||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/goals-for-2022-no-poverty-good-health-education-224766
14-03-2021||---||Dialysis of 100 done in Covid wards, says Shimla IGMC principal||Shimla, March 13More than 100 patients have undergone dialysis inside Covid wards at Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital during the pandemic, said IGMC Principal Rajnish Pathania during a programme held in connection with World Kidney Day that fell on Thursday.“Patients were referred to the IGMC from every corner of the state and they were given the best possible facilities. Most of them recovered following the treatment,” he said.He added that patients having renal issues were affected more by Covid-19 in terms of severity and mortality.Stressing the need to raise awareness about diseases, Pathania said hypertension and diabetes were the major reasons behind the diseases and people need to be alert.Dr Sanjay Vikrant, Dean, Nephrology Department, AIIMS, Bilaspur, who was the chief guest on the occasion, said the country gets around 2 lakh new kidney patients every year. “The idea is to raise awareness about the disease, especially among those who are at risk. They need to get themselves checked regularly so that the disease is detected early and the spread is checked,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/dialysis-of-100-done-in-covid-wards-says-shimla-igmc-principal-224767
14-03-2021||Ambika Sharma||Roadside eateries pose virus threat||Tribune News ServiceSolan, March 13Roadside eateries located on the Parwanoo-Dharampur section of National Highway-22 can trigger Covid outbreak as visitors from neighbouring states who frequent these fail to adhere to Covid-appropriate behaviour.Use of masks and sanitisers is on the decline and even social-distancing norms are not strictly followed, said health officials.Dr NK Gupta, Medical Supdt, SolanHeavy tourist inflowThe recent surge in cases in Punjab has increased the risk of Covid spreading in this bordering belt as a large number of tourists from Punjab visit the state, especially during weekends.“The recent surge in cases in Punjab has increased the risk of Covid spread in this bordering belt as a large number of tourists from Punjab throng the place, especially during weekends,” said Dr NK Gupta, Medical Superintendent, Solan. He added that these eateries could spread the virus in the area and the staff deputed there should ensure adherence to health and safety norms. Violations should be dealt with strictly as those could trigger another wave of Covid in the bordering areas.Several eateries located at Jabli and Sanwara and at other places on this highway attract a large number of visitors from neighbouring states. Even ‘dhabas’ located along the highway pose a similar risk as drivers who stop here often come from states like Delhi and Maharashtra which are experiencing a fresh surge in Covid cases.Sanjiv Dhiman, SDM, Kasauli, said, “Steps will be taken to ensure that roadside eateries adhere to Covid safety norms as no chances can be taken at this stage when fresh Covid cases are being registered in the area.”Though hotels managements were ensuring that Covid norms were being adhered to, roadside eateries have posed a fresh problem for the local administration.Notably, Solan district has the fourth highest number of 103 active cases in the state till last evening after Sirmaur, Kangra and Una. All of those districts are border districts facing a daily influx of outsiders. A large number of fresh cases registered in Solan in the recent days pertained to visitors from the neighbouring states.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/roadside-eateries-pose-virus-threat-224768
14-03-2021||---||Rs 740 crore approved for Central University campus||Dharamsala, March 13The Union Ministry for Finance has approved Rs 740.79 crore for Central University Himachal Pradesh (CUHP) campuses.Union Minister of State for Finance and Corporate Affairs Anurag Thakur, while talking to The Tribune, thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for approving the amount for the campus.Project delayed by 11 yearsAnurag said, “Since 2010, I have been committed towards providing educational facilities to students and pursued the establishment of CUHP in Himachal Pradesh. Students will get the world-class higher education facilities without leaving the state.”As much as Rs 740.70 crore has been approved for the CUHP campuses at Dehra, which is part of Hamirpur constituency, and Dharamsala in Kangra.The ministry has approved Rs 512.37 crore as non-recurring expenditure and Rs 210.55 crore as recurring expenditure. This also includes Rs 17.87 crore expenditure made till 2019-20. “We are seeing how the double engine of central and state governments in the education sector is pushing Himachal to a new frontier to meet the demands of the fourth industrial revolution,” he said.Though the amount has been sanctioned, the allotment of land for the CUHP in Dharamsala is pending. The environment clearance for transfer of about 600-kanal forest land at Jadrangal in Kangra district is also pending.In Dehra, the forest clearance for about 300 kanal, allotted to the CUHP, has been received by the state government. The land is still to be transferred in the name of the university.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rs-740-crore-approved-for-central-university-campus-224757
14-03-2021||---||Solan doctor +ve after second Covid vaccine dose||Solan, March 13Twenty-seven days after taking the second Covid vaccine, a doctor, deputed at the Solan-based Regional Hospital, tested positive last evening. She was the first doctor who had taken the vaccine in the first phase at Solan in January.Chief Medical Officer, Dr Rajan Uppal, said the doctor, who is a programme officer, had taken the first Covid jab on January 16 and another on February 13. She was being tested further and her samples were being sent to a Mumbai-based lab to ascertain the cause and also to rule out the presence of any mutant strain.The doctor has been isolated and her contacts are being tested. The hospital premises has also been sanitised, said the hospital staff.The CMO appealed to the people not to lower their guard against Covid and ensure that they used masks and adopt social-distancing norms to avoid the spread of the infection. He added that people should come forward and get themselves vaccinated as the vaccines are 95 per cent efficacious.Shimla: One death from Covid 19 was reported in Kangra district in the past 24 hours, taking the toll to 991. As many as 70 new cases were reported today, taking the tally of Covid cases in Himachal Pradesh to 59,597. The highest number of 21 cases was reported in Kangra, 15 in Mandi, 12 in Una, seven in Solan, five each in Shimla and Hamirpur, four in Kullu and one in Bilaspur district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/solan-doctor-ve-after-second-covid-vaccine-dose-224749
14-03-2021||Solan||Solan: Doctor tests COVID-19 positive despite taking both vaccine shots||A doctor tested COVID-19 positive on Friday evening, 27 days after taking the second vaccine dose. The Chief Medical Officer, Dr Rajan Uppal, informed that the doctor had taken her first COVID vaccine shot on January 16, and another on February 13. She is being, further, tested, and her samples were being sent to a Mumbai-based lab to ascertain the cause, and to also rule out the presence of any mutant strain. Uppal appealed to the people to not lower their guard against COVID, and to ensure that they use masks, and adopt social distancing norms to avoid the spread of infection. He added that people should come forward, and get themselves vaccinated as vaccines were about 95 per cent effective.   The COVID patient has been isolated, and her eight close contacts were being tested. The hospital has been sanitised as per safety norms. Officials stated that this wasn't a "stray incident" as the viral load of the doctor was "low, and the efficiency of the vaccine is up to 95 per cent".||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/solan-doctor-tests-covid-19-positive-despite-taking-both-vaccine-shots-224696
14-03-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||Polls to Dharamsala, Solan, Mandi, Palampur MCs to be held on April 7||Tribune News ServiceShimla, March 13The elections to the four Municipal Corporations of Dharamsala, Solan, Mandi and Palampur in Himachal Pradesh will take place on April 7.The State Election Commission on Saturday declared the poll schedule for the four MCs. Barring Dharamsala, the remaining three MCs have been created only recently. The term of the councillors of the Dharamsala MC is due to get over on April 7, hence the polls would be organised before that, an official said.(READ: Himachal to hold six nagar panchayat elections on April 7)As per the poll schedule, nominations will be filed on March 22, 23 and 24 while the scrutiny of papers will take place on March 27. The withdrawal of nomination can be done on March 27. The counting of votes too will take place on the day of the polling.It is for the first time that the MC elections will take place on party symbol with provision for disqualification in case of defection. The Bill, making provision for polls on party symbol and anti-defection, was passed by the Vidhan Sabha earlier this week.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/polls-to-dharamsala-solan-mandi-palampur-mcs-to-be-held-on-april-7-224686
