15-03-2021||---||Severed head of unidentified woman found in Baddi||Solan, March 15A blood-soaked severed head of a woman was found in a garbage pile near Billanwali village in the Baddi industrial area on Monday.It was noticed by a passer-by who informed the police. A team led by the Baddi DSP immediately reached the spot and took the chopped head into custody.The spot was also inspected by the Superintendent of Police, Baddi, and a team of forensic experts was requisitioned to collect evidence. The deceased was yet to be identified.The incident has left the area residents shocked. The deceased woman was a migrant, as per a preliminary probe and a search was on to trace the remaining body.This was the second such sensational murder in the recent past. Body of a 21-year-old youth, resident of Chamba district, was recently found packed in a gunny bag in a village in the Nalagarh industrial area.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/severed-head-of-unidentified-woman-found-in-baddi-225598
15-03-2021||---||HP man found dead at home||Dera Bassi, March 14A 33-year-old man was found dead in a rented accommodation in Saraswati Vihar here today. The deceased has been identified as Mohit Sharma, a native of Hamirpur, HP. He was employed as a technician with a private hospital.The police have recovered a syringe from the spot. An injection mark was also found on the victim's arm. No suicide note has been recovered from the spot. The police have informed the kin of the deceased. The body has been shifted to a mortuary.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hp-man-found-dead-at-home-225497
15-03-2021||Shimla||PRSI Shimla Chapter gets new chief||Pradeep Kunwar has been unanimously elected as the new Chairman of Shimla Chapter of the Public Relation Society of India (PRSI) at an annual meeting held here today, said spokesperson of the society. Kunwar is presently working as the Joint Director in the Information and Public Relations Department, Himachal Pradesh. Dr Tulsi Raman was elected as the vice-chairman and Dr Ranvir Verma as general secretary of the society.  The PRSI Shimla Chapter also discussed various issues during the annual general meeting. Discussion regarding functions being organised this year was held and a plan was chalked out for the same. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/prsi-shimla-chapter-gets-new-chief-225239
15-03-2021||Hamirpur||Month-long Chaitra fair starts at Hamirpur||The month-long Chaitra fair started at the historic Baba Balak Nath shrine at Deotsidh in Hamirpur district, with a large number of people turning up to pay their obeisance on Sunday. The fair was stopped midway last year to check the spread of Covid-19.  Deputy Commissioner Debasweta Banik declared the fair open and performed a ‘puja’ at the shrine. Accompanied by other senior district officials, she unfurled a red flag atop the temple.  Mahant Rajinder Giri of the temple was also present on the occasion. Chanting religious hymns, devotees offered foodgrain, cash and ghee at the shrine.  Women paid their respects to Baba Balak Nath from a platform raised for them and men were allowed to go to the holy cave to offer prayers.  The Deputy Commissioner said necessary arrangements had been made for smooth “darshan” at the shrine, as people from Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh were expected to visit the place.  “There are eight inns in the temple’s vicinity to accommodate the pilgrims. Over a million pilgrims from Haryana, Punjab, Chandigarh and abroad are expected to visit the temple during the fair,” she said. The temple would remain open round the clock till the fair ended, the Deputy Commissioner said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/month-long-chaitra-fair-starts-at-hamirpur-225240
15-03-2021||Transfer of officials from Palampur and Dharamsala MC last week has become talk of the town in Kangra. An HAS officer was abruptly transferred from Palampur to a remote place for disobeying the diktats of a powerful politician of the ruling party. In Dharamsala the officials of Smart City project were shunted out and additional charge was given to officials from the constituency of another power politician from Kangra. The talk of the town was that the officials rather than administrative considerations were transferred to meet personal agendas of some ruling party politicians.||Babus face the ire of netas||Tough task for ShuklaCongress Working Committee (CWC) and AICC in-charge Rajeev Shukla is faced with the arduous task of getting all the senior Congress leaders in the state to work towards one single objective of defeating the BJP. With personal ambitions of these leaders resulting in inflated ego, the task seems more difficult than Shukla would have thought. Though there was a galaxy of senior Congress leaders at the Jan Akrosh rally held at Chaura Maidan one could hear the party’s own leaders say there was no ‘akrosh’ (anger) among the party workers. Can’t blame the party workers when the senior leaders are more focused on saving their chairs than working towards galvanizing the party cadres, quipped a party worker from Kangra.Sycophancy at its bestSycophancy appears to have become second skin of the politicians as they are seen practising it at every probable platform. Even a press conference convened at Solan by the Pradesh Congress Committee, president, Kuldeep Rathore, saw its apt demonstration when he spent a good part of his introductory address naming more than a dozen leaders present there. The newsmen were left wondering whether he was addressing his fellow politicians or the media as the list was unending. With no local poll issue having been raised ahead of the key municipal corporation poll for which he had specially come, the visit was nothing more than a pay lip service which failed to enthuse the aspiring candidates.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/babus-face-the-ire-of-netas-225243
15-03-2021||Alkesh Kumar Guleria of DAV Public School||Students shine at science event||Badminton semi-finalistsDivya, Rubi, Sakshi and Simran have entered the semi-finals of a badminton competition in the women’s singles category. In the men’s doubles category, Arush and Rajat defeated pair of Divyansh and Sahil to enter the semi-finals. In this category, other semi-finalists include Ajay and Gagan, Sourav and Yogesh and Abhishek and Shubham.Schools follow Covid protocolWith Covid showing signs of resurgence, schools and students will need to take utmost care and follow government issued Covid-preventive measures. Schools, on their part, say all Covid protocols were being followed diligently. The New Shimla DAV School principal said they were calling students on alternate days and had devised such a seating formation that same seats were not occupied every day. Besides, he said, students were constantly told to don mask and use sanitiser.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/students-shine-at-science-event-225245
15-03-2021||A stretch outside the Department of Health in Kasumpti is a massive bottleneck. With vehicles parked along the way||Need to create parking spaces||Launch bike ambulance service in ChambaThe Health Department must launch a First Responder Bike (FRB) service in Chamba town on the lines of Shimla. Fitted with a portable oxygen cylinder, first-aid kit, dressing material, air-splints, GPS and a communication device, these ambulances would be of great use in case of emergencies in the town. The service will provide help to patients requiring emergency hospitalisation in inaccessible areas where four-wheeler ambulances can’t reach. — Om Prakash, ChambaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/need-to-create-parking-spaces-225248
15-03-2021||Mandi||Three killed in mishap at Mandi||Three persons were killed and one was injured in a road accident in Mandi district yesterday, when they were travelling in a vehicle, in the area under the Balh Assembly segment.The deceased were identified as Vijay Kumar, Jaswant Singh and Dinesh Kumar, all natives of Mandi district. The injured victim, Suneet Kumar, was rushed to a nearby hospital.According to the police, the driver lost control over the vehicle while negotiating a curve on the road at Rajvari. As a result, the vehicle rolled down the road and fell into a deep gorge.Shalini Agnihotri, Superintendent of Police, Mandi, said three persons had succumbed to their injuries, while the other victim was undergoing medical treatment and was stable.She said a case had been registered and investigation was under way to ascertain the actual cause of the incident. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/three-killed-in-mishap-at-mandi-225233
15-03-2021||Dalhousie||Chamba DC lauds role of trust||Deputy Commissioner of Chamba DC Rana on Saturday visited the Antarnirman temple complex, managed by the Yog Manav Vikas Trust (YMVT), Banikhet. He lauded the work done for the well-being of the poor and widows in the past two decades, in addition to organising regular yoga and spiritual activities. YMVT chief patron SK Dodeja said students of the surrounding areas had been imparted vocational training in different trades to enable them earn livelihood for their families. The Deputy Commissioner motivated the organisers to continue their endeavours for human welfare. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/chamba-dc-lauds-role-of-trust-225234
15-03-2021||---||CM announces upgrade of Nagrota Surian to tehsil||Dharamsala, March 14Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today announced upgrade of the sub-tehsil, Nagrota Surian, to tehsil.The CM laid the foundation stones of 21 development projects of the HP Public Works Department and the Jal Shakti Department at a collective cost of Rs 161.58 crore in the Jawali constituency of Kangra district.To address railway bridge issueThe issue of the construction of railway over-bridge at Ghar Jarot will be taken up with Union Railway Minister Piyush Goyal. — Jai Ram Thakur, Chief MinisterHe inaugurated three and laid foundation stones of 10 projects under the HPPWD division, Jawali. He inaugurated building of Government Degree College worth Rs 6.17 crore and opened Atal Adarsh Vidyalay, Kotla. He laid foundation stones of link road from Karota Bantungli Shahid Sangat Singh House to be built at a cost of Rs 3.66 crore, building of Government Degree College, Jawali, at Rs 5 crore, additional building of CHC, Nagrota Suriant at Rs 5.47 crore, additional block Civil Hospital, Jawali, at Rs 6.42 crore, Rajol Anuhi Bagga road, Harnota to Jinjpur road, Giran Khad Nod Kut Jarpal Upper Amlela to Amlela road joining Amlela Ghar Jarot road, Sidhpurghar Bhallad road, link road Manav Bharati School Nadholi to Rupata and cow sanctuary at Khabbal, GP Har.The Chief Minister also laid foundation stones of various water supply schemes to be completed by the Jal Shakti Vibhag. These included augmentation of various water supply schemes under the Jawali division at a cost of Rs 40.77 crore, providing lift water supply scheme (LWSS) Ghar Jarot and other multi-village rural water supply for part of Nagrota Surian block at Rs 29.66 crore, providing Urban Water Supply Scheme, Jawali, worth Rs 15.76 crore, providing LWSS to partially covered habitation of census village Paloura Ludhiar etc at a cost of Rs 6.57 crore, LWSS to PC Habitation of Palanth, Manara and Dehri worth Rs 2.56 crore and LWSS to PC Habitation of census Sidhpurghar villages at Rs 5.89 crore.Later, while addressing a public meeting at the Bus Stand, Nagrota Surian, the Chief Minister said the all-round development was being executed at a brisk pace across the state without any discrimination.Taking a gibe at the Opposition, he said instead of cooperating with the state government during the Covid crisis, they merely kept on criticising the government and did not render any help. He elaborated over various welfare schemes and programmes like Jan Manch, Social Security Pensions to various beneficiaries, Mukhya Mantri Sewa Sankalp Yojana, Him Care Yojana and Sahara Yojana being executed by his government. Social security pension of Rs 1,000 is being provided to women on attaining 65 years of age, which has been enhanced to Rs 1,500 at turning 70. He said over Rs 150 crore had been spent for providing free treatment to patients under the Him Care Scheme. During the current financial year, 12,000 houses would be constructed for the houseless in the state.Thakur announced upgrade of Government High School, Nadoli, to Government Senior Secondary School, bed capacity of the CHC, Nagrota Surian to be increase to 50 beds and Rs 10 lakh each for Matlahad to Samlana, Safeda mod to Solda, Harijan Basti Mata Ghat to Sihuni and Dabai to Neol road.He said the issue of the construction of railway over-bridge at Ghar Jarot would be taken up with Union Railway Minister Piyush Goyal and all possibilities would be explored for the improvement of the Dehra-Jawali road.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cm-announces-upgrade-of-nagrota-surian-to-tehsil-225235
15-03-2021||Our Correspondent||Four-lane affected meet Thakur, protest land acquisition relief rate||Nurpur, March 14The Pathankot-Mandi four-lane project-affected residents led by the Four-Lane Sangarsh Samiti, Nurpur, met Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur at Rehan yesterday during his visit to the neigbhouring Fatehpur sub-division. They lodged a protest against compensation awards announced by the Competent Authority Land Acquisition (CALA) on March 1.Seeking intervention of the Chief Minister, the protesters threatened to resort to direct action if fair compensation was not given to them for acquiring their land for the construction of the Pathankot-Mandi four-lane project.Want reduction in width of stretchTo minimise displacement of people, destruction of ecology and save NHAI’s funds meant for disbursement for land acquisition, the width of the four-lane stretch in package-1 from Pathankot to Bherkhud should be reduced to 32-35 m from the proposed 45 m. — Darbari Singh, president, four-lane sangarsh samitiThe project-affected 3,781 residents in Nurpur have rejected the compensation awards and have been running from pillar to post seeking fair compensation.Minister for Forest and Youth Affairs Rakesh Pathania has recently expressed his solidarity with the affected people and threatened to resign from the Cabinet if fair compensation was not given to them.Meanwhile, Darbari Singh, president, Four-Lane Sangarsh Samiti, claimed that neither the four-lane affected people nor the samiti were opposing this project, but only demanding fair compensation of their land so that displaced families could be rehabilitated.“In order to minimise displacement of people, destruction of ecology and saving of NHAI’s funds meant for disbursement for land acquisition, the width of the four-lane stretch in package-1 from Pathankot to Bherkhud should be reduced to 32-35 m from the proposed 45 m,” he said.The proposed NHAI’s four-lane project will reduce the distance from Pathankot to Mandi from 219 km to 171 km, ease frequent traffic jams and boost tourism in the state. The Centre has released Rs 300 crore for the cost of land to be acquired for the widening of the highway. NHAI sources revealed that if people and state government didn’t cooperate and the stiff opposition continued, this project could be shelved.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/four-lane-affected-meet-thakur-protest-land-acquisition-relief-rate-225236
15-03-2021||Subhash Rajta||Seeking repatriation of body from S Arabia, kin move Delhi HC||Tribune News ServiceShimla, March 14Family of Una resident Sanjeev Sharma (50), who had died on January 24 in Saudi Arabia where he was working for the past many years, has filed a petition in the Delhi High Court for repatriation of the body. His family had initiated the process to repatriate the body within three days of his death, but on February 18, they received a news from Saudi Arabia — Sanjeev’s employer informed them that the local Saudi authorities had buried the body.Died in JanuaryEver since, the family has been running from pillar to post to get the body repatriated but to no avail. “We have filed a petition in the Delhi High Court. Having received mere assurances from various quarters, we were left with no other option,” said deceased’s eldest daughter Nancy, adding that, “Our petition will be heard on Monday. We hope that the court will understand the pain and anguish we are going through and help us in getting the mortal remains of our father.”Tired of empty assurances, Nancy said, “My father died almost seven weeks back in Saudi Arabia and it’s been around three weeks since he was buried there. We have been requesting the authorities to at least exhume and preserve the body, but in vain. Are the Saudi authorities and our government waiting for the body to decompose before being repatriated?”The past two months have been extremely traumatic for the deceased’s wife and three daughters. “We did not perform any of the post-death rituals as we thought we would get the body. My mother is in depression and doesn’t speak to anyone. As my father was the only breadwinner, I need to look for a job to support my family, but I am stuck in doing what the government should have done,” said Nancy.In the death certificate sent to them, the religion of Sharma has been mentioned as Muslim and his date of birth is incorrect. Talking about the Consulate General of India in Jeddah, Nancy said, “They did nothing to stop the burial, get the body repatriated or get a correct death certificate issued. We have sought action against the person responsible for mishandling our case.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/seeking-repatriation-of-body-from-s-arabia-kin-move-delhi-hc-225237
15-03-2021||Our Correspondent||Finish works started during Cong regime: HPCC vice -prez||NURPUR, MARCH 14Himachal Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) vice president and former Kangra Lok Sabha MP Chander Kumar in a statement here today said Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur had inaugurated the new building cum campus of Government Degree College at Nagrota Surian in Jawali assembly constituency on Sunday which had been constructed during the previous Virbhadra Singh regime.The state government had failed to begin construction of the development works foundation stones were laid during that regime, he said.No funds sanctioned for collegeHPCC vice president Chander Kumar said Rs6 crore had been earmarked by the previous Congress regime whereas the present government had sanctioned no funds even for the construction of the science block at the Government Degree College.Kumar, who is also a former local MLA, said the state government should have constructed the science block before inaugurating the campus. He said Rs 6 crore had been earmarked by the previous Congress regime whereas the present government had sanctioned no funds even for the construction of the science block.He lamented that the Jai Ram government had failed to begin construction of Gaj rivulet bridge on the Nagrota Surian- Chalwara- Farian link road foundation stone of which was laid by the then Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh on February 15,2015 and allocated no funds for its construction.“The governments work in continuity and a successive government is supposed to start and complete work on the development projects launched during the time of the previous governments,” he asserted. He said the foundation stone of sub tehsil building at Nagrota Surian had also met the same fate.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/finish-works-started-during-cong-regime-hpcc-vice-prez-225238
15-03-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Attendance in Himachal schools drops to 50%||Tribune News ServiceShimla, March 14With rising trend in Covid-19 cases casting a shadow on schools, the attendance in summer and winter closing schools in the state has dropped to about 50 per cent. The attendance was above 90 per cent in tribal Lahaul and Spiti district as compared to about 35 per cent (average of both summer and winter closing schools) in Shimla.Also read: 2 die, 78 fresh casesStudents’ attendance in summer and winter closing schools was 49.83 per cent and 50.82 per cent, respectively, on March 12 as 1,17,817 students of the total 2,36,419 attended classes in summer closing schools, while 46,951 out of the total 92,376 students of winter closing schools were physically present, said Director, Higher Education, Amarjeet Sharma.In summer closing schools, highest attendance of 92.80 per cent was recorded in Lahaul and Spiti followed by Chamba (72.73 per cent) and Sirmaur (62 per cent) while Kullu, Shimla and Una districts recorded lowest percentage of 31, 38 and 43.19, respectively.Among winter closing schools, Chamba topped with 78.52 per cent followed by Kinnaur (65.91 per cent) and Kangra (64.24 per cent) while Shimla (32 per cent), Mandi (32.11 per cent) and Kullu (55 per cent) were the bottom three.The attendance pattern reflects that parents of students in urban and more developed areas are scared of spreading of Covid and wary of sending their children to schools. However, long weekend due to Shivratri could be another reason.There are 15,591 government schools in the state, including 10,716 primary schools, 2,038 middle schools and 2,729 high and senior secondary schools, out of which about 65 per cent are summer closing while 35 per cent schools are winter closing. There are “no” winter closing schools in Bilaspur, Hamirpur, Lahaul and Spiti and Una districts, while tribal Kinnaur district has no summer closing school.On February 15 last, winter closing schools were opened with about 40 per cent attendance. However, in summer closing schools opened on February 1, the attendance had increased to about 70 to 80 per cent by then. Regular classes of Class V onwards have resumed in the state. Online classes are also continuing.Micro plans for calling students were made by schools and besides staggering classes and changing timings to maintain social distancing, sanitising of classrooms, thermal screening of students and crowding at entry and exit points would be avoided. Schools with large number of students opted for double shifts to accommodate students.Rising Covid cases cast shadow||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/attendance-in-himachal-schools-drops-to-50-225226
15-03-2021||Our Correspondent---||Minister flags off cycling race at Lahaul snow fest||Kullu, March 14 Technical Education and Tribal Development Minister Ram Lal Markanda flagged off 28-km long Lahaul-Spiti MTB Cycling Race from the Tupchaling Buddhist Monastery during the snow festival in Lahaul and Spiti district today.  The race was organised by the Lahaul Adventure Sports Association and about 50 participants from across the country took part in the competition. The minister congratulated the association for organising the race and said such an event would encourage adventure tourism in the region.  Naman (20) of Bir village in Kangra secured the first place in the senior category while Joy Kapoor of Tholang village of Lahaul stood first in the junior category. The winners were awarded by the minister. Markanda said tourism activities were being promoted through the snow festival. He added that opening of the Atal Tunnel Rohtang had given a boost to tourism. He further said there was a lot of potential for adventure tourism in the district. He said efforts were being made to promote snow climbing, rock climbing, trekking, cycling, skiing, snowboarding, paragliding and rafting etc. in the region. The minister said a junior-level national ski competition would be organised during the snow festival from March 25 to 27 in Koksar. He said it would aid in establishing the district’s identity as a world class skiing site and said state, national and international-level competitions would be organised in Lahaul in the coming time. The minister said preparations were going on for the upcoming tourist season, adding that efforts would be made to mark the name of the district on the world tourism map. He said infrastructure would be developed to promote eco-friendly and sustainable tourism. “People should pay special attention to the homestay scheme so that balanced and sustainable development of tourism can be ensured,” said the minister.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/minister-flags-off-cycling-race-at-lahaul-snow-fest-225227
15-03-2021||r Correspondent---||Manali gets Rs1.3 cr sweeping machines||Kullu, March 14 Education Minister Govind Singh Thakur flagged off modern sweeping and jetting machines for cleaning roads in Manali today. These machines, costing Rs 1.3 crore, have been provided to the Manali Municipal Committee (MC) by the Power Grid of India under Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). Addressing a meeting on the Mall Road, the minister said these machines would be able clean the entire city in a short time. He said the machines would allow sanitation workers to carry out cleaning work even during adverse weather conditions. Thakur also inaugurated the library set up by the MC. He said books would be provided to the library by the Thakur Kunj Lal Damodari Devi Trust. He appealed to the people to come forward to donate books. Some girls donated books for the library today. He said suitable space would be available in the library for students to prepare for competitive examinations. The minister also inaugurated a daycare centre for senior citizens. He said the centre would be equipped with facilities for entertainment of the elderly. He called upon the youth to take care of senior citizens.  The minister reviewed the progress of the ongoing development works in Manali. He instructed the officers to complete the schemes and development works on time. He also heard the problems faced by people and appealed to them to cooperate for timely completion of the works. Manali MC president Chaman Kapoor welcomed the minister and gave him details about the works being undertaken for beautification of the town. He said multiplexes would be built, in which indoor sports would be made available. The Manu Rangshala would be redesigned with seating arrangement for 5,000 people, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/manali-gets-rs1-3-cr-sweeping-machines-225228
15-03-2021||Dipender Manta---||Tourist influx to Lahaul via Atal tunnel increases||Tribune News Service Mandi, March 14 Tourist influx to Lahaul valley via Atal tunnel has increased on the Manali-Leh highway these days, which has elated the hoteliers of Lahaul valley in tribal district Lahaul Spiti. According to police authority in Lahaul Spiti, 3,959 vehicles yesterday crossed Atal tunnel to move in and out of the Lahaul valley. It is expected that during the summer season, the tourist influx towards Lahaul valley would increase from Manali side drastically. Superintendent of Police Lahaul Spiti Manav Verma said that 2,049 vehicles entered Lahaul valley from the Manali side yesterday and 1,910 moved out towards Manali via Atal tunnel.  The Border Roads Organisation (BRO) authority has started snow-clearing operation on the Manali-Leh highway. The BRO is targeting to restore this highway for traffic movement much earlier this year as compared to the previous years provided weather conditions remain favourable. Thereafter, tourist footfall will increase considerably towards Lahaul valley from the Manali side. Vikram Katoch, a hotelier in Lahaul valley, said, “It is a good sign for the tourism industry that tourist influx has started to increase in the Lahaul valley. The major attraction for tourists here these days is the ongoing snow festival as tourists can have a glimpse of the rich culture of this tribal district.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/tourist-influx-to-lahaul-via-atal-tunnel-increases-225229
15-03-2021||Lalit Mohan---||Despite grant, Gaggal airport expansion remains on paper||Tribune News Service Dharamsala, March 14 Despite the fact that the state government was patting its back after the 15th Finance Commission recommended Rs 400 crore for the expansion of Gaggal airport, the project still remains on paper. As per the information collected by The Tribune, the amount proposed for the airport expansion might not be enough for even the land acquisition for the project. In survey reports sent to the state government by the revenue officials of Kangra, about 40-hectare land was required for the expansion. The revenue officials had estimated that about Rs 500 crores might be required for land acquisition as most of the land was commercial and high acquisition rates might have to be paid to the land owners. After carrying out the survey of the land to be acquired, the state government had written to the Airports Authority of India (AAI) to carry out obstruction level survey (OLS) for the project. The obstruction survey was to evaluate the feasibility of airport expansion. It was only after this survey that the AAI would have started the work for preparing the project report for the airport expansion. However, till date the AAI has not carried out the survey. Kangra Deputy Commissioner Rakesh Prajapati, when asked, admitted that obstruction survey report was being awaited for further progress on airport expansion. Gaggal airport is the only domestic airport of Himachal that remains operational throughout the year. Air India and SpiceJet ply five flights a day from the airport on the Dharamsala-Delhi and the Dharamsala-Chandigarh routes. However, the airfares from Delhi to Dharamsala and vice versa remain the highest in the country. At times, the one-way air ticket from Dharamsala to Delhi costs between Rs 19,000 and Rs 21,000. Experts are of the view that the airfares on the Delhi-Dharamsala route remain high as only 70-seater planes can land here due to shorter airstrip. In case the airport was expanded bigger planes would be able to land here that can bring down the airfares. The expansion of airstrip at Gaggal airport in Kangra district can bring in more tourists to Dharamsala as well as Kullu and Manali regions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/despite-grant-gaggal-airport-expansion-remains-on-paper-225230
15-03-2021||Lalit Mohan||OBC quota in corporation poll unlikely despite passing Bill||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, March 14Despite passing a Bill in the Himachal Assembly to provide reservation to OBCs in elections for four corporations in the state, the government would not be able to implement in the law in the forthcoming elections on April 7.Sources here said that the government would not be able to implement the reservation roster for OBCs in corporation elections for Dharamsala, Palampur, Mandi and Solan despite passing the law in this regard in the current Assembly session.Govt creating confusionThe government had just tried to create confusion by passing the Bills for OBC reservation in corporation elections. It was never serious in implementing the law. It was meant to please a section of population to garner their votes. — Davinder Jaggi, outgoing Mayor, Dharamsala CorpnWith an eye on sizeable population of OBCs in Kangra, the BJP government had brought forward the said legislation. It also proposed to reserve the post of Mayor in Dharamsala for an OBC candidate. However, since with the elections in the coming month there was not enough time for the government to implement the reservation roster for OBC candidates.Minister for forest and youth affairs Rakesh Pathania, who is also in charge for elections for Dharamsala MC on behalf of the BJP, when contacted on phone, said it was he who had pushed for reservation roster for OBCs in corporation elections.“If there can be reservation for OBC candidates in Zila Parishad polls then it should be provided in corporation elections as well. The Cabinet had passed a Bill in this regard. However, later it was revealed that OBC population was not more than 15 per cent in any of the municipal corporations going to the polls next month. So, the post of mayor cannot be reserved for OBCs as per the law”, he said.Pathania said that despite passing the law the government would not be able to provide reservation in the corporation elections. However, the passage of the Bill has made legal provision for making such reservation in future elections, he said.Davinder Jaggi, outgoing mayor of Dharamsala corporation, while talking to The Tribune, said that the government had just tried to create confusion by passing the Bills for OBC reservation in corporation elections. It was never serious about implementing the law. It was meant to please a section of population to garner their votes.To implement the law the government has to first calculate the percentage of population of the community in the corporation. “Presently, as per my knowledge no census was available to determine the percentage of OBC population in Dharamsala. Besides, no roster for reservation has been issued and elections are around the corner. In case the government tries to do anything in haste we would move court”, he said.By implementing the reservation for OBCs in corporation elections, which also includes the Gorkha community, the BJP was eying vote bank. The Gorkha and other OBC communities form sizable population in Dharamsala corporation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/obc-quota-in-corporation-poll-unlikely-despite-passing-bill-225231
15-03-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Public sector undertakings losses up Rs299 crore||Tribune News ServiceShimla, March 14The cumulative losses of Himachal Government Public Sector Undertakings (PSU) mounted by about Rs 299 crore during 2019-20 and increased from Rs 3,448 crore in 2018-19 to Rs 3,747 crore in 2019-20. The share capital of the government in these undertaking is Rs 2,975.87 crore and 13 out of 23 PSUs are in perpetual red, while the profits of 10 PSUs are marginal.The Himachal Road Transport Corporation, the Himachal Pradesh Power Corporation Limited, the HP Power Transmission Corporation and the HP Tourism Development Corporation did not perform well during 2019-20 and posted losses amounting Rs 144.42 crore, Rs 140 crore, Rs 55.3 crore and Rs 13.48 crore, respectively, increasing the cumulative losses to Rs 1,533.70 crore, Rs 361.99 crore, Rs 138.36 crore and Rs 50.32 crore.The HP State Electricity Board and the State Forest Corporation did reasonably well and earned profits of Rs 10.90 crore Rs and 2.65 crore, respectively, during 2019-20, but the cumulative losses stood at Rs 1,520.59 crore and Rs 110. 42 crore, respectively.However, the cumulative profits of the State Industrial Corporation, the HP Ex-Servicemen Corporation, the State Forest Corporation and the General Industrial Corporation that are consistently earning profit, stood at Rs 79.29 crore, Rs 56.97 crore, Rs 37.65 crore and Rs 37.45 crore, respectively.The cumulative losses of the HPMC, State Handicraft and Handloom and State cooperative Milk Producers Federation also dropped marginally and stood at Rs 85.09 crore, Rs 13.43 crore and Rs 11.72 crore, respectively. The situation is alarming, as the losses incurred during Covid-19 pandemic year (2020-21), when economic activities crippled due to the prolonged lockdown, have not been taken into account, and significant increase in losses is expected during 2020-21.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/public-sector-undertakings-losses-up-rs299-crore-225232
15-03-2021||---||MLAs should give up pension: Ex-MP||Dharamsala, March 14Former MP Rajan Sushant has flayed Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur for not touching certain key issues being faced by people of state during his public rallies in Kangra district.While talking to newsmen at Fatehpur, Sushant said that all MLAs should give up their pension as government employees recruited after 2004 are also not entitled to old pension scheme. He said that 90,000 government employees in state would get pension of just Rs 3,000 to Rs 4,000 after serving for decades in government service. How is this justified that the government employees would hardly get any pension while MLAs would get pension of about Rs 80,000 even if he has stayed a member of legislative assembly even for a day.Sushant said that he had given up his pension as an MLA of Himachal assembly and MP in August last year in support of the demand of government employees covered under new pension scheme. Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur has been keeping quiet about the demand of employees despite the fact that they are sitting on dharna for the last many months in Shimla.Sushant said that there were several issues being faced by the people of Fatehpur assembly constituency. These include issue of Pong Dam oustees who have been fighting for their rights for their rights with the Rajasthan government for past many decades. The oustees used to till lands on the banks of Pong Dam lake during summers when the water level goes down. However, now the forest department has barred them from tilling those lands, he said.Sushant, who was former BJP MP, had quit the party and joined AAP as state president. He lost the last assembly elections from Fatehpur. He is now expected to contest the assembly bypoll from Fatehpur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mlas-should-give-up-pension-ex-mp-225242
