16-03-2021||Shimla||Congress accuses Himachal Government of allocating funds to only two constituencies||Leader of Opposition in the Himachal Pradesh Assembly Mukesh Agnihtori on Tuesday alleged that Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur and Jal Shakti Minister Mahender Singh are taking care of only their two assembly segments and ignoring all other constituencies while allocating funds under various schemes for development.Denying the accusations, the chief minister said all 68 constituencies in the state are being taken care of while allocating funds for development works.Thakur said he recently inaugurated and laid foundation stones for various projects worth Rs 162 crore in Jawali assembly segment. The same is being done in other constituencies as well, he added.Speaking on the cut motion on 'irrigation, water supply and sanitation' in the state Assembly during the ongoing budget session, Agnihotri also demanded issuance of a white paper on allocation of funds under the Jal Shakti Mission.Agnihtori accused the chief minister and Jal Shakti minister of taking care of only their two assembly segments of Seraj and Dharampur, respectively, while allocating funds under various schemes for development.The Leader of Opposition stated that Jal Shakti minister Mahender Singh should inform the House that how many tenders have been allotted and for how much money, and how much money has been provided by the Centre and how much from the state under the Jal Jeevan Mission.Without elaborating, Congress legislator Asha Kumari said the 'Hum Do, Hamare Do' principle is active both at the Centre and in the state.Replying to the cut motion, Jal Shakti Minister Singh said Haroli (Mukesh Agnihotri's constituency) can not be compared with Seraj (chief minister's constituency) while allocating funds as the former is very small as compared to the latter having a huge geographical area."Further, big constituencies like Pachhad, Shillai and Kinnaur can also not be compared with Haroli. So the same amount of money can not be allotted in each of the 68 constituencies," he added.The minister said the Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM) was launched by the Centre which has earmarked Rs 3,60,000 crore to provide safe and adequate drinking water through individual household tap connections by 2024 to all households in rural India.The first phase of JJM will be completed in Himachal Pradesh by August 15, 2022 and the Centre has provided Rs 555.61 crore to the state towards the mission, he added.The minister expressed concern over climate change which he said may prove more fatal as compared to the coronavirus. Alarming situation has arisen as Rohtang in Lahaul-Spiti has received only 3-4 feet snowfall this season as compared to normal 30-40 feet snowfall which may result in water scarcity not only in HP but also in neighbouring states in the coming summer.Climate change is not a crisis for only the ruling party or the Opposition but common man is also worried about the situation emerging due to it, he added. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/congress-accuses-himachal-government-of-allocating-funds-to-only-two-constituencies-226096
16-03-2021||atibha Chauhan ---||Walkout over Himachal CM’s reply to Budget debate||Tribune News Service Shimla, March 15  Dissatisfied with the reply of Chief Minister to the debate on the budget proposals for the year 2021-22, opposition Congress staged a walkout in the Vidhan Sabha today.  Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today replied to the debate on the budget proposals for the year 2021-22. A total of 34 MLAs, including 17 each from the BJP and the Congress, participated in the debate.  Even as the Chief Minister was replying to the debate, Leader of Opposition Mukesh Agnihotri stood up and raised the issue of loans being raised by the government. “You have pushed the state on the verge of bankruptcy while demands of pensioners, employees and price rise have not been addressed in the Budget,” he said.  The Chief Minister said there was a good debate on the Budget with complete opportunity being given to the Opposition to speak. “Unfortunately, Congress only spoke of political issues and not about the Budget. Despite Covid crisis, the Budget is balanced and development oriented. New schemes like Rs 1,000 pension for women between 65 and 69 years and Rs 31,000 for girls from economically weaker sections from all categories has been started,” Thakur said.  Thakur said even Congress regime raised loans but now because of Covid outbreak his government had to take more loans. “It is Congress which is responsible for taking the state’s debt burden to Rs 48,000 crore and now we have to repay that along with interest component,” he said.   Thakur reiterated his commitment on the issue of implementation of the Sixth Pay Commission recommendations. Since Himachal follows Punjab, a final decision will be taken after seeing the report which is expected by March 31. He also assured the house that the power minister had been asked to seek a report on the allegations of varying prices of electricity meters across the state.  Agnihotri said, “The Budget document is only pushing the state further towards bankruptcy. Our stand has been vindicated today as the CM introduced the Bill for making amendments in the FRBM Act to pave the way for raising the limit on loans”.  He said that the Act of 2005 had put a limit on raising loans by the state government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/walkout-over-himachal-cms-reply-to-budget-debate-225789
16-03-2021||---||IPH Minister warns of water scarcity in summer||Shimla, March 15The state could face severe water scarcity in the summers on account of scanty rainfall and snow during the winters.Preparations started to meet shortfallAs the threat of a severe drinking water shortage looms large, the Jal Shakti Department has already started preparations so that timely steps are taken to meet the shortfall.— Mahender Singh, IPH MinisterIrrigation and Public Health (IPH) Minister Mahender Singh today cautioned the Vidhan Sabha about the impending situation which could hit the state in case there are no rains or snow in the near future.“As the threat of a severe drinking water shortage looms large, Jal Shakti Department has already started preparations so that timely steps are taken to meet the shortfall,” he stated.The IPH minister said this while replying to a query by Ramesh Dhawala and Anil Sharma in the Vidhan Sabha today. He said the department had already prepared a strategy to meet the shortage and he hoped to get everyone’s cooperation in this endeavour.“My request to you all is that please do not oppose the measures that we might have to take in view of the water shortfall that could grip the state in case we do not get rain,” he remarked. He added that the water schemes, which have sufficient water, would be linked to the ones which go dry.He informed the house that so far 1,328 schemes had been approved under the Jal Jeevan Mission till January 31. He added that Rs 555.81 crore had been spent on these schemes. “The Centre is providing funding on 90:10 pattern for the schemes to be implemented under Jal Jeevan Mission,” he revealed.Replying to a query by Harshwardhan Chauhan about shortage of teachers in colleges and schools in Shillai assembly segment, Education Minister Govind Thakur informed that 4,000 posts of teaching and non-teaching staff would be filled. Besides, posts of 500 teachers in the higher secondary schools will also be filled shortly, he added.Replying to a query by Sunder Thakur, Govind Thakur informed that sums of Rs 6.90 crore, Rs 6.73 crore and Rs 6.65 crore were spent on Kullu Dasehra in 2018, 2019 and in 2020.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/iph-minister-warns-of-water-scarcity-in-summer-225790
16-03-2021||---||Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur: Swarnim celebrations to showcase state’s growth||Shimla, March 15Swarnim Himachal celebrations would be held throughout the year in a befitting manner to showcase the glorious developmental journey of the state during the last 50 years, said Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur while presiding over the high power committee review meeting regarding preparation for the Swarnim Himachal Celebrations and Swarnim Himachal Rath Yatra held here today.Year-long eventHe said the event had been divided into two parts, the 51-day Swarnim Himachal Yath Yatra starting from April 15 and Swarnim Himachal celebration, which would be held throughout the year in which 51 events would be organized by different departments in various parts of the state.With special focus on educating the younger generation regarding the glorious history of the state events like declamation, quiz, essay writing, painting competitions, one-act plays, etc would be held at school and college level to ensure active involvement of the youth in the celebrations. The Education Department must take a lead in this direction, he said.The Chief Minister said that proper documentation of the whole event must be ensured so that it becomes most important document for the generations to come. He said that involvement of local artists, NGOs, mahila mandals, yuvak mandals and elected representatives of Panchayati Raj Institutions should be ensured.Stating that every farmer, engineer, soldier, teacher, doctor and common man had made contribution in this developmental journey of the state, he said that the event should not be a ceremonial but create a sense of contact with each and every person of the state.Thakur said that one booklet must be prepared regarding state level achievements and progress and another highlighting the district level statistics.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/chief-minister-jai-ram-thakur-swarnim-celebrations-to-showcase-states-growth-225791
16-03-2021||Una||Rs 9L looted from liquor contractor’s office||Masked men reportedly looted about Rs 9 lakh at gunpoint from the office of a liquor contractor located on the Hoshiarpur road in Una city today. They also fired four rounds at his driver. However, no one was injured in the firing and the accused drove away in a car.Liquor contractor Rajinder Singh Rana complained to the police that around 8.15 am today when his accountant was counting cash, a few masked men armed with weapons forcibly entered his office and took away a bag containing around Rs 9 lakh.Rana said that when the accused were committing the crime, he was on the way to his office. When he reached the office, two masked men standing there prevented him from going in. When he tried to force his way in, the duo manhandled him.Rana said that his driver was a witness to the incident and he immediately raised the alarm. The masked men shot four rounds at him. However, the driver escaped unharmed, he added.SP Arijit Sen Thakur said that the incident was recorded in the CCTV cameras and the footage was being investigated. He added that the police had recovered three empty cartridge shells from the spot. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rs-9l-looted-from-liquor-contractors-office-225792
16-03-2021||Ambika Sharma||Three-day shutdown by Baddi corrugation units||Tribune News ServiceSolan, March 15The Himachal Pradesh Corrugated Manufacturers Association has initiated a three-day shutdown in the Baddi, Parwanoo and other industrial clusters of the state today in protest against the spiraling cost of kraft paper, which is their basic raw material.The association members who assembled in the industrial clusters of Baddi today said, “We will neither make any dispatch nor will unload any vehicle carrying raw material as production has been totally halted. The customers should bear at least 25 per cent increase in the price of corrugation boxes and the paper mills manufacturing the kraft paper should decrease its price considerably to ensure viability for the corrugation box manufacturers”, informed Surinder Jain, association’s president.This is the second shut-down in the industry since December 2020. The spiraling price of kraft paper has not been checked after the Covid-induced lockdown as the price of its raw material has registered a steep hike.The association members said various states will shut down their manufacturing in a phased manner across the region as the situation has brought the industry on the brink of closure.“The cost of kraft paper, which is used to make packaging boxes, has registered an increase of 70 to 80 per cent in the last four months and we have failed to get the due conversion cost from the industries,” said Jain.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/three-day-shutdown-by-baddi-corrugation-units-225793
16-03-2021||---||11 officers deputed on election duty||Shimla, March 15 The Himachal government has relieved 11 IAS officers  deputed on election duty in five states and gave additional charge of the departments held by them to 15 IAS and two officers of HP Administrative Services.  The officers deputed on election duty are Dr Sandeep Bhatnagar, Akashay Sood, Vikas Labroo, Rajiv Sharma, Dr SS Guleria, Capt JM Pathania, Hans Raj Chauhan, Vinod Kumar, Chander Prakash Verma, Sandeep Kumar and Ashwani Kumar Chawdhary.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/11-officers-deputed-on-election-duty-225794
16-03-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||20% faculty in 3 private Himachal universities ineligible||Tribune News ServiceShimla, March 15About 20 per cent faculty of three private universities are ineligible. A three-member committee, constituted by the Himachal Pradesh Private Educational Institutions Regulatory Commission (HPPEIRC), has disclosed it.‘Quality of education affected’We have also received complaints of universities appointing temporary and contractual faculty which is affecting the quality of education.— Maj Gen Atul Kaushik (retd), Chairman, HPPEIRCThe committee comprising Dr Mahesh Chandan, Dr Joginder Singh Saklani and Dr BR Thakur pointed out that some faculty members had not qualified National Eligibility Test (NET) while others had failed to submit their PhD documents.The HPPEIRC had asked the private universities to submit the information on their salary, qualification and process of recruitment as in most cases, the information supplied was sketchy. “The number of faculty in universities ranges from 50 to 150 and in case of irregularities, the commission will give time to the universities to present their case,” said the Chairman, HPPEIRC, Maj Gen Atul Kaushik (Retd). “We have also received complaints of universities appointing temporary and contractual faculty which is affecting the quality of education,” he said.Earlier, Vice-Chancellors of some universities were found ineligible as they did not fulfil the qualification and eligibility criteria.New VCs have been appointed in Baddi University and Chitkara University while six are yet to fill the posts. These have either appointed the seniormost Dean as the officiating VC or sought time from the commission to complete the process.There are about 23,000 students in private colleges and universities and about 35,000 are moving out of the state to pursue higher studies which implies that the quality of education needs to be improved, Kaushik said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/20-faculty-in-3-private-himachal-universities-ineligible-225795
16-03-2021||Shimla||Welfare main concern: Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur||The welfare of farmers is the main concern of the government for which several schemes have been launched to double their income, said Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur while addressing a delegation of the BJP Kisan Morcha here today. He said the government had laid foundation stone of APMC market yards and mandis and the initiative would help farmers get better price for their produce. The new farm laws were aimed at the welfare of the farming community, he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/welfare-main-concern-chief-minister-jai-ram-thakur-225796
16-03-2021||Ambika Sharma||‘Height barriers’ to check entry of buses, trucks into Baddi||Tribune News ServiceSolan, March 15In a bid to ensure safety of the residents in residential areas of Sai Road in Baddi, the police department is planning to install “height barriers” to stop movement of heavy vehicles inside the housing areas.Residential areas to be out of boundsThese barriers are proposed to be installed at NRI Chowk, Kidzee School Amaravati, ESI Office and Shimla-Mandi gate as they lead to the thickly populated areas on the Sai Road where several thefts were reported in the recent months.Heavy vehicles like trucks, tipper and buses have been using the shorter routes through the residential areas in Baddi. This has become a threat to the security of residents. Unruly elements are also sometimes found moving suspiciously in these areas where several thefts have taken place in abandoned and closed houses.Being the key commercial area of Baddi, Sai Road faces a huge influx of heavy vehicles particularly in the late evenings. Presence of several slum clusters and the area bordering Haryana have compounded the residents’ problems as miscreants disappear within no time after committing thefts and other crimes.The issue was raised by residents of Housing Board Society, Baddi, before the police. They requested the Baddi civic body to install height barriers to stop entry of heavy vehicles.“The Baddi civic body has been apprised of the situation and a request has been forwarded to erect height barriers at NRI Chowk, Kidzee School, Amaravati, ESI Office and Shimla Mandi Gate. Once installed, these roads can be notified under the Police Act for the movement of light motor vehicles only. This can help check the movement of suspicious elements in these areas,” said Superintendent of Police, Baddi, Rohit Malpani.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/height-barriers-to-check-entry-of-buses-trucks-into-baddi-225797
16-03-2021||Our Correspondent||Panic grips Nurpur village as leopard attacks livestock||Nurpur, March 15Leopard attacks on livestock in the past few days in the Kopra gram panchayat of Nurpur development block have scared residents. Residents said a leopard had created panic in Salgot and Metty wards (3 & 4) of the panchayat.It has been attacking animals tied in open cowsheds or house courtyards during night. So far three animals have been killed by the leopard.Karam Chand of Ward Number 4 said on hearing the cries of his animal at night, he rushed outside and saw the leopard dragging it. When he flashed a torch on the leopard, it left his animal but it succumbed to injuries.Sukkar Ram of Ward Number 3 said his animal was attacked a few days ago which was found dead a few yards away from his house. Meenu Kumari, the pradhan of the Kopra gram panchayat, has appealed to the administration and the wildlife department to save the residents from the terror.Local Sub Divisional Magistrate Surinder Thakur, along with a team of Forest and Animal Husbandry Department, went to the area this afternoon. He said the Forest Department had been asked to set up a cage in the forest adjoining the village to trap the leopard, besides releasing compensation to victims.He said the villagers had been directed not to come out their houses late in evenings till the leopard is captured.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/panic-grips-nurpur-village-as-leopard-attacks-livestock-225798
16-03-2021||Shimla||Announce MSP for every farm produce, demand Himachal farmers||Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, HP, and Himachal Kisan Sabha today held protests at various places across the state against the three farm laws. The protesters also urged the Centre and the state government to announce MSP on all agricultural products. The other demands included putting apple in ‘special category’ and raising its import to 100 per cent.Himachal Kisan Sabha state president Kuldeep Tanwar, while addressing the protesters in Mashobra, said it was unfortunate that the farmers, who kept the country’s economy from collapsing during the pandemic, were being “ill-treated” by the government. “They have been on the road for the past 110 days but the government was not ready to listen to them,” said Tanwar, adding that until the farm laws were taken back the protest will continue.Sanjay Chauhan, Sanyukt Kisan Morcha member, said the farm laws were brought to hand over the land and agriculture to the corporates. He said apple growers had already suffered the consequences of open mandis as many traders have disappeared with their money.The protesters submitted a memorandum to the Central Government through Block Development Officer. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/announce-msp-for-every-farm-produce-demand-himachal-farmers-225799
16-03-2021||Chamba||Tourist info counter at Chamba’s entrance soon||Deputy Speaker Hans Raj has asked officials to set up a reception counter at the entrance of Chamba district on the Chamba-Pathankot highway so that the tourists could get information.   He said this while presiding over a meeting regarding the outline of “Chalo Chamba” campaign here today.   Dr Hans Raj said Chamba was in the category of ‘aspirational district’ so the campaign could play an important role in getting it out of the category.   Apart from the people associated with the tourism business, he said the common man should be included in this campaign.    He said rich folk culture, fairs, religious and adventure tourism and traditional crafts and food of the region could attract tourists from abroad. Roads should be better for tourism development. He directed the PWD to improve the road conditions.   Deputy Commissioner DC Rana disclosed that a special mobile app had been developed for the campaign. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/tourist-info-counter-at-chambas-entrance-soon-225800
16-03-2021||Shimla||BBMB, PGCIL win chess titles||The BBMB team won the chess title in the men’s category and the Powergrid (PGCIL) team in the women’s category at the 26th Inter-CPSU Chess and Bridge Tournament here today. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bbmb-pgcil-win-chess-titles-225801
16-03-2021||---||Shivratri festival: 2nd procession of deities held in Mandi||Mandi, March 15The second Shobha Yatra (procession of deities) of the week-long Shivratri festival was taken out in Mandi town today with great fanfare. A large number of deities, along with their followers, took part in the procession.Mandi Divisional Commissioner Vikas Labru was the chief guest. He offered prayers at the Madho Rai temple in Mandi town along with his wife Shailja Labru.Addressing the gathering on this occasion at the Paddal Ground, he said it was necessary to preserve the rich deity culture of the hilly state so that new generations are able to know about it. “It was a wonderful experience for me to meet the deities in this unique festival. It is a matter of pride for me to be part of this divine environment and divine communion,” he said.Labru praised the organising committee for its efforts to preserve the archaic traditions of the festival and connecting the new generation with them. He congratulated the district administration for the exhibition ‘Re-live the past’, in which efforts were made to display items which were used in the past.Rugved Thakur, Deputy Commissioner and chairperson of the festival committee, said so far, 186 deities had arrived in the town to take part in the festivities.SP Shalini Agnihotri, ADC Jatin Lal, MC Commissioner Rajeev Kumar, Additional District Magistrate Shrawan Manta, Shivpal Sharma, Chief of Sarva Devata Samaj, were among those present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shivratri-festival-2nd-procession-of-deities-held-in-mandi-225802
16-03-2021||UNA||Una Tehsildar arrested for taking bribe||Una Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau (V&ACB) today arrested Una Revenue Tehsildar Vijay Rai for allegedly demanding and accepting a bribe of Rs 5,000 from a person for partition of his land.  Additional Superintendent of Police at the Una V&ACB, Sagar Chand said there were reports of corruption at the Una Tehsil office for some time. He said a local person recently contacted their office, complaining that the Tehsildar was demanding money for executing partition of his land property in revenue records.  The ASP said a trap was laid and the demand of money by the Tehsildar was also recorded. The Tehsildar had asked the person to deliver the bribe to him at his office. Consequently, he said the currency with the invisible dye was given to the complainant who handed it over to the officer.  Sagar Chand said the money was recovered from the tehsilar’s pocket and the dye too revealed its colour in water. He said the Tehsildar had been arrested. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/una-tehsildar-arrested-for-taking-bribe-225803
16-03-2021||---||4 die, 75 new Covid cases in Himachal||Shimla, March 15With 75 Covid cases being reported today, the tally of cases reached 59,750.The fatality figure too rose to 997 with four persons succumbing to the virus, including two in Mandi and one each in Sirmaur and Una. There are 757 active cases.The highest number of 22 cases was reported in Una, 16 in Kangra, 14 in Solan, five each in Bilaspur and Hamirpur, four in Shimla, three each in Sirmaur and Mandi, two in Kullu and one in Chamba.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/4-die-75-new-covid-cases-in-himachal-225804
16-03-2021||Jyoti Thakur||Jyoti Thakur wins gold in wrestling||Seminar held at Eternal varsity'Amrit Mahotsav', a programme to celebrate Independence, was organised at Eternal University, Baru Sahib. A seminar was organised in which students dressed up as great patriots and freedom fighters such as Bhagat Singh, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, Rani Laskhmi Bai and Mahatma Gandhi to shed light on their lives. Vice Chancellor Davinder Singh said such programmes created a sense of patriotism among students.Declare BEd result: SFIThe SFI on Monday submitted a memorandum to the Controller of Examination, demanding declaration of result of BEd's fourth semester exams. The SFI further demanded a free-of-cost revaluation opportunity for students of English and Hindi Departments who have been given zero or have scored very low marks in exams. The SFI said the students had been facing problems with their results due to the IRP system.Support CITU stir, students urgedThe SFI has urged students to support the protest called by CITU on March 17 against the Centre and state government's "anti-labour policies". On March 17, students and labourers have planned to hold demonstrations outside the Vidhan Sabha.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/jyoti-thakur-wins-gold-in-wrestling-225827
16-03-2021||The MC is laying a sewage pipeline alongside an old and damaged pipeline behind my house in lower Khalini||Pipeline poses danger to house||— Kanwar Bhanu Uday Singh, ShimlaWater canal in bad shapeAn irrigation water canal, Kas panchayat in Jogindernagar Assembly segment of Mandi district, has been in bad shape for the past few years. There has been leakage from the canal at different points, due to which farmers are unable to take the maximum benefit of the facility. The Irrigation and Public Health Department authority should repair the canal to stop the leakage of water — Devender Chauhan, JogindernagarWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/pipeline-poses-danger-to-house-225828
