17-03-2021||Solan||CBI raids Baddi consultant in MNC financial embezzlement case||A Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) team on Wednesday raided the premises of a Baddi-based consultant who had provided consultancy to a multinational company involved in evading excise duty worth Rs 580 crores. Notably, the CBI had registered a case in 2017 against the confectionary giant to probe allegations of bribing public servants to evade Rs 580 crore in excise duty.The probe had been initiated on the recommendation of the Central Vigilance Commission and involves a ‘ghost’ production unit in Baddi.The issue of inappropriate payments made to public servants to expedite or to get some benefits was being probed by the central agency.The local consultant’s office as well as his residence was raided at Baddi and Nalagarh, confirmed DSP Baddi, Navdeep Singh. The CBI team lifted some documents and electronic evidence pertaining to the case in the day-long raid at the house and residence of the said BJP’s leader. The company had allegedly misused area-based exemption for its new unit at Baddi in 2009.The case has once again brought the role of the local regulatory officials under the scanner in this multi-crore financial scam.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cbi-raids-baddi-consultant-in-mnc-financial-embezzlement-case-226609
17-03-2021||New Delhi||Ram Swaroop Sharma second Lok Sabha MP to die under mysterious circumstances in a month||BJP’s Ram Swaroop Sharma is the second Lok Sabha MP to die under mysterious circumstances in the past few weeks. Dadra and Nagar Haveli MP Mohan Delkar, a seven-term Lok Sabha member, was found hanging in a Mumbai hotel on February 22.Ram Swaroop Sharma is suspected to have died by suicide.Independent MP Mohan Delkar too allegedly died by suicide.Also read: Mandi BJP MP Ram Swaroop Sharma dies at 62; suicide suspected A Special Investigation Team has been formed to probe the death of Delkar. The Mumbai police have confirmed death by hanging and, also recovered a suicide note.The Congress, which is a part of the Shiv Sena-led Maha Aghadi government in Maharashtra, has demanded a judicial inquiry. The 58-year-old was a seven-time MP from the Union Territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli and headed the party unit there before quitting in 2019 and contesting as an Independent.Also read: HP Assembly adjourned after MP Ram Swaroop Sharma’s demiseThe Congress has claimed that Delkar wrote multiple letters to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, and senior BJP general seeking their help but were ignored.Congress leader Sachin Sawant also claimed that Delkar took his life due to “persecution by BJP leaders and central officials”.Delkar was “persecuted and insulted” by Dadra and Nagar Haveli Administrator Praful Kheda Patel and several Central administrative officers, he claimed.Patel is believed to be close to PM Modi and HM Shah from their earlier days in politics in Gujarat. The Mumbai Police has registered an FIR against the former Gujarat minister and eight others for their alleged involvement in the suicide based on a complaint by Delkar's son Abhinav under IPC sections 306 (abetment of suicide), 506 (criminal intimidation), 389 (putting the person in accusation of offence in order to commit extortion) and also under the Prevention of Atrocities Act, according to reports.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ram-swaroop-sharma-second-lok-sabha-mp-to-die-under-mysterious-circumstances-in-a-month-226521
17-03-2021||Shimla||HP Assembly adjourned after MP Ram Swaroop Sharma’s demise||Himachal Pradesh Vidhan Sabha Speaker Vipin Parmar on Wednesday adjourned the house after members condoled the demise of Mandi MP Ram Swaroop Sharma.The proceedings for the day started with members across party lines expressing grief and shock on the death of two-time BJP Lok Sabha MP.Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur led the house in paying tributes to the departed soul.Also read: Ram Swaroop Sharma second Lok Sabha MP to die under mysterious circumstances in a monthMinisters and legislators remembered Sharma as a mild-mannered, humble leader who was dedicated to the party and served the people selflessly. The Speaker adjourned the house after obituaries.Sharma hailed from Johindernagar area of Mandi and was associated with the RSS right from his early days.State BJP President Suresh Kashyap said Sharma’s demise was a big loss to the party.Also read: Mandi BJP MP Ram Swaroop Sharma dies at 62; suicide suspectedHe said Sharma was a "great personality, down to earth and soft-spoken, who remained a grassroots level leader".He remained the state organisational secretary and two-time vice president of the state BJP.In the 2014 Lok Sabha elections, he fought from the Mandi Lok Sabha seat defeating Pratibha Singh, wife of former chief minister Virbhadra Singh. He again won for the second time in 2019 from the same seat.Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur said Sharma's death had left the party "shocked and shattered". He said Sharma’s biggest strength was his easy accessibility and humility. The CM said the MP held the record of winning by the highest ever margin of 4.05 lakh from the Mandi seat. He said the cause of the death would be known only after the post-mortem.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hp-assembly-adjourned-after-mp-ram-swaroop-sharmas-demise-226517
17-03-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Himachal's 3 pvt varsities face fine for non-compliance||Tribune News ServiceShimla, March 16Three private universities will be penalised for delay in compliance of ordered issued by the Himachal Pradesh Private Educational Institutions Regulatory Commission (HPPEIRC).THE TRIGGERThe Himachal Pradesh Private Educational Institutions Regulatory Commission had directed these institutes to pay salaries to 43 employees (not paid for almost a year) by March 16, refund security of over 300 students and give back Class XII original certificates to students.The universities were directed to pay salaries to 43 employees (not paid for almost a year) by March 16, refund security of over 300 students and give back Class XII original certificates to students but these had failed to comply with the orders, said Chairman, HPPEIRC, Maj Gen Atul Kaushik (Retd).20% faculty in 3 private Himachal universities ineligibleFollowing complaints that about 70 per cent of the private universities had deducted salaries of teaching and non-teaching employees during Covid, the commission on February 24 had directed these to immediately release their deducted salaries.In another case, an educational institute in Shimla had been directed to pay back the excess fee charged from the students, along with the charges of an advocate hired by them.Meanwhile, the management of 45 colleges, where the principals were found ineligible for the post, would represent their case before the commission on March 18, 19 and 20. The regulator had sought a clarification from the institutes, failing which it would recommend cancellations of the affiliations to the government and Himachal Pradesh University.The HPPIERC had received information from 70 colleges of which 61 were screened and 45 principals were found ineligible. Information from over 100 colleges is still awaited.It was also pointed out that several colleges were either running without approval of the affiliating university or technical education board. There were no regular principal, selection procedure was not followed, the approval of the affiliating university was awaited in some cases while submission of incomplete documents and appointment not as per university rules were other shortcomings.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachals-3-pvt-varsities-face-fine-for-non-compliance-226412
17-03-2021||---||National rights panel questions edu officials on RTE Act||Solan, March 16The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) today directed deputy directors of elementary and higher education to ensure implementation of Right to Education (RTE) in all private schools while reviewing its implementation in Solan today.Right to Free and Compulsory Education (RTE) Act, 2009, mandates a minimum of 25 per cent free seats for children belonging to economically weaker sections in all private unaided schools.Commission’s member Dr RG Anand also directed the officials to ensure that there were district level fee monitoring committees to monitor the school fee charged by the private schools.Notably, the officials of the Education Department apprised the commission officials that the implementation of the Act was being monitored only at places where there were no government schools. The officials were directed to ensure its implementation in all private schools. The commission member also directed the administration to ensure setting up of child outdoor patient department in hospitals to contain the spread of Covid pandemic.When quizzed on number of children rescued from child labour, the officials of the Labour Department stated that 10 children had been rescued in the last three years while the chairperson of child welfare commission informed that the number of children rescued by them was much more as 16 children had been rescued in the recent past only during the review meeting.The officials were also directed to hold monthly interaction with the children to gauge their problems.Commission member also stressed on ensuring that the Central and state governments ensured due support to the underprivileged children at the right time so that they could lead respectable lives. They also elaborated upon various initiatives of the Commission like toll free helpline number and operation Muskan to locate missing children among other initiatives.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/national-rights-panel-questions-edu-officials-on-rte-act-226413
17-03-2021||Dipender Manta||Covid norms thrown to winds at Shivratri fair in Himachal's Mandi||Tribune News ServiceMandi, March 16Even as the number of Covid-19 cases is on a steady rise in the state, no norms are being followed at the ongoing week-long Mandi Shivaratri fair, which will conclude on March 18.Auditorium packed to capacityA huge gathering was witnessed during a ‘shobha yatra’ of deities along with their followers from the Madho Rai temple to the Padal ground. There was no social distancing and devotees were not wearing face mask.Similar scenes were witnessed during a cultural evening at the Padal ground. Sources said the turnout of visitors was low on the first day on March 12, but the rush started increasing from the next day when Punjabi singer Gurnam Bhullar enthralled the audience.The auditorium was packed to capacity on the third day of the cultural evening on Sunday.Before the commencement of the fair, the number of active cases in the district had reduced to 13, but the count now stands at 27 (up to Sunday).Deputy Commissioner Rugved Thakur said it was not possible to ensure social distancing at such huge gatherings, but they were making all efforts to persuade visitors to wear mask.Superintendent of Police Shalini Agnihotri and the Deputy Commissioner urged the public to follow Covid guidelines and do not lower the guard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-norms-thrown-to-winds-at-shivratri-fair-in-himachals-mandi-226414
17-03-2021||Chamba||Medical camp organised for ex-servicemen||A health checkup of ex-servicemen and families of deceased soldiers was carried out at a free medical camp organised at the station headquarters under the Ex-Servicemen Contributory Health Scheme (ECHS) here today.   The camp was conducted by Colonel Rohit Sharma, Dr YD Sharma, Subedar Jitender Kumar and paramedical staff. Free medicines were also given to them.   On this occasion, Joint Director (Sainik Welfare) Ram Prasad gave information about government schemes being launched for the welfare of soldiers. He also addressed problems of ex-servicemen and assured to get them resolved.  — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/medical-camp-organised-for-ex-servicemen-226415
17-03-2021||Our Correspondent---||Five lakh tourists visited Atal Tunnel in 5 months||KULLU, MARCH 16 The strategically important 9.02 km Atal Tunnel, inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on October 3, 2020, is an attraction for tourists. The data from the Tourism Department reveal that around 5 lakh tourists have visited the tunnel. Kullu District Tourism Development Officer Krishan Chand said 4,07,036 tourists had visited the tunnel between December 2020 and January 2021.  Around 38,060 vehicles had been registered in the Green Tax barriers near Manali in January 2021 while 15,299 vehicles had entered manali in January 2020. The DTDO said 6,54,622 tourists had arrived in Manali from October to February. It is clear from the data, provided by the department, that since December, there has been a huge increase in the tourist count in Manali. An early snowfall in the valley and boredom, faced by the public due to the lockdown and restrictions, also attributed to the growth in the number of tourist arrival.   The tunnel has become a major tourist attraction and they are able to witness the pristine Lahaul valley. The south portal of the tunnel is located at Dhundi near Manali at 9,840 feet and north portal is located at Sissu in the Lahaul valley at 10,171 feet.   Kullu SP Gaurav Singh said over 1.5 lakh vehicles had crossed the tunnel since its inauguration. Special arrangements had been done for the security of the tunnel and the management of traffic.   Manali Hoteliers Association president Anup Ram Thakur said the tunnel would prove an attraction in the summer season as they would witness snow by crossing over to Lahaul.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/five-lakh-tourists-visited-atal-tunnel-in-5-months-226416
17-03-2021||Ravinder Sood||‘Vishranti’, a home for elderly, to come up in Palampur||Palampur, March 16‘Vishranti’ a home for the elderly, an ambitious project of the Vivekananda Medical Research Project (VMRT) will prove to a boon for senior citizens, who lack family support.Construction in final phaseIt is a dream project of Shanta Kumar, former MP and chairman of the VMRT. He said due to lack of job opportunities in Himachal Pradesh, doctors, engineers and management graduates had been forced to move out of the state, leaving behind their aged parents in isolation. Many such edlerly couples were suffering from diseases such as diabetes, blood pressure and depression, he said.Therefore he had planned to set up ‘Vishranti’ on the premises of the VMRT at an estimated cost of Rs 15 crore.The home will have medical clinic, mess, temple and kitchenettes.There will be an open area, where inmates can go for a walk.There will be provision to accommodate 64 couples. The construction of the project is in the final phase and trust is hopeful to commission it by June. The trust has yet not finalised the tariff. However, it will be a no profit, no loss venture of the VMRT.“The government has made a provision to debar children from the moveable and immoveable wealth of the parents if they fail to take care of them. However, the number of elderly couples, who are left unattended, has increased in the state,” said Shanta Kumar.He asserted that the state government should encourage other trusts to set up more such homes and the government should provide land and money to the NGOs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/vishranti-a-home-for-elderly-to-come-up-in-palampur-226417
17-03-2021||---||IPH Minister under fire for ‘biased approach’||Shimla, March 16Irrigation and Public Health (IPH) Minister Mahender Singh today came under fire as Congress legislators accused him of concentrating development funds in his own and chief minister’s constituencies while ignoring rest of the state.Mission for two segmentsThe Jal Jeevan Mission is not for the entire state but confined to the two assembly segments Dharampur, represented by the IPH Minister and Serja, the assembly segment of the CM. Almost 47 per cent of the total budget has been spent here. — Mukesh Agnihotri, CLP  leaderIt was during the cut motion on the IPH Department in the Vidhan Sabha today that the minister faced these allegations. It was Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Mukesh Agnihotri who launched a scathing attack on both the minister and Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur. “Replying to query about shortage of teachers in colleges and schools in Shillai assembly segment, Education Minister Govind Thakur informed that 4,000 posts of teaching and non-teaching would be filled. Besides this, posts of 500 teachers in the higher secondary schools will also be filled shortly, he added.“The Jal Jeevan Mission is not for the entire state but confined to the two assembly segments Dharampur, represented by the IPH Minister and Serja, the assembly segment of the CM. Almost 47 per cent of the total budget has been spent here,” alleged Agnihotri. He sought details of the schemes under the Jal Jeevan Mission and the tenders which had been floated without budgetary allocation. He also alleged that all the jobs under the mission had been given only to people from these two assembly segments.Asha Kumari said that the saying, “hum do hamare do” is totally apt for the Jal Jeevan Mission with the IPH Minister and CM being the only two beneficiaries. Ram Lal stressed the need for quality control in the works being undertaken by the IPH department.With the members refusing to take back the cut motion, the motion fell through voice vote.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/iph-minister-under-fire-for-biased-approach-226419
17-03-2021||Our Correspondent||35 nursing students test +ve in Una, Himachal||UNA, MARCH 16Thirtyfive girl students of Himcapes Nursing College tested Covid positive in the district today. They were staying in a hostel located at Badheda village of Haroli.Shut for five days119 cases in 24 hrsThe state reported 119 new cases of Covid and one death from Mandi district in the past 24 hours. The highest number of 54 cases was reported in Una, followed by Shimla (30) & Kangra (14).Six students staying in the hostel were found infected yesterday after which tests were conducted on the basis of contact tracing. Himcapes is being run by a cooperative and has separate wings for BSc Nursing and LLB courses.Deputy Commissioner Raghav Sharma said the institution would remain closed for five days and the hostel had been declared Covid Care Hospital where all health facilities were being provided.Meanwhile, CMO Dr Raman Kumar Sharma said swab samples of 107 more students from the college had been sent for examination.Till date, about 3,200 people had tested positive in the district, of which there had been 47 deaths.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/35-nursing-students-test-ve-in-una-himachal-226420
17-03-2021||---||Website of forestry project launched||Shimla, March 16Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur on Tuesday launched the website of the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) project — jicahpforestryproject.com — to facilitate access to activities being undertaken in the hill state.Thakur said the objective of the project was to manage and enhance the forest area while contributing to environmental and sustainable socio-economic development in the project area.He said that the project was contributing towards biodiversity conservation and improvement of ecosystem services with a specific focus on water resource conservation, prevention of soil erosion, and necessary support to establish sustainable alternative livelihoods for the local community.Thakur said the Rs 800-crore project was being implemented in six districts, Bilaspur, Shimla, Mandi, Kullu, Kinnaur and Lahaul-Spiti, and covered seven forest circles, 18 forest divisions and 61 forest ranges. The project would culminate in March 2028.Forest Minister Rakesh Pathania, Principal Chief Conservator of Forests Dr Savita, Chief Project Director Nagesh Guleria and other senior officials were present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/website-of-forestry-project-launched-226421
17-03-2021||Shimla||Will take up repatriation issue with MEA, says CM||Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur on Tuesday assured the House that he would take up the issue of the Una youth, whose last rites were performed in Saudi Arabia, with the External Affairs Ministry.He was replying to a Point of Order raised by Una legislator Satpal Raizada. The MLA said Sanjeev Kumar died in Saudi Arabia. Despite repeated pleas by his family, no arrangements were made to facilitate the return of his body to India. “What was even more painful for the family was that his last rites were performed as per Islamic traditions,” said Raizada. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/will-take-up-repatriation-issue-with-mea-says-cm-226422
17-03-2021||Our Correspondent---||5 mining check-posts set up in Una||Una, March 16 Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur e-inaugurated five mining check posts in Una district on Monday.  On his behalf, Industries and Mining Minister Bikram Thakur unveiled the plaques at Bathu village in Haroli in the presence of HPSIDC Vice-Chairman Ram Kumar. Chairman of the State Finance Commission Satpal Singh Satti was present with the Chief Minister in his office during the ceremony.  The check posts have been set up at the inter-state barriers at Bathari, Polian, Pandoga, Mehatpur and Gagret. There are 13 inter-state barriers in the district along Ropar, Hoshiarpur and Garhshankar in Punjab.  A sum of Rs 1 crore has been spent on the construction of the check posts, which are equipped with weighing machines to check overloading. An employee of the Mining Department each will be deputed at these posts to check documents pertaining to the sale of minor minerals such as sand, gravels and stones moving in and out of the state.  The Chief Minister said the government had initiated a number of steps, including the setting up of inter-state check posts,  to check illegal mining. He added that while the demand of construction materials for domestic purpose as well as for public infrastructure was increasing, mining needs to be done scientifically without disturbing the environment.  He said that 57 mining leases were sanctioned during the previous Congress government, which was the main reason for the sudden spurt in mining activities. He added that while illegal mining had flourished during the Congress rule, his government had put tabs on the illegal trade.  The government had decided to organise open auctions of minor mining material such as sand, gravels and stones and the process for issuing new mining leases had been simplified and made transparent through an on-line portal.  Besides, he said the penalty for illegal mining, transportation and storage of illegally mined material had been raised to Rs 5 lakh, and two years imprisonment or both.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/5-mining-check-posts-set-up-in-una-226423
17-03-2021||Mandi||Mandi MC poll:  Papers to be filed from March 22||District Election Officer, Mandi, Rugved Thakur on Tuesday said candidates could file nomination papers for the Municipal Corporation elections in the district from March 22 to 24.He said the model code of conduct had come into force. The nominations for wards 1 to 13 could be filed in the office of the Assistant Election Officer-cum-SDM, Sadar, and in the office of the Assistant Election Officer-cum-SDM, Balh, for wards 14 and 15.“The papers will be scrutinised on March 25. Candidates can withdraw their names till 3 pm on March 27. Thereafter, the poll symbol will be allocated to the candidates,” the election officer said.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mandi-mc-poll-papers-to-be-filed-from-march-22-226424
17-03-2021||Mandi||BJP nominees list may be out in two days||In the run-up to the Municipal Corporation elections due next month, the district BJP unit met here today to chalk out a strategy.  There are a total of 15 wards in the district for which the party had appointed in-charges to take feedback on prospective candidates.  Sources say the in-charges will soon submit their final report to the party high command and the candidates are likely to be announced in the next two days.  According to information, the media was not allowed at today’s meeting.  Since Mandi is the home district of Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, there is pressure on party workers to ensure the party’s victory in the MC polls. Ranveer Thakur, president of the district unit of the party, said the party high command was likely to declare candidates for Mandi district in the next two days. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bjp-nominees-list-may-be-out-in-two-days-226425
17-03-2021||---||Vision document to be drafted: BJP||Shimla, March 16A vision document will be drafted for the upcoming elections to the four MCs of Dharamsala, Palampur, Solan and Mandi with a motto to serve people, said state BJP president Suresh Kashyap here on Monday.“The responsibility has been given to 64 ward in-charges for the upcoming municipal corporation elections and the candidates for all 64 wards will be announced shortly,” he said.A virtual meeting with all 64 ward in-charges and Parliament in-charges was held here in the presence of in-charge of party affairs in the state Avinash Rai Khanna and co-incharge Sanjay Tandon, he added.The party would open an election office in the municipal area concerned and also ward offices, said Kashyap. Dissidence would be taken care of at all levels, as the party was serious about these elections, he added.Khanna said all workers would participate in these elections.He appealed to all workers that 100 per cent voters should be contacted door to door and ward meetings should be held.Tandon said that all morchas of the party should be on the forefront in all wards, as these elections would set the stage for the upcoming Assembly elections in 2022.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/vision-document-to-be-drafted-bjp-226426
17-03-2021||Palampur||Tree falls on six vehicles||An old tree fell on the Palampur-Baijnath highway, near ICICI Bank, this afternoon and damaged six vehicles parked on the roadside.  There were no occupants in the vehicles when the incident was reported. Vehicular  movement on the highway remained suspended for hours. Later, PWD and MC employees reached the spot and removed  the tree from the middle of the road.  There are a number of old and dead trees in the town that have been posing a threat to the lives of commuters. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/tree-falls-on-six-vehicles-226427
17-03-2021||---||Himachal gets 250  ventilators||Shimla, March 16  The state has received 250 more ventilators from the Central Government in addition to the 500 received last year amid the pandemic. “Covid is showing signs of resurgence in the state. So, it’s good to have these additional ventilators. One never knows how the situation will unfold in the coming days,” said Dr Ramesh Chand, State Nodal Officer and Deputy Director (procurement).  “Besides, we have other ample equipment like PPE kits and masks stocked up,” he said.  He said all 500 ventilators received earlier had been distributed to medical colleges, district and civil hospitals. “The new ones will be given wherever required, especially to the four makeshift Covid hospitals,” he said.  At the peak of the pandemic in the state, many medical professionals felt that the state did not have enough anesthetists and doctors who knew how to operate ventilators. “Medical professionals are being trained regularly at the IGMC and Tanda hospital to operate ventilators,” said Dr Chand. “It’s an extraordinary situation. It’s better to have ventilators than to not to have them.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-gets-250-ventilators-226428
17-03-2021||---||Appreciation letter for IGP||Shimla, March 16 Inspector General of Police and Principal of HP Police Training College, Daroh (Kangra district), Dr Atul Fulzele has been presented with an appreciation letter by the Director General, Bureau of Police Research and Development, Ministry of Home Affairs, New Delhi, VSK Kaumudi for authoring four books by the indoor training faculty and staff of HP PTC for RTC trainees and promotional courses, a spokesperson for the police department said here today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/appreciation-letter-for-igp-226429
17-03-2021||---||No death due to Covid jab in Himachal: Health Minister||Shimla, March 16Health and Family Welfare Minister Rajeev Saizal today informed the House that no death had taken place in the state due to Covid vaccine.He was replying to a query by Rakesh Singha, CPM legislator during Question Hour. “A total of 1,70,999 persons have been vaccinated till March 13 of which 1,02,093 given the first dose,” he said.One Anganwari worker died 22 days after receiving the vaccine. “It is only after the viscera report is received that the exact cause of the death will be known. So it cannot be termed a Covid-related death,” he said. He added the vaccine was being given as per the Centre guidelines.Members expressed reservations about the efficacy and sideeffects of the vaccine. The minister said the vaccine had 70 per cent success rate.Replying to a query by Sukhwinder Singh Sukhu, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur said land had been purchased for the construction of an 85-room guest house at Dwarka, close to the airport in Delhi.“A total of 3,197 sq mt land was bought in 2019 at Rs 20.90 crore,” said Thakur. He added that 2,000 sq mt land had also been bought at Kevaria in Gujarat as Prime Minister Narendra Modi wanted that guest houses of all states should be built near the Statue of Unity.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/no-death-due-to-covid-jab-in-himachal-health-minister-226430
17-03-2021||---||Bill to amend FRBM Act tabled in House||Shimla, March 15 Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, who also holds the Finance department, introduced the Himachal Pradesh Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management (Amendment) Bill, 2021 in the Vidhan Sabha yesterday.The Himachal Pradesh Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act was enacted in the year 2005. Listing the objectives of the amendmebnt in the Bill, the Chief Minister said the actual receipts of Central taxes declined during 2019-20 due to which share of the states also got affected. “The Government of India has allowed one-time special dispensation for additional borrowing to compensate states for lower devolution of Central taxes on February 26, 2020 subject to amendment in the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Laws,” he stated. He said in addition, the state of Himachal Pradesh received one time receipts from the Union Government on account of its share of Compensatory Afforestation Fund Management and Planning Authority (CAMPA) Fund credited in the public account, which is included in the public debt of the state. “To enable the state government to avail additional borrowing in public interest and to maintain the pace of development, the fiscal deficit could not be maintained at the level of 3 per cent of the estimated Gross State Domestic Product in the financial year 2019-20. Therefore, it has become necessary to amend the Himachal Pradesh Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act, 2005 suitably from January 1, 2020,” the CM said.Listing the Financial Memorandum of the Bill, Thakur said the provisions of the Bill, when enacted, shall be enforced through the existing government machinery. He said the state government has been able to borrow up to 2 per cent more than the present limit of fiscal deficit of 3 per cent of Gross State Domestic Product for the year 2019-20 which compensated it for loss of revenue of the State and helped to maintain the pace of development. The fiscal position of the state will be impacted accordingly, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bill-to-amend-frbm-act-tabled-in-house-226431
17-03-2021||The Distance Education Bureau (DEB)||UGC recognises 16 icdeol courses||Girls outnumber boys at NSS campGirls outnumbered boys at the National Service Scheme (NSS) camp at Government Post Graduate College in Hamirpur. As many as 90 students, including 70 girls and 20 boys, participated in the ten-day camp. These students participated in various activities, including land development and cleanliness, and were inculcating the habit of discipline, obedience and brotherhood among themselves during the 10-day NSS camp. Addressing the students, Block Development Officer Ashima Thakur said hard work in right direction was the only key to success. She said whatever students learnt during the camp should be adopted in life.Pahari video album releasedHimachal Pradesh University Vice-Chancellor Prof Sikander Kumar on Tuesday released a Pahari video album -- ApnaRiwaz -- composed by Madan Jhalta, a popular folk and Pahari singer. Praising the efforts by Jhalta, who is also a guest faculty in the Department of Music at the university and has completed many projects related to traditional folk and Pahari music, the VC said there is an urgent need to preserve the culture and the video album would help in understanding the core of traditional living, food, costume, folklore, customs and rituals of this hilly state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ugc-recognises-16-icdeol-courses-226465
17-03-2021||Leakage from a water supply pipeline on a pedestrian path near Arunoday School on Jail Road||Water leaking on to pedestrian path||No water in KuhlThe Ladoh Pronol Panchrukhi Kuhl was repaired and upgraded by IPH officials at an estimated cost of Rs1.5 crore. The kuhl has been concretised at a huge cost by the government. However, it is proving to be of no use to villagers of the area. These days, there is no water in the khul. The villagers of Panchrukhi area are not getting water to irrigate their fields. The government should order an inquiry into the construction of kuhl and ensure that irrigation water reaches the villagers.— Satish Sharma, PanchrukhiWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/water-leaking-on-to-pedestrian-path-226469
