18-03-2021||Rajiv Mahajan||Shepherds, livestock marooned in flooded mand area in Himachal rescued||Nurpur, March 18Over 400 sheep along with three shepherds, who were marooned in the Mand Myani area in Indora in Kangra district after the sudden release of water in Shah Nehar on Wednesday evening were rescued by NDRF team with the assistance of locals.The shepherds were grazing their sheep in green pasture in the mand area when suddenly the surrounding area got flooded and the pasture turned into an island. The marooned shepherds raised the alarm.The locals who initiated rescue informed the local administration and rescued one of the three marooned shepherds. Indora SDM Somil Gautam said he got information at 7 pm yesterday and informed the NDRF team at Nurpur.He said the administration had no prior information about the release of Shah Nehar water from the authorities concerned. “The NDRF team comprising 26 personnel along with locals started rescue operation at 10 pm and Shah Nehar authorities were asked to stop excess water release during the rescue work. After one-and-a-half hour, the NDRF team rescued two shepherds and suspended its operation in the night,” he said.The NDRF team resumed rescue operation early this morning and pressed six boats into service to save marooned livestock. All 403 sheep were successfully rescued after six-hour long operation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shepherds-livestock-marooned-in-flooded-mand-area-in-himachal-rescued-227084
18-03-2021||Mandi||Mandi MP Ram Swaroop Sharma cremated with state honours||Mandi MP Ram Swaroop Sharma was cremated on Thursday with state honours at a cremation ground at Machhiyal, four km away from his native village Jalpehar, under Jogindernagar assembly segment of Mandi district in Himachal Pradesh.He rose from a grassroot level worker and was a committed RSS worker.Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur along with other BJP leaders was present at the cremation ground to pay last respect to the deceased MP.Huge crowd of people assembled at the cremation ground.He was found hanging from the ceiling of his official residence at North Avenue in Delhi on Wednesday. No suicide note was, however, found from the spot.He was a two-time MP from Mandi parliamentary constituency. He was elected as MP for the first time in 2014 and second time in 2019.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mandi-mp-ram-swaroop-sharma-cremated-with-state-honours-227019
18-03-2021||New Delhi||BJP’s Mandi MP Ram Swaroop Sharma found dead at Delhi residence||BJP’s two-time MP from Mandi Ram Swaroop Sharma was found hanging from the ceiling of his official residence at North Avenue here this morning. No suicide note was, however, found from the spot.Sharma (62) was taken to a local government hospital where he was declared dead.No suicide noteSharma was first elected to the 16th Lok Sabha and then re-elected on the BJP ticket from the same segment in the 2019 General Election. He was hailed as a giant killer for defeating then Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh’s wife Pratibha Singh in 2014.The police said prima facie it was a case of death by suicide, but the exact cause of death would only be known after a thorough investigation.Meanwhile, the Lok Sabha proceedings were adjourned till 1 pm after an obituary reference to Ram Swaroop Sharma. The BJP cancelled its parliamentary party meeting and postponed a joining at the party headquarters.Sharma is the second Lok Sabha member to die under mysterious circumstances in less than a month.Dadra and Nagar Haveli MP Mohan Delkar, a seven-term Lok Sabha member, was found hanging in a Mumbai hotel on February 22.PM Modi has expressed grief at the death of Sharma and former minister Dilip Gandhi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bjps-mandi-mp-ram-swaroop-sharma-found-dead-at-delhi-residence-226675
18-03-2021||---||Himachal plans curbs on visitors from Punjab||Shimla, March 17Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today said he would take up the issue of maintaining vigil on the inter-state border with his counterpart Capt Amarinder Singh in view of the rising Covid cases in Punjab.Talking to mediapersons here, Thakur said he would speak to his Punjab counterpart so that there was some check on people from Punjab, who entered Himachal, especially pilgrims. He said SOPs would be strictly followed during the celebration of fairs and other events.“The government is also keeping an eye on the situation and steps are being taken accordingly,” he said. The possibility of Himachal imposing curbs could not be ruled out as most pilgrims visiting the shrines come from Punjab. The Cabinet at its meeting on March 19 could take a call on it.Over 1.78 lakh people inoculatedThe CM said the Prime Minister had asked all states to increase testing and ensure the strict implementation of SOPs. “Over 1.78 lakh people have been given vaccine, which was about 2.60 per cent of the population,” he said. Its wastage in the state was the lowest in the country at a mere 1.6 per cent.Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan made a presentation on Covid cases. He said about 3.51 crore people had been administered the vaccine in the country.Health Minister Rajiv Saizal, Chief Secretary Anil Khachi and Secretary, Health, Amitabh Awasthi were present.Covid case tally crosses 60K-markWith 167 positive cases, the Covid tally crossed 60,000-mark in the state on Wednesday. The fatality figure however remained 998 with no death in the last 24 hours. The number of active cases has also shot up to 935 with the continuous surge in number of cases over the last one week||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-plans-curbs-on-visitors-from-punjab-226622
18-03-2021||Subhash Rajta||Iranian apple ‘smuggling’ worries local growers||Tribune News ServiceShimla, March 17Apple growers of Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir and Uttarakhand have joined hands to fight the alleged smuggling of Iranian apple into Indian markets. “Iranian apple is being brought into India through Afghanistan without paying import duty. Not only the Union Government is losing import duty but also local apple growers are being adversely affected,” said Harish Chauhan, president of the Fruits, Vegetables and Flowers Growers Association of Himachal Pradesh.The apple growers from these three states met in Srinagar a few days ago and formed the Hill State Horticulture Forum to raise their concerns against the ‘dumping’ of Iranian fruit. “We have decided to come on a platform to fight this threat. Along with the apple growers, small CA store owners, arhtiyas and other stakeholders in the apple business, too, will be roped in. We will raise the matter with the Central Government as well as our state governments,” said Chauhan.Being brought without paying import dutyIranian apple is being brought into India through Afghanistan without paying import duty. Not only the Union Government is losing import duty but also local apple growers are being adversely affected. —Harish Chauhan, State fruits, vegetables & flowers growers association prezAccording to the apple growers, the Afghanistan route is being used to bring in Iranian apple because there’s no import duty on trade between countries falling in the South Asian Free Trade Area, namely India, Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Maldives, Pakistan, Nepal and Sri Lanka. “Using this route, the Iranian apple is reaching Delhi at the cost of Rs 40 to Rs 50 kg. It’s impossible for our growers to compete at this rate, given the high cost of apple production in our states,” said Praveen Sharma, an apple grower from Uttarakhand.“Besides, what if China, too, starts dumping its apple in our markets through Nepal and Sri Lanka? If this happens, our apple industry will be destroyed. So, we have come together to raise the issue and put an end to this illegal practice,” said Sharma. He added that this practice, if left unchecked, would discourage apple growers from planting new orchards.The apple growers got the wind of this ‘illegal’ trade when imports from Afghanistan started increasing significantly over the past few years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/iranian-apple-smuggling-worries-local-growers-226623
18-03-2021||Shimla||Swiss entrepreneurs can invest in tourism, IT: Himachal CM||Switzerland and Himachal share almost identical geographical conditions and climate thereby providing ample opportunities for the Swiss entrepreneurs to invest in sectors such as tourism, winter sports and information technology, said Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur while interacting with Ambassador of Switzerland to India Dr Ralf Heckner, who called on the Chief Minister here today.He said the state government had taken several initiatives to facilitate the entrepreneurs willing to invest in the state and considerable improvement has been made in ‘Ease of Doing Business’. The state also has good ecosystem and investor- friendly environment for the potential entrepreneurs and the government was also investing on creating infrastructure to facilitate the entrepreneurs, he added.Thakur said the salubrious climatic conditions and serene environment also attract scores of tourists round the year. Efforts were being made to get a bulk drug park for the state, which would provide international facilities to the players of pharma sector, he added.The Chief Minister said the government has also urged the Centre to construct a Greenfield Airport at Mandi which would provide better air connectivity to the investors, tourists and general public. He said the hydro power was yet another sector which has potential to attract foreign investment. The government was contemplating harnessing about another 10 thousand MW in the next few years.He said the state government has also decided to set up a hospitality hub near Waknaghat in Solan district which would give boost to the efforts of the government in tourism sector.Dr Heckner said that Switzerland was the 12th biggest investor in India and has over 300 Swiss companies working in India. He said that similarly 100 Indian companies were also working in Switzerland. Himachal Pradesh was an ideal place for investment in tourism, hospitality, health, mechanical tools and allied sectors. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/swiss-entrepreneurs-can-invest-in-tourism-it-himachal-cm-226624
18-03-2021||Shimla||House adjourned after paying tributes to Mandi MP Ram Swaroop Sharma||Himachal Pradesh Vidhan Sabha was today adjourned after members paid condolences on the demise of two-time MP from Mandi Lok Sabha seat Ram Swaroop Sharma. The proceedings for the day started with Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur expressing grief at the demise of Sharma in the Vidhan Sabha.“There is utter disbelief at the unfortunate demise of Sharma which had left the party shocked and shattered,” said Thakur. He said Sharma’s biggest strengths were his easy accessibility and humility. The Chief Minister said the MP held the record of winning by the highest-ever margin of 4.05 lakh from the Mandi Lok Sabha seat by any candidate. He said the cause of the death would be known only after the post-mortem.The Chief Minister said Sharma had also remained vice chairman of State Civil Supplies Corporation and contested the Lok Sabha poll for the first time in 2014, where he defeated Pratibha Singh, wife of former Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh. Later in 2019, he repeated the feat by winning the Mandi seat by a record margin, he added.Offering condolences to the bereaved family, Leader of Opposition Mukesh Agnihotri said the death of the MP had sent shock waves across the state. He said Sharma was a very polite and soft-spoken man. Ministers and legislators, cutting across party lines, expressed grief and shock on the death of the Lok Sabha MP. The Speaker adjourned the house after obituaries. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/house-adjourned-after-paying-tributes-to-mandi-mp-ram-swaroop-sharma-226625
18-03-2021||---||Governor condoles death of Ram Swaroop Sharma||Shimla, March 17Governor Bandaru Dattatreya has expressed grief over the demise of Member of Parliament Ram Swaroop Sharma. The Governor in his condolence message said his demise was a great loss and his contribution to society would always be remembered. He prayed for peace to the departed soul and expressed sympathies with the bereaved family members.State BJP president Suresh Kashyap said it was a big loss to the party. He said Sharma was a great personality, down to earth and soft spoken.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/governor-condoles-death-of-ram-swaroop-sharma-226626
18-03-2021||Mandi||Shock in Mandi over MP’s demise||The sudden demise of Ram Swaroop Sharma, BJP MP from Mandi parliamentary constituency, has sent shock waves in his home constituency Mandi from where he was elected MP twice.  Sharma was found dead at his residence in Delhi today. He is survived by his wife and three sons.  Sharma’s family members are in utter disbelief. His son Aanand Swaroop Sharma said, “I cannot believe that my father has left for the heavenly abode. Yesterday, he conversed with my mother and elder brother and he was fine.” Aanand ruled out any symptoms of depression in his father. He said, “My father was suffering from heart disease and he was taking precautions for it. About rumours that my father has committed suicide, I am not sure about it. We are waiting for the post-mortem examination report.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shock-in-mandi-over-mps-demise-226627
18-03-2021||Our Correspondent||Tanda Medical College victim of govt apathy: Kewal Singh Pathania||NURPUR, MARCH 17Himachal Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) general secretary Kewal Singh Pathania has alleged that the Jai Ram Thakur government was giving step-motherly treatment to the biggest Kangra district of the state.He was addressing a gathering at Lapiana near Nagrota Surian in Kangra district on Wednesday where party workers organized a ‘Samman Samaroh’ on his appointment as in charge of front organization of the Congress ‘Rajiv Gandhi Panchayati Raj’ for Punjab and Uttarakhand.Lashing out at the state government, he said the Tanda Medical College (TMC) in the district was a victim of government apathy where most of the super specialists had resigned and joined some other places. Major medical tests like angiography, MRI and CT scan had been stopped at the hospital. “Instead of strengthening the TMC that has been catering to at least four neigbhouring districts, the government has made it a referral hospital,” he lamented.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/tanda-medical-college-victim-of-govt-apathy-kewal-singh-pathania-226628
18-03-2021||NURPUR||HRTC driver dies in mishap||A speeding truck hit a pedestrian at the Kandwal inter-state barrier near here today, killing him on the spot.  As per police information, the deceased Karam Singh (53) of Tihal in Jawali was a driver in the HRTC. He was going towards Kandwal. A truck (PB11BU 1539) going towards the direction hit him.  The locals rushed him to the Nurpur Civil Hospital where he was declared brought dead. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hrtc-driver-dies-in-mishap-226629
18-03-2021||---||Kangra DC meets agitating CUHP students||Dharamsala, March 17The Kangra district administration on Wednesday tried to broker peace between the agitating activists of the ABVP wing of CUHP students and the administration of the institute.The ABVP activists of Central University of Himachal Pradesh (CUHP) have been sitting on dharna at the headquarters of the institute for the past three weeks. The academic and general administrative work of CUHP has been hit due to the agitation.Today, Rakesh Prajapati, Deputy Commissioner, Kangra, and Vimukt Ranjan, SP, Kangra, went to the Dharamsala campus of CUHP and separately held meetings with students and officials.Rakesh Prajapati told The Tribune that they decided to intervene as there was a deadlock between students and officials of the university. Some of the demands of students were genuine. There was an acute shortage of space for classes and laboratories on CUHP campus.We have decided to form a committee of the university and district officials which would look for additional accommodation for CUHP around Dharamsala and Dehra campus. Some rooms at the temporary campus of CUHP at Dharamsala have been occupied by EVMs. We have decided to shift the EVMs so that rooms could be vacated for CUHP’s use, the Deputy Commissioner said.He further said that other demands of the students of CUHP would also be taken up with the state government.Sources said that a case registered against ABVP activists after they protested outside the residence of the Registrar was the basic bone of contention between the students and university administration. The officials of the district administration would try to strike a compromise between the students and university administration so that the case could be withdrawn.The students are continuing their agitation despite the intervention by the district administration.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kangra-dc-meets-agitating-cuhp-students-226630
18-03-2021||---||Baddi consultant raided in embezzlement case||Solan, March 17 A CBI team today raided the premises of a Baddi-based consultant who had provided consultancy to a multi-national company involved in evading excise duty worth Rs 580 crore.  The CBI had registered a case in 2017 against a confectionary giant to probe allegations of bribing public servants to evade Rs 580 crore in excise duty. The probe had been initiated on the recommendation of the Central Vigilance Commission and involves a ‘ghost’ production unit in Baddi. The issue of inappropriate payments made to public servants to expedite or to get some benefits was being probed by the Central agency.  The local consultant’s office as well as residence were raided at Baddi and Nalagarh confirmed DSP Baddi, Navdeep Singh.  The CBI team seized some documents and electronic evidence pertaining to the case in the day-long raid at the house and the residence of the said BJP’s leader.  The company had allegedly misused area-based exemption for its new unit at Baddi in 2009. The case has once again brought the role of the local regulatory officials under the scanner in this multi-crore financial scam.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/baddi-consultant-raided-in-embezzlement-case-226631
18-03-2021||Shimla||Property tax notices to 1K in Shimla||The Shimla Municipal Corporation has issued property tax notices worth Rs 8 crore to 1,000 defaulters in the city.  According to an MC official, the major tax liability of around Rs 5 crore was on the ISBT, Shimla. The other defaulters were the CPWD and hotels. “We have sent notices to the defaulters owing more than Rs 5,000. Hotels have been given a big rebate in property tax for six months when these were closed. So, our estimated property tax collection for the financial year is around Rs 14 crore,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/property-tax-notices-to-1k-in-shimla-226632
18-03-2021||Mandi||‘Make Mandi children-friendly district’||Dr RG Anand, member of the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights, called upon officials to work to make it a children-friendly district. Dr Anand was presiding over a review meeting on the rights of children with officers here today. He reviewed the works being done for their welfare, right to education, child labour and health-related works. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/make-mandi-children-friendly-district-226633
18-03-2021||Our Correspondent||College staff protest New Pension Scheme||Nurpur, March 17Led by the Himachal Government College Teachers’ Association (HGCTA), state senior vice-president Sanjay Jasrotia, teaching and non-teaching faculty of the local Arya Government College held a protest demonstration on Wednesday at the college campus against the new pension scheme (NPS).The protestors wearing black badges raised slogans against scrapping of the NPS and restoration of the old pension scheme (OPS).While addressing protestors, Jasrotia said the NPS was anti-employees as they had to face its repercussions after their retirement. He said it was also against the spirit of the democracy as the employees who got government job after 2003 were being exploited financially.On the occasion he also raised the longstanding demands of filling up the vacant 600 posts of college lecturers, to reduce contract period from three to two years, implement new pay commission and restore pay increments of MPhil and PhD college professors.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/college-staff-protest-new-pension-scheme-226634
18-03-2021||Shimla||CITU holds protest, slams govt’s “anti-labourers” policies||The Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU), Himachal Pradesh, held a protest outside the Vidhan Sabha against the “anti-labourers” policies of the state and Central governments here today. Workers and labourers from across the state participated in the protest. A six-member delegation of the protesters met CM Jai Thakur and Labour and Employment Minister Bikram Thakur to hand over a 12-point memorandum.The speakers, which included former CITU HP president Rakesh Singha, national secretary Kashmir Thakur, state president Vijender Mehra came down heavily on the policies of the state and the Central government and warned that if the anti-farmer and anti-labourer laws were not repealed, they will intensify the agitation further.The speakers slammed the Centre for abolishing labour laws and framing of labour codes instead, which they claimed were totally against the labourers. The protesters demanded that minimum wages be fixed at Rs 21,000 per month, working hours be reduced back from 12 to eight hours and an end to employment on part time, contract, outsource, etc. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/citu-holds-protest-slams-govts-anti-labourers-policies-226635
18-03-2021||---||Staff crunch: Mandi zonal hospital loses 4 DNB seats||Mandi, March 17 Zonal hospital, Mandi, has lost four seats of Diplomate of National Board (DNB) due to lack of adequate teaching staff for the purpose. As a result, four students, who were studying at zonal hospital, Mandi, have been relocated to other health institutions. The onus goes to the government and the higher authorities of the Health Department who failed to recruit consultants for the students in time at zonal hospital, Mandi, despite repeated requests by the zonal hospital authorities. DNB is a three-year programme among the simplest postgraduate or post-doctoral equivalent programmes practised in medicine. According to the hospital authorities, four students were enrolled under DNB there for which there was a requirement of two consultants for teaching purpose. In the past few months, there was only one consultant to teach these students. DS Verma, Medical Superintendent of the zonal hospital, told The Tribune that “due to lack of adequate teaching staff for DNB students, these students have been relocated to other medical colleges on the demand of students.” “We had written to the higher authorities of the Health Department in the state as well as the state government to depute one consultant but it did not happen. One consultant was posted on February 10, while on February 12, he was shifted to regional hospital Kullu. This agitated the DNB students,” he remarked. “Finally, these students decided to move to other health institutions by saying that it was a matter of their career,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/staff-crunch-mandi-zonal-hospital-loses-4-dnb-seats-226636
18-03-2021||---||AICC secy Raghubir Singh Bali gets rousing welcome in Kangra||Dharamsala, March 17Raghubir Singh Bali, Congress leader from Kangra, who has been appointed as AICC secretary and co-in-charge for the West Bengal elections, received a rousing welcome from his supporters today.Bali, who is the son of former Congress minister GS Bali, arrived in Kangra for the first time since his appointment in the AICC.He was welcomed by supporters to Nagrota Bagwan where he also held a rally.Addressing the rally, Bali said the Congress would come back to power in the 2022 Assembly elections. The people had realised their mistake of electing the BJP government in the state. There had hardly been any development. The government was increasing the financial burden on the state by borrowing money to run its day-to-day affairs. It would be for the first time since the formation of the state that the borrowing limit had reached about 5 per cent of the GSDP, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/aicc-secy-raghubir-singh-bali-gets-rousing-welcome-in-kangra-226637
18-03-2021||Solan||Rs 10K reward for identifying severed head||The Baddi police have announced a reward of Rs 10,000 for identifying a blood-soaked severed head recovered on Monday from Billanwali village in the Baddi industrial area.  Baddi SP Rohit Malpani said the locals had failed to identify the severed head which was recovered from garbage at Billanwali village by a passersby. It was sent for a post-mortem to IGMC, Shimla. A police probe is underway to trace the remaining body and it seems that an attempt was made to dispose the body by cutting it into parts. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rs-10k-reward-for-identifying-severed-head-226638
18-03-2021||---||Dept recovers Rs 362 cr under Legacy Cases Resolution Scheme||Shimla, March 17The Excise and Taxation Department has recovered Rs 362 crore under the Chief Minister’s Legacy Cases Resolution Scheme till today. The recovery under the scheme has increased from Rs 1 crore in July 2020 to highest-ever collection of Rs 174 crore in March 2021.The total expected recovery under the scheme is equal to one-month GST collections of the state. The highest recoveries were recorded in Solan and BBN Baddi revenue districts, said Commissioner, Excise and Taxation, Rohan Chand Thakur.This scheme was introduced to settle the pending legacy cases of all subsumed laws and recover the arrears. Many of settled cases were under dispute for over a decade and were involving huge litigation cost in respect to time as well as revenue for the state and taxpayers.Under the scheme, settlement fee in lieu of interest and penalties, was limited to 10 per cent over and above the principal amount and in January 2021, the scheme was extended up to March 21, 2021, he said.He added that settling of legacy issues under the scheme had saved the time as well as litigation cost of the department.The factors behind the success of the scheme were strategising of focus arrears and awareness creation among taxpayers about the benefit under the scheme.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/dept-recovers-rs-362-cr-under-legacy-cases-resolution-scheme-226639
18-03-2021||EVEN as the number of Covid cases is on the rise in the state||Tourists flout Covid norms||Acute water scarcityRESIDENTS of Bhalar gram panchayat in Jawali sub-division have been facing acute piped water scarcity since long. The Jal Shakti Department has failed to provide regular water supply in this rural area. Residents get the supply for 30 minutes after a gap of one week, which has made their lives miserable. The authorities concerned should ensure regular water supply in the area before peak summer season for the ease of residents. — Pankaj Kumar, BhalarWHAT OUR READERS SAYIs a civic issue bothering you?Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?THE TRIBUNEinvites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/tourists-flout-covid-norms-226640
18-03-2021||The Yogananda Centre for Theology||Webinar on science of spirituality in Shoolini University||Evaluation postponedEvaluation process for political science lecturer, which was earlier scheduled for March 22, has been postponed due to administrative reasons. It will now be held on April 20. Rest of the evaluation schedule and terms and condition shall remain unchanged. For more details, visit http://www.hppsc.hp.gov.in//hppsc or contact on telephone No. 0177-2624313.Seminar on SanskritHPU's Department of Sanskrit has organised a two-day national seminar. HPU VC Sikandar Kumar, while speaking on the occasion, said Sanskrit was the repository of knowledge and science. Main speaker on the occasion, Padam Shri Abhiraj Rajender Mishra, said the Vedas were the basis of all knowledge and Sanskrit was the main pillar of modern science.SEBI webinar on DERIVATIVESA knowledge-sharing regional webinar on commodity derivatives was organised by the Securities Exchange Board of India (SEBI) and Multi-Commodity Exchange in collaboration with Shoolini University. Vice-Chancellor Atul Khosla shared his views on importance of the securities market. Veena Kumari, Manager, SEBI-NRO, explained the importance of SEBI’s investor, SCORES investor grievance portal and other new initiatives. The MCX expert, Vinit Singh Kaler, Sr Manager - Training and Education, Multi Commodity Exchange of India Ltd talked about commodity derivatives, the importance of hedging, and explained the concepts related to commodity derivatives.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/webinar-on-science-of-spirituality-in-shoolini-university-226644
18-03-2021||Mandi||Mandi BJP MP Ram Swaroop Sharma dies at 62; suicide suspected||BJP MP from Mandi in Himachal Pradesh Ram Swaroop Sharma was found hanging from the ceiling in his official residence in New Delhi on Wednesday, police said.Delhi Police PRO Chinmoy Biswal said his body was found hanging from a ceiling fan. He was taken to a hospital where doctors pronounced him dead on arrival.Sharma was allegedly suffering from severe depression and was under treatment for the last six months. He was alone at his house in Delhi as his wife was on the Char Dhaam pilgrimage. Sharma's personal security officer was in Mandi.  Also read: HP Assembly adjourned after MP Ram Swaroop Sharma’s demisePrima facie, it appears to be a case of suicide, the police said, adding that no suicide note was found from the spot.An inquiry is underway and the exact cause of his death will be ascertained after a post-mortem examination, the police said.According to the police, a call was made to the Police Control Room (PCR) around 7.45 am by his aide after the parliamentarian did not respond to knocks on his door.Also read: Ram Swaroop Sharma second Lok Sabha MP to die under mysterious circumstances in a monthA police team reached the spot and forced open the door and found Sharma handing from a ceiling fan. BJP cancelled its scheduled parliamentary party meeting in the wake of Sharma's death. Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla informed the House about the demise of Sharma. Making the announcement, a grim Birla made obituary reference and adjourned the House till 1 pm.Born at Jalpehar village in Mandi district on June 10, 1958, Sharma was a two-time MP.He was elected to the 16th and 17th Lok Sabha from Mandi parliamentary constituency in 2014 and 2019 respectively.Sharma was currently a Member of the Standing Committee on External Affairs and the Consultative Committee, Ministry of External Affairs.He is survived by his wife and three sons. —with PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mandi-bjp-mp-ram-swaroop-sharma-dies-at-62-suicide-suspected-226490
18-03-2021||Shimla||Hindu man hailing from Himachal wrongly buried in Saudi Arabia; CM to take up matter with Centre||A Himachal Pradesh Congress MLA on Tuesday raised the issue of the mortal remains of a Hindu man hailing from the state being wrongly buried in Saudi Arabia as per Muslim custom, following which Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur said in the Assembly that he would take up the matter with the Ministry of External Affairs.Thakur extended condolences to the man's family and regretted his burial which is against his religious custom.The chief minister also said the state government would explore options to bring back his mortal remains.Una MLA Satpal Singh Raizada alleged the family of the man took up the matter at various levels but to no avail, and demanded a probe into it.According to the Congress legislator, Una-resident Sanjeev Kumar died due to cardiac arrest on January 24 in Saudi Arabia where he had been working for three years.After his family was informed about his death by a co-worker on January 25, they sought help from the Una Deputy Commissioner and Union Minister of State for Finance and Corporate Affairs Anurag Thakur, the MLA said.Subsequently, the family also approached the Indian Embassy for bringing his body back to India but didn't get any response, he added.However, on February 17, his family got to know that his body has been buried in Saudi Arabia.The man's wife has also approached the Delhi High Court seeking direction to the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) to take steps to urgently exhume the remains and repatriate them to India in a time-bound manner.According to the petition, officials in Indian Consulate explained to the family that the burial was conducted "due to a mistake committed by the official translator of Indian Consulate, Jeddah, who wrongly mentioned his religion as ‘Muslim' in the death certificate".The court said the case was "unfortunate" and directed the MEA officer concerned to appear before it on the next date of hearing on March 18 to apprise it about the update on steps taken and status on transportation of mortal remains of the deceased. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hindu-man-hailing-from-himachal-wrongly-buried-in-saudi-arabia-cm-to-take-up-matter-with-centre-226481
