20-03-2021||Shimla||HP Assembly passes Bill giving honorarium to people jailed during Emergency||The Himachal Pradesh Assembly on Saturday passed a Bill giving honorarium to people from the state who were imprisoned for social or political reasons during the National Emergency imposed in 1975.Eighty-one beneficiaries, called “Loktantra Prahris”, have so far been identified and they will be given Rs 8,000 in case of imprisonment up to 15 days. Those who spent over 15 days will be given Rs 12,000, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur said introducing the Himachal Pradesh Loktantra Prahri Samman Bill, 2021.  The CM said during the Emergency period from June 25, 1975 to March 21, 1977, several people fought for the protection of the fundamental rights and safeguarding the democracy.The state government has decided to give an honorarium to those who actively participated in the protection of democracy and went to jails. Spouses of the deceased “Loktantra Prahris” will also be eligible for the honorarium, he added. Thakur said a committee will be constituted to consider the claims of the applicants. A person who has been punished by a court on charges of moral turpitude will be ineligible for the honorarium, he said. During a discussion on the Bill, Congress MLA Sukhvinder Singh Sukhu suggested that people who were imprisoned during the Emergency for vandalism should not be given the honorarium.Sukhu demanded that the term “Loktantra Prahri” should be changed as it is a wider term which also includes people such as RTI activists and journalists.He also alleged that only people associated with the BJP will be given the honorarium. Thakur replied that the BJP was not in existence in 1975 and people from various ideological backgrounds, including journalists, who raised their voice against it will be given the honorarium, if eligible.During the period of the Emergency, democracy in our country was crushed, he said, adding that several states such as Rajasthan, Chattisgarh, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Maharashtra have enacted similar laws to honour those who spoke up against it. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hp-assembly-passes-bill-giving-honorarium-to-people-jailed-during-emergency-228098
20-03-2021||Shimla||Congress MLA urges Speaker to fine Himachal Chief Minister for not wearing mask in Assembly||A Himachal Pradesh Congress legislator on Saturday requested Speaker Vipin Singh Parmar to impose a fine of Rs 5,000 on Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur for not wearing a mask in the Assembly.On the last day of the Budget Session, Shillai MLA Harshwardhan Chauhan stated that a strong message of wearing masks to check the spread of COVID-19 should go to the public from this House. When Chauhan made the demand, the speaker himself was without a mask.         A member from the treasury benches stated that the Congress legislator himself did not wear the mask properly. To this, Chauhan stated he wore the mask but pulled it down to his chin so as to speak.The entire matter ended in laughter.Earlier, Leader of the Opposition Mukesh Agnihotri stated that a fine of Rs 5,000 had recently been announced against those who did not wear masks in Una district.                  The fine of Rs 5,000 cannot be justified, he said and demanded that the amount should be reduced and a decision on the matter should be taken at the state level.Replying to Agnihotri, Chief Minister Thakur said that a fresh coronavirus wave is spreading in the country as well as in Himachal Pradesh, necessitating strict adherence to guidelines, including wearing of masks.Acknowledging that the fine is heavy, Thakur said it ensures the public adhere to the direction of wearing masks. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/congress-mla-urges-speaker-to-fine-himachal-chief-minister-for-not-wearing-mask-in-assembly-228052
20-03-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||Himachal: Melting glaciers, rising temp could spell doom, says Minister||Tribune News ServiceShimla, March 19With 19 per cent reduction in glaciers and rise of 1.6 degree Celsius in temperatures over the last five years, Himachal could be ravaged by Uttarakhand like catastrophe in the coming years.This apprehension was expressed by none other than by Irrigation and Public Health (IPH) Minister Mahender Singh in the Vidhan Sabha today. The issue was raised by BJP legislator Ramesh Dhawala as Private Member resolution in the Assembly.“I admit that there has been too much tinkering with nature which could spell doom for us. In case the melting of glaciers continues at the same pace, the day is not far when we too could face disasters like Uttarakhand,” he said. While the temperatures at the national level had risen by 0.86 deg Celsius, in Himachal there had been a rise of 1.6 degrees Celsius in the last five years, which was a cause of major concern.Beas, Sutlej ‘reduced to nullahs’With the threat of a major water scarcity in the coming days looming large, a multi-pronged strategy, including boring tube wells and hand pumps, will be adopted. “I am of the firm opinion that we will have to take steps to recharge ground water and undertake snow harvesting as only these timely interventions can help address the problem of water scarcity,” he opined.“A meeting of IPH officials from all over the state has been convened on March 23 to assess the situation and look for solutions so that a master plan can be prepared to tackle water scarcity threat,” the minister stated. He said the schemes would be inter-linked so that water can be supplied from a surplus scheme to another by laying pipes, which can be pour to use even later.“Seeing the various water sources and nullahs already drying up, we apprehend that the water shortage will not just affect drinking water schemes but also irrigation,” he stated. He added that permission will be given this year to bore tube wells and hand pumps, though a ban had been imposed in view of the falling ground water level.The minister said directions had been issued to complete 300-400 small drinking water schemes on priority to meet the scarcity. He announced that 155 rainwater harvesting structures would be made to tackle the drought like situation that is being apprehended.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-melting-glaciers-rising-temp-could-spell-doom-says-minister-227878
20-03-2021||---||Inquiry into Ram Swaroop’s death if family wants: Chief Minister||Shimla, March 19Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today said an inquiry into the death of Mandi MP Ram Swaroop would be ordered only if his family wishes so and requested everyone to not show haste and wait for the investigation by Delhi police to get over.Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Mukesh Agnihotri today raised the demand for a CBI inquiry into the death of the MP in the Vidhan Sabha. “The state and its people have a right to know how such a respected and mature leader can commit suicide. It is only an inquiry which can reveal the real cause of the death,” he demanded.The BJP legislature party met today to condole the death of Ram Swaroop. A two-minute silence was observed as a mark of respect to the departed soul.The Chief Minister said the death took place in Delhi where a case is registered. “I am of the opinion that we should not show haste and jump to conclusion. Let the Delhi police complete its investigation and in case the family desires, the government is open to ordering an inquiry into his death”, he added.Wrong to make assumptionsIn the recent past he had lost a lot of weight and had also stayed at Kayakalp Naturopathy Centre in Palampur. So it will be wrong to make assumptions. —Jai Ram Thakur, Chief MinisterThe Chief Minister said the family had revealed that Ram Swaroop was battling health issues like a prostate growth for which he was planning treatment. “In the recent past he had lost a lot of weight and had also stayed at Kayakalp Naturopathy Centre in Palampur so it will be wrong to make assumptions,” he said.“The entire party is in a state of shock and the family is still trying to come to terms with the unfortunate incident where such a respected and dedicated leader died,” said Thakur.“The Mandi MP was a very respected and loved leader and the manner in which he has died is very unfortunate. We too are very saddened by his demise so there is no question of playing politics,” said Agnihotri. He, however, added that being a representative of 17.50 lakh people, his death has left many unanswered questions, which need to be probed.The CLP leader said no suicide note had been found. Moreover, he got the Covid vaccine four days before, which clearly points that he had the desire to live. He said it is only a proper inquiry by the CBI which will clarify the situation and put an end to all speculation.Earlier in the absence of the Chief Minister, Urban Development Minister Suresh Bhardwaj also said that the government was not averse to an inquiry if the family felt so.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/inquiry-into-ram-swaroops-death-if-family-wants-chief-minister-227879
20-03-2021||---||Covid surge on, Himachal Govt to impose curbs on events||Shimla, March 19The state government is likely to impose curbs on social, cultural and political functions including fairs in view of rise in Covid cases across the state.The decision was taken by the Cabinet at its meeting held here today under the chairmanship of Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur. However, the exact details of the curbs will be known tomorrow after the Chief Minister will hold ameeting with DCs andSPs and the final order will be issued.There is a possibility of 50 per cent of the total capacity occupancy restriction in social, religious and political events in view of rise in Covid cases and related deaths. There could also be a hike in penalty on people found not wearing masks, as many people can still be seen without masks.The issue of closing of educational institutions was discussed but as of now the Cabinet decided not to close them. The Cabinet was of the view that hostels and educational institutions must be closed but the final decision will be taken tomorrow after the DC, SP meeting tomorrow.Special flag for MLAsLegislators in state could be allowed to use the special flag atop their vehicle as the Cabinet on Friday gave nod for amendment to the Motor Vehicles Rules, 1999. The state will now invite suggestions and objections for final amendment in the rules so as to authorise MLAs or any other VIPs holding constitutional posts to use the special flag atop their vehicles. Though it is still not known who all be authorised to use the special flag but MLAs, across party lines, had been demanding that they should be given some status symbol to facilitate them unhindered movement.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-surge-on-himachal-govt-to-impose-curbs-on-events-227880
20-03-2021||Shimla||Three deaths, 182 new cases in Himachal||With 182 new Covid cases today, the total positive cases reached 60,389. Besides, three deaths were reported in the last 24 hours.The surge in positive cases and fatalities continued to be reported. With a total of three deaths, two in Shimla and one in Sirmaur, the total fatality figure in the state touched 1,003.The highest number of 65 cases was reported in Una, 52 in Kangra, 24 in Solan, 10 in Shimla, nine in Bilaspur, eight inMandi, five each in Hamirpur and Kullu and four in Sirmaur. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/three-deaths-182-new-cases-in-himachal-227881
20-03-2021||Rajiv Mahajan||Canal breach in Punjab poses threat in Kangra||Nurpur, March 19The water being released by the Shahnehar barrage authorities at Talwara in Punjab for the past two days without intimation to the Himachal Pradesh administration has posed a threat to the safety of residents and their livestock in mand areas of Fatehpur and Indora subdivisions in Kangra district.As per information, the Shahnehar canal breached at certain points from the barrage (52 gate) to the Mukerian hydel power project and the Punjab IPH Department, which controls this canal, released water into the Beas river. The repair work will likely be completed by April-end.The Beas river water flooded mand areas where fields with standing wheat crop were submerged. As many as 10 houses of Gujjars at Bahadpur are under threat. Their paths and approach roads were submerged yesterday. A bridge on the mand-Bahadpur link road also got partially damaged. Fatehpur SDM Balwan Chand, who rushed to the spot last evening, told The Tribune that the traffic movement on the bridge had been stopped.Lower kangra areas floodedHe said after taking the issue of flood menace in the mand area, the Shahnehar barrage authorities had reduced canal water dischare to 6,000 cusecs last evening. He said in the past too, the authorities had released canal water without any intimation in October last year and January this year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/canal-breach-in-punjab-poses-threat-in-kangra-227882
20-03-2021||New Delhi||FIR against firm for bank fraud of Rs 555.65 crore||The CBI today said it had registered a case against Himachal Pradesh-based Indian Technometal Company Ltd and its directors for an alleged fraud of Rs 555.65 crore towards a consortium of banks led by the erstwhile Corporation Bank.Following the registration of the case, CBI spokesperson RC Joshi said the agency sleuths conducted searches on the premises of the accused and the firm at Kangra (Himachal Pradesh), which led to the recovery of incriminating documents.The two directors of Indian Technometal Company Limited named in the CBI FIR are Rakesh Kumar Sharma and Vinay Kumar Sharma.Joshi said the action followed a complaint from the Union Bank of India (erstwhile Corporation Bank) alleging that the private company, through its directors in conspiracy with others, had defrauded the consortium by misrepresentations, concealment of facts and submission of false documents and information to avail credit facilities.“The default on payments caused a loss to the tune of Rs 555.65 crore to the consortium which also included the State Bank of Hyderabad (now SBI), Punjab National Bank, Punjab & Sindh Bank, UCO Bank, Syndicate Bank, Central Bank of India, Karur Vysya Bank and JM Financial ARC,” Joshi said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/fir-against-firm-for-bank-fraud-of-rs-555-65-crore-227883
20-03-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Panel to probe irregularities in Kumarhatti medical college||Tribune News ServiceShimla, March 19Following receipt of over 30 complaints of alleged irregularities in Maharishi Markandeshwar Medical College and Hospital, Kumarhatti, Solan, the Himachal Pradesh Private Educational Institutions Regulatory Commission (HPPEIRC) today constituted a three-member committee to look into the issue.The committee would look into the matter of excess tuition fee, hostel fee, mess charges and security deposit charged by the college, delay in conducting examinations, withholding supplementary exam results, debarring MBBS students from online classes, harassment and threat to students and no transparency in management affairs, said Maj Gen Atul Kaushik (retd), Chairman, HPPEIRC. Earlier also there were complaints about unhygienic conditions.The Private Medical and Dental Colleges Student’s Parents Association, which has also taken up the matter with the National Medical Commission, which replaced the Medical Council of India, in their complaint alleged that the college was intentionally delaying conducting the third Prof Part-1 final examination as parents of 2017-18 batch raised the fee revision issue. The college was harassing students, the complaint added.In November 2019 also, the college declared the date sheet for the examination of second Prof and then without notice postponed the examination which were held in March 2020 after the association approached the HPPEIRC, the association said.Meanwhile, a complainant today approached the commission for verification of degree (BBA batch 2014) and submitted the original degree obtained from a private university in Shimla.However, the name of the student was missing in the admission disclosure of the university given to the commission, but it was in the list of the degrees distributed to students in 2017-18 by the said university. “There was some confusion and we have given a complaint to the police to investigate the matter,” said the HPPEIRC Chairman.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/panel-to-probe-irregularities-in-kumarhatti-medical-college-227884
20-03-2021||Solan||Actor Dia Mirza in Kasauli to shoot ad||Bollywood actress Dia Mirza arrived at Glenview Resorts near Kasauli this evening for the shooting of a commercial.  Resort officials said a crew of 12 people arrived in the evening and they will be here till March 23. Mirza was accorded a warm welcome by the resort staff. They applied vermillion on her forehead and presented her a garland while ensuring Covid safety protocols. The shooting will begin from tomorrow. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/actor-dia-mirza-in-kasauli-to-shoot-ad-227885
20-03-2021||Legal Correspondent||Remove roadside vehicles: HC to SP||Shimla, March 19With a view to ease traffic woes in Shimla City, the Himachal Pradesh High Court has directed the Superintendent of Police, Shimla, to ensure removal of vehicles parked on roadside on the Circular Road from the old ISBT to Sanjauli via Chotta Shimla and from Sanjauli to the old ISBT via Lakkar Bazar to Tara Hall School.While passing this direction, a Division Bench comprising Justice Tarlok Singh Chauhan and Justice CB Barowalia directed the authorities that if obstruction or unauthorised parking was brought to the notice of authorities, the same would be attended by them promptly without any undue delay and consequential action be taken within one hour on the receipt of such complaint.The court said any person found violating the orders of the court would be liable to be punished under the contempt of court.Action within one hour of complaintIf obstruction or unauthorised parking is brought to the notice of authorities, the same will be attended to promptly without any undue delay and consequential action be taken within one hour on the receipt of such complaint. —High Court BenchDuring the course of hearing, the Senior Additional Advocate General has placed on record instructions received from the Superintendent of Police, Shimla, informing that the district police was committed to resolve traffic-related problems. In this regard, about 200 police personnel had been deployed to curb traffic jams in such a manner that about 90 police personnel remained present at a time.It was further informed that all SHOs, police posts and traffic wing hadbeen directed to ensure that no unauthorised parking would be allowed on the road.After perusing the instructions, the court disposed of the matter by observing that “in view of the instructions issued by the Superintendent of Police, Shimla, we deem it appropriate to dispose of the petition by directing the Superintendent of Police to ensure that the instructions, as have been imparted to this court, be complied with in its letter and spirit.”The court passed this order on a petition filed by a contractor, who has been given the work of widening the circular road of the city, who alleged that due to unauthorised parking on roadside, it was difficult for him to complete the widening work.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/remove-roadside-vehicles-hc-to-sp-227886
20-03-2021||Hamirpur||Committed to protect kids’ rights: NCPCR||The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) was committed to protect rights of children in the country and was closely monitoring the crime against children. This was stated by RG Anand, member of the commission, here on Thursday.Anand said that the NCPCR had undertaken and promoted research in the field of child rights. He said the commission was focusing on creating awareness on child rights among various sections of society and the safeguards available for protection of these rights through publications, media, seminar and other available means of mass communication.While addressing officers of the district administration, he said they should keep vigil on the cases where children were detained or lodged for the purpose of treatment, reformation or protection.He said that the commission had started special helpline for Covid-affected children and they could seek assistance by calling on toll free number 18001212830. Another toll free number 1098 was provided by the government to address any complaints pertaining to children. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/committed-to-protect-kids-rights-ncpcr-227887
20-03-2021||Shimla||Workers’ union wants 50% pay as pension||Strongly opposing the new pension scheme (NPS) and accusing the Union government of running away from its social security responsibility towards retired employees, the MES Workers Union (Civilian Defence Employees) area committee, Himachal Pradesh, has urged the Prime Minister to guarantee 50 per cent of pay as pension and linking it with inflation.In a memorandum to the Prime Minister, the union said the denial of guaranteed minimum pension under the NPS or any other pension scheme equal to half of their last pay and delinking of the same from inflation had caused discontentment, resentment and displeasure among the employees.Urging the Prime Minister to scrap the NPS, restore the CCS (Pension) rules, 1972, and formulate a comprehensive pension scheme for scheme workers like Anganwadi workers, the union said a minimum pension equal to half of the last pay drawn must be guaranteed with linkage to dearness/inflation.The employees lodged a protest here today to draw the attention of the government towards them, said the general secretary of the union, Pradeep Singh Tomer. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/workers-union-wants-50-pay-as-pension-227888
20-03-2021||Shimla||Shimla MC losing out on rent running into crores||The Shimla Municipal Corporation has not collected rent from around 300-400 shops it owns in the city for the last three years.“These shops owe MC around Rs 10 crore as per the revised rent rates decided in 2018,” said a source in the municipal corporation. Overall, the MC owns around 1,000 shops and stalls in the city. While most are paying rent as per the revised rates, these 300-400 shops, located mostly in the Ganj Bazaar and Sabji Mandi, have not yet agreed to the revised rentals.MC Commissioner Ashish Kohli said the MC would form a committee, headed by the Mayor, to sort out the problem. “The committee will hold talks with the protesting shopkeepers to find a solution,” said Kohli.“Rents were revised for MC properties in 2018. As a result, the rents of some of these shops increased significantly. The committee will look to rationalise the rents.”As per sources, some shopkeepers had been paying as little as Rs 100 to Rs 300 per month for their shops prior to 2018. “For the record, an MC shop was recently auctioned for Rs 48,000 per month in the Sabji Mandi area. That gives a fair idea about the current market rent,” said an MC official.“There’s a problem of sub-letting, too. While some are paying as little as Rs 2,000 annually to the MC, they have sublet the shops further at a much higher rates,” he said.Shimla Beopar Mandal president Inderjit Singh said shopkeepers were ready to pay the increased rent, provided it was enhanced rationally. “The per square feet system that was introduced in 2018 will not work in the shops in Ganj Bazaar and Sabji Mandi. Because of lack of facilities, the business has reduced significantly in this area over the years. So, one needs to adopt a rational approach while increasing the rent here,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shimla-mc-losing-out-on-rent-running-into-crores-227889
20-03-2021||Shimla||Government committed to rail line expansion||Industry Minister Bikram Singh today reiterated the state government’s commitment to undertake expansion of rail network in the state. He was replying to the Private Member resolution moved by Ram Lal Thakur of the Congress under Rule 101 in the Vidhan Sabha today. “The issue of rail network expansion has been completely ignored despite the fact that it can give a major boost to tourism, industry and horticulture,” said Thakur. He urged that the Shimla-Kalka rail line should be made broad gauge as this could prove to be a boon for the apple economy. He also urged that the Bhanupalli-Beri rail line must be extended up to Ladakh as it had immense strategic importance. The minister said the Baddi-Chandigarh rail line had been given special status and Rs 232 crore had been released, including Rs 177 crore by the Railways, for the project. The motion fell through voice vote as Ram Lal Thakur refused to withdraw the resolution. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/government-committed-to-rail-line-expansion-227890
20-03-2021||---||Ex-servicemen remember MP Ram Swaroop Sharma’s work||Mandi, March 19Brigadier Khushal Thakur (retd), president and chief managing director, Himachal Pradesh Ex-Servicemen Corporation, has termed the demise of BJP MP Ram Swaroop Sharma a great loss to the organisation.He said a person hailing from an ordinary family became an MP twice from Mandi constituency.“On the demand of the Himachal Ex-Servicemen’s League, MP Ram Swaroop first made a provision of funds for the martyr’s memorial in Mandi and then built it before the deadline and dedicated it to the public. Today, we can remember our valiant martyrs with respect in Indira Market. In the past, we had repeatedly appealed to MPs, but we were forced to garland on a hanging plank outside a store room,” said Thakur. “His contribution to Mandi parliamentary constituency has been immense. He fought for the honour of Mandi as an experienced leader,” he added.“We also welcome the Chief Minister’s statement that the dreams of our late leader will be realised. This will be our true tribute to an honest leader,” he remarked.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ex-servicemen-remember-mp-ram-swaroop-sharmas-work-227891
20-03-2021||Shimla||Shimla won’t see repeat of 2018 water crisis: SJPNL||Shimla Jal Parbandhan Nigam Limited (SJPNL), the company managing city’s water requirement, says it’s unlikely that Shimla can again face a water crisis as severe as it did in 2018. “We can’t rule out the crisis, but we can say with confidence that the effects won’t be as severe as in 2018. If worse comes to worst, we will resort to third day supply,” said SJPNL AGM, Bulk Water, Rajesh Kashyap.That should soothe the nerves of the city residents who must have started thinking about the 2018 water crisis after IPL Minister Mahender Singh said in the Vidhan Sabha that the state was headed for a major water crisis this summer because of the inadequate snowfall and rainfall.The SJPNL’s confidence stems mainly from the availability of an additional water scheme, Chabba-Gumma, it did not have three years ago. “It’s a back-up scheme from where we can draw up to 10 to 15 MLD within 24 hours. In case there’s shortfall in our other major schemes, Gumma and Giri, we have a back-up,” said Harmesh Bhatia, AGM, Water Distribution.Besides, in anticipation of the problem, the SJPNL has already drafted a basic action plan to tide over the challenge. “The plan at the moment is in initial stages and will be refined further. Some of the measures include regular monitoring of leakage on the rising main line and gravity line, installation of an additional submersible pump of 5HP at Gumma, patrolling of kuhls for leakage and theft of water,” said Kashyap.“We are bringing in all stakeholders like the IPH, administration on the same page to maximise water availability at the source. We have better infrastructure, so we are confident of pumping maximum water available at the source,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shimla-wont-see-repeat-of-2018-water-crisis-sjpnl-227892
20-03-2021||ibune News Service---||No plan to regularise SMC teachers: Minister||Shimla, March 19 Education Minister Suresh Bhardwaj today ruled out the possibility of regularisation of services of teachers appointed through the school management committees (SMC) during the previous Congress regime.  While replying to a joint query by Vinay Kumar, Kishori Lal, Virbhadra Singh and Harshwardhan Chauhan during question hour in the Vidhan Sabha today, Bhardwaj said as of now there was no plan to regularise these SMC teachers. “An SLP has been filed in the Supreme Court. The Supreme court has set aside the High Court order of terminating their services,” he said. He added following this, the state government has continued with their services.  “We will fully honour the Supreme Court verdict which has upheld the policy of SMC appointment but has not issued any directions for regularisation of their services,” the minister stated.  Vinay Kumar pointed out that there are more than 80 single teacher schools in his constituency being run by SMC teachers and if their services are not continued nor new teachers appointed, what will happen to the students. Replying to a query by Narinder Bragta, Horticulture Minister Mahender Singh informed that under the centrally sponsored weather-based crop insurance scheme, a sum of Rs 128 crore had been released as premium to the farmers who suffered crop damage. However, the insurance companies entrusted with this work had been provided sum of Rs 248.88 crore by the Centre and state to be disbursed to farmers.  Admitting to high-handedness on the part of insurance companies, the minister said the release of further payment to the companies had been stopped from 2020-21. “The benefits of the weather-based crop insurance scheme has not reached the farmers and for this I will hold a meeting with the concerned officials,” he stated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/no-plan-to-regularise-smc-teachers-minister-227893
20-03-2021||ibune News Service---||Cong to be wiped out in MC poll: Khanna||Shimla, March 19 The names of BJP candidates for the election of four Municipal Corporations, namely Dharamsala, Palampur, Mandi and Solan to be held on April 7 are likely to be finalised tonight during the meeting of the election committee. The elections are being held on party symbol. The victory of the BJP in the municipal corporation elections would lay the foundation of the win in the upcoming Assembly elections in 2022, said BJP in charge Avinash Rai Khanna adding that the party was all set to wipe out the opposition Congress which was leaderless, issueless and directionless. Addressing the media persons here today, he said that the schemes launched by the union government, work of state government and management of party workers at booth level would ensure party victory.  Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur has given a slogan Gram Sabha to Vidhan Sabha and the BJP would break the myth of alternate government in the state after every five years by repeating and coming to power again in the Vidhan Sabha elections, he said. Referring to the ongoing farmers’ agitation, Rai said that the BJP has always supported the farmers and introduced kisan credit card and soil health card to benefit them. Maintaining that minimum support price (MSP) and mandis would stay, he said that farm bills are an alternate and not a compulsion. The farmers were free to sell their produce where ever they wish. He agreed that the ongoing farmers’ agitation has resulted in political loss to the party as the opposition has misguided the farmers but said that the BJP has drafted a formula as per the Swaminathan report to double farmers’ income. Answering a question regarding CBI probe into the death of Mandi MP Ram Swaroop Sharma, who hanged himself in New Delhi, Rai said, “We are also curious to know the reason behind such an extreme step. The Delhi police is already investigating the case and some reports are awaited after which thing will become clear”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cong-to-be-wiped-out-in-mc-poll-khanna-227894
20-03-2021||Solan||17th scientific advisory meeting held||Nauni Dr YS Parmar University of Horticulture and Forestry Vice-Chancellor Dr Parvinder Kaushal exhorted scientists of Kinnaur Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK) to optimally exploit regional climatic advantages for growing various crops on Wednesday. He was addressing the 17th scientific advisory committee meeting of the Kinnaur KVK at the campus to lay the next year’s roadmap. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/17th-scientific-advisory-meeting-held-227895
20-03-2021||Mandi||Cong shortlists candidates for Mandi MC elections||The Congress and the BJP have intensified their exercise to take final decision about candidates to allocate party tickets to them to contest the Municipal Corporation election in Mandi which is due next month. The District Congress Committee (DCC) today shortlisted the names of candidates to take final approval from the party high command. According to party sources, the list has been prepared by the DCC, which will be sent to the party high command tomorrow. Sources told The Tribune that at least two names were shortlisted from each ward under the Mandi MC. There are total 15 wards. It is expected that the party high command will hold a meeting within two days to decide the final list. District Congress Committee president Prakash Chaudhari said the party high command would now declare the final list of candidates. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cong-shortlists-candidates-for-mandi-mc-elections-227896
20-03-2021||Ambika Sharma||Excise fraud: Consultant’s role under CBI scanner||Tribune News ServiceSolan, March 19A distributor of NITCO tiles, who ran a shop selling marble and was a construction vendor, was hired as a legal consultant by the Baddi-based management of Cadbury India Limited(CIL) now M/s Mondelez Foods Pvt Ltd, in January 2010 to obtain approvals for 23 licenses for its ghost Unit-II.Notably, the CBI has booked seven company officials of the then CIL, two Central Excise officials and as many consultants for criminal conspiracy and cheating under sections 120-B and 420 of the IPC and under the Prevention of Corruption Act for fraudulently claiming excise benefits worth Rs 241 crores between 2009-2011 for a ghost Unit-11.The role of various state government officials who facilitated grant of these approvals has also come under the scanner with the registration of this case.Had no legal expertiseAn inquiry conducted by the CBI revealed that the company officials had met the said consultant in January 2010 and negotiated rates for obtaining these approvals. They pertained to 23 licenses related to labour department, factory license, certificate of commencement of commercial production from various government authorities.The then factory manager also obtained an in-principle approval for the use of a local legal consultant following which he opened a propriety firm, M/s Daksh Associates & Consultants, besides a bank account at SBI, Baddi. The firm was not registered and did not do any activity expect issuing bills/letters to the CIL.The said consultant neither had any legal expertise nor was known to provide consultancy services. The company officials connived to select and approve this local consultant for obtaining licenses and approvals for the Unit-II as per the CBI’s enquiry.A sum of Rs 60 lakh was approved by company officials for this consultant to expedite the approvals on April 9, 2010, within a day and Rs 40,79,970 were paid in five installments between February and July 2010.While the 2003 Central industrial package gave a big boost to industrialization in Himachal as the new industries were granted area-wise exemptions in central excise, income tax, etc., it has also exposed how the multi-national companies tried TO hoodwink the system to obtain undue tax benefits.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/excise-fraud-consultants-role-under-cbi-scanner-227897
20-03-2021||Solan||NABARD officers visit Nauni varsity||The bi-monthly meeting and exposure visit of officers from the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) was held at Dr YS Parmar University of Horticulture and Forestry, Nauni.Sudhanshu Mishra, General Manager, and Ajay Sinha, Deputy General Manager, and 15 District Development Managers from all districts of the state attended the meeting. Dr Anil Sood, Joint Director (Communications), gave details about various activities of the university in academics, research and extension education.He also elaborated on the technologies developed by scientists to benefit the agrarian community. He said they could cater to the training needs of NABARD in the agri-horti sector and could also collaborate in research projects sponsored by the rural bank.Sudhanshu Mishra elaborated on various Farmer Producers Organisations established with the help of NABARD and sought support from the university in the certification of organic products, post-harvest technology and marketing of products to enhance the value of the produce.Dr Chaman Thakur, Joint Director (Training); Dr Manica Tomar and Dr Reshma Negi coordinated the exposure visit of the team. The team also visited experimental farms of floriculture, vegetable science, medicinal and aromatic plants and the post-harvest technology initiatives of the university. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nabard-officers-visit-nauni-varsity-227899
20-03-2021||The ABVP unit of Sanskrit College||Students’ panel meets UD Minister||Webinar on education policy at HPUThe department of English, Himachal Pradesh University, organised a national webinar on 'Avenues of Research in New Education Policy'. The webinar was inaugurated by Prof Rekha Sharma, Dean, faculty of language. HPU Vice-Chancellor Sikandar Kumar delivered the keynote address, focusing on the advantages and scope of the New Education Policy from primary to higher education. Prof Kuldeep Agnihotri, Vice-Chancellor of Central University, talked about vernacular languages and the research tools that help researchers explore new avenues in their research-oriented endeavours.Get non-teaching staff tested: ABVPThe ABVP unit of Government College, Sanjauli, has urged the administration to get all hostel students and non-teaching staff tested for Covid-19 to check its spread in the college. The students alleged only the teaching staff had been tested following some cases in the college.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/students-panel-meets-ud-minister-227900
20-03-2021||The road leading to the Mall Road via Sabji Mandi is in a bad shape. While the repair and maintenance work on the road has been on for a while now||Garbage littered on road||Market stretch full of dustDust on the market stretch of Chogan on the Pathankot-Mandi National Highway in Nurpur town has made the lives of shopkeepers miserable. The IPH Department, after laying underground sewerage pipes here, has covered the roadside with debris and muck without undertaking its repair or patch work. Owing to heavy traffic pressure on the NH, dust enters the roadside shops. This is a health hazard to the shopkeepers as well as pedestrians. The matter was brought into the notice of the IPH Department authorities by submitting a signed memorandum, but in vain. An urgent solution of the problem is required in public interest. — Promod Mahajan,NurpurWHAT OUR READERS SAYIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?THE TRIBUNEinvites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/garbage-littered-on-road-227910
20-03-2021||Shimla||Himachal Pradesh stares at ‘famine-like situation’||Growing concern over Himachal facing an acute water scarcity once again echoed in the Vidhan Sabha with Irrigation and Public Health (IPH) Minister Mahender Singh warning the situation could be “alarming” in the summer due to scant rain and snow. The minister was replying to a cut motion.In 2018, the capital faced a major water crisis and was labelled India’s Cape Town. The situation was so grave that some localities did not receive supply for 10 days and severe water rationing was imposed.He warned the House against threat of a major “famine-like situation” in the summer. “The situation is going to be alarming, as against 30-40 feet of snow at Rohtang Pass, there is barely 3 to 4 feet of snow this time,” he said. In fact, the water level of the Beas had started declining and in the summer, it could go dry due to very little rainfall and snow in the winter, he added. The minister said the department was working towards tackling the situation. “It is a natural phenomenon for which nobody can be blamed but we need to work jointly to tide over the problem,” he remarked. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-pradesh-stares-at-famine-like-situation-226338
