21-03-2021||Rajiv Mahajan ||Water from Shahnehar barrage creates flood-like situation in lower Kangra's mand area||Nurpur, March 21The unabated release of water from Shahnehar barrage at Talwara in Punjab since March 17 has created a flood-like situation in Mand areas of Fatehpur and Indora sub divisions in Kangra district.This artificial calamity has added to the woes of farmers of Bahadpur, Badala, Halle, Rajgiri Bhatolli, Malal and Bhogrwan mand areas villages. Standing wheat and other rabi crops over 400 hectares have been damaged so far. The SDMs of Fatehpur and Indora sub divisions have directed the field revenue staff to conduct a survey of the loss cause to the crops.              Meanwhile, sub divisional officer, Shahnehar head works civil sub division, Talwara, Ram Parkash in a statement last evening denied any breach in Shahnehar canal. He clarified that water discharge had stopped in Shahnehar canal and was being released in the Beas river due to repairs of Mukerian Hydel channel being carried out from March 17 to April 30.He said the intimation of water discharge had been passed to the district administration, Kangra, and local authorities on March 16 through wireless messaging system and it was the responsibility of the Himachal Pradesh authorities to ensure safety of people and livestock.Kangra Deputy Commissioner Rakesh Prajapati categorically denied the claim of Shahnehar authorities of giving prior intimation to the district and local authorities on March 16 before releasing water in the Beas. He said no communiqué had been received in this connection and Shahnehar authorities had been asked for timely communication henceforth to the administration keeping in view the safety of human and livestock in the area.Several local farmers lamented that their crops had to be harvested after two weeks but untimely water release in the Beas river had inundated their fields and damaged rabi crop.They added that their stored dry fodder had also been damaged by flood water. “If Shahnehar authorities ensure release of specified quantity of water within 24 hours as committed, the flood-like situation can be under control,” says Balwan Chand, SDM, Fatehpur.Rampant mining in the Beas river is also one of the causes behind flood-like situation in the Mand area. The mining has changed the course of river and partially damaged a bridge at Haler village. Its existence is also under threat due to Shahnehar water release which will continue till April 30.Meanwhile, Ajay Mahajan, Kangra district Congress president, who visited the flood-affected areas yesterday has demanded compensation for farmers whose crops were damaged. He said the state government should find a permanent solution of the flood threat by channelising river water passing through this area.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/water-from-shahnehar-barrage-creates-flood-like-situation-in-lower-kangras-mand-area-228483
21-03-2021||Ateesh Kropha||Overhaul of Lahaul: Six months since Atal Tunnel||This winter, it was different in Lahaul, and it will be so for all times to come.On October 3 last year, the Atal Tunnel at Rohtang, connecting Kullu valley with Lahaul, opened to the public. For more than a generation of Lahaulis, what was for long a mirage, became a reality — apparently both bitter and sweet. Earlier, the valley remained cut off for a good six months a year. That’s no longer the case. Whether it is an emergency or an occasion for celebration, the tunnel is a magical portal to the other side.Abhishek, a local based in Manali, says, “Earlier going to Lahaul was a week-long trip. Now, you can leave in the morning, get work done in Lahaul during the day and be back in Manali by the evening.”Dried peas and leafy vegetables, as also dried meat, would perhaps be a thing of the past in Lahaul now, for fresh vegetables were available through this winter for the first time. The locals have always grown some varieties for personal consumption, but the options have been limited.The valley is also witnessing more active participation of the district and state administration. Rigzin Hayerpa, ex-vice chairman, Zila Parishad, says, “Government officials earlier considered Lahaul as a punishment posting. Now, young officials find the place beautiful, accessible and an exciting place to work.”Five lakh tourists have visited Atal Tunnel in the last five months, and most have made it a point to visit at least Sissu, the nearest village, or Keylong, the district headquarters. In a bid to attract more tourists, a snow festival began on January 25. Hayerpa says they plan to run it across different panchayats and make it the longest running winter fest in the world. “It showcases traditional sports, folk dance, music, cuisine, artifacts, dresses and much more — all organised with zero budgetary support from the government. We also hope to be in contention for the SKOCH Awards.” But not everyone is on the same page. Ajey, a Hindi poet from Lahaul, says, “The fest’s prolonged nature is tiring and repetitive. We are opening ourselves to the outside world for the first time. It deserves to be showcased on a superior platform that is aesthetic, shorter and dignified.”The administration recently organised a single-window camp for homestays and over 400 were registered with an overall target of 600. A number of hotels are also coming up along the highway. Sushila Rana, pradhan of Goushal gram panchayat, says, “There is considerable interest, but it’s too early to say how this will pan out. There is much to learn and adjust.”The logistics to handle the crowds are also not available. Even basic facilities like toilets, garbage bins, parking space or guidance are missing. Prem Chand, president of Save Lahaul Spiti Society, says, “Three years ago, we urged the government to form the District Tourism Development Council for Lahaul and Spiti, but no action has been taken till date.”A clash of cultures is inevitable too. It is not uncommon to notice cars blaring loud music, or shirtless tourists dancing on the roadside. There have also been reports of eve-teasing and thefts. Vijay Kapoor, ex-pradhan, says, “It is normal for us to leave sacks of potatoes near the pick-up points. But this time there have been reports of hundreds of sacks getting stolen. Even bags of vermi-compost have gone missing. In Phuda, apple orchards were emptied.”The most serious risk, however, is the renewed enthusiasm among developers to take up hydro-electric power projects.Needless to say, Lahaul is undergoing a churning. As former Union minister MS Gill suggests in his book on the region, the Lahaulis are hardworking, proud and receptive to new ideas. Those traits could yet be our guiding light.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/overhaul-of-lahaul-six-months-since-atal-tunnel-228313
21-03-2021||---||Recruitment of cops soon||Shimla, March 20 The Himachal Pradesh Police Department will soon start the recruitment process for filling 1,334 posts of constables and other categories. As many as 976 men and 267 women constables would be recruited, besides filling 91 posts of drivers, said DGP Sanjay Kundu. The recruitment process would commence soon, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/recruitment-of-cops-soon-228276
21-03-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Consensus eludes BJP in Solan, Palampur||Tribune News ServiceShimla, March 20The BJP has finalised candidates for Dharamsala and Mandi Municipal Corporation (MCs) elections slated for April 7, but failed to reach consensus on candidates in Solan and Palampur.The release of lists of candidates for 64 wards has been withheld and efforts are on to finalise the candidates for the remaining two MCs.For the first time, the MC elections are being held on party symbol and the BJP has made a strategic move to focus on local issues and identified the problems and demands of people in each corporation. Contesting poll on local issues is a tactical move as the results of the MC poll would have little bearing on the performance of the government.The BJP is preparing a vision document to serve people and has appointed in-charges for all 64 wards in four MCs. They are taking stock of the ground situation of issues.Parking is a chronic problem in three corporations barring Palampur. The solid waste management is the major issue in Palampur, water shortage in Solan and non-performance of the Congress-ruled MC in Dharamsala. The party will open an election office in each municipal area and functional offices opened in all wards.Stakes are high for the BJP, which is taking the elections seriously as these will have repercussions on the Assembly byelection to the Fatehpur constituency, fallen vacant due to the death of Congress MLA Sujan Singh Pathania, and byelection to the Mandi parliamentary constituency, vacated due to the death of BJP MP Ram Swaroop Sharma.BJP in-charge for Himachal Avinash Rai Khanna has appealed to all workers to contact voters in a door-to-door campaign and hold ward meetings.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/consensus-eludes-bjp-in-solan-palampur-228277
21-03-2021||---||Tributes paid to Ram Swaroop Sharma, Sujan Singh Pathania||Shimla, March 20The Vidhan Sabha was adjourned sine die as the 16-day Budget session, which commenced on February 26 with the Governor’s Address, concluded today.Speaker Vipin Parmar said the session was conducted smoothly with constructive debates and important legislation work being taken up. “A total of 16 sittings were held in a total span of 55.32 hours, including two private members’ day,” he said.During the session, 530 starred and 218 unstarred questions were taken up on which the government gave its reply and five Bills were introduced and passed after discussion.The Assembly is not just the first e-Vidhan Assembly but is also known for maintaining its high traditions. “It was unfortunate that a member of the House Sujan Singh Pathania and Mandi MP Ram Swaroop died during the session. They served the people and will be remembered for their services,” the Speaker said.Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur expressed concern over the second corona wave, affecting the state and urged people to cooperate to tackle the situation. The effort of the government was not to order a lockdown or impose restrictions on the entry of tourists as this would hit economy. “If need be, we can declare containment zones as more cases are being reported in border districts like Una, Sirmaur, Bilaspur and Kangra,” he said.“We all need to exercise strict adherence to social-distancing norms and wear masks and if the surge continues, we might impose restrictions on holding of fairs and other social and cultural events,” said Thakur. He paid tributes to Pathania and Ram Swaroop.Leader of the Opposition Mukesh Agnihotri said barring the first day incident, the session was smooth. He advised the government to take concrete steps to check price rise and ensure adherence to Covid SOPs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/tributes-paid-to-ram-swaroop-sharma-sujan-singh-pathania-228279
21-03-2021||Shimla||Budget proposals passed||The Vidhan Sabha today passed the Budget proposals presented by Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur on March 6 for the financial year 2021-22. The House passed the Himachal Pradesh Appropriation Bill, 2021, authorising the state government to make an expenditure of Rs 53,484 crore out of the consolidated fund. Besides this, the House also passed the Himachal Pradesh Loktantra Prahari Samman Bill, 2021. With the passing of this Bill, all those, who had remained in jail during the Emergency period under the Maintenance of Internal Security Act (MISA)-1971, or the Defence of India Rule, 1971, or the CrPC-1973, for political or social reasons, would be entitled to ‘Samman Rashi’ for protecting democracy. A committee will be constituted to consider all those, who were imprisoned during the Emergency period between June 25, 1975 and March 21, 1977. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/budget-proposals-passed-228280
21-03-2021||Ambika Sharma||Schools in hurry to exhaust funds worth crores||Tribune News ServiceSolan, March 20Spending the funds worth crores under various schemes of the State Education Department till March 31 has become a Herculean task for school managements.The schemes — Swaran Jayanti Utkrisht Vidyalaya Yojna and Swaran Jayanti Gyanodaya Cluster Sreshtha Vidyalaya — were among the schemes announced by Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur to improve the quality of education in government schools. The budget worth Rs 30 crore for each scheme is supposed to be spent by March 31.The winter-closing schools reopened on February 15 after the lockdown. Teachers were busy filling the gaps in study after re-opening of the schools and annual examinations had begun from March 5. Results would have to be declared by the month-end, keeping the staff busy, said a teacher from a senior secondary school at Solan.“Since the exams have been staggered, the teachers are busy in taking exams. There is little time to hold meetings of purchase committees in the schools,” said another teacher.The funds can be spent on maths labs, science labs, ICT labs, facilities for online classes, classroom furniture, musical instruments, new construction, renovation, beautification of lawns and gyms. “With demand pouring in from the state, it is difficult to meet all formalities of purchase through the authorised government e-Marketplace and rate contract while observing the laid down conditions,” said another teacher.Since the schools have to provide 100 per cent fund utilisation certificates, the managements are in a hurry to make purchases. The haste will lead to wastage of funds from the cash-strapped state exchequer.Under the schemes, select outstanding schools have received funds ranging from Rs 15 lakh to Rs 44 lakh each for renovation, infrastructure, creation of the improvised science labs, smart classrooms, etc, in a bid to improve school education. Another scheme Mukhya Mantri Aadarsh Vidyalaya is also among such schemes announced by the government.“Instead of conducting a need-based survey of chosen schools, the criteria of making purchases in haste will fail to uplift the quality of education. The critical problem of ensuring a harmonious teacher-taught ratio should be addressed first as without adequate staff, no amount of modernisation will help,” said a science teacher.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/schools-in-hurry-to-exhaust-funds-worth-crores-228281
21-03-2021||---||Not possible to fill all posts, says Himachal CM Jai Ram Thakur||Shimla, March 20Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today said it was not possible for the government to fill all vacant posts in various departments.He was replying to a query about vacant posts in the Health Department raised by Ram Lal Thakur and JR Katwal during Question Hour. “Many posts are lying vacant even in my constituency Seraj and it is not possible to fill all posts,” he said. The endeavour of the government was to fill functional posts so that better services could be provided to people.Health minister on covid numbersHe assured the House that the posts of doctor and paramedical staff would be filled soon. “It is due to special incentives and untiring efforts of the government that doctors are serving even in rural and remote areas, providing quality care to the people,” he said.Thakur said the government was laying emphasis on strengthening infrastructure and staff in the Health Department for which an enhanced budgetary allocation had also been made for the sector. Replying to a query by Vinod Kumar, Health and Family Welfare Minister Rajeev Saizal said 225 doctors had been found to be Covid positive during pandemic since last year.Saizal said so far 10,003 deaths and 60,207 Covid cases had been reported in the state. The government had honoured all Covid warriors.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/not-possible-to-fill-all-posts-says-himachal-cm-jai-ram-thakur-228282
21-03-2021||Shimla||Mortal remains of Una youth to be brought back from Saudia Arabia, says Himachal CM||Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today said the body of Sanjeev Kumar, a youth from Una, who had died in Saudia Arabia, will be exhumed and the mortal remains to be brought back to India.Seek Saudi Embassy help, says Delhi High CourtHe made a statement in the Vidhan Sabha. The issue had been raised by Una MLA Satpal Raizada two days back, seeking the intervention of the government in the matter. The MLA had said the family of the youth was aggrieved as his last rites were performed as per Islamic traditions without their knowledge.Hindu man hailing from Himachal wrongly buried in Saudi Arabia; CM to take up matter with Centre“We have taken up the issue with the Saudi authorities,” the CM said. The religion of the deceased had been mentioned as Muslim due to a mistake in the Translation Office but the religion of the deceased had not been mentioned in the death certificate. The apology had been issued by the Saudi authorities, he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mortal-remains-of-una-youth-to-be-brought-back-from-saudia-arabia-says-himachal-cm-228283
21-03-2021||---||Seek Saudi Embassy help, says Delhi High Court||Shimla, March 20The Delhi High Court has asked the Ministry of External Affairs officials to approach the Royal Embassy of Saudi Arabia in New Delhi for seeking its cooperation in sending back the mortal remains of Sanjeev Kumar Sharma to his family in Una.Sharma had died in Saudi Arabia on January 24 and, despite the family initiating the process for the repatriation of his body immediately, the body was buried by the Saudi authorities. With the assurances from political figures showing no concrete result, the family eventually moved the Delhi High Court for bringing the body back.“The court has taken the matter seriously and asked the MEA to expedite the process. It has also asked the MEA officials to request the embassy for a timeline required for the process,” said Subhash Chandran, the counsel for the petitioner.The court also directed the Indian Consulate officials to contact Sharma’s employer and find out if any further payments were due to Sharma’s family from his end.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/seek-saudi-embassy-help-says-delhi-high-court-228284
21-03-2021||ibune News Service---||Congress to declare panels for civic body elections soon, says Bali||Mandi, March 20 The Congress will declare its campaign and coordination committees soon for the forthcoming Municipal Corporation (MC) poll in Mandi district. Today a meeting was held by the District Congress Committee under the leadership of senior leader GS Bali to hold discussions about shortlisted candidates for the poll. Addressing a press conference here today, Bali said the final list of shortlisted candidates had been sent to the party high command for final approval. Within one or two days, the names of candidates would be declared for all 15 wards of the Mandi MC. He said the party would declare its election campaign and election coordination committees soon in Mandi to intensify its poll campaign. He said the MC election would be a battle between “jan shakti” and “dhan shakti” in Mandi. He said the party would declare its election manifesto soon and from March 22, party candidates would start filing nominations. He said, “We are hopeful that the party will win the election in Mandi. The Congress will fight the poll on key issues like increasing inflation, rising number of unemployed youth and other development issues.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/congress-to-declare-panels-for-civic-body-elections-soon-says-bali-228285
21-03-2021||Mandi||Leader loses his cool||Congress leader GS Bali got angry during a press conference over the preparation of the Congress for the Municipal Corporation elections in Mandi. During reply to a question, he misconstrued that some mediapersons were mocking him.  Congress supporters were also present at the venue. A supporter insulted some mediapersons by saying “Godi Media”. It angered them. However, later Bali apologised to them for the conduct of his supporters. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/leader-loses-his-cool-228286
21-03-2021||---||DC: 38 polling stations set up in Mandi||Mandi, March 20 Rugved Thakur, Deputy Commissioner-cum-Election Officer, Mandi, said 38 polling stations had been set up in 15 wards for the Municipal Corporation election in Mandi to be held on April 7. He said nomination papers could be filed from March 22 to 24 at the office of the SDM concerned. He said the nomination papers would be scrutinised at the office of the SDM concerned from 10 am on March 25, while candidates could withdraw their names by 3 pm on March 27. Election symbols would be issued to the candidates thereafter, Thakur said. The DC said voting would be held from 8 am to 4 pm on April 7. The counting of votes would be done at the MC Headquarters, Mandi, immediately after the voting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/dc-38-polling-stations-set-up-in-mandi-228287
21-03-2021||Dharamsala||Restoration of old pension scheme sought||Seeking restoration of the old pension scheme, government employees covered under the new pension scheme on Wednesday staged a protest by wearing a black badge.  The employees alleged that the new pension scheme does not address the social security concerns of employees who spend decades serving in government department. The employees across the state have been demanding implementation of the old pension scheme for the past several months. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/restoration-of-old-pension-scheme-sought-228288
21-03-2021||Chamba||Chamba senior citizens to play against Nahan||DC Rana, Deputy Commissioner, on Wednesday wished good luck to the Chamba Senior Citizens Cricket Team before their departure to Nahan to play a goodwill cricket match on March 21.  The members of team included Major SC Nayyar (caption), Vijay Sen, Sushil, Pawan, Anil, Virender, Kurshid, Surinder, Rajinder, Surinder Bhandari, Roshan, Dr Sunit Puri, Naresh, Yaduvir Chona, Rameshwer Guleria, Naresh Puri and Ishwer Puri.  Major Nayyar said an unofficial cricket team from England had come to Chamba to play goodwill cricket match in 1932.  He said to keep this old tradition alive, the Veteran Cricket Association had orgnaised a goodwill cricket match against Mandi in 2007.  Later on, the team played against Sundernagar in 2010, Solan in 2014, Kangra in 2015, Shimla in 2017; but the team could not participate in 2019-2020 due to Covid-19.  “The aim of such matches is to strengthen the mutual bonds of affection and fraternity, thereby rejuvenating the physical, mental and spiritual health of senior citizens,” he added.  — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/chamba-senior-citizens-to-play-against-nahan-228289
21-03-2021||---||Curbs on gatherings, ban on fairs in Himachal||Shimla, March 20With surge in Covid cases, the state government today reimposed curbs and decided not to organise district and state-level official fairs.However, the ongoing fairs will continue in adherence of SOPs. This was stated by Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur while presiding over a video-conferencing meeting with DCs, SPs and CMOs from Shimla to review the situation of Covid in Himachal Pradesh.The maximum number of gathering had been restricted to 50 per cent of the capacity of the venue (both indoors and outdoors) subject to maximum number of 200 persons for indoor gatherings and shopkeepers and other business establishments must be persuaded to adopt strategy of ‘no mask, no service’, the Chief Minister added.Vaccination must be increased as the Centre had already sanctioned another 1.80 lakh dosages for the state, which would be delivered within two days, Thakur said.The Chief Minister said test, track and treat strategy must be implemented effectively and RT-PCR test must be increased and containment zone approach must be implemented strictly.He added that steps must be taken to motivate people to adopt the approach of “dawai bhi, kadai bhi”.148 new cases, 1 death in 24 hoursWith 148 new Covid cases, the total positive cases reached 60,537. Besides, one death was reported in the last 24 hours. The surge in cases and fatalities continued. With one death in Kangra, the fatality figure in the state touched 1,004. The highest number of 38 cases was reported in Una, 30 in Kangra, 20 in Shimla, 14 in Solan, 12 in Bilaspur, 11 in Mandi, 10 in Hamirpur, six each in Sirmaur and Kullu, and one in Kinnaur.Nalwar fair cancelledMandi: After the directions of the state government, the district administration has cancelled the Nalwar fair at Sundernagar. There has been a sharp increase in Covid cases due to which the state government reviewed its decision to celebrate upcoming festivals at mass level after the end of the international Shivratri fair in Mandi. DC Rugved Thakur said on the directions of the state, Nalwar fair at Sundernagar had been cancelled. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/curbs-on-gatherings-ban-on-fairs-in-himachal-228290
21-03-2021||Ravinder Sood||30% wheat crop ruined, claim Kangra farmers||Palampur, March 20Farmers in lower areas of Kangra district are worried over the continued dry spell in February and March. Several parts of the district have experienced below average rain, adversely affecting the paddy crop.In Malan, Nagrota Bagwan, Sulah and lower areas of Palampur, farmers are worried for their crop in the absence of sufficient irrigation.Losses for tea growersHowever, Agriculture Department officials say that there is no immediate threat to the standing crops. Agriculture experts expect better rainfall in the coming days, which can save the crop from further damage.On the other hand, wheat crop in some areas of lower Kangra has suffered up to 30 per cent damage, say farmers. The crop is healthy only where there is irrigation facility and sown early, while the situation is bad in rain-fed areas.Other rain-fed crops had also started withering. If the conditions continued, the crops could suffer damage up to 60 per cent, farmers said.Sanjay Thakur, Executive Engineer, Irrigation and Public Health Department, said major rivers like the Neugal, which feed most of the irrigation and water supply schemes in the Palampur region, had gone dry in March. He termed the situation grim and said there could be a severe drinking water crisis in the coming months, if dry weather continued.He said the level in a number of water sources had gone down and it was difficult for the department to manage the affairs. He said the IPH Department would stress for the revival of traditional water sources.Dr PC Saini, Deputy Director, Agriculture, Palampur, said the damage to wheat crops could go up to 50 per cent if dry weather continued. He said at present the wheat was grown in 84,000 hectares in Kangra valley and out of it 50,000 hectares was non-irrigated.He said the crop had withered in many parts and only rain could save farmers as after 15 years such conditions were seen in the valley.Dinesh Butail, a leading tea grower of the valley, said due to the prolonged dry spell, about 50 per cent damage had already been done to the tea crop.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/30-wheat-crop-ruined-claim-kangra-farmers-228291
21-03-2021||Solan||System to digitise
academic work at Nauni varsity||Dr YS Parmar University of Horticulture and Forestry (UHF), Nauni, launched its academic management system (AMS), which will enable digitisation of services.The initiative started by Dr Parvinder Kaushal, Vice-Chancellor (VC), is part of the Indian Council of Agricultural Education’s (ICAR) National Agricultural Higher Education Project (NAHEP). Dr RC Goyal, project’s information technology consultant, was the guest of honour.The AMS will automate various academic processes of the university and save time and efforts involved in the manual work. The course registrations, class timetable, e-learning, results, marksheet and degrees can be accessed on the system. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/system-to-digitiseacademic-work-at-nauni-varsity-228292
21-03-2021||Solan||Covid-ve report must for BBN workers: SDM||The Sub-Divisional Magistrate (SDM), Nalagarh, today directed all industries in the Baddi-Barotiwala-Nalagarh (BBN) belt to strictly ensure that workers resuming duty after five or more days produce a negative RT-PCR test report.Various industry associations — the Nalagarh Industry Association, the BBN Industries Association, the Himachal Drug Manufacturers Association and the HP Corrugation Box Manufacturers — have been directed to ensure its compliance and also furnish information to the local authorities.Invoking the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and the Epidemic Disease Act, 1897, SDM Mahinder Pal directed the Deputy Director, Industries, to direct the industries for its compliance as laxity had come to the fore. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-ve-report-must-for-bbn-workers-sdm-228293
21-03-2021||Shimla||Speaker urged to fine CM for not wearing mask||A Congress legislator on Saturday requested Speaker Vipin Singh Parmar to impose a fine of Rs 5,000 on Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur for not wearing a mask in the Assembly.On the last day of the session, Shillai MLA Harshwardhan Chauhan said a strong message of wearing masks to check the spread of Covid should go to the public from this House. When Chauhan made the demand, the Speaker himself was without a mask.A member from the treasury benches stated that the Congress legislator himself did not wear the mask properly. To this, Chauhan stated he wore the mask but pulled it down to his chin so as to speak.The entire matter ended in laughter. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/speaker-urged-to-fine-cm-for-not-wearing-mask-228294
