22-03-2021||Shimla||Former IFS officer appointed chairman of HP Public Service Commission||Former Indian Forest Service officer Ajay Kumar has been appointed chairman of State Public Service Commission with the present incumbent, Major General (Retd) Dharamvir Singh Rana, completing his term.Besides Ajay Kumar who retired as principal chief conservator forest last year, the government also appointed a retired managing director of the State Electricity Board, Jai Prakash Kalta, member of the commission.Presently, the commission had Maj Gen Rana (retd) as its chairman and Rachna Gupta as member.The appointment of both Ajay Kumar and Kalta will be for a period of six years or 62 years whichever is earlier.Three posts of members had been lying vacant on the completion of the terms of Mohan Chauhan, Man Singh and Meera Ahluwalia.Gupta was also in the race to become the chairperson of the commission. With today’s appointments, there are still two posts of members vacant. There are several bureaucrats, both serving and retired who are in the race for becoming members of the commission.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/former-ifs-officer-appointed-chairman-of-hp-public-service-commission-228974
22-03-2021||---||BJP announces list of candidates for Himachal municipal corporation election||Shimla, March 22The BJP on Monday announced names of candidates for all 64 wards in four Municipal Corporations of Dharamshala, Palampur, Mandi and Solan.The elections to the four municipal corporations and six nagar panchayats will take place on April 7.The four municipal corporations except Dharamsala and the six nagar panchayats — Anni and Nirmand in Kullu, Chirgaon and Nerwa in Shimla, Kandaghat in Solan and Amb in Una — are newly created and will go to the polls for the first time.According to the poll notification, the nomination will be filed from March 22 to 24 between 11 am and 3 pm.Below is the list:||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bjp-announces-list-of-candidates-for-himachal-municipal-corporation-election-228875
22-03-2021||A National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) team||NAAC team visits Dharampur college||Webinar by Shoolini UniversityThe School of Yoga, Shoolini University, organised a webinar on “Eternity of sound and science of mantra”. The webinar began with a welcome address by Dr Saurabh Subodh, HoD, School of Yoga. The key speaker of the webinar was Prof Gyaneshwer Mishra, consultant at the Department of Complementary and Alternative Medicine, Dev Sanskrit University, Uttarakhand. Prof Mishra shared his views on the relation between five basic elements of the body and their quantum physics with sounds and waves.Mandi girl shines in HPAS examAkanksha Sharma of Mandi district has secured fifth position in the Himachal Pradesh Administrative Services (HPAS) examination, results of which was declared on Saturday. At present she is working as an Excise and Taxation Inspector. Akanksha said she achieved this through seven hours of study everyday and online coaching. She did her studies from DAV Sanitary School, Mandi and her graduation and postgraduation in Botany from Hansraj College, Delhi University. Her father, Vijay Sharma is an XEN at the BSNL, while mother Bhavana Sharma is a computer teacher at Government Vijay Memorial School, Mandi. She gave the credit of her success to her parents and teachers who always motivated her to focus on her career.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/naac-team-visits-dharampur-college-228775
22-03-2021||The work on narrow Chotta Shimla-Kasumpti has added to the woes of the commuters by further congesting the place. It has hardly left any space for crossing at several points. With no police personnel deployed to check traffic chaos at some of these points||Traffic woes in Kasumpti irk commuters||Resume Pathankot-Chamba bus serviceTHE people of Chamba are upset over non-resumption of an evening bus service from Pathankot to Chamba. The service was closed due to the pandemic. People who travel to Pathankot and Amritsar, face a lot of inconvenience, due to this. Owing to the non-availability of bus service, people are forced to use a taxi and pay exorbitant fare. The bus service should be resumed immediately for the convenience of the people.— KS Thakur, Chamba townIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/traffic-woes-in-kasumpti-irk-commuters-228774
22-03-2021||The decision to hike fine for not wearing masks has come in for severe criticism by people. Social media is abuzz with remarks by people on leaders and VIPs not wearing masks. “The politicians need to understand that they must practice what they preach||‘Practice what you preach’||Officers at receiving endWith elections to four municipal corporations around the corner the officials of various departments in cities where elections are to be held are at the receiving end. They are being forced to follow diktats from politicians managing the elections. Some were transferred at the behest of the ruling party politicians and then brought back after public outrage. Some officials are spending more time running after the politicians rather than sitting in their offices and providing service to people.Task cut out for Dhumal protegesMunicipal corporation polls in Solan have brought two old proteges of former chief minister PK Dhumal face to face as both are in- charges of their respective parties. Rajinder Rana is heading the Congress poll panel and Dr Rajiv Bindal heads the BJP panel in Solan. Who will manage to deliver only time will tell but it has put a question mark on the local leaders, including a Cabinet minister, who probably lacks the required acumen. More than the candidates, the poll victory is crucial for the duo as both are facing immense opposition within their parties and it will help them prove their relevance and acumen once again.Poll on party symbols a risk?The BJP government in Himachal has taken a calculated risk by amending the Municipal Corporation Act for conducting elections to Dharamsala, Palampur, Mandi and Solan Municipal Corporations on party symbol. Tall claims of the party would fall flat in case it did not get a comfortable majority on the polls. Other political parties would also face the threat of being exposed if their performance was poor. Both the BJP and the Congress had claimed victory in urban local bodies and panchayat elections which were not contested on party symbols. The independents would hold the key in case of hung house. The amendments would only benefit the parties which could do horse-trading and obviously parties with more resources would call the shots, said a senior politician.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/practice-what-you-preach-228768
22-03-2021||Abhinav Vashisht||Opposition to Rohtang ropeway gains ground||KULLU, MARCH 21The opposition to the ambitious Rohtang ropeway project has started gaining pace as the project has been given final nod and the construction work is likely to commence in April.Many residents said that the project, if it has to go ahead, should not be given to an individual but the locals should also be provided ownership rights by developing it in the form of a co-operative society. They said that project would only provide employment as labourers to the locals and it would not benefit the economy of the common man.‘Ropeways needed in inaccessible spots’Manali Hoteliers Association president Anup Ram Thakur said that the government should promote ropeways in pristine inaccessible destinations near Manali like Manjnu Kot, Chanderkhani, Baragarh Fort, Rani Sui Lake, Inder Kila and Pandu RopaThey alleged that the Rohtang ropeway had earlier been scrapped during the Congress regime while now it has again been approved in a different name. They demanded that 30 per cent shares of such ambitious projects should be provided to the local residents or these will not be beneficial to the local masses. They said that the project would adversely affect local vendors and shopkeepers.The taxi operators of Manali said that the Rohtang ropeway would have an adverse impact on not only the taxi operators of Kullu and Manali but also other parts of the country. They said that income of so many taxis will be diverted to a single firm which will result in unemployment.Gupt Ram, president, Him Anchal Taxi Operators Union, Manali, said that they had already written to the higher authorities opposing the project. He said that a petition to raise the number of vehicles to visit the Rohtang Pass was pending in the Supreme Court and request to abandon the ropeway project would also be attached to it in the next hearing.Manali Hoteliers Association president Anup Ram Thakur said that the government should promote ropeways in pristine inaccessible destinations near Manali like Manjnu Kot, Chanderkhani, Baragarh Fort, Rani Sui Lake, Inder Kila and Pandu Ropa. He said that he was not against Rohtang ropeway but Rohtang Pass was already accessible by road and it was a world famous tourist destination and the ropeway will not benefit the tourism industry of the region.He added that it would be better if Bijli Mahadev ropeway in Kullu is constructed which was proposed decades ago. He said that promoting new tourist destinations will prolong the stay of the tourists.Environmentalists of the area said that the NGT had capped the number of vehicles to go to Rohtang Pass to preserve the fragile ecology of the region. They said that with the setting up of ropeway the tourist influx would increase beyond the carrying capacity of the area, which will result in degradation of the ecology.They added that around 550 trees were permitted to be axed for the project in the fragile ecology, while many saplings and small trees will also be chopped off which will have an adverse impact on the environment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/opposition-to-rohtang-ropeway-gains-ground-228650
22-03-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Post-Covid, thrust to be on global exchanges: Bishop Cotton head||Tribune News ServiceShimla, March 21Having the distinction of being the oldest and first boys’ public school in Asia, Bishop Cotton School (BCS), Shimla, is sanguine about further advancement in academic standards with Oxford pass out Simon Weale taking over as the Director of the school. Weale was appointed as the new Director of the school in March 2020. However, schools were shut down due to outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic on March 16, 2020.Established in 1859, BCS has got a British as head after 45 years and the last Englishman to head the school from 1973-76 was RK Von Goldstein. The 162-year old school has mentored the lives of famous personalities like author Ruskin Bond who penned his first book “Nine Months” in this school. Six-time Himachal CM Virbhadra Singh, international golfer Jeev Milkha Singh, actor Kumar Gaurav and industrialist Deep C Anand are some of the achievers, who passed out from the school.“Going beyond smart classrooms, we are focusing on character building of students with strong academic framework, developing life skills and enabling them to use technology responsibly, besides English speaking – which is the global language of communication,” said Weale in an interview with The Tribune.“I have worked in several top schools in the UK and have significant experience of raising academic standards of schools. The idea is to ensure practical application of knowledge and instilling confidence among the students to prepare them for competitive exams,” he said. “Post Covid, thrust would be on more global exchanges with schools around the world to provide exposure to students,” he added.“The foundation of the school was laid on the pattern of the British Public School based around house system,” he said. Born and brought up in London, Weale studied modern history at Oxford University where he was a contemporary of UK Prime Ministers Boris Johnson and David Cameron.What old Cottonians say"BCS stands for character building, honesty and uprightness. I am delighted to know that Simon Weale had been appointed the Director of BCS. I always wished to bring English teachers back to the school as it was my teacher back then in 1947-51 who put steel in my back and made me the person I am today." Deep C Anand, Industrialist"It was probably self-discipline that I really learnt at BCS. It has carried me and other Cottonians through life’s ups and downs, triumphs and vicissitudes." Ruskin Bond, Author"The school taught us to be independent, fend for ourself, be determined and contributed to our all-round personality." Jeev Milkha Singh, International Golfer"BCS taught us to overcome evil with good." Kumar Gaurav, Actor||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/post-covid-thrust-to-be-on-global-exchanges-bishop-cotton-head-228651
22-03-2021||Our Correspondent---||Relief for farmers extracting resin from pine trees||Hamirpur, March 21 Farmers of the district can generate a revenue of over Rs 2.5 crore by extracting resin from pine trees as the Forest Department has allowed them blazing over five feet for resin extraction. Notably, farmers in some forest beats of the district were in a fix after they were restricted to mark blazes of less than five feet on the trees.  Meanwhile, the Forest Department has given respite to farmers as blazes below five feet would reduce the quantity of resin produce from the tree which would adversely affect the income of farmers.  Dr CL Bandna, Divisional Forest Officer, here said farmers were allowed to make blazes on the pine trees as per the policy and no new restriction was imposed. There was a uniform resin extraction policy in place and farmers had to adopt that, she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/relief-for-farmers-extracting-resin-from-pine-trees-228652
22-03-2021||Rajiv Mahajan||Water release damages crop in lower Kangra area||NURPUR, MARCH 21Unabated release of water from Shahnehar barrage at Talwara in Punjab since March 17 has created flood-like situation in mand areas of Fatehpur and Indora sub divisions in Kangra district. This artificial calamity has created problems for the farmers of Bahadpur, Badala, Halle, Rajgiri Bhatolli, Malal and Bhogrwan mand areas villages. The wheat and rabi crops in over 400 hectares agricultural land have been damaged. The SDMs of Fatehpur and Indora sub divisions have directed the field revenue staff to conduct a survey of the huge loss to the crops in the area.Meanwhile, sub divisional officer, Shahnehar headworks civil sub division, Talwara, Ram Parkash in a statement released last evening has denied any breach in Shahnehar canal. He clarified that water discharge had stopped in Shahnehar canal and was being released in the Beas due to repair of Mukerian Hydel channel being carried out since March 17.He said the intimation of water discharge had been passed on to the district administration, Kangra and local authorities on March 16 and it was the responsibility of the Himachal Pradesh authorities to ensure that people did not reside in the river side.However, Deputy Commissioner Kangra, Rakesh Prajapati categorically denied the claim of Shahnehar authorities giving any advance intimation to the district and local authorities on March 16 before releasing water in the Beas. He said no communiqué had been received in this connection.Rampant mining in the Beas has altered the course of river and partially damaged a bridge at Haler village. Its existence is also under threat due to Shahnehar water release which will continue till April 30.Blame game||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/water-release-damages-crop-in-lower-kangra-area-228653
22-03-2021||---||Himachal police lauded for steps to check crime against women||Shimla, March 21 National Commission for Women member Dr Rajul Ben L Desai appreciated the Himachal Pradesh Police’s initiative of creation and maintenance of a register of offenders of crime against women and children (Register No. 26).  She also recorded her appreciation in a visitor book, lauding the special functions organised by the state police on the occasion of the International Women’s Day on March 8.  Pending complaints regarding women issues, received from the National Commission for Women, New Delhi, during 2019 and 2020 were also discussed during a meeting chaired by DGP Sanjay Kundu on Saturday.  Detailed discussions were held on issues of crime against women and their safety and training of members of internal committees enquiring sexual harassment at work places. The DGP also presented a coffee table book “Veerangna” to Dr Rajul.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-police-lauded-for-steps-to-check-crime-against-women-228654
22-03-2021||---||Crop diversification project’s phase II likely to begin soon||Shimla, March 21The Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) is expected to be signed by the end of March for a loan agreement of Rs 1,010 crore under the phase II of the HP Crop Diversification Promotion Project (HPCDP) said Agriculture Minister Virender Kanwar.Will be implemented in all 12 districtsIt will be implemented in all 12 districts of the state to boost the socio-economic status of farmers’ families as had been achieved in the phase Iof the project being implemented in five districts — Mandi, Kangra, Hamirpur, Bilaspur and Una — since 2011Presiding over the governing council meeting of the HP Agriculture Development Society (organisation executing the project), last evening, he said it would be implemented in all 12 districts of the state to boost the socio-economic status of farmers’ families as had been achieved in the phase I of the project being implemented in five districts — Mandi, Kangra, Hamirpur, Bilaspur and Una — since 2011.Kanwar asked the department and the project authorities to complete the preparations during the effectuation period of three months after the execution of loan agreement in March end, so that the project activities of the phase II could begin immediately.He said the preparations needed during that period included setting up project management units (PMUs), finalisation of first batch of 60 sub-projects, finalisation of extension officers headquarters, preparation of APO, hiring of office accommodation for PMU’s, process for hiring outsource agency and amendment in rules.Agriculture Minister further revealed that the new phase of the project would have the JICA loan component of Rs 807.30 crore while the state’s share would be Rs 203.30 crore, which had been proposed with an objective to replicate the phase I pilot model in the entire state to explore untapped potential of vegetables as identified in master plan by a study.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/crop-diversification-projects-phase-ii-likely-to-begin-soon-228655
22-03-2021||Lalit Mohan||Nominations for Dharamsala MC poll from today||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, March 21With the nominations for corporation elections in Dharamsala to begin tomorrow, both BJP and Congress were scrabbling to finalize the list of candidates. It was for the first time that the elections for corporation elections were being held on election symbol.In order to quell dissidence, both the Congress and the BJP are likely to release their list tomorrow, sources here told The Tribune. The Congress has finalized list of 14 candidates.Former HPCC president, Sukhwinder Sukhu, who is in charge of Dharamsala corporation elections, when contacted by The Tribune, said the list had been sent to party in charge Rajiv Shukla who will release it tomorrow morning. He said consensus has been built among all leaders of the Congress in Dharamsala. The candidates have been selected with the consent of former minister, Sudhir Sharma. All Congress leaders would fight the election unitedly, he said.Sources here said that consensus had been built in the Congress over all candidate but for ward numbers 1, 12 and 14. Former Mayor Davinder Jaggi is the only candidate whose name has been sent from ward number 11.Sudhir Sharma, while talking to The Tribune, said that the Congress would fight the corporation elections with full might. The party was united and would repeat its performance of 2016 in corporation elections, he said.The sources here said that the BJP is also likely to release its candidates tomorrow due to row over allotment of party ticket in some of the wards. Rakesh Pathania, minister for forests who is in charge of Dharamsala Corporation elections, when asked, said that the list of BJP candidates is likely to be released by state party president Suresh Kayshap today late in the night or tomorrow.The sources here said that both the BJP and the Congress were waiting for each other to release the list of candidates first so that the disgruntled leaders could not be poached upon.The Congress had won 14 out of 17 wards in Dharamsala corporation in elections held in 2016. The BJP is trying to attain majority in Dharamsala corporation though the area is considered to be a Congress stronghold.The rising cases of Covid is likely to restrict the campaigning to small corner meeting or door-to-door campaigning. Rakesh Pathania said that party would adhere to the norms fixed by government for public gatherings in corporation elections. However, till date as per my knowledge meeting of up to 200 persons can be organized indoors and about 500 in outdoor rallies, he said.Sukhu said that the party would hit the campaign trail after the nominations are filed by all the candidates.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nominations-for-dharamsala-mc-poll-from-today-228656
22-03-2021||---||No mask, no entry into buses, trains||Shimla, March 21Concerned over the spread of Covid-19 cases, the state government today issued a fresh notification, imposing new restrictions to contain the pandemic.As per the notification, people without a face cover or mask will be not be allowed to board public or private transport such as trains, buses and taxis. Wearing a mask will also be mandatory for entering hospitals, temples, langar halls, schools, colleges, government offices or private establishments for availing services.All ongoing fairs in the state will be wound up by March 23 and no new fairs would be organised in the state thereafter. Moreover, no social, religious, political and cultural gatherings can be organised without the permission of the district administration after March 25. Only 50 per cent capacity of the venue to be allowed with a maximum limit of 200 persons.The Department of IT/District Administration will activate the module for granting permission for gatherings as per SOPs of the State Election Commission (SEC) from March 25.The managers and catering staff will be required to undergo tests through Rapid Antigen/RT kits for Covid-19 and cooking by non-tested staff will be prohibited on langars on closed premises.The details of permissions granted for gatherings will be shared with Panchayati Raj Institutions (PRIs) and Urban Local Bodies (ULBs) apart from the officer incharge of police stations in the state. The office bearers of the PRIs/ULBs will ensure that the SOPs are adhered to and will also visit and coordinate with the event organisers prior to the event. Anyone violating these directions and Covid-19 safety measures will be liable to be proceeded against as per the provisions of Section 51-60 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, besides legal action under Section 188 of the IPC.141 new cases reportedAs many as 141 new Covid cases were reported on Sunday, taking the total positive cases in the state to 60,678. Meanwhile, one death in Kangra was reported due to the virus in the last 24 hours, taking the fatality figure to 1,005. As many as 29 cases were reported in Una, 23 in Kangra, 22 in Solan, 16 in Shimla, 13 in Bilaspur, 12 in Sirmaur, 11 in Hamirpur, 10 in Mandi, four in Kullu and one in Chamba.COVID TEST MUST FOR CATERING STAFF||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/no-mask-no-entry-into-buses-trains-228657
22-03-2021||Legal Correspondent---||Joint efforts needed to check drug abuse: Chief Justice Himachal High Court||Shimla, March 21 Chief Justice L Narayana Swami today said drug abuse could not be eradicated by finding faults with stakeholders or by passing on the responsibilities but by understanding each other’s problems and then making concerted efforts to combat the problem. He inaugurated a workshop on Narcotic Drugs and other Psychotropic Substances Act.  The High Court, in collaboration with the HP State Legal Services Authority, and HP Judicial Academy, organised this workshop keeping in view the high pendency of cases under the NDPS Act. The objective of the workshop was to evolve a strategy to end this menace and to highlight and solve the problems being faced by different stakeholders while dealing with cases under the NDPS Act. In his inaugural address, the Chief Justice said the pendency of old NDPS Act cases in the courts reveals some loopholes in investigation, which prevents speedy and effective disposal of these cases. He said about 6,232 cases of the NDPS Act were pending in the state, which though is not a large number, but lakhs of innocent drug victims were suffering due to these. He added the NDPS Act, 1985, was enacted with stringent provisions to curb this menace and various other Acts have also been passed in this regard, but merely passing enactments is not sufficient. These Acts should be effectively implemented to put an end to drug abuse.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/joint-efforts-needed-to-check-drug-abuse-chief-justice-himachal-high-court-228658
22-03-2021||Chamba||Man held with drugs||On a tip-off, the police seized 16.1 gram “chitta” and Rs 13.34 lakh cash from the possession of a man, identified as Ashwani Kumar (47), in the district last evening. Chamba SP Arul Kumar said in a press release that the police team raided Ashwani’s house at his village in the Salooni area of the district and recovered “chitta” and cash during the search. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/man-held-with-drugs-228659
22-03-2021||lit Mohan---||Appointments to temple trust stir row||Tribune News Service Dharamsala, March 21 The appointment of two members of the Muslim community in the Jawalamukhi Temple trust has stirred controversy. BJP Rajya Sabha member Subramanian Swamy has stepped into the controversy by questioning government control over temples. The Jawalamukhi Temple is a prominent temple in Kangra district that is under government control. It is run by a trust that is headed by the Deputy Commissioner, Kangra. In 2017, two members of the minority community were appointed in temple trust along with others on contract. Their services were regularised later as per the policy of the state government. In the recent past, some right wing Hindu organisations questioned the appointment of members of the minority community in the temple. The said employees were initially put on duty in the rest house of Jawalamukhi Temple trust in Jawalamukhi town. However, some members of the right wing Hindu organisations objected to their presence in the Jawalamukhi Temple complex. They were later shifted to Dharamsala. Swamy today tweeted: “The Himachal Pradesh government appoints non-Hindus to administer Jawalamukhi temple — a Shakti Peeth. The HP government has completely taken over most of the temples. Babus and politicians run Hindu temples as their personal fiefdoms. The temple administration comes directly under the CM.” Swamy has also tagged Himachal CM Jai Ram Thakur in his tweet.  The tweet has stirred a controversy and brought the issue of Himachal temples under government control to national limelight. Hindu organisations have been opposing government takeover of temples since long. They have been alleging that most of the offerings in temples taken over by the government go into paying salaries of employees who are appointed on political considerations. There was hardly any money left for the development of temples for pilgrims. In reply to Swamy’s tweet, Deputy Commissioner Rakesh Prajapati tweeted: “Both were appointed in 2017 by the previous government. People objected to their presence near the temple, even though they were posted in the temple rest house. So I transferred them 50 km away in the district headquarters to maintain communal harmony and law and order.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/appointments-to-temple-trust-stir-row-228660
22-03-2021||r Correspondent---||Sri Sri visits snow fest||Kullu, March 21  Spiritual leader Sri Sri Ravi Shankar today cut a cake made of ghee, known as Marpini, which was made to celebrate the district administration’s achievement of winning a silver medal under the Skoch Award in the ‘governance’ category for organising the snow festival at Sissu in Lahaul and Spiti district.  The spiritual leader visited the closing ceremony of the three-day food festival and congratulated the district administration for the feat. He was welcomed by Lahaul and Spiti DC Pankaj Rai in a traditional way.  The DC said the Skoch Award, instituted in 2003 by a Scotch organisation, was a highly coveted award of the country, which was given in various categories through a complex documentation process.  The DC said the snow festival was one of the longest running festivals in the country which would continue for 75 days. He said fading traditions had been revived through the festival. Meanwhile, a two-day workshop on value-addition and quality development in handicrafts commenced in Keylong today. Zila Parishal chairman Ramesh Rualwa was the chief guest on the occasion. He said such workshops werre important for women empowerment and self-reliance.   Honoured with the President’s Award, artisan Om Prakash Malhotra said there was immense potential for local handloom products.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sri-sri-visits-snow-fest-228661
22-03-2021||imla||Himachal CM honours those jailed during Emergency||To honour persons who were jailed during the Emergency, the state government organised a ‘Loktantra Prahari Samman’ function here today.  Out of 81 Loktantra Praharis,  66 were honoured by Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur  on the occasion. He said the Emergency was an important part of independent India and those who raised their voice against it should always be remembered.   Stating that people had the tendency to forget the past, the CM said the Emergency should never be forgotten as it had taught several lessons. “The Emergency was an important part of our history and the youth and future generation should also get acquainted with it,” he said. Thakur said in 2019, his government had decided to start Loktantra Prahari Samman Yojna to honour persons who were put behind the bars during the Emergency. “On March 20,  the state government passed the Himachal Pradesh Loktantra Prahari Bill, 2021, in Vidhan Sabha. Now, people of the state who were jailed during the Emergency will get an honorarium,” he said.  He said the Emergency was imposed at midnight on June 25, 1975, which remained in force for 21 months. He said during the Emergency, the government deprived the common man of their fundamental rights and nobody could raise their voice against the government. He said this year, the state has also completed 50 years of statehood and to mark the golden jubilee, the government had decided to organise 51 events in the state. A documentary on the Emergency was also screened on the occasion. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-cm-honours-those-jailed-during-emergency-228662
22-03-2021||Mandi||Two new courses to be started at ITI Jogindernagar||Technical Education Minister Ram Lal Markanda said two new courses would be started at the Industrial Training Institute (ITI) at Jogindernagar in Mandi district in the coming year. He visited the ITI at Jogindernagar and inspected the entire campus along with the infrastructure available for training and teaching in the ITI campus on Sunday. He also gave suggestions for the uplift of the institute.  On this occasion, along with Principal of the institute Tanuj Sharma and all staff was also present. Minister stated that two new courses in hospitality and engineering trade under the STRIVE (Skill Strengthening for Industrial Value Enhancement) Scheme will be started at ITI-Jogindernagar. He said under the STRIVE scheme, the World Bank had provided grants to infrastructure in 500 ITIs in the country, including Jogindernagar-ITI out of 19 ITIs in Himachal Pradesh. He said efforts would be made to start these new courses in the institute. So, the youth of this region will be able to get the benefit of new courses.  He apprised the institute management about the role of technical education in the direction of women’s uplift and empowerment. He asked the authority concerned to give emphasis on linking women with the Chief Minister’s Swavalamban Yojana. Besides, he also assured to construct hostel for the convenience of trainees at the ITI campus. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/two-new-courses-to-be-started-at-iti-jogindernagar-228663
22-03-2021||---||College students take up noble initiative, teach poor children||Shimla, March 21 Around two years back, students of a couple of colleges started an NGO — Helping Hands Chamba — for slum children loitering around and begging. Till date, the NGO has 150 volunteer students, who teach around 70 children from the nearby slums.  “We used to feel bad for these children, and decided to educate them. Gradually, other students joined us in the initiative and today the NGO has 150 members,” said Sunny Suryavanshi, a BA final year student and the founder of the NGO.  Seeing their enthusiasm, their college professors and bureaucrats, too, chipped in to help these students in their endeavour. “A few days back, we were given Rs 30,000 by the Red Cross Society to buy books, notebooks, bags and carom boards for these children,” said 20-year-old Dinesh Sharma, Helping Hands vice-president. “We hold classes for these children twice in a day. Once on the college premises when our classes are over, and later at some alternative place,” said Sharma.  The members contribute Rs 200 each every month for the NGO. “It’s not possible for us to contribute more as we, too, are students. We use it for the welfare of the children or other students who need some financial assistance. Recently, we helped three girl students in paying their college fee,” said Sunny.  Children around five-year-old and those in Class VIII to X are benefitted under the initiative. “We assess their level and teach them accordingly. Most of them are beginners,” said Sharma adding that they were getting a good response from them, who used to get upset on not being given homework.  “After we pass-out from the college, we will give the responsibility of the NGO to our juniors and will also continue to be a part of it as long as possible,” said Sharma.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/college-students-take-up-noble-initiative-teach-poor-children-228664
22-03-2021||Our Correspondent---||Resume bus services from Pathankot to Chamba: Cong leader||Chamba, March 21  Residents of the district are upset with the government for not resuming bus services from Pathankot to Chamba in the evening. This was stated by Block Congress Committee (BCC) president Kartar Singh Thakur in a statement here today.  “People have to go to Pathankot and Amritsar for treatment and shopping or for other works, but there is no direct bus service from Pathankot in the afternoon due to which people have to come to Chamba by taxis by paying exorbitant fare,” Thakur said.  He urged the government to resume all bus routes from Pathankot to Chamba soon so that the people should not suffer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/resume-bus-services-from-pathankot-to-chamba-cong-leader-228665
22-03-2021||Dipender Manta||Strategic Spiti road to reopen 2 months earlier||Tribune News ServiceMandi, March 21The Border Roads Organisation (BRO) has hastened the process to reopen the Sumdho-Kaza-Gramphu road in Lahaul-Spiti much earlier than the usual time.The road is crucial from the defence point of view as it leads to the border Spiti shares with China. Sources say the Union Government has asked the BRO to clear this road earlier in view of the ongoing tensions along the LAC in Eastern Ladakh.The BRO has set April 15 deadline to clear the road, which will also connect Spiti to Manali and Lahaul valley via Kunzum pass. The BRO machinery has reached near Batal from Kaza side via Kunzum pass (Gramphu). The Sumdho-Kaza-Gramphu road is 209-km-long. Nearly 100-km stretch of this road is snowbound from Kaza up to Gramphu. The road is usually restored for traffic movement in mid-June since the BRO first works on the Manali-Leh highway for giving military vehicles access to the Leh and Ladakh region.Sources in the BRO said from Kaza and Gramphu, the workforce and machinery was moving steadily towards Chhota Dara. There are two avalanche-prone sites between Batal and Chhota Dara, which might pose a challenge to the BRO.BRO officials will soon inspect these sites on foot. One of its teams has already started clearing snow from Gramphu towards Kaza.Brig MS Baghi, Chief Engineer of Project Dipak, said: “We are working relentlessly in freezing temperatures to restore the Sumdho-Kaza-Gramphu road by April 15.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/strategic-spiti-road-to-reopen-2-months-earlier-228678
