24-03-2021||Lalit Mohan||Dharamsala Smart City project to be key issue in MC poll||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, March 23The Dharamsala Smart City project is likely to be the key issue in the local MC elections. The project is set to be the rallying point for the Congress. The party would claim the credit for bringing it to Dharamsala and accuse the ruling BJP of failing to spent the money available under the project.Former Congress minister, Sudhir Sharma, under whose stint as minister for town and country planning Smart City project was allotted to Dharamsala, has already attacked the BJP government over the issue. He said that it was during the Congress rule that Rs 223 crores were allotted for the Smart City project. The present government has failed to even spend the money lying with it in the last three years, he said.BJP leaders, on the other hand, have been claiming that it was the BJP government at the Centre that had allotted the Smart City Dharamsala project to the state. Rakesh Pathania, minister for forests, has claimed that the union government has allotted various projects and in fact most of the development in the city had taken place when BJP governments were in power in the state.However, the Congress and BJP governments have failed to address the basic problems being faced by Dharamsala Smart City project. Shortage of staff in Dharamsala Smart City project was the biggest bottleneck for its execution. The project was allotted during the stint of the Congress government in power in state in 2015. However, the provision for the staff was not made.Similarly, the present BJP government has also not posted regular staff in Dharamsala Smart City project. Due to paucity of staff the projects are getting delayed. The only engineer, who was on deputation in Smart City project and was in thick of things under the project, has been shifted out just before the elections for MC were announced.The present BJP government after coming to power has changed the basic structure of Dharamsala Smart City project which has made decision-making process more cumbersome. Earlier, as per the guidelines of Smart City project the entire board of directors of Dharamsala Smart City project was based in the city. The divisional commissioner of Kangra was the chairman of the project whereas the commissioner of Dharamsala MC was the managing director. All the projects were planned and executed at local level only in the project.The present BJP government, after coming to power, did away with the old structure. Now the Chief Secretary of the state has been made chairman of Dharamsala Smart City project and all secretaries of respective government departments involved have been made members. The government also passed orders that the tenders above Rs 10 crores should be decided at the ministerial level and not at local level.The issue of eight villages included in Dharamsala MC after it was upgraded to corporation being kept out of the ambit of Smart City project will also be an election issue and as both parties would play a blame game over it.Congress charge||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/dharamsala-smart-city-project-to-be-key-issue-in-mc-poll-229527
24-03-2021||Our Correspondent---||Pensioner donates to CM relief fund||UNA, MARCH 23 Mukhtiar Singh, a victim of locomotor disability and a beneficiary of the Social Security Pension scheme meant for the persons with physical challenges, today contributed Rs 6,000 to the state government’s relief fund. He presented a cheque to DC Raghav Sharma.    A resident of  Dobar village in Bangana, Mukhtiar Singh belongs to the underprivileged section of society. He said he was grateful to the government for the monthly financial assistance, which was of great help to him and his family. He was donating a small amount from his pension savings so that it could benefit another needy person like him. Appreciating Mukhtiar’s commitment, Raghav Sharma said he had set an example for society. He appealed to all to contribute to the relief fund so that these could be utilised in rendering assistance to people in need.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/pensioner-donates-to-cm-relief-fund-229529
24-03-2021||Our Correspondent||Salooni maize to get GI tag||Chamba, March 23The Salooni valley in Chamba district is set to get a recognition at national and international level soon because of its traditional maize varieties.The Salooni White Maize Organisation, a farmer association that had preserved the traditional varieties of maize, rich in taste and quality, will get a ‘geographical indicator (GI) tag shortly.DC Rana, Deputy Commissioner, said a proposal was received from the organisation for the GI registration of the traditional varieties of maize. The proposal, along with all studies and facts, was submitted to the Patent Information Centre of the Himachal Pradesh State Science, Technology and Environment Council.“The matter has now been referred to Chennai-based office of the GI Registrar and it is expected that farmers in the valley will get GI tag for maize shortly. The varieties include white maize, red maize and chitku (popcorn maize)”, DC said.Panchayats of the valley include Bhandal, Sanuh, Kihar, Dand, Pichhla Diur, Kandhwara, Bhadela, Khadjauta, Himgiri, Panjei, Kilod and Suri panchayats.Bhandal panchayat has received ‘plant genome saviour community award’ of Rs 10 lakh from the Protection of Plant Varieties and Farmers’ Rights Authority of the Union Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare.These varieties are sown in 158 hectares in 12 panchayats. White maize in particular is considered rich in protein. According to a study, maize is also better for heart. It is rich in vitamins and antioxidants. It is also helpful in controlling diabetes.Rich in protein||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/salooni-maize-to-get-gi-tag-229530
24-03-2021||Shimla||Zila Parishad members flag issue of drug menace||The issue of growing drug trafficking and a large number of youth falling prey to it, especially in the upper Shimla area, dominated the discussion in the Shimla Zila Parishad meeting here today.  Expressing serious concern over the growing menace, the members demanded strict action by the police department to prevent the situation from going out of control. Besides, some members also complained that no awareness camps against drug abuse were being organised by the departments concerned, which had made the situation even worse.  “My ward is close to the Uttarakhand border, and the problem of drugs is rampant there. Unfortunately, police is also not doing enough to check the problem,” said Kaushal Mungta from Saraswati Nagar in Rohru. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/zila-parishad-members-flag-issue-of-drug-menace-229531
24-03-2021||Ambika Sharma||Fake degree racket busted, 5 arrested||Tribune News ServiceSolan, March 23The Baddi police have busted a fake degree racket while investigating a case of a clone website registered on the complaint of Barotiwala-based IEC University in December 2020. A special investigation team (SIT) led by the SDPO, Baddi, has arrested five members of a gang involved in providing fake degrees of various universities, HP Education Board as well as professional institutions of Himachal and other states.Baddi SP Rohit Malpani said today that Manish Kumar (32), a resident of Fazilka (Punjab), and Archana Singh (31), a resident of Mirzapur in Uttar Pradesh, were arrested recently, while Inan Ahmed (34) of Bihar, and Mohammed Salim (29) and Bharti, both residents of Delhi, were arrested in February.He said that the SIT had also recovered a large number of blank marksheets and degrees of various universities, including four or five in Himachal, HP State Education Board as well as professional institutes of Himachal and other states such as Punjab offering courses in B.Tech, ayurveda, MBBS, physiotherapy, MBA, and law. The stamps of officials of several institutes and universities had also been seized.Police sources said that the gang bought domain names matching the universities from the domain register company, GoDaddy. Archana Singh was instrumental in making payments through credit cards to the company.They said that the gang used at least 100 matching websites of various institutes and universities in various states. They operated through a call centre at Noida and telecallers sought the details of degrees required and also provided information on payment. The racket came to light when one such degree on verification by a university located in the Barotiwala industrial area was found to be fake.The gang also operated through agents in various states. Agent Manish Kumar, who was arrested in Fazilka, had sought two degrees of professional courses of 2014-2015 and 2019-2020 academic years from them. The police raided his computer centre and recovered key evidence. Police officials said that a probe was underway and more links would emerge as the investigation progresses.“A company named Ample Themes had illegally created the website. When the matter came to our notice, we warned the company through a letter on November 15, 2019, but it did not discontinue the website,” the university registrar had said.Clone website of Barotiwala varsityA case of a clone website of IEC University, Barotiwala, being operated by a company came to light last year. The official website of the university is www.iecuniversity.com but another website, with the domain name www.iecuniversity.org, carrying its logo and other details was being operated illegally.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/fake-degree-racket-busted-5-arrested-229533
24-03-2021||Shimla||Covid claims 4 lives||The state witnessed 157 cases and four deaths in the last 24 hours. With this, the number of Covid cases touched 61,035 and active cases 1,455. With two deaths each in Una and Kangra, the fatality figure touched 1,012.  The highest number of 57 cases was reported in Una, 27 in Hamirpur, 22 in Kangra, 21 in Shimla, nine in Sirmaur, seven in Solan, six in Mandi, four in Bilaspur and two each in Chamba and Kullu. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-claims-4-lives-229534
24-03-2021||---||Winter sports tourney cancelled in Lahaul-Spiti||Mandi, March 23The district administration has cancelled the Senior National Alpine Snowboarding and Cross-Country Championship in Lahaul Spiti in the wake of new Covid protocols issued by the government on March 21.The event was scheduled from March 26 to 28 on the ski slopes of Gramfu near Koksar to be organised by the Himachal Pradesh Winter Games Association. The association was focusing on promoting winter sports to attract the youth. However, the decision disappointed the winter sports lovers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/winter-sports-tourney-cancelled-in-lahaul-spiti-229535
24-03-2021||Tribune Repoters||32 file papers in Palampur||Palampur, March 23Thirtytwo candidates, including 21 women, filed nomination papers for the Palampur Municipal Corporation elections today. Tomorrow is the last day for filing nomination papers. The last day for withdrawal is March 27.24 nominations filed in MandiDistrict Election Officer Rugved Thakur said 24 candidates filed nominations on Tuesday, the second day for filing papers for the Municipal Corporation elections in Mandi. Tomorrow is the last day for filing nominations.AAP lists for Solan, Dharamsala outThe Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has released the first list of candidates for the Solan and Dharamsala MC elections. The party will announce its candidates for the Mandi and Palampur MCs tomorrow. “We are fielding candidates in all four corporations,” said party state spokesperson SS Zogta.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/32-file-papers-in-palampur-229536
24-03-2021||Ravinder Sood||Damage control by BJP in Palampur||Palampur, March 23A rebellion is brewing in the BJP following the allocation of ticket for the local Municipal Corporation (MC) elections yesterday. Senior BJP leaders today remained busy meeting annoyed party workers, who were denied ticket. BJP’s election in-charge and Industries Minister Bikram Thakur, state general secretary Trilok Kapoor and other senior leaders attended the meeting.The party leaders also met six annoyed party workers, who were unhappy at ticket allocation. A BJP leader told The Tribune that a damage control exercise was underway to calm down the angry party workers.Earlier in the day, Sanjiv Soni, former president of the Palampur BJP Mandal, while addressing mediapersons, threatened to resign from the party if he was denied ticket from Aima ward. He said that he had served the party for the past 40 years. However, he was denied ticket.Vijay Bhatt, general secretary of the Palampur District BJP, accused the party leadership of dropping his name at the last moment. He said that if he was not given ticket, he would contest as an Independent candidate in Lohana ward. Both leaders also announced that they would file nomination papers tomorrow. The BJP had already declared its candidates for both wards.Meanwhile, Bikram Thakur and Trilok Kapoor told mediapersons that it was an internal matter of the party, and there was no anger or discontent among the party workers over ticket allocation. They said that the party had given ticket after considering all aspects and the views of local leaders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/damage-control-by-bjp-in-palampur-229538
24-03-2021||Solan||Cong yet to declare names for two wards||As many as 20 candidates filed nomination papers for the  MC poll in Solan today. The Congress was yet to declare its candidates for two wards till this evening. It declared  Vikram Gazta as candidate for Deonghat ward and Shami Sahni for Railway Station ward. The lack of coordination and mismanagement is visible in the  Congress,  as several candidates were not given official authority letters by the party officials till noon. In the absence of the letters, they could not be considered official Congress candidates and had to personally collect it from Shimla, delaying the filing of nominations.  Due to factionalism the Congress changed its candidate for Housing Board ward number 14 Renu Sethi and gave ticket to Rajiv Kora last evening.  Dissidence is also delaying the declaration of candidates for the two wards of Lower Bazaar and Basal Kather. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cong-yet-to-declare-names-for-two-wards-229539
24-03-2021||---||Four killed in mishap||Shimla, March 23Four persons were killed when the vehicle (HP 08 B 1599) they were travelling in fell into a 300-metre deep gorge about one kilometre from Nerva near a college in Shimla district last night. The accident took place while the driver was reversing the vehicle at a sharp curve.The ill-fated vehicle carrying four persons was on its way to Saldi village from Nerva when the tragedy struck.Two persons were killed on the spot while the other two died on the way to hospital. The deceased have been identified as Mahinder Singh (49), Kanha Singh (52), Sunil (35) and Surender (33).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/four-killed-in-mishap-229540
24-03-2021||---||Fresh snow in higher reaches||Shimla, March 23Tribal areas and higher reaches received fresh snowfall for the second day today while mid and lower hills were lashed by thunderstorm and rain, a causing marginal fall in temperature.Strong velocity winds accompanied by intermittent showers lashed Shimla and the surrounding areas and fog engulfed the region under heavily overcast sky, reducing visibility considerably.Tribal areas and other higher reaches had another spell of moderate snowfall. Gondla and Kalpa received 21 cm and 12 cm of snow followed by Hansa 8 cm, Keylong 4 cm and Khadrala 2 cm.Widespread rain occurred across the state. Dalhousie was the wettest with 57 mm rains while Rampur, Manali and Shimla received 34 mm, 32 mm and 28 mm rains, followed by Kothi 23 mm, Sarahan 17 mm, Reckong Peo and Narkanda 15 mm, Dharamsala 14 mm, Rohru 13 mm, Nurpur, Nahan, Kheri and Kalpa 10 mm each.Minimum temperatures dropped by few notches. Keylong was the coldest with a low of minus 3.1 degree, followed by Kalpa zero degree, Manali 3.0 degree, Dalhousie 3.5 degree, Kufri 5.5 degree, Bhuntar 7.6 degree, Shimla 8.4 degree and Dharamsala 9.2 degree.The day temperatures stayed four to seven degree below normal and Keylong recorded maximum temperature at 0.4 degree, followed by Kufri 7.1 degree, Manali 9.0 degree, Shimla 12.4 degree, Bhuntar 12.8 degree Palampur 20.0 degree, Solan 23.0 degree and Una 32.0 degree.The local MeT office has predicted rain and snow at isolated places in mid and higher hills tomorrow and dry weather in the region from March 25 onwards.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/fresh-snow-in-higher-reaches-229541
24-03-2021||---||Services in Lahaul-Spiti go online||Shimla, March 23The e-Office application will improve operational efficiency of government departments by transitioning to a “paperless office” environment, said Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur while virtually launching e-Office, e-Heli Service, e-Aagman and e-Lahaul for Lahaul and Spiti from Shimla today.He said these would provide services to the people of the district on the click of a button. Lahaul-Spiti would be the first district in the effective adoption of e-office.He said the e-Heli service would provide details of the flights, eligibility, integration of payment gateway and online approval and rejection of applications. The service is multi-lingual, easy to use and easy to access on both mobile and web. It would facilitate the people of the district in getting helicopter services, particularly during winter.Thakur said e-Office would ensure that the file work in departments would be done electronically. The system and the movement of receipts and files would be seamless and ensure more transparency in the system.The e-Lahaul web application had been developed for registration of local vendors for setting up temporary stalls. The main objective behind the application was to identify legal vending and make the registration process transparent and efficient. The application would ensure automatic registration of vendors, auto fee calculation and payment gateway integration. DC Pankaj Rai said e-Aagman application would help issue permits online to the people intending to travel to Lahaul & Spiti. The application would integrate with Automatic Number Plate Recognition Camera and auto boom barriers.Information Technology Minister Dr Ram Lal Markanda said the district administration had been working on many IT initiatives to provide services digitally to citizens.On the click of buttone-Heli It will provide details of the flights. It will facilitate people of the district in getting helicopter services, particularly during winter on the click of a buttone-Lahaul Developed for registration of local vendors for setting up temporary stallse-Office It will ensure that the file work in departments is be done electronically. The system and the movement of receipts and files will be seamlesse-Aagman The application will help issue permits online to the people intending to travel to Lahaul & Spiti.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/services-in-lahaul-spiti-go-online-229543
24-03-2021||Dharamsala||Tibetan seeks Bharat Ratna for Dalai Lama||Tsering Yeshi, 47, a resident of Dehradun and former Special Frontier Force (SFF) member, started a  bike journey from McLeodganj today demanding Bharat Ratna for the Dalai Lama. Yeshi would be travelling across India to garner support over the issue. In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Yeshi said that his parents came from Golok, Amdo in Tibet, and fled to India to take refuge in 1959.  “The Dalai Lama has always introduced himself as the son of India and worked hard all his life towards reviving ancient Indian knowledge through the advent of Tibetan Buddhism. His non-violent approach and the message of compassion to the whole world are well known. The Dalai Lama is also the recipient of many international, prestigious awards such as the Nobel Peace Prize in 1989.”  It is not for the first time that Bharat Ratna has been demanded for the Dalai Lama. Earlier, the Friendship Society of Tibetans in India, had urged the government on the issue.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/tibetan-seeks-bharat-ratna-for-dalai-lama-229544
24-03-2021||Our Correspondent||353 donate blood at Nurpur camp||NURPUR, MARCH 23The Blood Donors Club, Nurpur, organised its 22nd blood donation camp on the martyrdom day here today under the ‘Sambedana Abhiyan’ of the National Integrated Forum of Artists & Activists (NIFAA).The club has a targeted collection of 201 blood units but due to the enthusiasm of the blood donors, 353 volunteers, including 40 women, donated blood in the camp.A team from the Blood Bank, Civil Hospital, Pathankot, collected blood units. According to Rajiv Pathania, president of the club, the NIFAA has associated such camps in 1,500 different locations across the country with a target to collect 90,000 blood units with Guinness book of record attempt.President of India Ram Nath Kovind inaugurated the event through video conferencing. The club has been organising the blood donation camps on martyrdom day every year for the past seven years.The volunteers of the club are also meeting the emergency requirement of blood to the patients admitted in government as well as private hospitals within and outside the state.80 donate in ChambaChamba: As many as 80 volunteers, including 35 at Dalhousie, donated blood at Chamba and Dalhousie in blood donation camps organised by the District Red Cross Society and Saviors Association on the occasion of Martyrdom Day today. Chamba MLA Pawan Nayyar and Deputy Commissioner DC Rana were also present at the camp at the district headquarters.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/353-donate-blood-at-nurpur-camp-229545
24-03-2021||Palampur March 23||Split in BJP will help Cong win, says Butail||Ashish Butail, local MLA and general secretary of the state Congress today said that the Congress would easily elect its mayor and deputy mayor in the Palampur municipal corporation.Addressing news conference here this evening Butail stated that after the distribution of party tickets there appears a vertical spilt in the in the BJP as over half dozen BJP leaders had announced to contest as independent. He predicted that the Congress would easily capture more than 12 seats in the elections.He said the residents of Palampur were disillusioned because of wrong policies and planning of ruling government and neglecting development of Palampur. He said over one dozen foundations stones were laid by the CM in last three years in Palampur but no construction was taken up. Liberal funds were given to adjoining constituencies but Palampur received step motherly treatment.He alleged hospitals were in bad shape, posts of doctors and para medical staff were lying vacant, public was forced to move out of the state for medical treatment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/split-in-bjp-will-help-cong-win-says-butail-229546
24-03-2021||Dipender Manta||Kaza panchayat to impose Rs40K fine on gamblers||Tribune News ServiceMandi, March 23The Gram Panchayat of Kaza in Lahaul and Spiti has decided to impose a fine of Rs 40,000 on anyone who is found gambling and playing cards the area in the coming days.There were reports that some locals were involved in gambling activities in the panchayat area, which was putting an adverse impact on children and youth. As a result, the panchayat authority has decided to take tough decisions to check this menace under panchayat.Sonam Dolma, pradhan of the gram panchayat in Kaza, told The Tribune that to check the menace, the panchayat authorities will conduct surprise checking to nab the offenders. They will be penalised for a sum of Rs 40,000.“Apart from this, children are getting addicted to snooker in Kaza, which is adversely affecting them mentally. Due to this, the panchayat authority has asked snooker operators to ban the entry of minors. The snooker centre will remain open from 10 am to 6 pm, where entry of minors will be prohibited. In case of the violation of order, the operator will be fined Rs 5,000,” she said.Dolma said, “Throwing garbage in open areas and open defecation are key issues under the panchayat area, which must be tackled. So, the panchayat authority has decided to impose a fine of Rs 1000 on offenders if someone will be noticed for throwing garbage in an open area or defecating in an open space under panchayat area.”She said that Kaza is a major tourist hotspot in tribal district Lahaul Spiti and it is the responsibility of the local community as well as local Gam Panchayat to make efforts to keep the area neat and clean.“We want to make this panchayat as a model gram panchayat and efforts would be made in this direction,” she added. he said, “There are two liquor shops under the panchayat area and we have passed a resolution to shift these shops out of the panchayat area.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kaza-panchayat-to-impose-rs40k-fine-on-gamblers-229547
24-03-2021||Our Correspondent||Artificial limbs given to needy in Una||UNA, MARCH 23DC Raghav Sharma today distributed artificial limbs and appliances to 67 persons with physical challenges at a sub divisional level camp organised at Prem Ashram, a home for special children in Una city.The camp was organised jointly by the Social Justice and Empowerment Department, District Red Cross Society and Artificial limbs Manufacturing Corporation of India. Artificial limbs, manual and motorised tricycles, wheel chairs, artificial dentures, spectacles, walking sticks, crutches and hearing aids were given to the beneficiaries.The DC said the aids were to be distributed last year, but had to be postponed due to corona pandemic. He said it was the endeavour of the union and state governments to render all possible assistance to persons with physical challenges to that they could lead a better life. He said a social security pension of Rs 1,500 per month is also being given to these persons as financial assistance.District Welfare Officer Chaman Lal Sharma elaborated on the various welfare schemes of the government for persons with physical challenges. He said two such camps will soon be organised in Bangana and Amb Sub Divisions to cater to the beneficiaries there.Dayanand Sihag, Rehabilitation Officer from the Mohali centre of Artificial Limbs and Appliances Corporation of India and Prem Ashram principal, Sister Sanjana were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/artificial-limbs-given-to-needy-in-una-229548
24-03-2021||The Student Parent Forum has slammed the Himachal Pradesh Public School Management Association's announcement to charge the entire fee and all other dues for 2020. The forum has also opposed the schools' decision to hike 14 per cent fee this year and has decided to launch an agitation against it. The forum has appealed to the parents to reject all demands for dues other than tuition fees. Forum's convener Vijender Mehra said schools had turned autocratic||School management flayed on fee issue||NSS camp concludesThe seven-day NSS camp of Wazir Ram Singh Government College, Dehri, in Fatehpur subdivision concluded on the college campus. NSS volunteers presented a colourful cultural programme on the closing ceremony. Volunteer Arshdeep presented seven days' activity report of the NSS camp. According to Prof. Neha Mishra, who coordinated the programme, the theme of the camp was environment awareness, cleanliness drive in the college campus and environmental conservation. The volunteers also took an oath to conserve environment. During the camp, a quiz competition was organised and a cleanliness rally was taken out from the college campus to Shaili village. The resource person, Sub Inspector Naresh Kumar, exhorted the volunteers to work hard as there was no shortcut for gaining success.Tributes paid to Bhagat SinghThe SFI and the ABVP on Tuesday paid tributes to martyrs Bhagat Singh, Sukhdev and Rajguru at the HPU. The three had attained martyrdom on this day in 1931. The SFI said every citizen needed to reflect on their thoughts and work accordingly to build the nation of their dreams. Meanwhile, the ABVP said if every youth becomes as patriotic as Bhagat Singh, there will never be any danger to the nation. It said all youths should take inspiration from the three martyrs and work for the betterment of the country.World Water Day celebratedGurukul International Senior Secondary School, Solan, organised different activities on 'valuing water' on the occasion of the 'World Water Conservation Day'. Students of class VI participated in an essay-writing, class VII in slogan writing, class VIII in poster making and students of class X in declamation. School principal Praveen Jha, while focusing on water harvesting, gave message of water conservation to the students and appealed to them to value water and not waste it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/school-management-flayed-on-fee-issue-229638
24-03-2021||Instead of transporting the municipal waste to garbage dumping grounds||Waste being burnt in Una||Water supply IrregularDue to the irregular water supply, residents of the Nohanda panchayat in Banjar Assembly segment of Kullu district are facing a lot of problems. According to the residents, they have to fetch water from 3 km away for domestic use. The Irrigation and Public Health Department authority to restore water supply immediately for the convenience of villagers in the region. It will be a huge relief for us. — Anuj Kumar, KulluIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/waste-being-burnt-in-una-229652
